<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   r
 Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Immune-Cell Therapy Appears to Extend
   Survival in Kidney Cancer, Study Finds
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Researchers here reported that kidney-cancer
patients receiving a new therapy survived on average about
2.5 times as long as control patients who didn't get the
treatment.
   The treatment involves use of patients' own immune cells,
hence doesn't require Food and Drug Administration approval
for marketing, said officials with Cellcor Therapies Inc., a
start-up company here that is commercializing the therapy. It
will be immediately available to limited numbers of patients
and is expected to be more widely available within a few
months, they added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cancer experts cautioned that nobody has tried to
replicate the new therapy's results yet -- new cancer
treatments often don't live up to their initial promise.
Furthermore, they noted, the new therapy didn't cause as much
tumor reduction in the patients as doctors would expect,
considering the patients' lengthened survival found by the
Boston researchers.
   But if the initial results with the therapy can be
extended to many patients, it would represent a major
breakthrough in treating kidney cancer. Currently there is no
good treatment for the disease, which kills about 10,000
Americans annually.
   Called autolymphocyte therapy, or ALT, the treatment was
developed by a team led by Michael E. Osband at the Boston
University School of Medicine and Boston's New England
Baptist Hospital. Dr. Osband is also Cellcor's executive vice
president. His method entails extraction of some of a cancer
patient's white blood cells, which help fight off infections
and are thought to attack tumor cells. The cells are combined
in a test tube with lymphokines -- substances that serve as
the immune system's chemical messengers -- which are derived
separately from the patient's immune cells via a special
process.
   In the test tube, the lymphokines activate dormant immune
cells via mechanisms not fully understood. When the activated
cells -- which the researchers believe are mainly a subset of
the immune system called helper T cells -- are reinjected
into the patients, they apparently stimulate the immune
system to attack the tumor cells.
   In a study reported in Saturday's issue of the British
medical journal Lancet, 45 patients received the new
treatment plus Tagamet, an anti-ulcer drug that past studies
indicate helps beef up cancer patients' immune responses
against tumor cells. A control group of 45 patients got
Tagamet alone.
   Patients in both groups had similar cases of metastatic
cancer, in which tumors are spreading widely through the
body. At the conclusion of the study, in which the median
patient follow-up was 15 months, 32 of the patients on the
new therapy were alive, compared with 19 in the control
group.
   The side effects of the new treatment, mainly mild fever,
were minor compared with those of conventional cancer
therapies. However, men getting the new treatment responded
much better than did women in the study. That may have been
due to higher levels in male patients' lymphokines of an
immune booster called interleukin-1, or IL-1, said Dr.
Osband. Higher levels of IL-1 were correlated with longer
survival in the study, he added. The researchers now plan to
try a variation of the treatment in which extra IL-1 is added
to immune cells before reinjection.
   The new treatment resembles promising cancer therapies
developed during the past few years at the National Cancer
Institute by Steven A. Rosenberg. However, the Boston
treatment apparently involves different immune cells and
doesn't entail giving patients an immune-boosting substance
called interleukin-2, as does Dr. Rosenberg's method.
   Cellcor, a closely held company founded in 1987, plans to
offer the treatment as a service at major hospitals in
Boston, Atlanta, Dallas, Chicago and Los Angeles by the end
of 1990, said Gary Cashon, president and chief executive
officer. The treatment, which requires a six-month course of
therapy costing $20,000 to $25,000, now is offered only in
Boston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Developing Nations
   To Receive Expanded
   U.S Trade Benefits
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. expanded the trade benefits it
gives to developing nations -- especially to Mexico --
following an annual review of the so-called Generalized
System of Preferences.
   The GSP, a system of tariff reductions and quota increases
designed to benefit developing countries, will now cover
goods from developing countries that had a total of nearly
$2.4 billion of U.S. imports in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The moves will particularly help Mexico, which the White
House Trade Office termed "the major beneficiary of this
year's decisions." Mexican goods valued at $1.97 billion in
1989 will be provided new, restored, or expanded GSP
eligibility, the trade office said.
   The Bush administration has been trying hard to help
Mexico, which has shown more commitment to economic policy
changes than most other Latin American countries. The
Mexicans also are trying to work their way out of a
formidable foreign debt problem, and were the first country
to negotiate a package that includes cuts in bank debt and
interest payments under the Bush administration's
international debt strategy.
   The administration had the room to expand the GSP program
because of the graduation from the program of Taiwan,
Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea on Jan. 1, 1989.
Countries graduate from the GSP program when they reach a
certain stage of economic development. The Andean nations
also benefited from this year's review: Goods that totaled
$44.3 million in U.S. imports from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador
and Peru will soon be given duty-free status.
   The administration also is delaying until June 1 GSP
decisions on eligible Brazilian goods totaling $517 million
in annual trade. By that date, President Fernando Collor de
Mello, who took office in March, will have instituted trade
and economic reforms, the White House Trade Office said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Pingpong's Popularity Puts a Spin on Suppliers' Sales
   ---
   Entrepreneurs Are Scoring Gains
   After Inclusion of Sport in Olympics
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   The pingpong business is starting to bounce. And
entrepreneurs are finding more than one way to capitalize on
a sport that's on the rise.
   Long in the shadow of tennis, pingpong (also called table
tennis) became an Olympic sport two years ago. Now the
suppliers of tables, paddles and other pingpong equipment --
small businesses all -- are finding that the Olympic stature
is enhancing their sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Peter Bjurman, the president of Table Tennis America Ltd.,
an equipment distributor in Oklahoma City, Okla., says the
company's sales are rising 20% a year, compared with the 5%
rate before the 110-year-old sport went Olympic.
   "Demand for tournament-type equipment has increased so
much that we're even planning to build our own production
site in the U.S. soon," Mr. Bjurman says. The company has
been importing tables and paddles made by its Swedish parent,
Stiga AB.
   To get the pingpong millions, entrepreneurs are playing
many angles. For instance, some entrepreneurs say the Olympic
status for pingpong has created opportunities to sell fans
ever more advanced -- and costlier -- products.
   "There's been a real boost in the average family's
consciousness about the sport at the tournament level," says
Yvonne Kronlage, the president of the Maryland Table Tennis
Association. Mrs. Kronlage had been selling a modest amount
of equipment for years out of her garage in Columbia, Md.
Last September, she began selling fairly expensive paddles
for tournament players from a pro shop in nearby Sykesville.
"Sales of expensive rackets, some over $50, were fairly
steady over the years, but now my sales have spurted 15% over
the past six months."
   Other entrepreneurs are meeting special needs. Harvard
Sports Inc., Compton, Calif., came up with a way to help the
retailer who wants to sell pingpong tables but dreads giving
up floor space to display them. The company began offering
stores special displays of corners of its tables to show how
they are made. Sales -- as flat as the tables themselves in
1988 -- rose 12% last year, says Daniel Messmer, the
president of Harvard Sports, a unit of Escalade Corp.,
Evansville, Ind.
   Table Tennis America, besides using retail outlets, is
marketing through wholesale clubs, which charge members a fee
for access to discount-priced goods. New outlets include
Price Club, based in California, and Sam's Wholesale Club,
part of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
   Melba Martin, the president of Martin Kilpatrick Table
Tennis Co., Wilson, N.C., says she's going to more
sporting-goods shows to sell her products and has doubled the
size of her catalog, to 16 pages, during the past five years.
"I've also been promoting the sport by selling tables at
dealer price to the Baltimore school system," she says. "It's
a good investment in the future of the sport, which can only
help my business."
   Mrs. Martin adds: "Our business was fairly steady for the
past 27 years, but since the '88 Olympics we've had sales
spurts of 20% a year." Many pingpong suppliers expect the
industry's annual sales to reach $50 million in the next few
years, compared with $30 million currently.
   Entrepreneurs hope to benefit from increased promotion of
the sport. Although the U.S. pingpong team didn't win any
medals at the last Olympics, in South Korea last year,
Olympic funds for the first time are being pumped into
promoting the game in U.S. schools. And increased recognition
of the sport is prompting promoters to increase prizes in the
U.S. Table Tennis Open, to be held in Baltimore June 8-17.
The winner of the men's singles will get $20,000 this year,
up from $7,500 in previous years, says Scott Price, national
touring coach of the U.S. Table Tennis Association, based in
Colorado Springs, Colo. As a result, Mr. Price has gotten
national TV networks and sports-oriented cable-TV services to
present new and expanded features on the game.
   Mr. Price has just finished a 200-city promotional tour,
during which he trained 600 high school teachers to instruct
their students in the finer points of the game. And he has
persuaded the Boys Clubs of America, an organization of 1,300
clubs with 1.8 million members, to adopt pingpong as its
official sport.
   More than 19 million Americans play the game in their
garages, basements and family rooms. With the added luster of
the Olympics, the U.S. Table Tennis Association's ranks have
swelled 27% in the past year, to more than 6,500. That's
still a far cry from the 12 million registered players in
China. Top Chinese players long dominated world competition
until last year, when the Swedish team took all five spots in
championship matches (which are held every other year).
   Years ago, most top players in the U.S. played with
paddles faced with plain pimpled rubber. But in 1959, a
Japanese team playing with sponge rubber took top prizes in
the world matches. Most top players now use a layer of sponge
behind a smooth plasticized rubber that has the pimpled side
turned in. This rubber, joined to new types of woods with
better glues, is used to produce devastating spins.
   As top-priced equipment gets more expensive, some
entrepreneurs are capitalizing by offering less expensive
options. The U.S. Table Tennis Association recently
sanctioned high school players to train on undersized tables,
which cost less and save space. All-Luminum Products Inc.,
Philadelphia, began making a table measuring 3 feet by 6
feet, compared with the regulation 5-by-9.
   All-Luminum sold 25,000 reduced-size tables last year and
expects to sell at least twice as many this year, says Warren
Cohen, the president of All-Luminum. The product retails at
$129 or less, compared with $500 to $1,000 for full-sized
tables used in tournaments. All-Luminum even plans to sponsor
its own smaller-table tournaments this year and next, with
top prizes of $200 to $500.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Kentucky Medical Insurance Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KYMDA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   KENTUCKY MEDICAL INSURANCE Co., Louisville, declared a
4-for-3 stock split of its Class A and Class B stock. The
split will increase the number of shares outstanding to about
1.4 million from one million. The insurance company said the
stock split will be paid May 24 to stock of record May 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LITHUANIA SAID the Kremlin pledged increased gas supplies
to the republic.
   As prospects emerged for a compromise in the six-week
impasse over Lithuania's proclamation of independence,
Vilnius Radio reported that the Soviet Union eased economic
curbs imposed last month by doubling the amount of natural
gas to the republic. But Lithuania's president said the move
"has not happened." Moscow's vow came after Gorbachev and
Landsbergis praised a plan by France and West Germany calling
for the republic to delay implementing its independence
without rescinding the declaration itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   East Germany's premier said Gorbachev may be prepared to
accept NATO membership for a united Germany if the alliance
made strategic changes.
   ---
   LEBANESE KIDNAPPERS SAID an American hostage would be
released.
   A previously unknown group called the Organization of the
Islamic Dawn announced in Beirut that Frank Herbert Reed, who
has been held since September 1986, would be freed by
tomorrow. The group's statement, which was accompanied by
photographs of the educator, said Reed would carry a message
for the Bush administration. The communique came a week after
pro-Iranian extremists freed American captive Robert Polhill
in Lebanon.
   Bush reacted guardedly to the statement about Reed's
possible freedom, saying only "that's wonderful" if the
announcement from Beirut proves true.
   ---
   The space shuttle Discovery landed at Edwards Air Force
Base in California, touching down on a 15,000-foot runway to
end a flight that included the launch of the Hubble Space
Telescope on a mission to search the universe. NASA
engineers, meanwhile, said the telescope's main antennas were
locked into unuseable positions.
   ---
   Communist leader Joe Slovo returned to South Africa after
27 years in exile and addressed a crowd of more than 20,000
people near Cape Town. Slovo, the highest-ranking white in
the African National Congress, is to join preparatory talks
this week between Pretoria and the ANC aimed at black-white
power-sharing.
   ---
   About 2,500 South Korean workers waged hit-and-run battles
with police and shouted anti-government slogans to protest a
raid that crushed a three-day strike at a Hyundai Heavy
Industries shipyard near Ulsan. In Seoul and elsewhere,
students staged rallies against Saturday's raid, and a
dissident labor group called for nationwide strikes.
   ---
   Bush said the "widespread prevalence of abortion in
America is a tragedy." But the president, speaking by
telephone Saturday to a rally in Washington of about 200,000
anti-abortion activists, didn't mention his once-outspoken
support for a constitutional amendment outlawing the
procedure.
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut's Senate approved a measure Friday
guaranteeing a woman's right to choose abortion. The bill,
which effectively codifies much of the 1973 Roe vs. Wade
decision of the Supreme Court, already has been cleared by
the state's House and is expected to be signed by the
governor.
   ---
   European Community leaders agreed to seek ways to
politically unify the Common Market, including more joint
decision-making, greater democratic checks and balances, and
a less cumbersome institutional structure. The accord came
during a oneday summit Saturday in Dublin.
   ---
   Thornburgh withdrew the Justice Department's support for
tough new mandatory sentencing guidelines to punish
corporations convicted of crimes. The attorney general's
action last month followed lobbying of the Bush
administration by major companies claiming the proposed
guidelines were too severe.
   ---
   Wisconsin's governor signed legislation to temporarily ban
the commercial use and sale of a genetically engineered
hormone that increases milk output by dairy cows. The action
was called a victory by opponents of the hormone, who had
argued that it would cause a milk glut and lower prices.
   ---
   Israel's army strengthened forces in the occupied West
Bank and imposed a curfew in the Gaza Strip as the nation
mourned its war dead and prepared for today's 42nd
anniversary of its independence. In Rome, Pope John Paul II
expressed concern about tensions in Jerusalem that prompted
Friday's closure of Christian holy sites.
   ---
   Thousands of Romanians demanded the resignation of interim
President Iliescu in what was viewed as one of the largest
antiCommunist demonstrations in Timisoara since December's
revolution. In Bucharest, as many as 10,000 people rallied,
accusing the government of harboring former Communist
officials from Ceausescu's regime.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Mobil Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOBIL Corp., a New York-based oil company, said directors
boosted the quarterly dividend 12% to 72.5 cents a share from
65 cents, payable June 11 to stock of record May 11. Allen E.
Murray, chairman, said the increase, the third in three
years, reflects increased optimism about Mobil's growth
opportunities and industry fundamentals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   `Social Entrepreneurs'
   Seek to Help Homeless
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   In an April 10 editorial-page article "What We Really Know
About the Homeless," Randall K. Filer, a researcher, calls
for more research. It should come as no surprise, then, that
I, a program officer for a major foundation, would call for
more programs.
   Mr. Filer does an excellent and thoroughly readable job of
clarifying what we do and don't know about homelessness. I
too am frustrated by the endless debates over numbers and
causes, particularly as they relate to administration housing
policies. What Mr. Filer fails to do is highlight any of the
positive experiments that are being undertaken to help the
nation solve the problem of homelessness. The Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation and the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) have joined in a multimillion-dollar
national demonstration program that will, we hope, show
cities how they can rescue young homeless families with
complex problems from permanent membership in the underclass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Mr. Filer points out, the members of this group, mostly
single mothers with children under age five, are the most
entitled in America, but they do not get the benefits for
which they are eligible. We believe this is so because the
entitlement system is unnavigable for most anybody, let alone
a teen-age mother with poor skills and a history of mental
illness and/or substance abuse. Also responsible is our
failure to combine housing resources for these families with
health and counseling services they need in order to cope.
   There are many "social entrepreneurs" across the country
trying similar experiments. This is just one of many
promising programs now being undertaken to help the homeless,
and, Mr. Filer will be happy to know, it is one that will be
independently evaluated by researchers at Vanderbilt so that
we can learn more about what works.
   Stephen A. Somers
   Senior Program Officer
   Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
   Princeton, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Trade Union Prepares
   For Strikes Despite Calls for Moderation
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's biggest trade
union is gearing up for strikes to back demands for less work
and more pay, ignoring government calls for moderation ahead
of the costly merger of the two German economies.
   The powerful IG Metall metalworkers union threatened to
break off contract talks and call for a strike ballot in
mid-May if a settlement isn't reached by May 8. A series of
brief warning strikes have been scheduled for this week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Franz Steinkuehler, IG Metall's chairman, expressed hope
an agreement could be reached, but said this hope "is not
justified when one looks at the facts."
   Management and labor negotiators are deadlocked over IG
Metall's demands for a 9% wage increase, work-free weekends
and a reduction in the official working week to 35 hours from
the current 37.
   While many labor analysts consider a protracted strike
unlikely, government officials worry that hefty wage
concessions could add an inflationary element to the West
German economy at an inopportune time. Moreover, they
question the readiness of the union's pampered rank-and-file
to follow a strike call.
   IG Metall isn't budging. Tightly organized and granted
board representation under liberal co-determination laws,
West Germany's labor unions already have secured the highest
wages and shortest work shifts in Europe. IG Metall, which
has targeted this year to achieve a 35-hour working week,
isn't listening to government appeals for moderation to avoid
jeopardizing economic union with East Germany.
   As Western Europe's largest union, with 2.6 million
members in the metals, automotive and computer sectors, IG
Metall more than once has had a hand in shaping industry
policy. Its last formal strike, in 1984, idled West Germany's
entire automotive industry for seven weeks, costing billions
of marks in lost profits and hobbling Europe's largest
economy.
   Warning strikes, usually one- or two-hour work stoppages
at selected plants to back threats of a permanent walkout,
have become a standard ritual in West German labor talks. Few
analysts say they believe the conflict will escalate to a
full-scale walkout this time.
   The Gesamtmetall employers association, which negotiates
contracts for industry, has signaled it is willing to sweeten
its latest offer of a 5% wage increase. Moreover, it also has
shown willingness to give ground on the work-week issue --
which could end up being written into contracts now for
implementation later.
   Gesamtmetall Chief Dieter Kirchner urged industry to
maintain its nerve, claiming management and labor aren't that
far apart. "Given IG Metall's self-styled image as a
conflict-oriented union, nobody expected a compromise prior
to the expiration of the grace period," Mr. Kirchner said.
"Few would sympathize with a major strike at a time when the
German-German economic and social union is set to start on
July 2," he said.
   Most economists are less worried about strikes than the
cost of avoiding them. West Germany's construction workers
already got a 5.8% wage increase this year. The printers'
union also is threatening strikes to back demands for hefty
wage increases and a shorter working week.
   This year's labor-contract talks have spurred concern at
the Bundesbank, which reckons wage increases will boost
inflationary pressures expected to come from monetary union
and a full production capacity after eight years of growth.
The combination of price factors has prompted warnings of a
clampdown on monetary growth with interest-rate increases
later in the year.
   Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl warned late last week
that economic strains are multiplying as a result of strong
domestic demand. "Though only half of the work force are due
for new contracts, it could result in new strains by 1991 at
the latest if the wrong guidelines are set," Mr. Poehl said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Apple Computer
   Slashes Prices
   On Its Portables
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   AAPL SNE
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apple Computer Inc. slashed prices on its sole portable
computer, in an effort to lift sluggish sales of the machine.
   The company cut the suggested price of the portable 15.3%
to $5,499. The price of a version of the same model with
fewer features was cut 17.2% to $4,799.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said that the price reduction should improve
sales, but that Apple's portables remain more expensive than
comparable machines from Compaq Computer Corp. and others.
"The discounts aren't enough," said Bruce M. Lupatkin, an
analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist.
   At 16 pounds, Apple's portable is considered too heavy and
bulky to win wide acceptance at a time when competitors are
offering slimmer, lighter models for one-third less money in
some cases. Apple's dealers have reported
weaker-than-expected interest in the machine, and some
analysts have sharply scaled back sales projections.
   "Frankly, the product simply isn't selling well," said
Peter Rogers, an analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Apple doesn't disclose sales figures for the portable and
won't comment on its plans for this segment of the computer
business, which grew an estimated 40% last year, far faster
than the growth in desktop computers.
   However, industry observers believe Apple is discussing
plans to hire an independent firm to manufacture a new
portable because it isn't sure it can build a small, light
machine inexpensively enough. They say that Apple plans to
design the machine and that Sony Corp., which supplies
monitors to Apple, is among the possible builders.
   Such a move would be a major departure for Apple, which
currently manufactures all its computers. The company,
however, does rely heavily on a variety of suppliers for such
critical parts as monitors, storage devices and keyboards.
   An Apple spokeswoman declined to confirm or deny that the
company is considering contracting out the manufacture of a
future portable. She would say only that discussions are
routinely held on various topics with Apple's suppliers,
including Sony.
   Industry observers say that Apple hasn't decided how it
will proceed, and that, in any case, it is working on new
portable computers that can complement its current offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain Names Labor Minister
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez named
Luis Martinez Noval, a 41-year-old Socialist deputy and
economist, as his new Minister of Labor.
   Mr. Martinez Noval succeeds Manuel Chaves, who was
designated the Socialist party's candidate to head the
regional government of Andalucia in elections set for June
23.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cabinet change is the only one Mr. Gonzalez is
expected to make following his party's victory in last
October's general elections.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   GNP Set 2.1%
   Annual Pace
   In First Period
   ---
   Economy Has Apparently
   Staged Mild Rebound
   After Recent Weakness
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The economy appears to have rebounded mildly
from its weakness of late last year, the government's initial
reading of first-quarter economic growth indicates.
   The economy grew at a 2.1% annual rate in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department reported Friday. That is a
slow but healthy pace, by most economists' standards. More
important to many, it is nearly twice the fourth quarter's
feeble 1.1% rate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department's chief economist, Anthony Villamil, said
the new numbers point to "a modest pickup in the economy."
   "The economy appears to be pulling out of a slump," agreed
Donald Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in
New York. "But pockets of weakness still exist."
   Inflation is still a nagging problem. An index measuring
the change in the prices of a fixed array of goods and
services soared at a 6.5% annual rate in the first quarter,
the sharpest rise in prices since the fourth quarter of 1981,
when inflation was subsiding after running at double-digit
rates. In the fourth quarter, the index, known as the
fixed-weight index, grew at a 3.6% annual rate.
   Another inflation measure, known as the implicit price
deflator, rose at a 5.7% annual rate in the first quarter,
compared with a 3.2% jump in the fourth quarter. Economists
generally view the deflator as a less precise indicator of
inflation than the fixed-weight index, because the mix of
goods and services the deflator gauges changes with the mix
of goods and services the economy produces each quarter.
   The numbers were contained in a report on the nation's
real gross national product, the inflation-adjusted value of
the nation's output of goods and services. The calculations
were based on highly incomplete data; Commerce Department
economists will revise the figures twice in the next two
months, after more information comes in.
   Despite the improvement over the fourth quarter, the
first-quarter growth rate was lower than many economists
anticipated. Most analysts expect the Federal Reserve to keep
its credit policy on hold after seeing the new numbers, but
some said the inflation figures could prompt the central bank
to consider tightening credit for the first time in more than
a year. The Fed in recent months has been holding interest
rates steady in an effort to prevent a flareup of inflation,
while still avoiding a recession.
   As the year plays out, inflation will almost certainly
slow from its sharp first-quarter pace, economists believe.
Half the first-quarter acceleration came in food and energy
prices. Frigid temperatures clenched much of the country in
late December, destroying crops and sending energy use
surging; as a result of depleted supplies in both areas,
prices jumped.
   But food and energy prices are moderating now. "Inflation
is going to come off" its current pace, predicted James
Annable, chief economist at First National Bank of Chicago.
   Some economists wonder whether the first quarter's pace of
economic growth can be sustained, though most believe the
economy is safe from recession for now. Kenneth T. Mayland,
chief economist at Society National Bank in Cleveland,
predicted that the economy is likely to continue for a while
at "something around this pace, give or take a half a percent
or so."
   Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the
nation's economic activity, picked up considerably in the
first quarter, growing $16.4 billion, compared with a $3.6
billion rise in the fourth quarter, according to the report.
A January jump in car buying fueled the increase, as
consumers took advantage of big discounts offered by auto
makers and dealers in an effort to clear inventories. But car
buying has fallen off in subsequent months, and analysts
predict it will continue to be weak for some time.
   The nation's trade imbalance also improved in the first
quarter, with exports increasing and imports decreasing.
Business investment picked up, after dropping in the fourth
quarter.
   Business inventories also grew slightly, despite a massive
sell-off of auto inventories. While inventories contribute to
GNP growth, a sharp buildup in inventories at a time of slow
economic activity can lead to production cutbacks and
layoffs. In the fourth quarter, inventories grew $22.2
billion, but they rose only $2.6 billion in the first
quarter.
   Many economists believe that the weather propped up
economic growth in the first three months of this year. The
coldest December on record was followed by unseasonably warm
temperatures through much of January and February, leading
builders to start construction projects earlier, for example.
   On the other hand, the fourth quarter's growth had been
anemic, partly as a result of some special factors. Employees
at Boeing Co., one of the nation's largest aircraft
producers, were on strike. The California earthquake also
hurt growth.
   "If you average the first quarter with the fourth quarter,
it's a little bit closer measure of what the economy is
doing," Mr. Annable, the Chicago banker, said. "Basically,
what we had was an awful lot of offsetting of special
factors."
   ---
                  GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT
                                                                                                       

   Here are some of the major components of the gross
national product expressed in seasonally adjusted annual
rates in billions of constant (1982) dollars:
                                                                                                       

                                 1st Qtr.     4th Qtr.
                                   1990        1989
                                                                                                       

   GNP .......................... 4195.8      4174.1
     less: inventory chng .......    2.6        22.2
     equals: final sales ........ 4193.2      4151.9
                                                                                                       

   Components of Final Sales
                                                                                                       

     Personal Consumption ....... 2710.1      2693.7
     Nonresidential Invest. .....  520.2       510.8
     Residential Invest. ........  188.1       184.3
     Net Exports ................  -41.2       -47.2
     Gov't Purchases ............  816.1       810.4
                                                                                                       

   In the first quarter, the implicit price deflator rose to
5.7% of the 1982 average, from 3.2% in the previous quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Slovo Cheered on Return to South Africa
   ---
   Communist Chief to Join
   In Talks With Pretoria
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   CAPE TOWN, South Africa -- Joe Slovo, the leader of the
South African Communist Party, was nearing the end of his
first speech on home soil in 27 years when, from the
multitude gathered at his feet, a voice cried out, "We love
you, Slovo."
   While Communist party leaders in the rest of the world are
beating a fast retreat, Mr. Slovo who went into exile in
1963, has made a triumphant return to South Africa. His
opening words to a "Welcome Home" rally here yesterday --
"Comrades, we are together at last" -- were greeted with wild
cheers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Slovo didn't return so much as a prophet of Marx
as he did a fellow traveler in the struggle against the white
government and its policies of racial segregation known as
apartheid. Mr. Slovo is the highest-ranking white person in
the African National Congress, the mass-based black
liberation movement, and at one time he was the leader of the
ANC's exile-based armed wing. Now, he returns as one of the
11 ANC leaders who will engage the government in three days
of historic talks, beginning Wednesday, aimed at clearing the
way for negotiations on black-white power-sharing.
   "We have come to talk to the government in the spirit of
conciliation," Mr. Slovo told the mass rally on a wind-swept
soccer field in a colored, or mixed-race, township outside of
Cape Town. An ANC flag fluttered to his right, a Communist
Party flag (a hammer and sickle within a red star) to his
left. "If there is a way forward without bloodshed," he said,
"we will grab it with both hands."
   But, in so doing, the ANC isn't about to let go of its
demands for a new constitutional order. Mr. Slovo made it
clear that the ANC won't compromise on its bottom-line goals
of one-man, one-vote simple majority rule and a
redistribution of the country's wealth and land, which is
concentrated in white hands. The government opposes simple
majority rule, claiming that it would lead to black
domination (blacks outnumber whites more than five to one),
and it dismisses redistribution as "theft."
   To get to those issues, though, both sides will first have
to create a climate suitable for constitutional talks. The
ANC demands that the government lift the four-year-old state
of emergency and release all political prisoners. Pretoria,
which legalized the ANC and the Communist Party in February
after a three-decade ban, insists the ANC give up its armed
struggle. Both sides say this week's talks may just be the
beginning of efforts to clear away the obstacles to real
negotiation.
   In the three months since President F.W. de Klerk's moves
to free up the country's political activity, the level of
nationwide violence has soared. Protesters taking advantage
of the new opportunities have at times been met by strong
police resistance, particularly in the rural areas. The "Zulu
wars" in the Natal province, where the ANC and the more
conservative Zulu political movement known as Inkatha are
fighting for political supremacy, have intensified.
   At the same time, the ANC and the government are under
pressure from their constituencies not to concede too much at
negotiations. The Pan Africanist Movement, which says blacks
should just seize power and not bother with negotiations,
accuses the ANC of selling out black interests and of
appeasing Pretoria. On the other hand, the virulent white
right wing accuses the government of surrendering white
interests to the blacks.
   "We know negotiation is a question of give and take," Mr.
Slovo said. "But there is a limit to what one side gives and
what one side takes. This is the gap that needs to be closed
by dialogue."
   Mr. Slovo's words, carried far by the strong winds, were
echoed by cries of "Viva" from the crowd. For years, the name
of this 64-year-old white man has been shouted in the same
breath as the names Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo, the
ANC's two paramount leaders. And, during the years of banning
and exile, the Communist Party's surge in popularity has
mirrored that of the ANC. "The enemy of our enemy is our
friend," said a young black man when asked why he was waving
a Communist Party flag. "Slovo," in big capital letters, was
emblazoned on a sticker plastered across the front of his
sweater.
   In the white community, though, Mr. Slovo's return to
South Africa is causing more angst than the release of Mr.
Mandela from prison in February. Because he's white, Mr.
Slovo's actions have always seemed more treacherous, his
calls for black liberation more ominous. He, more so than Mr.
Mandela, has been the whites' most-feared bogeyman. And now
that he's back, many whites are studying him closely to
confirm their fears. When he flew into the country Friday,
the pro-government media jumped on the fact that he was
wearing red socks. No one chronicled what the black ANC
members were wearing.
   The government is hoping that the events in Eastern Europe
will discredit Mr. Slovo and his party. But the stocky,
gray-haired lawyer, who was born in Lithuania, seems to be
adapting with the times. Once a hard-line Stalinist, Mr.
Slovo recently examined communism's shortcomings in an essay
entitled "Has Socialism Failed?" Yesterday, he warned Mr. de
Klerk that the tide of liberation sweeping across Eastern
Europe is also sweeping across South Africa. He praised the
role of the churches in the anti-apartheid struggle, calling
on "every good believer to become a witness for liberation."
He said the ANC has displayed "the Biblical patience of Job"
in its long battle against Pretoria. He embraced multiparty
democracy. He talked about redistributing wealth and hailed
the contribution of the working class, but he didn't rail
about economic nationalization.
   Make no mistake, he said in private, socialism is still
his goal for South Africa. But, he added, first things first.
   "When we left (South Africa) in 1963, the main slogan was
`Freedom in our lifetime,'" he said. "Today, our cry is
`Freedom now.'"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Georgia Gulf Revamping
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   GGC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Georgia Gulf Corp. said it completed its
recapitalization plan and expects to begin payments to
shareholders today.
   Under the recapitalization, each share of common will be
exchanged for $30 in cash, $8.50 principal amount of 15%
senior subordinated notes maturing in the year 2000 and one
share of a new issue of common.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Georgia Gulf, a chemical company, unveiled its plan to
recapitalize in January and amended the plan in March.
Shareholders approved the recapitalization at a special
meeting April 20.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insurance Firms' Junk Bond Holdings
   Likely to Face Tougher Rules by States
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- State insurance regulators are about to make
life tougher for the junk-bond market.
   Their actions won't be as drastic as Congress's ultimatum
to the savings-and-loan industry last summer, ordering
thrifts to sell all high-risk, high-yield junk bonds within
five years. But rule changes being devised by the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners nonetheless are aimed
at reining in junk-bond investing by insurance companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Insurers historically have accounted for about 30% of
junk-bond buying; at year-end 1989, they owned more than $38
billion of junk securities, according to Townsend &amp; Shuppe, a
Hartford, Conn. research firm. For most major insurers, junk
bonds constitute just a sliver of a widely diversified
portfolio. But a few insurance companies, notably First
Executive Corp., have piled one-third or more of their assets
into low-rated bonds, seeking higher yields. After the
junk-bond market's swoon of last year, regulators have grown
worried.
   "The whole problem of junk bonds has to be addressed,"
said Terrence Lennon, chief examiner of the New York State
Department of Insurance. Mr. Lennon heads a working committee
of the NAIC that earlier this month issued a proposal for
tough new reserve requirements for insurers' junk-bond
holdings, starting in 1991. The NAIC's proposals may be
modified a bit in the next month, but they are widely
expected to be adopted by state commissioners in June.
   The regulators' latest moves could spell more trouble for
the junk-bond market, which had finally begun to rally this
spring. "I'm sure there will be some fallout" from the new
insurance rules, said Linda Dougherty, a vice president at
Prudential Insurance Co. of America. "People won't want to
invest in these bonds until they see how things shake out."
   Others share Ms. Dougherty's worries. "We're all concerned
about what happened in the market when Congress declared that
the junk-bond portfolios of savings and loans had to be sold
within five years," said Robert Seiler, a senior vice
president at Allstate Insurance Co.
   Although no one is suggesting that insurance companies
should stop owning junk bonds, NAIC officials say that later
this year they may recommend that each state adopt some sort
of cap on the junk portfolios of insurers based in that
state. New York is one of the few states that currently
limits junk-bond portfolios; its cap is 20% of an insurer's
assets.
   For the time being, the NAIC's main junk-bond initiative
is to propose new reserve requirements for insurers' bond
portfolios, depending on credit quality. These rules would
introduce six credit categories, up from the current four.
And they would tilt more strongly than the current system in
favor of high-quality bond portfolios.
   In the new top category, for bonds rated triple-A to
single-A, insurance companies would be obliged to create a
statutory reserve of only 1% of the bond's value, built up
over 20 years. That's a lighter requirement than the current
2% reserve over 20 years.
   In most other categories, insurance companies would be
required to build larger statutory reserves faster than
before. The difference would be especially stark for about
400 speculative, single-B-rated bonds that had been treated
as solid investments under the old reserve system. Under the
new rules, insurance companies would be required to build up
a 10% reserve in five years, far more than the old
requirement of a 2% reserve over 20 years.
   Wall Street analysts say the new rules could push up an
insurance company's cost of owning those bonds by 0.5% to 2%
a year. The bigger reserve requirements also might slow an
insurance company's growth or even force it to unload junk
bonds to stay in compliance with the rules.
   Most large insurance companies have only 2% to 10% of
their assets in junk bonds, so the new rules aren't likely to
cause much upheaval in their portfolios. "This only affects a
handful of insurers," said Muriel Clemensen, head of
high-yield research at Citibank. "It doesn't affect the whole
industry."
   Still, Presidential Life Insurance Co. has about 25% of
its bond portfolio in junk bonds, and First Executive has an
even higher level. Executives at both those companies said
they were still studying the NAIC proposals and couldn't
comment on them.
   New York State's Mr. Lennon said he is "willing to look at
a phase-in" of the new reserve rules over two to three years,
so as not to cause undue market turmoil. He also said change
in insurance reserve rules is overdue anyway. "We're dealing
with an antiquated reporting structure that has been in place
for decades," Mr. Lennon said. "Nuances have grown in the
market. Greater refinement is needed."
   Junk-bond professionals, however, argue that their market
is being singled out unfairly for attention. "It's
interesting to see the insurance regulators descend upon
high-yield bonds as if they were the most critical issue,"
said Robert Long, director of high-yield research at First
Boston Corp. "Actually, problem real-estate loans are more
significant."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Olivetti Group Net
   Dropped 43% in 1989,
   Sales Climbed 7.4%
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   I.OLV PHG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IVREA, Italy -- Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co. reported a 43% drop
in consolidated net income for 1989, but Managing Director
Vittorio Cassoni, citing more than satisfactory first-quarter
sales and orders, expressed optimism about a possible
turnaround in 1990.
   The Italian office-equipment maker posted group net income
of 202.8 billion lire ($164.8 million) for 1989, down from
356.2 billion lire a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results were at the lower end of analysts'
expectations. On average, analysts had estimated 1989 net
earnings at around 250 billion lire. Mr. Cassoni blamed the
decline on costs related to last year's reorganization,
combined with a slump in the world-wide computer industry.
   Olivetti also said that operating earnings declined 5.8%
to 382.4 billion lire from 406 billion lire. Group sales rose
7.4% to 9.031 trillion lire from 8.407 trillion lire.
   The board of directors, which met in the Olivetti
headquarters at Ivrea, decided to cut the dividend by 21% to
270 lire a common share from 340 lire a share. Saving shares,
which have a preferential status, will get 290 lire, down
from 360 lire for 1988.
   Chairman Carlo De Benedetti said in a statement that last
year "had been very difficult and that in this context
Olivetti managed to outgrow the market and maintain its
operating profitability virtually unchanged."
   Mr. Cassoni showed optimism about the prospects for 1990.
He said group sales in the first quarter of the year rose a
substantial 8.7% from a year earlier, while new orders in the
January-March period jumped 21.3% from the previous year.
   Mr. Cassoni also confirmed that talks with N.V. Philips
could possibly lead to a partnership with the Dutch
electronics giant. He indicated the partnership may include
an exchange of shareholdings or be limited to the takeover of
a stake by one of the partners. He declined to confirm
reports that the agreement would be limited to a sector
partnership in electronic components and printers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sony's Columbia Calls Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. said it
called for redemption of about $279 million of senior debt,
to be repaid from funds provided by its parent Sony Corp. of
Japan.
   The entertainment company said it will redeem $250 million
of 10.625% senior subordinated debentures due 2018 at
108.717% of face value. It also will redeem $28.8 million of
14.5% senior subordinated debentures due 2000 at 107.25% of
face value. Columbia also will pay accrued interest to the
date of redemption on both issues. The securities will be
redeemed starting June 1, 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corona to Lift Stake
   In Breakwater to 27.6%
   In Exchange of Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   ICRA BWRLF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Corona Corp. said it agreed to acquire an
additional 15.8% of Breakwater Resources Ltd., Vancouver,
British Columbia, in exchange for about 3.3 million Corona
Class A shares with an indicated market value of US$22.1
million.
   The gold mining company said acquisition of the 10 million
Breakwater shares would boost its stake to about 17.4 million
shares, or 27.6%, of Breakwater, a mining company. Corona
already holds about 7.4 million Breakwater shares, including
500,000 that it said it bought in a private transaction last
Thursday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Corona Class A shares closed at $6.625, down 12.5 cents. In
national over-the-counter trading, Breakwater shares closed
at $1.8125, unchanged.
   Corona said the 10 million Breakwater shares will be
acquired in two transactions, of nine million and one million
shares, respectively, which are subject to regulatory
approval. It didn't identify the current holders of the
shares.
   A Breakwater spokeswoman said the company doesn't know the
identity of the holders, indicating that the holding of nine
million shares had been accumulated recently. The company
declined to comment further.
   Corona, which has long had a major stake in Breakwater,
said it intends to increase its holding further, for
investment purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board `Value of Trading' Declined
   In 1st Period to Lowest Level in 4 Years
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An important barometer of Wall Street's health
has hit the lowest level in four years.
   The "value of trading" on the New York Stock Exchange --
essentially the volume multiplied by average stock prices --
fell to $5.5 billion daily in the first quarter, less than
any 1989 quarter and about 26% below the 1987 peak. The
quarter's pace languished near the 1986 level of $5.4 billion
daily.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Securities Industry Association, in a new report, says
the stock market is generating a "two-pronged attack on
revenues and profits." Stock-price weakness is adding to the
pressure from continuing low volume. That explains why so
many big brokerage companies continue to suffer financially
even 2 1/2 years after the 1987 stock-market crash.
   Value of trading is important because trading commissions
are usually a percentage of the value of a transaction. When
stock prices go down, brokers make less money on each trade.
These days, "not only is the industry selling less products,
but it is selling those products at lower prices," the
securities association report says.
   The shares of publicly traded brokerage companies are
languishing. The securities brokers group of the Dow Jones
Equity Market Index is down 9.2% this year.
   Sluggish trading volume since the 1987 crash has torpedoed
the securities industry's profits. The industry overall had
losses of $92 million in the fourth quarter, according to Big
Board data. But at least stock prices had been rising-up to
this year. No more.
   In the first quarter, trading volume fell 2%, stock prices
declined roughly 4% and the average price of a share traded
fell 5% to $34.60, the securities association said.
   One analyst who tracks value-of-trading statistics,
Michael Goldstein of Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co., says the
falling stock market along with mediocre volume has meant a
"double whammy" for brokerage companies.
   "The whole industry is based on the value of the trading,
so if value contracts, their share of the value contracts,"
Mr. Goldstein says. Mr. Goldstein is projecting that brokers'
production of commissions will be down roughly 10% from last
year's base. Last year, broker production had risen along
with soaring stock prices, in one of the few positive
developments for Wall Street.
   Without those rising stock prices, there would have been
even more layoffs and disappointing earnings at brokerage
companies, analysts say. Last year, the market soared about
27%. But through Friday, the market this year is down nearly
7%.
   With trading profits and investment gains accounting for
one-fourth of Wall Street revenue in the 1980s, "lower
securities prices generate real profit problems for the
industry," says Jeffrey M. Schaefer, the securities
association's research director. "Any industry is crippled if
a basic measure of sales is no higher than that reached four
years earlier."
   Dean P. Eberling, analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.,
says he is optimistic about the securities industry for the
long haul, but that it is "in for a very rough period as far
as sentiment on these (brokerage) stocks." Last year's second
quarter was a good one for both volume and prices. That means
that this year's second-quarter earnings are likely to be
clunkers compared with the year-earlier periods, analysts
say.
   What saved brokerage companies in the 1990 first quarter
was bond trading and currency exchange. While the value of
corporate bond trading fell to $14.1 billion after three
consecutive quarterly increases, institutions were net buyers
daily of $908 million of corporate bonds, the highest buying
level since the first quarter of 1987, the securities
association says. Rising interest rates were a "strong
magnet" for institutions to buy bonds, the association notes,
especially with memories of the 1987 crash lingering.
   Volume on the New York Stock Exchange in the first quarter
averaged slightly more than 160 million shares daily -- the
lowest tally since the 1988 fourth quarter's 145 million
shares -- with volume declining each month.
   The American Stock Exchange enjoyed a better trend.
First-quarter volume averaged 14.6 million shares daily, the
highest quarterly average in three years. Much of the
increase was from the Nikkei put warrants that began trading
in January, giving investors a way to bet against the
Japanese stock market. These warrants at times have accounted
for as much as 40% of Amex volume, and 15% overall in the
quarter, says the association.
   Volume trends on the Nasdaq over-the-counter market were
comparable in the quarter to the Big Board's. Nasdaq volume
averaged 132.2 million shares, about flat with the 1989
average but still 11% below the 1987 peak. Still,
institutions hoping that smaller stocks would soar helped net
purchases -- or purchases minus sales -- of Nasdaq stocks
soar to 2.2 million shares a day in the quarter, far
surpassing earlier years.
   The drop-off in stock business wouldn't faze Wall Street
were it not for the inertia in the once-lucrative investment
banking businesses. Both stock and bond underwritings are
under pressure. Public underwritten corporate debt fell to
$70 billion in the first quarter from $83.5 billion in the
fourth quarter; stock underwriting fell to $7.1 billion from
$8 billion. There were also drops in mortgage-backed and
municipal securities, while high-yield, high-risk junk bond
underwritings "almost disappeared" in the first quarter, says
the securities association report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mercedes-Benz U.S. Recall
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTVALE, N.J. -- Mercedes-Benz of North America said it
is recalling 1,584 of its 300-Class luxury cars to replace an
electrical part in the engine cooling fan.
   The auto maker, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG, Stuttgart, West
Germany, said heat from the suspect part could cause its
plastic cover to melt and possibly burn when the auxiliary
fan is working at low speed. Three incidents of melting have
been reported, none involving accidents or injuries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cars being recalled are certain 1990-model 300E 2.6,
300E and 300E 4Matic sedans, 300TE and 300TE 4Matic station
wagons and 300CE coupes.
   Mercedes-Benz said dealers will replace the problem part
with one that has a metal cover at no cost to customers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, April 27, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 7 3/4% low, 8% near closing
bid, 8 1/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.275% 30 to 59 days; 8.25% 60 to 89 days;
8.225% 90 to 119 days; 8.20% 120 to 179 days; 8.10% 180 to
270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.37%
30 days; 8.40% 60 days; 8.45% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.80% one month; 7.85% two
months; 7.88% three months; 7.86% six months; 8.12% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.40% one month; 8.60% three months;
8.70% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.25% 30 days; 8.25% 60 days; 8.30%
90 days; 8.34% 120 days; 8.34% 150 days; 8.34% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% one month; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% two months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/16% three months;
8 13/16% to 8 11/16% four months; 8 7/8% to 8 3/4% five
months; 8 7/8% to 8 3/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 9/16% one month;
8 3/4% three months; 9% six months; 9 3/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.78% 13 weeks; 7.91% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.68%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.61%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.20%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.76%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wang Labs Posts
   $146.6 Million Loss
   For Third Quarter
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   WANB GE
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wang Laboratories Inc. reported a loss for its fiscal
third quarter, ended March 31, of $146.6 million, or 89 cents
a share, reflecting a number of one-time charges and
continued weakness in its computer sales.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the Lowell, Mass., concern
reported a loss of $63.7 million, or 39 cents a share. Wang's
third-quarter revenue fell 19% to $583.1 million from $721.4
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wang's B stock fell 25 cents to $4.50 Friday in American
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Richard Miller, chairman and president, said that the
larger-than-expected setback reflected "increasingly
competitive industry conditions" and an internal
reorganization that disrupted sales and marketing during
January and February.
   The one-time costs are related to the sale of certain
subsidiaries to raise cash and reduce debt. Wang said it had
completed the previously announced plan to sell its
international lease financing operations to General Electric
Capital Corp., a unit of General Electric Co., for $240
million. It also has agreed to sell two smaller units. It
said losses on the sales of the discontinued operations
amounted to $54.7 million.
   Wang said that on a pretax basis, after eliminating
interest costs, its operating loss for the period was $57.4
million compared with $36.5 million in the year-earlier
period.
   Mr. Miller said that completion of the subsidiary sales
will generate $285 million in cash, allowing the company to
cut bank debt to about $65 million, and eliminating $55
million in annual interest payments compared with last year.
He added that the company is "progressing in its turnaround
efforts," and hopes for "operating profitability in the year
beginning July 1."
   Analysts said the widening sales decline is worrisome.
Barry Willman, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.,
said "while all the expense (cutting) steps are necessary,
the revenue will need to be stabilized in order to restore
sustained profitability."
   For the nine months, Wang reported a loss of $219.2
million, or $1.33 a share, widened from a loss of $49.6
million, or 30 cents a share. Revenue fell 15% to $1.82
billion from $2.13 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.8 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10 billion of 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Duke Power Co. -- $150 million of first and refunding
mortgage bonds, via competitive bidding.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Aspect Telecommunications Corp. -- two million common
shares, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. -- 3.21 million common
shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   IG Laboratories Inc. -- initial 1.875 million common
shares, via Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Rasterops -- initial 1.52 million common shares, via
Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   RYKA Inc. -- two million common shares, via Ladenburg
Thalmann &amp; Co.
   Salomon Inc. -- initial three million FT-SE 100-share
index call warrants, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Salomon Inc. -- initial three million FT-SE 100-share
index put warrants, via Salomon Brothers.
   Seitel Inc. -- one million common shares, via Rotan Mosle
Inc.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Central Arizona Water Conservation District -- $150.75
million of Central Arizona Project contract revenue bonds,
1990 Series A, via a John Nuveen &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Chicago -- $75 million of gas supply revenue bonds,
People's Gas Light &amp; Coke Co. issue, Series 1990 A
(Alternative Minimum Tax), via a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
group.
   District of Columbia -- $158 million of general obligation
bonds, via a R.W. Corby &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Indiana Health Facilities Authority -- $69.5 million of
Bartholomew County Hospital Project revenue bonds (Capital
Guaranty insured), via a First Boston Corp. group.
   Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities Authority
-- $69.75 million revenue bonds, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore
issue, Series 1990, AMBAC-insured, via a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
group.
   Minneapolis, Minn. -- $160 million of Housing
Redevelopment Authority, City of St. Paul, health care system
revenue bonds, Series A, Series B and Series C.
   Rhode Island Housing Mortgage Finance Corp. -- $103
million of home-ownership opportunity bonds, Series 2A
(non-AMT) and 2B (AMT), via a Goldman Sachs group.
   State of New York Mortgage Agency -- $115 million of
tax-exempt bonds and taxable bonds, via a Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
group.
   Toledo Edison Co., Ohio -- $67.3 million Ohio Water
Development Authority and Ohio Air Quality Development
Authority, State of Ohio Collateralized Pollution Control
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Toledo Edison Co. Project, 1990
Series A and B, via a Shearson Lehman group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grumman Corp. Wins
   Contract From Navy
   For $142.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ GM HON ROK RTN FMC GE ALD WX GRL GD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Grumman Corp. received a $142.9 million Navy
contract for 4E-2C aircraft and A-6E aircraft improvements.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Motors Corp. won a $132.3 million Army contract
for tank transmissions.
                                                                                                       

   Honeywell Inc. was awarded a $123.9 million Army contract
for bomb parts.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International Corp. got a $76.6 million Air Force
contract for missile guidance units.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. received a $45.9 million Army contract for
Hawk missile parts.
                                                                                                       

   FMC Corp. was awarded a $37.9 million Army contract for
tank tracks.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. won $29.9 million in contracts for
Navy aircraft guidance systems and Army helicopter
electronics.
                                                                                                       

   Allied-Signal Corp. got $25.1 million in contracts for
Navy aircraft power units and Army gyroscopes.
                                                                                                       

   General Dynamics Corp. received a $16.2 million Navy
contract for Sparrow missile parts.
                                                                                                       

   Westinghouse Electric Corp. was awarded a $14 million Army
contract for drug surveillance systems.
                                                                                                       

   General Instrument Corp. won a $12.9 million Navy contract
for acoustic equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Mr. Smith Goes to Moscow, Again
   ----
   By Martha Bayles
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   As one of the many Americans who indulged their curiosity
about the Soviet Union by reading Hedrick Smith's 1977 best
seller, "The Russians," I looked forward with some eagerness
to Mr. Smith's new TV series, "Inside Gorbachev's U.S.S.R."
The series, which focuses on the changes wrought by glasnost
and perestroika, airs Mondays -- tonight through May 21 (9-10
p.m. EDT, on PBS; check local listings).
   The series rewarded my eagerness by offering a glimpse of
Soviet life that is infinitely more nuanced and comprehending
than the tidbits dished up by the network news, never mind
the propagandistic mush shoveled out by previous TV series
such as Ted Turner's 1988 "Portrait of the Soviet Union." Mr.
Smith is well served by his three years in Moscow as bureau
chief for the New York Times. Not only does he speak the
Russian language (rare enough in a Western journalist), he
also empathizes with the Soviet people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We see this empathy in tonight's episode, when Mr. Smith
interviews four women holding a hunger strike on the steps of
a church in the central Russian city of Ivanovo. Closed in
the 1930s, the church is now a "government archive" --
meaning it is stacked with documents so old we can
practically smell the mildew. The women, who have been lying
in the cold for four days in a protest aimed at reopening the
church, reply to Mr. Smith's gentle questioning with feeble
voices but eloquent eyes.
   Yet because Mr. Smith is such a simpatico reporter, he
returns a few weeks later to talk again with the women. After
16 days, they tell him, they finally got the local party
official to promise a resolution of the problem by the end of
the month. "And so you ended it?" asks Mr. Smith. "Yes, we
believed him," one says without irony. "After all, he's a
Communist." Expressing no surprise that religious women would
trust a Communist, Mr. Smith simply adds that, after five
months, the church remains closed.
   As the rest of the programs proceed, Mr. Smith maintains
the same unruffled manner when bright hopes for political
democratization, legally protected free speech, economic
liberty and national self-determination meet official
resistance. Nor is he surprised to see these same hopes
founder on the ambivalent attitudes of even the most
committed reformers. Unlike most of his media colleagues, Mr.
Smith knows better than to assume that inside every Russian
there is an American trying to get out.
   Nowhere is the Russians' ambivalence clearer than in the
third (May 14) segment, "Looking for Perestroika." The film,
which would be better titled "Desperately Seeking
Perestroika," presents vivid testimony from Siberian coal
mines, Ukrainian potato farms and Ural heavy industries about
the frustrations of partial reform. As one manager puts it:
"In your country, normal economic relations exist -- meaning,
you have money."
   A similar impasse faces Mark Masarsky, a Novgorod
"entrepreneur" trying to launch a construction business.
After buying a brick factory and replacing its prison labor
force with productive workers attracted by the prospect of
high wages, profit sharing and home ownership, he is stymied
by a lack of lumber. There's a sawmill nearby, but the state
forbids it to trade with him. As the camera pans along a pile
of rotting logs, Mr. Masarsky sums up the problem: "This
lumber belongs to everybody . . . and nobody."
   Yet even Mr. Masarsky is ambivalent toward Western-style
capitalism. His employees are all shareholders, and he
clearly wouldn't have it any other way. At one point, Mr.
Smith links Mr. Masarsky's views with the New Economic Policy
(NEP) decreed by Lenin in 1921. In Mr. Smith's voice-over
narrative, the NEP is described as "socialist capitalism,"
with "socialism" defined as "a society of civilized
cooperators."
   Before we get all misty about the good old days of Lenin's
perestroika, we should recall the reasons for the NEP, as
summarized by the Sovietologist S. Frederick Starr: "Lenin,
realizing that the peasantry was solidly opposed to
bolshevism and that the Bolsheviks themselves possessed
neither the numbers nor the skills to manage the economy,
took a giant step backward to state capitalism."
   In fact, "state capitalism" is too kind a term. According
to the British historian Paul Johnson, "NEP was, in fact,
surrender to the peasants and the return to a market system
based on barter. The goonsquads {who had been seizing food at
gunpoint} were withdrawn, and . . . small factories and
workshops were allowed to start up again, outside the control
of the state, to produce goods the peasants were willing to
accept in exchange for grain."
   As it turned out, the NEP was too little, too late. The
peasants had already been prevented from sowing that year's
crop, and when drought came, there were no reserves.
Approximately three million people died in the terrible
famine that followed. Add to this figure Mr. Johnson's
estimate of 50,000 people murdered by Lenin's secret police
by 1920, and you have something other than "a society of
civilized cooperators."
   It is ironic, in light of this history, that next week's
episode should be called "Comfortable Lies, Bitter Truths."
For the whole series endorses the biggest and most
comfortable lie of the Gorbachev era -- namely, that the bad
guy of Soviet history is not Lenin, but Stalin. To cite one
of many examples, Mr. Smith declares in tonight's episode
that "not since Lenin" has a Soviet leader accepted criticism
as willingly as Mikhail Gorbachev.
   Perhaps Mr. Smith has forgotten that it was Lenin, not
Stalin, who expanded the secret police to 16 times its size
under the czars, and replaced the court system with
"revolutionary tribunals" that executed people not for
committing crimes, but for belonging to the wrong class and
ideological categories. His goal, proclaimed in 1918, was to
"purge the Russian land of all kinds of harmful insects."
   Some of those insects remember. To judge by the young
students whose classroom we visit next week, the bitter truth
is not far from the surface. To the question of whether
Stalin's dictatorship was inevitable, one girl comments: "It
seems to me that Stalin was a product of the system." A boy
adds that if Lenin was as guilty as Stalin, "then the whole
foundation is destroyed." Another boy suggests that Lenin's
drive to "separate all thinking people from the state" made
him "close to Stalin."
   You will get a new slant on glasnost when you watch Leonid
Milgram, the principal of the school, abruptly cut off this
line of inquiry. "You are out of bounds," he says. Lenin and
Stalin are not the same. If only you "pessimistic" young
people would "study more history," you would come to
understand it "correctly," he says. At this point, it becomes
clear that, as good as this series is, it would be a whole
lot better if the simpatico Mr. Smith had spent less time
with that principal, and more with those students.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jamaican Debt Is Rescheduled
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The Paris Club of creditor governments said
members agreed to reschedule payments of debt owed to them by
Jamaica, but under its policy, didn't disclose the sum.
   The group said the rescheduled payments will be made over
10 years, with a five-year grace period. The Paris Club said
Canada, France, West Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
Norway, Britain and the U.S. participated in the
negotiations. Belgium, Finland, Spain and Sweden sent
observers. The debt relief move follows a March 23 standby
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loblaw Expects
   Per-Share Net in '90
   To Increase by 20%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.L
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Loblaw Companies Ltd., Canada's largest food
distributor, expects that its 1990 per-share earnings will be
about 20% ahead of last year's profits.
   Richard Currie, president, said after the annual meeting
that earnings growth for the year likely would match the rate
set in the latest first quarter. Loblaw reported a
first-quarter net income of 16 million Canadian dollars
(US$13.8 million) or 17 cents a share, compared with C$12.3
million, or 14 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
Last year, Loblaw had annual net income of C$70 million, or
80 cents a share, on sales of C$7.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Loblaw's higher earnings this year largely will be the
result of lower interest costs and depreciation and higher
operating profits. Mr. Currie said Loblaw has completed its
investment and acquisition program, which began in 1984, so
capital expenditures in 1990 will be about 165 million
Canadian dollars (US$142.2 million), roughly the same amount
spent last year on fixed asset additions. He said the company
doesn't plan to make any big acquisitions in Canada or the
U.S.
   Mr. Currie said sales of Loblaw's "Green" line of
environmental products, which includes phosphate-free laundry
detergent and sugarless, low-salt and low-fat processed
foods, should increase to about C$100 million this year, from
about C$60 million last year. He said the number of Green
products will grow to 150 this year, from 100 last year; and
the product line will be profitable if it achieves the
forecast sales level. Loblaw is test-marketing its Green
products in some U.S. cities, including New York, Dallas and
Detroit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Noranda Net Fell 63%
   On 7.9% Revenue Gain
   During First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.NOR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Noranda Inc. reported that first-quarter
earnings fell 63% to 59 million Canadian dollars ($50.8
million), or 26 Canadian cents (22.4 cents) a share.
   The results compare with profit of C$158 million, or 82
Canadian cents, a year ago. Revenue rose 7.9% to C$2.45
billion from C$2.27 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The natural resource company said the high value of the
Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar, as well as high
interest rates in the latest quarter, reduced earnings by
about C$12 million.
   The company reported reduced profits in its mining, forest
and manufacturing operations, though profits in its oil and
gas operations rose as a result of higher oil prices.
   For the balance of the year, Noranda said earnings will
likely continue in line with those reported for the first
quarter. Alfred Powis, chairman and chief executive officer,
said he expects 1990 earnings of about C$1.05 a share, down
from 1989 net of C$2.19.
   Mr. Powis said earnings will be depressed this year by
lower prices for nearly all of Noranda's products.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange Friday, Noranda closed at
C$18.375, down 25 Canadian cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, April 27, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                             Stock    N.A.    Stock    %
   Fund Name                 Exch.    Value   Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express             NYSE    17.29   15 5/8  -  9.63
   Baker Fentress            NYSE    23.34   19 1/8  - 18.06
   Blue Chip Value           NYSE     6.97    6 1/2  -  6.74
   Clemente Global Gro       NYSE   b11.16    9 1/4  - 17.11
   Gemini II Capital         NYSE    14.55   12 1/2  - 14.09
   Gemini II Income          NYSE     9.66   12 5/8  + 30.69
   General Amer Invest       NYSE    21.21   18 1/4  - 13.96
   Growth Stock Outlook      NYSE    10.10    9 1/4  -  8.42
   Lehman Corp.              NYSE    14.35   12 3/8  - 13.76
   Liberty All-Star Eqty     NYSE     8.94    7 3/4  - 13.31
   Niagara Share Corp.       NYSE    16.34   14      - 14.32
   Nicholas-Applegate        NYSE    10.59    9 7/8  -  6.75
   Quest For Value Cap       NYSE    16.64   12 7/8  - 22.63
   Quest For Value Inco      NYSE    11.62   13      + 11.88
   Royce Value Trust         NYSE    10.10    9 1/4  -  8.42
   Source Capital            NYSE    39.28   40 1/8  +  2.15
   Tri-Continental Corp.     NYSE    26.17   22 3/4  - 13.07
   Worldwide Value           NYSE    17.62   16      -  9.19
   Zweig Fund                NYSE    10.47   11 1/4  +  7.45
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs       AMEX     6.78    5 3/4  - 15.19
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr      NYSE    b7.89    8 7/8  + 12.48
   Franklin Universal Tr     NYSE    b7.60    7 1/8  -  6.25
   Municipal High Inco       NYSE     9.34    9 3/8  +  0.37
   Zenix Income Fund         NYSE     6.19    6 1/8  -  1.05
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Season      OTC      5.67    4 1/2  - 20.63
   Franklin M-M Inco         NYSE    b8.43    8      -  5.10
   Zweig Total Return Fd     NYSE     9.01    9 3/8  +  4.05
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance New Europe Fd    NYSE    11.04   10      -  9.42
   American Capital Conv     NYSE    21.24   18 3/4  - 11.72
   ASA Ltd                   NYSE  bc62.73   49 3/8  - 21.29
   Asia Pacific              NYSE    14.63   12 5/8  - 13.70
   Austria Fund              NYSE    14.89   14 1/8  -  5.14
   Bancroft Convertible      AMEX    20.21   17 3/8  - 14.03
   Bergstrom Capital         AMEX    57.56   57 3/4  +  0.33
   BGR Precious Metals       TOR   be10.86    9 3/8  - 13.67
   Brazil                    NYSE   y10.72   10 7/8  +  1.45
   CNV Holdings Capital      NYSE     9.18    5 1/8  - 44.17
   CNV Holdings Income       NYSE     9.42   10 7/8  + 15.45
   Castle Convertible        AMEX    21.04   18 1/4  - 13.26
   Central Fund Canada       AMEX    b4.94    5 1/4  +  6.28
   Central Securities        AMEX    10.85    9 1/8  - 15.90
   Chile Fund                NYSE    16.50   17 5/8  +  6.82
   Couns Tandem Secs         NYSE    11.10   10 1/4  -  7.66
   Cypress Fund              AMEX     9.21    8 3/4  -  4.99
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils   NYSE     7.86    7 7/8  +  0.19
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc       AMEX     8.25    7 1/4  - 12.12
   Emerging Ger Fd           NYSE    10.98    9 1/2  - 13.48
   Engex                     AMEX    11.17    8 9/16 - 23.34
   1st Australia             AMEX     9.16    8 3/8  -  8.57
   First Financial Fund      NYSE     6.77    5 3/4  - 15.07
   First Iberian             AMEX    10.36   12      + 15.83
   First Philippine Fund     NYSE    11.08    9 1/8  - 17.64
   Future Germany Fund       NYSE    16.73   13 3/4  - 17.81
   Gabelli Equity Trust      NYSE    11.69   11 1/2  -  1.63
   Germany Fund              NYSE    12.89   13 1/8  +  1.82
   Global Utilities Fund     NYSE    10.42    9 1/8  - 12.43
   Growth Fund Spain         NYSE    11.55    9 3/4  - 15.58
   GT Greater Europe Fd      NYSE    14.05   15      +  6.76
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv        NYSE    10.69    9 1/8  - 14.64
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap      AMEX   b11.00    9 3/4  - 11.36
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref     AMEX   b49.00   48 3/4  -  0.51
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)       NYSE    12.62   11 7/8  -  5.90
   India Growth Fund         NYSE   f12.72   14 1/2  + 13.99
   Indonesia Fund            NYSE    14.10   16      + 13.48
   Inefficient Market Fund   AMEX    10.70   10 7/8  +  1.64
   Irish Investment Fd       NYSE    10.90    9 1/4  - 15.14
   Italy Fund                NYSE   b13.97   13 1/8  -  6.05
   Jakarta Growth Fd         NYSE    11.06   12 1/4  + 10.76
   Japan OTC Equity Fund     NYSE   b11.22   15 1/2  + 38.15
   Korea Fund                NYSE    15.01   17 3/8  + 15.76
   Malaysia Fund             NYSE    12.83   14 5/8  + 13.99
   Mexico Fund               NYSE   b13.57   13 1/8  -  3.28
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap       NYSE    10.24    9 1/2  -  7.23
   New Germany Fund          NYSE    14.20   13      -  8.45
   Patriot Prem Div Fd       NYSE     8.54    9 7/8  + 15.63
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II    NYSE     9.78   10 1/2  +  7.36
   Petrol &amp; Resources        NYSE    29.09   25 1/2  - 12.34

   Putnam Dividend Inco      NYSE    10.021   1 1/8  + 11.03
   Portugal Fund             NYSE    12.99   12 3/8  -  4.73
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd     AMEX     6.56    6      -  8.54
   ROC Taiwan Fund           NYSE    14.61   10      - 31.55
   Scudder New Asia          NYSE    15.82   12 7/8  - 18.62
   Scudder New Europe        NYSE    11.63    9 7/8  - 15.09
   SE Savings Inst Fd        OTC     b8.18    7 1/4  - 11.37
   Spain Fund                NYSE    13.69   16 1/2  + 20.53
   Taiwan Fund               NYSE   b23.66   18 1/8  - 23.39
   TCW Convertible Secs      NYSE    b7.77    8 1/8  +  4.57
   Templeton Em Mkts         AMEX   b14.56   13 5/8  -  6.42
   Templeton Value Fund      NYSE    b9.17    8 1/2  -  7.31
   Thai Fund                 NYSE    18.19   20      +  9.95
   Turkish Inv Fund          NYSE    13.85   11 1/2  - 16.97
   United Kingdom Fund       NYSE     9.94    8 7/8  - 10.71
   Z-Seven                   OTC     12.62   13 1/2  +  6.97
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close. y-NAV: would be 11.98 and difference would be -9.22%,
if possible Brazil tax not included.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tons of Toys Inc. Files
   A Reorganization Plan
   At Bankruptcy Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   TONS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   WAREHAM, Mass. -- Tons of Toys Inc. said it filed a
reorganization plan with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Boston.
   The plan calls for Tons of Toys to be merged with T.H.E.
Corp., a closely held toy retailer in California, the company
said. The plan also calls for Tons of Toys' unsecured
creditors to get about $2.8 million, which the company said
will represent at least 20% of their claims approved by the
court. T.H.E. stockholders will own about 65% of Tons of
Toys' stock after the reorganization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tons of Toys' remaining stock will be divided between
holders of the company's $5 million of subordinated debt, an
unidentified investor and current shareholders, the company
said.
   The plan is subject to various conditions, including
receipt of $4 million in equity financing by certain
investors, the company said.
   Certain Tons of Toys' creditors last December filed a
petition to place the company in involuntary bankruptcy. A
motion by creditors now is pending before the bankruptcy
court to convert the bankruptcy proceeding to a liquidation
under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, Tons of Toys said.
The motion is scheduled for a hearing next Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Retail Sales Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales in February fell 1.1% from
January, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said, and the
decline was attributed partly to a decrease in sales of autos
and other vehicles.
   Retail sales rose 2.2% in January and 0.1% in December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   FHP INTERNATIONAL Corp.'s recently reported fiscal third
quarter earnings of 35 cents a share were about in line with
analysts' average estimate of 34 cents a share. Because the
estimate was incorrect in Thursday's Quarterly Earnings
Surprises table, due to a database error at Zacks Investment
Research, the company's results shouldn't have been included
among negative surprises.
   (See: "Quarterly Earnings Surprises" -- WSJ April 26,
1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   FILENET Corp. is based in Costa Mesa, Calif. The company's
headquarters was incorrect in Thursday's edition.
   (See: "Technology: Wang Labs Electronic-Image Aide Quits
In Blow to Fast-Growing Sector of Firm" -- WSJ April 26,
1990)
   ---
   RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH, president and chief operating
officer of Norwest Corp., was named a director of Northern
States Power Co. In Thursday's edition, he was incorrectly
identified as a Northern States official.
   (See: "Who's News: Northern States Power Co." -- WSJ April
26, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scott &amp; Stringfellow Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Scott &amp; Stringfellow Financial Inc., a
securities brokerage and financial services concern, said it
authorized the purchase of an additional 100,000 of its
2,014,907 common shares outstanding, in open-market
transactions from time to time, increasing to 300,000 from
200,000 the number of shares authorized for buyback.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Has `Twin Peaks' Peaked Already?
   ABC Says Ratings Drop Isn't a Mystery
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB GE CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Everyone knows the mystery engulfing Twin
Peaks, the fictional town in the Pacific Northwest: who
killed Laura Palmer, the high school cheerleader who led a
double life.
   But there is another, more intriguing, puzzle: What is
happening to the viewers?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Twin Peaks," on Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s TV network and
arguably the most original prime-time series in years, is
suffering audience erosion. When the show had its special
two-hour movie premiere earlier this month, it was watched by
35 million viewers.
   The audience has declined since then, however, and last
Thursday's episode, the third weekly episode, had about 16.7
million viewers, according to figures released by A.C.
Nielsen Co. Specifically, "Twin Peaks" finished with an 11.3
rating and 18 share. A rating point represents 921,000
television households and a share is the percentage of sets
in use.
   Not surprisingly, rival National Broadcasting Co., a
subsidiary of General Electric Co., reacted with glee. It
continued to win the 9 p.m. hour with the situation comedies
"Cheers" and "Wings." The shows had a combined 19.4 rating
and 31 share. "An 18 share is what `The Young Riders' was
doing when ABC pulled it," said Preston Beckman, vice
president of audience research at NBC.
   Alan Wurtzel, ABC's senior vice president of research,
said he was not surprised at the audience falloff for "Twin
Peaks," which has come from women, 50 years old and older and
men 35 years old and older.
   "The show has basically taken up a traditional ABC
profile, which is comprised mostly of younger women" he said.
"This isn't a surprise. What was a surprise was the initial
broad appeal of the show."
   Thursday has evolved surprisingly into one of the most
competitive evenings on television. For the past five years,
NBC has owned Thursdays with its lineup beginning with "The
Cosby Show" and ending with "L.A. Law." But ABC has made
inroads.
   And to further illustrate the battle for audience, CBS
Entertainment, a subsidiary of CBS Inc., is considering
moving the CBS News series "48 Hours" from its so-called
protected place on the schedule, Thursdays at 8 p.m., where
it has been for two seasons, according to network officials.
   "48 Hours," anchored by Dan Rather and featuring Bernard
Goldberg and a rotating roster of correspondents, had
consistently finished second behind "The Cosby Show" and "A
Different World" on NBC. But since ABC placed "Father Dowling
Mysteries" last winter, the CBS News series has slipped to
third place.
   According to two network officials, who did not want to be
quoted by name, "48 Hours" may be moved to 10 p.m. on another
night, if it returns as a weekly series.
   The possible move puzzles some at CBS, which just
completed its third consecutive season in the ratings
basement. "48 Hours" was considered protected against "The
Cosby Show" because ratings expectations are so low for any
competitor of the NBC situation comedy.
   But the 1990-91 TV season could be the last for comedian
Bill Cosby and CBS might want to develop an entertainment
show for that time period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Voplex Discusses Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VOT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   TROY, Mich. -- Voplex Corp. said it was discussing a joint
venture with another company that would combine the
automotive plastics groups of the two companies.
   Voplex didn't identify the other company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The automotive plastics groups at the two companies had
combined 1989 sales of about $150 million, according to
Voplex. Automotive plastics accounted for about 80% of
Voplex's 1989 sales of $71.3 million, a company spokesman
said.
   "The proposed joint venture would be another major
milestone in our strategy to enhance our position as a tier
one supplier for automotive plastics," said Joseph W. Bauer,
president and chief executive officer of Voplex.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equity Market Index Altered
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   GGC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Georgia Gulf Corp. was dropped from the
chemicals industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index. As a result of the company's recapitalization plan,
the market value of its common stock shrank significantly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Archive Completes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACHV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   COSTA MESA, Calif. -- Archive Corp. said it completed its
previously announced acquisition of San Diego-based Cipher
Data Products Corp. for $8.25 a share, or about $120 million.
   Both companies make computer-tape drives, the backup
data-storage devices for computers. Archive also said it
borrowed $140.2 million under its credit line with Barclays
Bank. The funds will repay loans made by Barclays to purchase
Cipher shares, will go toward the costs and fees related to
the transaction, and will be used for additional working
capital, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machine Tool Orders Climbed in March
   From Previous Months but Trailed '89
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CTCO
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Machine tool orders in March rebounded from the weak
levels of the previous five months, aided by a large order
from a Soviet auto plant.
   However, U.S. durable goods manufacturers still aren't
buying machinery as aggressively as they were a year ago,
machine tool producers say. And a recent Commerce Department
survey of capital spending plans isn't very reassuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic machine tool plants received $265.9 million of
orders in March, up 37% from February's $194.6 million.
However, bookings remained 8.5% below the $290.5 million of a
year earlier, according to NMTBA -- The Association for
Manufacturing Technology, a McLean, Va., trade group.
   During the the last quarter of 1989 and the first two
months of this year, monthly orders ranged between $184.5
million and $206.3 million.
   Machine tools are complex, often computer-controlled,
machines that form metal parts ranging from truck axles to
cooking pots, and thus are a good indicator of factory
spending.
   Machine tool distributors, who handle foreign-made
machines as well as U.S. equipment, also experienced an order
upturn. Orders in March were 7.6% higher than in February and
about 25% higher than the dismal levels of December and
January, according to the American Machine Tool Distributors'
Association, Rockville, Md. However, distributor orders were
down 8.4% from a year earlier.
   The orders at U.S. machine tool plants included a $38
million contract received by Cross &amp; Trecker Corp.,
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., from a Soviet auto plant. Cross &amp;
Trecker actually received Soviet orders totaling $63 million,
but $25 million of the machines will be produced by the
company's West German subsidiary and therefore weren't
included in the NMTBA figures.
   Cross &amp; Trecker said the equipment will be shipped in
1991, and that the company will be paid in dollars and West
German marks. Although the company declined to provide
details on the machinery involved, the Cross unit that
received the orders builds transfer lines that automatically
machine parts at high volume as they are moved from one
machine to another.
   The Soviets are discussing ambitious plans to expand auto
output as a key part of their efforts to satisfy demand for
additional consumer goods, according to an official of Litton
Industrial Automation, Hebron, Ky., a unit of Litton
Industries Inc. The official, who recently returned from a
trip to the Soviet Union, said U.S. and Western European
companies will receive additional orders if those plans are
carried out.
   In recent years, however, the Soviets have purchased only
a small amount of U.S. equipment. Machine tool builders
shipped $21.9 million of machines to the Soviets last year,
just over 2% of U.S. machine tool exports, NMTBA said. And
last year's Soviet sales exceeded the $16.4 million for the
previous seven years combined.
   Domestic orders for lathes, machining centers and other
standard machine tools have been weak in March and April,
several major machine tool producers said. Customers continue
to ask for price quotations, but aren't signing orders.
However, producers of commercial aircraft and airplane parts
are ordering sophisticated production systems and other
specialized machines.
   At Cross &amp; Trecker, the domestic automotive picture has
brightened, a spokesman said. "Some of the projects that have
been kicked around for awhile" may turn into solid orders in
the next few months, he added. Hurco Cos., Indianapolis, also
has seen a recovery in orders from automotive concerns. For
much of 1989 and early 1990, delays in auto plant
re-equipment programs were a major factor in the drop in
machine tool orders.
   The automotive outlook still isn't particularly bright,
however. The Commerce Department's latest survey of 1990
capital spending plans indicates that motor vehicle producers
expect to invest 11% less this year than in 1989. Overall,
U.S. capital spending will be up 7.8% this year, according to
the survey, but durable goods producers, who buy most machine
tools, will invest only 2.1% more than in 1989.
   Domestic machine tool plants in March received $198.2
million of orders for lathes, machining centers, transfer
lines, boring mills, grinders, milling machines and other
machines that shape metal by cutting, up 70% from the
previous month but still 10% below the $220.6 million of a
year earlier, NMTBA said.
   Orders for metal-forming presses and other machines to
shape metal with pressure were $67.7 million, down 3.2% from
$69.9 million a year earlier.
   Shipment of all types of machine tools in March totaled
$288.9 million, NMTBA said, down 5.8% from $306.7 million a
year earlier.
   ---
                                                                                                       

                    March 1990    Feb. 1990     March 1989

   Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........  $132,600,000  $100,450,000  $200,200,000
 Foreign .........    65,600,000    15,850,000    20,400,000
   Total .........   198,200,000   116,300,000   220,600,000
 3-month total for 1990: $455,650,000; for 1989:
$602,550,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........  $56,950,000   $56,700,000   $58,200,000
 Foreign .........   10,700,000    21,550,000    11,700,000
   Total .........   67,650,000    78,250,000    69,900,000
 3-month total for 1990: $206,050,000; for 1989:
$200,750,000.
                                                                                                       

   Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........  $179,800,000  $143,600,000  $207,250,000
 Foreign .........    34,350,000    25,900,000    20,200,000
   Total .........   214,150,000   169,500,000   227,450,000
 3-month total for 1990: $545,850,000; for 1989:
$481,550,000.
                                                                                                       

   Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ........  $66,450,000   $89,700,000   $67,000,000
 Foreign .........    8,300,000     8,800,000    12,200,000
    Total ........   74,750,000    98,500,000    79,200,000
 3-month total for 1990: $237,400,000; for 1988:
$206,100,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Telebit Corp. Offers
   Shares to the Public
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   TBIT
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Telebit Corp. said it offered
2,090,000 common shares for $20.9 million, or $10 a share, in
an initial public offering.
   The maker of data-transmission products said that of the
shares being offered, 1,928,820 are being sold by Telebit and
161,180 by certain shareholders. The shares will be traded on
the Nasdaq National Market System under the symbol TBIT.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Telebit said the stock is being offered through an
underwriting syndicate managed by Cowen &amp; Co. and Needham &amp;
Co. Telebit has granted the underwriters an option to
purchase up to an additional 313,500 shares of common stock
to cover any over-allotments.
   The company said it plans to use proceeds from the
offering for capital expenditures and for general corporate
purposes. It added that some of the proceeds may also be used
to fund acquisitions of data-communications businesses,
products or technologies, although no such acquisitions are
currently identified.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West Coast Nerds
   Beat East Eggheads
   In Computer Bowl
   ---
   Microsoft's William Gates
   Is Trivial in the Contest:
   Key to the ASCII Escape
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- In the game show, as in life, the West Coast
computer nerds beat the East -- following a close contest
that was decided in a sudden-death finish.
   The storied rivalry between Silicon Valley's laid-back
computer wizards and the buttoned-down businessmen of
Boston's flagging Route 128 region was reflected Friday in
the second annual Computer Bowl. The Boston Computer Museum
benefit, modeled after the College Bowl game show, featured
an all-star cast including William H. Gates, reformed hacker
and billionaire chairman of Microsoft Corp., and Mitchell
Kapor, trivia whiz and founder of Lotus Development Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The East Coast team, captained by Patrick J. McGovern,
chairman of International Data Corp., maintained a slim lead
through much of the contest, fielding the most obscure
computer-trivia questions. Bob Frankston, co-developer of the
first electronic spreadsheet and chief scientist at Lotus,
was the East's Most Valuable Player.
   The rapid-fire questions ranged from real softballs
(E-PROM, as any nerd knows, is an erasable-programmable
read-only memory) to the truly arcane (Q: What's the ASCII
equivalent for the `escape' key? A: 27). Mr. Frankston, clad
in the dark business suit that was the uniform of the East,
knew that one. The West wore shirt-sleeves.
   The West's big gun, Mr. Gates, didn't turn out to be much
of a factor, though he delivered in a couple of clutch
situations. He was hot in a warm-up round before the Bowl --
to be broadcast nationwide on PBS's Computer Chronicles in
May -- but the East took the preliminary. There was some
speculation that the warm-up loss was a set-up by the wily
Mr. Gates, and someone from Microsoft was indeed seen taking
bets.
   It was a bitter defeat for the East. It's bad enough that
the momentum in the industry has shifted to the West and
smaller, more nimble machines, leaving Eastern firms
bleeding. This was personal.
   After trailing most of the game, the West seized the lead
in the fourth quarter. The East tied the score in the final
seconds, but the West won at the buzzer. The coveted silver
Computer Bowl was handed over to the Californians. "The
defeat of unknown nerds from failing East Coast companies was
inevitable," said West Coast captain and venture capitalist
L. John Doerr, who couldn't resist rubbing it in.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vitronics Expects to Post Flat Sales, Net
   For Quarter; Slow Domestic Market Cited
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   VTC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Vitronics Corp. expects to report first-quarter sales and
profit roughly even with year-earlier results, reflecting
continuing weakness in the U.S. electronics industry offset
by strong international demand, said Elliot M. Katzman, chief
financial officer.
   In the 1989 quarter, Vitronics posted net income of
$107,000, or three cents a share, on sales of $4.9 million.
Vitronics, based in Newmarket, N.H., makes automated
thermal-processing devices and other equipment used in the
manufacture of electronic circuit boards. The company is
expected to report earnings later this week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Katzman added that the company "anticipates a strong
second half" following the recent introduction of a product
line that washes processing residues from circuit boards
without the use of chlorofluorocarbon solvents. CFCs, heavily
used in the electronics industry, are known to damage the
Earth's protective ozone layer.
   Vitronics claims about 50% of the market for
thermal-processing machines. The line "continues to be very
profitable," Mr. Katzman said. But he said the company is
expanding investments in new lines, including the CFC-free
circuit board cleaning machines, and that those investments
squeezed profit margins during the first quarter.
   John Walthausen, an analyst with First Albany Corp., says
the CFC-free technology "appears very promising" and that
Vitronics was one of the first with a CFC-free system
suitable for factory-line use. He said he was concerned that
backlog for the core product line was down some at Dec. 31
from a year earlier, reflecting slowness in the U.S.
business, but he called it "a temporary phenomenon."
   Mr. Katzman said the company's international business was
strong during the quarter and now accounts for more than 40%
of total sales. Europe was the largest market, but the
company is considering an Asian facility to meet rising
demand in that region, he said.
   Buyers of the company's core product line include most
major electronics firms, including Compaq Corp.,
International Business Machines Corp. and American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph Co. A few customers, including AT&amp;T and the
CalComp unit of Lockheed Corp., have bought the new CFC-free
board washers, and Vitronics so far has sold nine systems,
which range in price from $50,000 to $95,000, Mr. Katzman
said.
   During the quarter, Vitronics announced the resignation of
co-founder and director George F. Soderberg and the buy-back
of his 7.5% stake in the company for $547,000 in cash and a
note. Mr. Soderberg is to continue as a consultant and signed
a non-compete agreement.
   For all of 1989, Vitronics posted net income of $827,000,
or 20 cents a share, on record sales of $20.6 million. Net
income in 1988 was $528,000, or 13 cents a share, including a
one cent a share gain from tax loss carry-forward, on sales
of $16.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Ruling in `Free Exercise' of Religion Case
   Marks an End to Tenet of Warren Court
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- With little fanfare, the Supreme Court has
toppled one of the pillars of the 1960s court led by Chief
Justice Earl Warren.
   Constitutional law experts say the justices, who scarely
acknowledged the sweep of their recent ruling, significantly
altered their approach to cases involving the "free exercise"
of religion guaranteed by the First Amendment. The court gave
state and local governments substantially more authority to
enforce their laws, even when those laws conflict with
religious practices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's the single most dramatic change in free exercise
doctrine in the last 25 years," says William Van Alstyne, a
Duke University Law School professor. "It's the clearest
doctrinal turnaround in the constitutional area," says
Michael McConnell, a University of Chicago Law School
professor.
   Free exercise cases, as they are called, have always been
difficult for the Supreme Court; they often require the court
to recognize special treatment for people because of their
religious beliefs. In 1972, for example, the court ruled that
Wisconsin had to exempt the Amish from compulsory public
school attendance after the eighth grade; although the vote
was 7-0, there were four separate opinions.
   The case decided recently involved a challenge by American
Indians to an Oregon law that makes it a crime to use the
hallucinogenic drug peyote. The Native American Church uses
the drug for sacramental ceremonies. The Oregon Supreme Court
ruled that applying the ban to prohibit the religious use of
peyote violated the free exercise of the Indians' religion.
   But the U.S. Supreme Court, in an opinion written by
Justice Antonin Scalia, reversed the state court ruling by a
6-3 vote and said that a total ban on peyote use doesn't
violate the First Amendment. Given the legal complexity of
the case, it isn't the result that is so surprising, but the
way that Justice Scalia justified the decision.
   Beginning in 1963, in a major Warren Court decision, the
justices have said that state governments must have a
"compelling" reason for enforcing a law that interferes with
someone's religion. Since then, the court has ruled in some
cases that a state's rationale was sufficient; in other
cases, a majority has said that a state law infringed on
religious freedom.
   But Justice Scalia simply discarded the "compelling
interest" test. Although saying he wasn't overruling the
test, he said that it has been applied only to state laws
denying unemployment benefits to people who refused to work
on their sabbath or under other conditions that violated
their religious beliefs. In all other contexts, he concluded,
a state is free to require everyone to comply with a law that
is generally valid. A state may make exceptions for religious
practices, but isn't required to do so by the Constitution,
he said.
   "This is something of a revolution in doctrine," says
Prof. Van Alstyne of Duke.
   He and Chicago's Prof. McConnell agree that,
theoretically, the ruling means that states aren't required
to make exceptions to their laws to allow Catholic priests to
give communion to minors, who would otherwise be legally
barred from drinking wine or other alcoholic beverages.
   No one is suggesting that local sheriffs or state troopers
start rounding up priests for violating state drinking-age
laws. But under Justice Scalia's ruling, they could.
   There are more practical examples. Many courts have
required prison officials to accommodate requests by Jewish
inmates to be provided kosher meals. Those requests could be
denied now.
   Prof. McConnell, who has studied the history of the
adoption of the free exercise guarantee, notes that the
recent court decision failed to examine history at all. Even
200 years ago, he says, "free exercise of religion entailed
exemptions from generally applicable state laws." He said 12
of the 13 original states had free exercise guarantees in
their constitutions and made exceptions for different
religious practices.
   Even a member of the majority that upheld the Oregon law,
Justice Sandra O'Connor, noted in a separate opinion that the
court "dramatically departs from well-settled First
Amendment" principles. The dissent, written by Justice Harry
Blackmun, was even more blunt: "It effects a wholesale
overturning of settled law. . . ."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Mobile Guide:
   Europe's Cultural Capital
   ----
   By Isabel Fonseca
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Glasgow, Scotland -- It's time to get out of the freezing
rain in the Barras, Glasgow's weekend junk market. It is also
time for lunch, which here is called dinner. The first tea
shop I find is cheap and cheerful. Inside, solitary men, and
ginger-haired ladies wedged into booths with their bundles
and freckled kids, already are tucking in: fried bread, eggs
and square sausages, scones, white and pink cakes, fish and
chips, in fact chips with everything. Dinner is washed down
with an orange syrup called Irn Bru, and perhaps followed by
a Kensitas Club (a brand known only to Glaswegians, who smoke
more cigarettes than any other Britons). The food tastes
great and it's not hard to believe that this city has claimed
the highest rate of heart disease in Europe. And the people
generally look unwell; I am beginning to make sense of the
Scots poet Mick Imlah's observation, "If people were
buildings, there would still be slums in Glasgow."
   Two prams for the price of one, eight cans of spaghetti
for a pound: Back out in the rain, the discount shops and
hawkers are doing brisk trade. Though nothing like it was --
a 1904 municipal report on housing conditions records 11
adults living in a room 10 feet square, and people sleeping
in layers (some on top of the bed and others underneath) --
Glasgow is poor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From this corner, the city's new status as this year's
Cultural Capital of Europe seems implausible and irrelevant,
even frivolous. In another part of town, however, the
distinct hiss of the cappuccino machine can now be heard.
Glassy new shopping arcades feature designer boutiques and
galleries. Wine bars with names like Berlin and Cafe Qui are
appearing as alternatives to Glasgow's undecorous
harddrinking pubs, where as recently as the 1970s women were
forbidden (and where even now they will be made to feel
mighty unwelcome if they dare enter). Drinking has been
astutely upheld as one of Glasgow's primary cultural
attractions. For this year only, European practice obtains:
Alcohol may be sold through the night, while the rest of
Britain is kept to its kindergarten curfew of 11 p.m.
   This is the new Glasgow, but everywhere in it the old one
stubbornly resides. Dramatic chiaroscuro buildings of creamy
and coal-blackened limestone suggest (if one imagines that
the only partial sandblasting is deliberate) what is perhaps
an ambivalence here about the city's changing image. This
used to be a place where things were made; is it now to be
merely one in which they are on display? Most of the
shipyards down on the river Clyde are gone, and most of the
redundant docks have been filled in; one quay has become the
site of a 300-room hotel and an enormous bright-red
exhibition center. Nearby, a remaining crane, which used to
sweep 100-ton locomotives onto ships, is an impressive
monument to the vanished industry that made Glasgow.
Occasionally a sculpture -- a tiny parcel in the distance --
is hung from it: That's really putting culture in
perspective.
   Though many individual Glaswegians are characteristically
wry and self-mocking about their new status, the official
version is serious to the tune of $66 million, which is being
spent on special events, festivals, championships, publicity.
If some of this year's Culture is sprayed on (sometimes
literally, as in the conversion of buses, with daubs of
paint, into "public art"), there are plenty of long-lived
reasons for thinking of Glasgow as something other than the
place where football hooliganism was invented. The Scottish
National Orchestra, the Scottish Opera and the Ballet live
here; as do the Citizens' Theatre and the Tramway, where
Philip Glass's "Mahabharata" played last year. The Burrell
Collection, an impressive bequest of paintings and objects
from a native collector, is one of several good museums.
Charles Rennie Mackintosh gave the city a few great modern
buildings (as well as a style that appears, somewhat
doggedly, as a motif in all sorts of placesit has even
inspired the stained plastic fixtures of Glasgow's fast-food
joints). But even as you are cheerfully being directed to any
of these sights, you get the feeling that the Glaswegian
hopes you won't be too impressed by his or her institutions,
and even less so by this year's planned 2,000 cultural
events, whose language -- publicity-speak -- and
international flavor (23 countries are contributing acts of
their own), may not say a lot about what is valued locally.
It was, however, with real, unrehearsed enthusiasm that I was
led by one self-appointed guide up a featureless residential
street to the house of Miss Agnes Toward. A typist for a
shipping firm for 45 years, Miss Toward lived with her mother
in a modest and tidy flat. She baked pies, listened to the
wireless, went to church, voted Conservative and saved
everything. When she died, the sparsely furnished rooms in
which she lived out her decent life were recognized as an
instant museum. There's not much to see in this diorama of
spinsterhood, but its very preservation suggests that what is
really being celebrated here is the ordinary citizen.
   Walking through the city, you will pass many buildings
wrapped in scaffolding. It is stirring to look up from the
street and, through the windows, see only sky. Glasgow may
think that it is preserving its facades while radically
remaking its innards; the opposite, however, would seem
truer.
   ---
   Ms. Fonseca is an American writer based in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Glassmakers Form Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The French glass and building materials group
Cie. de Saint-Gobain S.A. said Friday that its West German
unit Vegla Vereinigte Glaswerke G.m.b.H. reached a joint
venture agreement with the East German glass monopoly VEB
Flachglas Kombinat Torgau.
   Saint-Gobain said in a communique that each group will
hold 50% of a new company to be created for the study of
possible joint ventures in the field of float glass, auto
glass and windows with a special focus on meeting demand that
is likely to arise from expansion by the West German auto
makers Volkswagenwerke AG in Zwickau, Adam Opel AG in
Eisenach and Daimler-Benz AG in Ludwigsfelde.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It said that all other areas of glass production and
marketing will be studied by the new joint venture to
identify opportunities for further cooperation.
   Financial details of the new joint venture weren't
disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Judge Sentences
   Stockbroker, Manager
   To Prison for Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal court judge here sentenced a
stockbroker and an investment manager to prison after their
conviction by a jury last month on 20 counts each of
securities, wire and bank fraud.
   Gina Loren, 53 years old, was sentenced to six years in
prison, followed by five years of probation. Daniel Burkhart,
43, was sentenced to four years in prison, followed by five
years of probation, said James R. Asperger, an assistant U.S.
attorney who prosecuted the case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two convicts collected about $4.1 million from 44
victims who were told that the funds would be held in a trust
secured by U.S. Treasury securities. Instead, the funds were
deposited -- and then withdrawn -- from an account at Bateman
Eichler, Hill Richards Inc. in Ventura, Calif., where Mr.
Burkhart, who lives in Camarillo, Calif., was employed as a
stockbroker.
   Ms. Loren, who resides in Los Angeles and is also known as
Grace Horner, diverted large amounts of the funds to purchase
several luxury cars and a $1.6 million home in Orange, Calif.
Mr. Burkhart received about $66,000 in payments over a
three-month period for assisting Ms. Loren.
   Officers at the brokerage firm alerted federal authorities
when they learned of the swindle, the U.S. attorney said. The
victims included a group of Catholic nuns in South Dakota and
retired military personnel.
   Another participant in the scheme, Charles J. Lusin, 57,
previously pleaded guilty to one felony count of mail fraud
for assisting Ms. Loren by preparing certain documents. He
was sentenced March 26 to three years of probation and 300
hours of community service.
   In an interview Friday, Mr. Lusin said he also voluntarily
gave up his license to practice law in California. He is now
unemployed and living in Temecula, Calif. An attorney for Mr.
Burkhart declined to comment on behalf of his client. Ms.
Loren and her attorney couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Credit Markets:
   Now May Be the Time to Buy Treasurys
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN C
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Next week could be a great time to buy Treasury
securities.
   That's when the government will hold its quarterly
refunding, a multibillion-dollar sale of Treasury notes and
bonds to refinance Uncle Sam's maturing debt and help pay the
bills piling up from the federal budget deficit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With yields on most government securities now above 9%,
income-oriented investors have strong incentive to put some
of their money in super-safe Treasurys. The quarterly
refunding gives individuals a chance to buy directly from the
government, without paying any brokerage fees or commissions.
   "I think this is a great opportunity," says Kathleen B.
Cooper, executive vice president at Security Pacific National
Bank in Los Angeles.
   Treasury yields are currently half a percentage point to a
full percentage point higher than yields on alternative
investments like certificates of deposit. Treasurys even look
good compared with far-riskier stock market investments: The
average annual return on stocks over the past six decades was
only one percentage point higher, at 10%.
   And income from Treasurys is exempt from state and local
taxes -- an important advantage for investors in high-tax
states, such as California, Massachusetts and New York.
   Some bond market professionals say yields may rise another
quarter of a point or so this spring, partly because of the
sheer enormity of the government's borrowing needs. Many are
also concerned about recent bad news about inflation --
including Friday's report on the nation's first-quarter
economic performance, showing one measure of inflation
running at a sizzling 6.5% annual rate.
   Further signs of increasing inflation could persuade the
Federal Reserve to drive rates higher. Indeed, economists at
Salomon Brothers Inc. called for the Fed to take "prompt
action" to battle inflation.
   But while this may not be the year's absolute peak in
Treasury yields, it could be the opening of a window of
opportunity for individual investors. Some market analysts
say the latest economic figures exaggerate the inflation
problem and that price pressures will ease later this year,
pulling down interest rates.
   This view is shared by some of the nation's most
influential money managers. "We're definitely leaning in the
direction of buying significant amounts" of the new notes and
bonds the Treasury will sell in May, says William H. Gross,
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co., a
Newport Beach, Calif.-based firm that manages more than $26
billion.
   Ms. Cooper of Security Pacific says "real," or
inflation-adjusted, yields on long-term Treasury bonds are
currently about 4 1/2%. That compares with just over 2% over
the past 40 years, she says. "I have a lot of difficulty
believing long-term Treasurys will be above 9% at the end of
this year," says Ms. Cooper.
   Investors don't have to lock up their money for long
periods of time to get the current 9% returns. Even
short-term and intermediate-term Treasury notes now yield 9%.
   May's big Treasury sale is expected to consist of more
than $30 billion of threeyear and 10-year notes and 30-year
bonds. The details are to be announced Wednesday afternoon.
   While Treasury securities can be purchased for a fee
through most banks and brokerage houses, investors can also
buy them directly from the government at sales like the
coming refunding without paying a service charge.
   Investors who want to do so should contact the nearest
office of the Federal Reserve and ask for information on the
"Treasury Direct" system. Three-year Treasury notes are sold
in multiples of $5,000, while longer-term Treasurys require
investors to put up as little as $1,000.
   Treasury securities are especially attractive to
individual investors. Not only are they fully backed by the
U.S. government, they are also easy to unload in a hurry
because of the enormous size of the government bond market.
The Treasury market is the world's largest securities arena,
with average daily trading volume of more than $100 billion.
   Keeping track of Treasury investments is also easy. A
complete list of Treasury note and bond prices in the
"secondary," or resale, market is published daily in this and
many other newspapers. Much less daily information is
available to ordinary investors on other types of bonds,
including tax-exempt municipal securities.
   Moreover, investors in Treasury securities don't have to
worry about another problem that plagues many municipal and
corporate bond holders: early "calls." Most municipal and
corporate bonds can be "called," or redeemed, by the issuer
well before the scheduled maturity date. Issuers take
advantage of this when interest rates drop by selling new
bonds at lower rates and using proceeds to redeem older
bonds. That is great for issuers but bad news for investors
who thought they were guaranteed a steady stream of interest
payments for long periods of time. All new Treasury notes and
bonds can't be redeemed prior to their stated maturity dates.
   Of course, Treasurys shouldn't be the only thing in an
investor's portfolio. Prudent diversification calls for
investors to have some of their money in stocks to help
combat the effects of inflation over time.
   Still, Treasurys can be an important part of a diversified
portfolio. And despite the latest bout of inflation worry,
analysts say this could be a good time to buy some.
   "I like bonds here," says Robert Barbera, executive vice
president at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. Even though
first-quarter inflation numbers looked "horrible," he expects
lower inflation over the next 12 months.
   Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan
Bank, is also looking for inflation to fall back. "It's very
hard to be optimistic in such a pessimistic environment, but
I don't have a sense inflation is as bad the numbers recently
have suggested," he says. "I think inflation has been
overstated in the last few months."
   Samuel D. Kahan, senior vice president and chief economist
at Fuji Securities Inc. in Chicago, says that while the fight
against inflation will continue, "I think these yields now
are attractive."
   One of the big unknowns about the May Treasury sale is the
extent to which Japanese investors will participate. Japanese
institutions usually buy large amounts of Treasury debt at
quarterly auctions. But this time around, many Japanese
institutions may buy less than they customarily do because
numerous Japanese firms have been hurt badly by plummeting
Tokyo stock prices.
   Japanese bond prices also have fallen, driving yields
sharply higher. That has greatly reduced the gap between
Japanese and U.S. bond issues and thus increased the relative
attractiveness of Japanese issues. As of late Friday,
Japanese government bonds due in about 10 years yielded
7.40%, only about 1.6 percentage points below comparable U.S.
issues. That is an unusually narrow spread and may further
discourage Japanese investors from buying American.
   If the Japanese were to stay away from the May refunding,
the Treasury might be forced to pay even higher yields to
lure investors.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bond prices swung widely, ending with small
gains.
   Early in the day, the government's first-quarter economic
report dominated the markets, whipsawing prices. Government
bond prices were bolstered later by rumors of strong buying
of intermediateterm securities by Middle Eastern investors.
   The government's benchmark 30-year bonds ended the day
with a gain of about 1/8 point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 face
amount. The issue's price rose to 94 17/32, while its yield
fell slightly to 9.02% from 9.03%.
   The inflation news "looked very bad," said Allen Sinai,
executive vice president at Boston Co. "These rates are far
above what the Federal Reserve wants." He expects the Fed to
tighten credit, although not right away. He also expects
Treasury bond yields to rise further, with the long-term bond
hovering between about 9% and 9 1/4%. "Rising inflation is
the worst thing for the bond market," he said. "Not until the
inflation fires get put out does the risk of higher rates go
away."
   In the corporate market, robust demand from investors
prompted underwriters to increase the size of an already huge
bond issue of Chrysler Corp. The $1 billion issue of
guaranteed exchangeable certificates, priced Thursday, was
boosted to $1.1 billion. The certificates will actually be
issued by Auburn Hills Trust, which will hold the title to
the Chrysler Technology Center and lease the facilities back
to Chrysler.
   In the corporate junk bond market, prices ended 1/4 to 1/2
point lower. High-yield bonds of Trump Taj Mahal Funding and
related entities suffered even bigger losses after news that
casino and real estate king Donald Trump is considering
selling the Trump Shuttle and other major assets. For
example, the 14% issue of Trump Taj Mahal Funding bonds were
offered two points lower at 76 1/4.
   Prices of actively traded tax-exempt municipal bonds ended
lower, driving up yields. The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% bonds of 2018 were quoted late in the day at a yield of
7.62%, up from 7.60% Thursday.
   ---
        Buying U.S. Treasury Bills, Notes and Bonds
                                                                                                       

   New Treasury securities can be purchased directly from the
Federal Reserve through the Treasury Direct System, or
through banks and brokerage houses. Many investors find it
easier to invest in them through brokers or mutual funds.
                                                                                                       

   TYPE: Treasury Bills
                                                                                                       

   MATURITY: 3, 6 and 12 months
                                                                                                       

   MINIMUM PURCHASE: $10,000 (sold in multiples of $5,000
                     above the minimum)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUED: 3- and 6-month bills issued weekly, usually on
           Monday; one-year sold monthly
                                                                                                       

   APPROX. YIELD: 8.0-8.5%
   ---
   TYPE: Treasury Notes
                                                                                                       

   MATURITY: 2 or 3 years
                                                                                                       

   MINIMUM PURCHASE: $5,000 (sold in multiples of $5,000)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUED: 2-year notes issued monthly; 3-year notes sold
           quarterly (next sale expected May 8)
                                                                                                       

   APPROX. YIELD: 8.9-9.0%
                                                                                                       

   TYPE: Treasury Notes
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   MINIMUM PURCHASE: $1,000 (sold in multiples of $1,000)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUED: Quarterly (next sale -- of 10-year notes --
           expected May 9)
                                                                                                       

   APPROX. YIELD: 9.0-9.1%
   ---
   TYPE: Treasury Bonds
                                                                                                       

   MATURITY: Over 10 years
                                                                                                       

   MINIMUM PURCHASE: $1,000 (sold in multiples of $1,000)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUED: Quarterly (next sale -- of 30-year bonds --
           expected May 10)
                                                                                                       

   APPROX. YIELD: 9.0-9.1%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   How to Triple Your Wealth or Go Bankrupt
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   You probably are aware that if you crave real action
Atlantic City and Las Vegas are two places that can provide
it nonstop. However, you might not know that you can get more
action than you want in the privacy of your own home. And
like the two gambling meccas it's all legal -- no fear of
busted kneecaps here.
   The books reviewed below will tell you how you might
triple your wealth in a year or less. But since returns from
high-risk investments are far from guaranteed, you also might
find yourself popping frozen macaroni-and-cheese dinners into
the microwave six nights a week, and not eating at all on the
seventh.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All commodity traders and most stock investors know what a
margin clerk is. That's the brokerage-house employee who
calls you up and asks you to post more money after a trade
you have made has gone bad. As a rule those phone calls are
not pleasant. But if you read Michael Curley's book
"Understanding and Using Margin" (Probus, 158 pages, $19.95),
you might be able to avoid receiving such calls. Mr. Curley's
book is written for stock and bond investors and not for
those who trade commodities or options on futures.
Nevertheless, it provides good basic information for anyone
who trades on margin -- that is, someone who borrows a
portion of the cost of his or her investment. The book shows
readers what margin can do for an investor if he is right
about his investments and, alas, the consequences if he is
wrong. (It would not be of much use to commodity traders
since futures trading involves no borrowing of funds as it
does when trading equities and debt instruments on margin.)
   ---
   The future will be just like the past, only different,
says Bruce Babcock Jr. in his book "The Dow Jones-Irwin Guide
to Trading Systems" (Dow Jones-Irwin, 316 pages, $57.50).
With that warning one might wonder why bother to even try to
devise a trading system to extract profits from the commodity
markets? But Mr. Babcock makes a fairly convincing argument
that with a little patience, thought and an inexpensive
personal computer profitable systems can be created.
(However, whether you or anyone else will be able to use such
systems to actually take money from the markets is another
story. Developing trading systems and using them profitably
are two separate skills, not necessarily related.)
   Mr. Babcock starts with market basics and makes trading
sound easy. But then he explains why about 70% of all
commodity traders lose money and you learn it has nothing to
do with the nature of markets and everything to do with the
nature of people. Chapter 7 alone is worth the price of the
book as it gives a brief history of the marketing of trading
systems. If the practices he describes didn't cost people so
much money, it would be hilarious to read about the sales
pitches that have persuaded traders to shell out thousands of
dollars for questionable systems. (Unfortunately, these same
methods continue in use today.) Readers will learn how to
design and test trading systems.
   More importantly they also will learn about the pitfalls
of "curve-fitting," that is, designing a system that trades
the past perfectly but has about the same chance of producing
profits in the future as I have of becoming a pilot in the
Chinese air force. Mr. Babcock doesn't just show you how to
develop a successful system but actually provides you with
several of them that appear, at least on paper, to have the
potential of being profitable in the future. Unfortunately,
most investors do not have the discipline to trade any system
for consistent profits.
   ---
   But futures are not the only derivative instruments that
markets offer to dyed-in-the-wool risk takers. They also
offer options on futures. Readers who want a straight-forward
introduction to the subject should read Ronald Frost's book
"Options on Futures" (Probus, 254 pages, $55). Mr. Frost has
written the text as a workbook and provides exercises after
each section to let readers see if they truly understand the
meaning of such terms as delta, theta, gamma and a Christmas
tree spread.
   ---
   I'm not the type of guy who leads readers into a casino
and says, "Here's $50, good luck]" and walks out. So here's a
book by three attorneys, Stephen Elias, Albin Renauer and
Robin Leonard, that could be your lifeline if you do some
foolish things after reading any of the three books just
reviewed. It's called "How to File for Bankruptcy" (Nolo
Press, 203 pages, $24.95). This book shows how any
intelligent person can use Chapter 7 of the Federal
Bankruptcy Code to cancel his debts and start fresh. It won't
help at all in complicated cases such as a married person
filing for bankruptcy separately from a spouse or for people
in business partnerships. The book explains in some detail
what property can be kept after bankruptcy and how to fill
out the various bankruptcy forms. Unlike most things written
by attorneys, this cheerful book is in plain English with
little jargon.
   ---
   Mr. Angrist writes about the commodities and options
markets for the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Though Recession Is Nowhere in Sight,
   Data Don't Depict Clear Signs for Future
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The economy is looking a lot better than it did late last
year, and a recession is nowhere in sight. Among analysts and
businessmen, however, the joy is somewhat restrained.
   One reason is that the economic statistics continue to be
good but not great. The widely watched purchasing managers'
index, to be reported tomorrow, is expected to decline
slightly. A general forecast is that the index, which
measures inventories, orders, employment and other factors at
manufacturing companies, will be about 48.5% for April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While that will be above the average for the past nine
months, it will still be below the 50% level above which the
economy is judged to be expanding.
   Along the same line, personal income for March, to be
reported this morning, is generally expected to rise by only
0.5%, down from a gain of 0.9% in February. According to the
economists at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., "A moderation in income
generation largely reflects a slower expansion of the key
wage earnings component -- driven by March's temporary
consolidation of employment growth."
   Payroll employment expanded by only 26,000 in March, a
sharp decrease from prior months. The April number will be
released Friday, and analysts believe it bounced upward. But
the gain won't be as great as it may at first glance appear.
A general estimate is that payroll employment rose by about
300,000 last month, but this included 200,000 temporary
census workers. The economists at C.J. Lawrence Morgan
Grenfell note that the gain, deducting the census workers,
"would be a modest 100,000 as suggested by the decline in the
help-wanted ad index and the increase in unemployment
claims."
   The weak employment number in March was accompanied by a
decline in the unemployment rate to 5.2% from 5.3%. But this
month's somewhat stronger job gain, most analysts believe,
will result in an unchanged jobless rate.
   March construction expenditures, to be reported tomorrow,
are likely to decline. The economists at Morgan Stanley, who
look for a 2% drop, say, "A falloff in building activity
appears to be a virtual certainty following the
weather-distorted surge of 5% in the first two months of the
year. Declines should be concentrated in the nonresidential
sector."
   The residential business, however, isn't exactly booming.
Analysts at Fuji Securities estimate that March sales of
single-family homes rose a modest 5.1%, keeping the sales
rate below last year's level.
   Where is the economy actually going? The Commerce
Department puts together an index of leading indicators,
statistics that are expected to move up or down ahead of the
economy. The index will be reported on Wednesday. It fell in
February, but it is expected to rise in March. By how much? A
clutch of forecasts vary all the way from 0.3% to 1.5%.
   A recession isn't out there, in other words, but it
remains to be seen just what the future holds.
   ---
                  Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended April 27
                                                                                                       

                                               CHANGE
                                              (from prior
                                TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply
                                                                                                       

    M1 -- Week ended
    April 16 (in billions)      $810.4         +$4.4
                                                                                                       

    M2 -- Week ended
    April 16 (in billions)    $3,277.5         +$2.4
                                                                                                       

    M3 -- Week ended
    April 16 (in billions)    $4,081.9         +$8.4
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders
   March (in billions)         $128.77         +6.7%
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales
   Mid-April total
   vs. year ago                192,029        -19.1%
                                                                                                       

   Employment cost index
   First quarter                 104.3         +0.7%
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP
   1st quarter, annual
   rate (in trillions)          $4.196         +2.1%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended April 14         348,000         -6.1%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       


   March
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption (Mon.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Savings rate (Mon.)
   (March)
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural prices (Mon.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing managers' index (Tues.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index (Wed.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing orders (Wed.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing shipments (Wed.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Employment, payroll (Fri.)
   April
                                                                                                       

   Employment rate (Fri.)
   April
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OECD Jobless Rate Steady
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The average unemployment rate in 16 Western
industrialized countries in February was 6%, unchanged from
the previous two months, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.
   Jobless rates in North America and Japan were unchanged,
while West Germany, Italy and Britain experienced a mild
easing, and Australian unemployment drifted higher. The OECD
said the standardized unemployment rate fell in five of the
six countries for which March data are available, while
unemployment in the sixth country, Belgium, was unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unemployment rate in the European Community was steady
in February at 8.6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   The Prince and the Piper
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The boss's fair-haired boy
   Doesn't get there overnight;
   It takes considerable work,
   With things done exactly right.
   One must be on constant call,
   Showing diligence and flair,
   And in time the fair-haired boy
   Will most likely have gray hair.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Robbery Report
                                                                                                       

   I just got out of the hospital, and I have one question:
Why do the nurses wear masks when it's the cashier who
should?
   -- John Drybred.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Telecredit Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TCRD
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TELECREDIT Inc., a Los Angeles-based payment-services
concern, said it raised its quarterly dividend 20% to 30
cents a common share from 25 cents, payable June 7 to stock
of record May 17.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loss for Quarter
   Posted by Bank
   Of New England
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. reported a
first-quarter loss of $46.6 million, or 68 cents a share,
despite one-time gains of $173 million from the sale of
assets.
   In the 1989 first quarter, the bank holding company posted
a profit of $42.3 million, or 60 cents a share -- before a
surge in troubled real estate loans led to a $1.11 billion
loss for the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank of New England, now struggling for its survival, said
the latest quarterly results reflect a $20 million operating
loss, a $151 million provision for possible loan losses and a
$48 million reserve for foreclosed real estate.
   Nonperforming assets, which include foreclosed real estate
and loans on which payments are past due or likely to become
delinquent, rose to $2.67 billion from $2.2 billion at Dec.
31. Total assets, meanwhile, dropped to $24.9 billion from
$29.77 billion as the company scrambled to raise cash and
prop up its capital ratios by selling off some of its most
marketable assets.
   "As I said when I joined Bank of New England {in March},
our recovery will be difficult and it will be measured in
years," said Lawrence Fish, chairman and chief executive
officer.
   In a statement, Mr. Fish said the company has now reviewed
"over 85% of our loans and 100% of our real estate loans, and
we believe the picture of the loan portfolio represented by
these numbers is accurate and complete at this time. We also
feel that the loan-loss provision is appropriate given the
current uncertainties about the economic environment."
   Mr. Fish said he believes the company is "on the road to
becoming a smaller, well-reserved, profitable bank." As
recent steps toward that goal, he cited an increase in the
capital ratio to 1.65% from 1.54% at Dec. 31, growth in core
retail deposits, an increase in loss reserves as a percentage
of loans and leases, and $300 million in projected savings
from staffing and other overhead reductions.
   But securities analysts, while generally giving the
company high marks for its recent efforts, said the $470
million increase in nonperforming assets shows how tough it
will be to reverse the company's slide unless the outlook for
the New England economy brightens soon.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
Friday, Bank of New England stock slipped 12.5 cents to
$3.625.
   Net interest income for the quarter was $161 million,
compared with $262 million in the year-ago quarter. The net
interest margin shrank to 2.65% from 3.69% a year earlier,
largely because of the higher levels of nonperforming assets.
   Figures supplied by the company show that core retail
deposits -- certificates of deposit, checking accounts,
savings accounts, and money market accounts issued through
its branch network -- have stabilized at about $15 billion
since early February. The company, which had $18.7 billion in
such deposits in mid-December, had experienced a sharp
outflow after it began to disclose its loan problems.
   But stanching the outflow has come at a price: Bank of New
England has been offering some of the highest deposit rates
in the nation -- another reason for its slim interest margin.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Wheat Stocks Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian wheat stocks totaled 15,098,000 metric
tons at March 31, up 58% from 9,546,000 tons a year earlier,
Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds. The stocks
included 9,055,000 metric tons on farms, up from 5,335,000
tons a year earlier, and 6,043,000 tons at terminals and
other commercial locations, up from 4,211,000 tons.
Statistics Canada said stocks of wheat remain at
comparatively low levels. A ton of wheat is equal to about
36.74 bushels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks of barley totaled 5,564,000 metric tons, down 11%
from 6,287,000 tons a year earlier. Canola, or rapeseed,
totaled 1,805,000 tons, down 27% from 2,474,000 tons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Leading Securities Firms, Bond Brokers
   Are Forming Venture to Sell Price Data
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   MS SB CCI AXP SLH KRI RTRSY DJ Z.CSU MER
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The nation's biggest securities firms are forming a joint
venture with leading bond brokers to distribute
government-securities price data 24 hours a day.
   The decision to create the new venture, which will
represent all 44 primary dealers and four of the major
so-called interbroker dealers, was announced at a Virginia
meeting of the Public Securities Association.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are going to move very fast" and hope to launch the
service this summer, said William Brachfeld of Daiwa
Securities America Inc., chairman of a task force that
recommended forming the venture.
   The New York-based PSA said the venture, as yet unnamed,
will negotiate to sell "real time" price data to several news
services and electronic information systems. These include
Telerate Inc., a subsidiary of Dow Jones &amp; Co., which
publishes the Wall Street Journal; Reuters Holdings PLC;
Knight-Ridder Inc.; Bloomberg Financial Markets and
Associated Press.
   Real time or "live" quotes would allow subscribers to see
prices as they occur. Securities firms once kept a close grip
on their own trading data. But the government has been
pressing them to make more price information widely available
in the market, and the value of each firm's knowledge has
diminished somewhat with the growth of the electronic data
suppliers. Round-the-clock quotes are feasible because the
bond market doesn't close, as the stock market does;
government bonds are traded globally from New York to Tokyo
to London.
   A PSA spokesman said the price data wouldn't be
disseminated on an exclusive basis to a limited number of
vendors, but instead would be available to anyone willing to
pay for the service. Mr. Brachfeld said he could even
envision a tape of government bond prices running on the
Financial News Network.
   A PSA spokesman said the venture should be up and running
in two or three months. One potential sticking point is how
the profits from the venture will be divided. To decide that,
the venture participants must first agree on who really owns
government bond price information -- the primary dealers who
buy and sell bonds or interdealer brokers who handle some of
those trades.
   Primary dealers are an elite group of securities firms and
big banks that the Federal Reserve calls upon to buy and sell
government securities as part of its activities to regulate
monetary policy. These dealers can also bid to buy bonds
directly from the Treasury at government bond auctions.
   Interdealer brokers execute so-called blind trades for
securities firms. (Although these brokers buy and sell bonds
for securities houses, they don't transact business with the
general public.)
   Fran Bermanzohn, the PSA's general counsel, said the four
interdealer brokers that will participate in the new venture
are Fundamental Brokers Inc., RMJ Securities Corp., Liberty
Brokerage Inc. and Garban Ltd.
   Mr. Brachfeld said the new venture won't prevent market
players from pursuing their own efforts to disseminate
government bond data. He cited in this regard the recently
reported plans of the so-called Group of Six securities firms
to distribute bond prices and other market information. That
venture, called Electronic Joint Venture, was formed by CS
First Boston Inc.'s First Boston Corp. unit, Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co., Morgan Stanley Group Inc.'s Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.,
Salomon Inc.'s Salomon Brothers Inc., American Express Co.'s
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Citibank, a unit of Citicorp.
   At the PSA meeting, all but one of the Group of Six firms,
Shearson, voted to allow the new joint venture to proceed.
The willingness of the Group of Six members to participate in
the PSA venture raises questions about the viability of the
Electronic Joint Venture. Officials at Electronic Joint
Venture couldn't be reached for comment.
   The new venture could also threaten the exclusivity of
several existing bond quotation services, such as the service
that provides "live" Cantor Fitzgerald quotes on Telerate
screens. Also, Merrill Lynch provides bond quotes to
Bloomberg. Cantor Fitzgerald, an interdealer broker,
abstained from Friday's PSA vote.
   The General Accounting Office several years ago
recommended that information on government securities
brokers' screens be distributed more broadly, beyond the
primary dealers and aspiring primary dealers. The GAO said
market participants should be given a chance to do this
voluntarily before the government steps in. A new GAO report,
expected to be released soon, will note that voluntary
progress is still awaited. It is expected to recommend
government action to require broader dissemination of price
data if voluntary efforts don't reach fruition by a
"date-certain" deadline.
   The PSA said it wouldn't be involved in the new business
venture, but would continue its consultative efforts to
encourage expanded dissemination of government securities
price information. "Our goal is to walk in the office Monday
morning and start the next step," said Ms. Bermanzohn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Constellation Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CSTL
</CO>
<LP>
   CONSTELLATION BANCORP (Elizabeth, N.J.) -- Robert W. Kean
Jr. was named to the new post of chairman of the nine-member
board of this holding company for banks, which is also a
leasing company and a mortgage originator. The 67-year-old
Mr. Kean had been president of Elizabethtown Water Co. John
J. Connolly, 51, remains president and chief executive
officer at Constellation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MER FNM EUROP A.ANZ Y.CBK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $200 million of 9.39% notes,
due May 17, 1994, priced at par. The notes, which are
noncallable for two years, were priced at a spread of 35
basis points above the Treasury's four-year note. The notes
will be reoffered at various prices through Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch Capital Markets -- $300 million of ML Trust
43 Remic mortgage securities, offered in 12 classes by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, a unit of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
Collateral for the offering, which is through a trust
established by Merrill Lynch, consists of Ginnie Mae 9%
securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity
of 26.5 years.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $400 million of
Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 16 classes by
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-58, is backed
by Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Pearl Street (a special purpose vehicle) -- $106.4 million
(public part of offering) of floating-rate notes, via Goldman
Sachs International Ltd. Notes backed by a pool of high yield
bonds. Priced at 99.65 and carries a coupon 3/8 point above
the London Interbank Offered Rate. Maturity date May 18,
2002, with a stated average life of 10.5 years and an
expected average life of 8 1/2 years. Guaranteed by Financial
Security Assuarance and is expected to be rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P. There is a one-time liquidity put option in
the fifth year to AIG Financial Securities (U.K.) Ltd.
provided the issue is still triple-A rated.
   IMI Bank International (Italian parent) -- 100 million
European Currency Units of 10 3/4% Eurobonds due May 25,
1994, priced at 101 3/8 to yield 10.83% less fees, via
Bankers Trust International. Guaranteed by Istituto Mobiliare
Italiano. Fees 1 5/8.
   Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (Australia) --
$50 million (Australian) of 16% Eurobonds due June 5, 1992,
priced at 101.95, via Fay Richwhite.
   Christiania Bank Og Kreditkasse (Norway) -- 10 billion yen
of 7 1/2% Eurobonds due May 21, 1993, priced at 101.3125, via
Nomura International.
   Landeskreditbank Baden-Wuerttemberg (West Germany) -- 100
million Swiss francs of 7 1/2% public bonds due March 20,
1995, priced at 101 3/8 via Credit Suisse.
   Rabobank Nederland (Netherlands) -- 100 million Swiss
francs of 7 1/2 public bonds due May 23, 1995, priced at 101
1/2, via Union Bank of Switzerland.
   Oesterreichische Kontrollbank (Austria) -- 300 million
Deutsche marks of floating-rate notes at the six-month London
Interbank Offered Rate less 0.15 point, priced at 100.15 and
due May 29, 1995, via CSFB Effektenbank. Callable quarterly
beginning May 29, 1995 at par.
   West German postal agency -- Accepted 1.8649 billion
Deutsche marks in bids for its 10-year floating-rate note
with 99.95 issue price and due May 4, 2000. Total issue size
two billion marks. Difference for market-tending purposes.
Callable every quarter beginning May 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Managers
   Offer Clues
   On Stocks
   ---
   Amid Market Slide,
   Two Top Pros Search
   For Hot Performers
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TLMD HD
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As the stock market eases back toward the
middle of the range that has confined it for four months,
many money managers continue to search for the potential
nuggets amid the dross.
   The two best-performing money managers of 1989 take
similar approaches, which they think are serving them well
while the market meanders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fred Moran, president of Moran Asset Management in
Greenwich, Conn., earned 55.6% on $500 million in 1989,
ranking first on CDA Technologies Inc.'s list of top money
managers. Morris Mark, president of Mark Asset Management,
New York, placed second with a return of 54.2% on the $375
million he currently manages.
   Both are far behind last year's pace. Mr. Mark says he was
about even with the market's 3% decline in the first quarter,
while Mr. Moran says he "lagged a bit." As far ahead as they
care to peer, they aren't optimistic about the overall
market, but both assert confidence that their investment
styles will reap big rewards in one to two years.
   Very important among the five or six things Mr. Moran
looks for in a company is cash flow, which is the money the
concern generates before interest expenses, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Mr. Moran doesn't focus on
profits because, he says, "Earnings are distorted by
accounting techniques."
   For example, "Let's say you have an asset that's growing
in value without capital needed to be invested. Accountants
are going to depreciate that asset" by deducting certain
amounts from earnings each year to reduce taxes. By contrast,
cash flow measures the raw earnings of a company's
operations.
   Ironically, cash flow was one of the yardsticks used to
pick out possible takeover targets during that mania of a few
years ago. "Our reason has nothing to do with seeking or
anticipating a takeover," Mr. Moran insists. He says cash
flow gives him insight to a company's competitive position,
market share and the skill of management.
   "Think of it in terms of bridges," Mr. Moran says. "We
want to buy a company that's like the Golden Gate Bridge or
the George Washington Bridge. Nobody can build a bridge next
door; the economics won't permit it." Carrying his analogy
further, Mr. Moran observes that the more traffic crossing
the bridge, the greater the cash flow from toll fees.
   What kinds of companies are "bridges"? Mr. Moran names
telephone companies, such as Telephone &amp; Data Systems; cable
television concerns, such as Comcast, and waste management
companies, such as Chambers Development.
   Here's another: Telemundo Group, a New York-based
television producer specializing in Spanish programming. Some
of its shows are Desportes Del Mundo ("Wide World of
Sports"), Estrellas ("Stars"), and Cara a Cara ("Face to
Face"). Telemundo had an operating loss of $5.4 million in
1989, but Mr. Moran's research staff predicts a $1.3 million
profit this year. A.C. Nielsen &amp; Co., the ratings firm, is
measuring Telemundo's audience this year for the first time.
Mr. Moran thinks it's bigger than many expect, which will
draw advertisers. "This one is going to be big," he says.
   Mr. Mark looks at the "private market value" of a company,
another tool from the takeover era. He seeks to discern what
the working parts of a company are reasonably worth, and then
checks whether the stock price reflects that value. Strong
cash flow is also important for Mr. Mark, and he looks for
companies that distribute cash to shareholders through
dividend increases.
   This year Mr. Mark added to his position in Home Depot, a
building materials and home improvement retailer that Mr.
Mark thinks can expand its franchise in coming years. "The
company is attractively valued on a private market basis," he
says. "It just seems to me that this is a very attractive
business that other people in retailing would love to own and
pay a huge premium for."
   The stock is already up 24% this year and the ratio of the
current price to forecasts of per-share earnings over the
next 12 months is about 32, far above the P/E on the Dow
Jones Industrial Average last week of about 12. Even so, Mr.
Mark contends, "The current P/E, in relation to the growth
the company is likely to achieve, is modest."
   Both managers chat frequently with managements of the
companies whose stocks they own. Last Thursday, for example,
Mr. Mark talked to officers of four companies, and Mr. Moran
spoke on the telephone with the chief executive officers of
six; on Wednesday, the chief operating officer of another
company came to his office. Keeping close tabs on a company
helps insulate the manager's portfolios from the destruction
of negative earnings surprises, they say.
   Other than management and cash flow, Mr. Moran says the
companies whose stocks he owns must have "a healthy labor
situation," a strong competitive position and have most of
their operations in the U.S. In addition to signs of strong
future earnings growth, Mr. Mark likes companies whose
revenue is cash sales (as opposed to interest income, for
example), and have low debt levels.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in light trading dominated by several
rounds of futures-related selling.
   The renewed weakness also came on the heels of the
first-quarter gross national product report, which was not as
strong as expected. Inflation rose more sharply than
forecast.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 31.53 to 2,645.05,
its lowest close since March 1. The 30-stock average had
rallied a total of 22.08 points in back-to-back gains
Wednesday and Thursday, rebounding from a five-session losing
streak.
   Stocks showed little initial response to the news that GNP
rose during the first quarter at a 2.1% annual rate, below
the 2.7% rate forecast in a consensus estimate of economists
surveyed by Dow Jones. The report also showed that two
inflation measures based on GNP rose at annual rates of 5.7%
and 6.5% during the quarter. Both increases exceeded
forecasts.
   New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 130,630,000. The
market's downturn was broad-based: 1,070 issues declined on
the Big Board while 403 advanced.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.81 to 329.11,
the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 1.92 to
180.74 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index dropped 3.52 to
306.60.
   For the week, the Dow industrials fell 50.91 points, or
1.9%. The S&amp;P 500 and the Big Board composite each dipped
1.8%, while the Dow Jones Equity Market index dropped 1.7%.
   Citicorp fell 1/2 to 21 7/8 on volume of 1.8 million
shares after Standard &amp; Poor's downgraded $30 billion of the
company's debt and preferred stock. The rating agency's
decision is expected to raise the cost of money for the bank
holding company and put increased pressure on Citicorp to
sell assets and issue new common shares.
   Black &amp; Decker skidded 2 3/8 to 13 3/4 on 1.4 million
shares. Goldman Sachs lowered its investment rating on the
stock in the wake of the company's first-quarter earnings
report. Separately, Black &amp; Decker said it plans to
restructure certain debt and sell some of its receivables
later this year to reduce heavy interest expense.
   Illinois Power, which fell 1 7/8 Thursday after a hearing
examiner recommended to Illinois utility regulators that the
company receive just $27.7 million of a requested $215.7
million rate increase, dropped another 1 to 15. Trading
volume of the stock amounted to 3.2 million shares, making it
the most active on the Big Board.
   USX dropped 7/8 to 33 1/8 on 2.5 million shares, with most
of the volume stemming from one series of block trades
designed to capture its next quarterly dividend. The stock
carries a dividend yield of 4.2% and goes ex-dividend Monday.
   Europe Fund, the latest in a growing number of closed-end
mutual funds that invest overseas, finished unchanged from
the price of its initial public offering at 15. Composite
volume totaled 1.1 million shares; a total of 7.25 million
were sold in the offering.
   Marriott dropped 1 3/8 to 22 after Smith Barney and
Goldman Sachs lowered their earnings estimates for 1990. In a
meeting with analysts Thursday, the company said it was
comfortable with forecasts of $1.90 to $1.95 a share for the
year, compared with a previous range of $2 to $2.10 a share,
Smith Barney analyst Joseph Doyle told Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ferro Profit Slumped
   51% in First Quarter
   As Sales Increased 3%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   FOE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Ferro Corp. reported a 51% drop in
first-quarter net income to $6 million, or 26 cents a share,
from $12.4 million, or 60 cents a share, a year earlier,
mainly because of problems in Latin America.
   Sales rose 3%, to $279.7 million from $271.5 million. The
company previously said it expected to report an earnings
drop of more than 50% for the quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Government measures to fight inflation in Brazil and
Argentina severely restricted economic activity in those
countries and drove up interest costs, Adolph Posnick,
chairman and chief executive officer, told the annual
meeting. As a result, Ferro had a first-quarter loss in Latin
America, he said.
   Latin America is an important market for the producer of
specialty coatings, chemicals and plastics, providing 25% of
the company's 1989 profit.
   In addition, lower U.S. auto and appliance production in
the first quarter cut into domestic earnings. And a French
chemical plant was shut down from January through March for
equipment modifications, he said.
   Mr. Posnick said management is optimistic about the
outlook for the remainder of the year. However, he said it is
too early to forecast whether the company can earn enough in
the next three quarters to offset the slow start.
   Brazil, which is Ferro's largest Latin American market,
will continue to be a drag on profit in the current quarter
and probably for several additional quarters, he indicated.
   However, domestic demand has improved for a number of
Ferro's products, he said, and the company is benefiting from
cost-reduction efforts undertaken in the first quarter. The
French chemical plant is back in operation, and business
prospects in Europe are strong, he said. Europe provided 42%
of 1989 profit.
   For all of 1989, Ferro earned $49.7 million, or $2.25 a
share, on sales of $1.08 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Eat Your Heart Out
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Spare me from the federal government giving a seal of
approval to healthy foods ("AHA to Drop Seal Endorsing Low
Fat Foods," April 2). If I can't trust the Heart Association
to evaluate foods in good faith, I certainly don't trust the
FDA to do it. Why do people expect the government to do
everything for them? I suspect what some are really looking
for is someone or some seal to say junk food is good for you
after all.
   Guess maybe we'll have to read labels and exercise a
little common sense after all. Darn it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Melissa Gaskill
   Austin, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Envoy Richardson Says Aid Donors
   To Philippines Are Upbeat About Future
   ----
   By Steven Jones
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The principal aid donors to the Philippines
remain confident about the country's economic prospects and
are unlikely to reduce their levels of support, special U.S.
aid representative Elliot Richardson said.
   Despite a power shortage affecting most of the main island
of Luzon and continuing rumors of another coup attempt, "I
still think the Philippines is an attractive place to
invest," he said in an interview in Hong Kong, where he was
traveling on business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A former U.S. attorney general and defense secretary and
now a Washington-based lawyer, Mr. Richardson is the special
representative of President Bush to the Multilateral
Assistance Initiative for the Philippines, a World Bank-led
consortium of 19 donor countries and a half-dozen
multilateral agencies. The group was formed in July 1989 to
coordinate foreign-aid programs and attract more overseas
investment to alleviate poverty in the Philippines.
   The group pledged $3.3 billion in economic aid for the
Philippines in 1990; it will hold a pledge meeting for 1991
aid sometime in this year's second half. Japan is the biggest
donor, with about $1 billion pledged, followed by the World
Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
   The Bush administration pledged $200 million to the
assistance initiative this year, but Congress approved only
$160 million. However, with military aid, the U.S. is
contributing $545 million in direct assistance.
   Mr. Richardson said the Bush administration is proposing
$200 million for 1991. He plans to take up the proposal with
congressional leaders soon.
   The renegotiation of a lease on U.S. military bases in the
Philippines won't affect the Bush administration's economic
aid program, he said. However, he acknowledged that Congress
may cut economic assistance if the U.S. is required to
provide more military aid in return for extending the bases
agreements beyond the 1991 expiration date. Preliminary talks
on the leases are to begin May 14.
   Mr. Richardson, who was in Manila at the onset of the coup
attempt in December, repeated earlier warnings from
Washington that U.S. aid to the Philippines will be cut off
by law if there is a successful coup against President
Corazon Aquino. He said other donors likely would halt aid,
too.
   But Mr. Richardson said the likelihood of a successful
putsch diminishes as the 1992 presidential election grows
nearer. He also said the Philippine business community "is
increasingly well aware that the prospects for the Philippine
economy are good if they can sustain progress along present
lines. There is great potential for disaster if a coup
attempt should succeed."
   Since coming to power in 1986, the Aquino government has
beaten back six coup attempts by rebel soldiers. The December
coup was the most serious, claiming more than 100 lives. Mr.
Richardson likened rebel leaders, several of whom remain at
large, to 1930s Italian fascists, "whose only program was to
make the trains run on time."
   Despite persistent rumors of a seventh coup, Mr.
Richardson said foreign companies are still considering
investments in the Philippines, attracted by the country's
educated, largely English-speaking work force. He cited
continued interest especially from companies in Taiwan and in
Hong Kong, where he met with territory-based investors during
his visit.
   However, Mr. Richardson called the electricity shortage
that has led to a temporary four-day workweek in Manila an
"embarrassing development" that should have been foreseen by
the Aquino government when it shelved a controversial nuclear
power plant.
   But he said the power shortage was "correctable" in time,
adding that much of the foreign aid is aimed at improving
infrastructure.
   More than coup attempts, he said, donors are concerned
about improving the speed and efficiency of the use of
foreign-aid money in the Philippines. "The most significant
concern of the donors in general and the U.S. Congress in
particular is the pipeline problem," Mr. Richardson said. But
he added that the Aquino government was working to remove
bottlenecks delaying aid dispersal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   B. Dalton Bookstore Chain Launches
   Program to Spur Sales of Serious Books
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The giant bookstore chains get a lot of grief
about selling books like junk food, filling up the windows
with Stephen King and Danielle Steel.
   But the B. Dalton chain has a new program designed to get
shoppers to buy more of such books as "Skywater" by Melinda
Worth Popham, a serious novel written from the point of view
of a pack of coyotes. A book like this -- without sex, drugs
or detectives, written by an unknown author and published by
a tiny, independent press -- doesn't normally have a chance
to attract wide readership. Obscure novelists who sell 5,000
copies consider themselves lucky.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Starting tomorrow, browsers at more than 250 of the 800 B.
Dalton stores across the country will find "Skywater"
displayed in a special section and recommended in a brochure
along with 28 other novels by unknown or little-known
authors. "Discover Great New Writers" is the name of the
program, and new selections will be made and promoted every
two months. Half a dozen of the titles will be chosen by the
local store manager, with the rest of the books picked by the
chain's buyers in New York, after reviewing publishers'
recommendations.
   "We're certainly conscious of our image in the
marketplace," says Leonard Riggio, chief executive officer
and principal owner of B. Dalton. "We do a great job with the
cookbooks and the how-tos and the big-name authors, but we
know there is frustration on the part of authors that don't
sell. We're going to give them a shot, to express gratitude
and maybe to help discover the future's best sellers. These
shopping-center stores sell to a middle-American client and
we're trying to broaden their reading."
   As the chains, particularly B. Dalton and Waldenbooks,
expanded rapidly through the '80s until they came to
represent some 30% of U.S. sales, publishers observed the
stores' power to make a book a best seller. Dire predictions
were uttered in publishing circles about the imminent
disappearance of serious books. Then, several years ago, a
series of very demanding fiction and non-fiction books became
surprise best sellers without the chains paying much
attention.
   It turned out that the recommendation of passionate,
book-loving, independent-bookstore owners across the country
had been the spark, and then the chains chimed in. One
example: "The Joy Luck Club," a first novel by unknown Amy
Tan, has sold more than 270,000 copies in hardcover since
March 1989.
   "The chains like B. Dalton are trying to pick up on what
has made some independents so successful," says Scott Walker,
founder and editorial director of Graywolf Press, which
published "Skywater," the coyote novel. "The chains are
starting to have a broader selection of titles and doing
things like more author signings and readings."
   For a small press like Graywolf, the Discover program is a
special blessing. "We don't have a big promotion budget --
almost nobody does for a first novel," says Mr. Walker. "For
some reason the word `literary' scares people, and we have to
start aggressively marketing to new audiences. I think this
program is one way to reach more readers with this type of
book."
   St. Paul, Minn.-based Graywolf publishes only about 14
titles a year, and though its promotion budget for "Skywater"
is one of its biggest, it totals just $7,000. Nationwide.
   The other titles on B. Dalton's first "Discover" list
aren't all by small presses, though several others are
represented. But even when the book is the product of a
powerhouse publisher or is a murder mystery that might
automatically grab genre readers, its author is a virtual
unknown or first novelist. Some movie fans may know Hanif
Kureishi as the writer of such cult British movies as "My
Beautiful Laundrette," but Mr. Kureishi is hardly a household
name. "The Buddha of Suburbia" is his first novel.
   ---
                 Selections From B. Dalton's
                `Discover Great New Writers'
                                                                                                       

   Bedrock
   by Lisa Alther; Knopf
                                                                                                       

   The Book of Evidence
   by John Banville; Scribner's
                                                                                                       

   Buster's Midnight Cafe
   by Sandra Dallas; Random House
                                                                                                       

   Horse Latitudes
   by Robert Ferrigno; Morrow
                                                                                                       

   Walter Winchell
   by Michael Herr; Knopf
                                                                                                       

   Buddha of Suburbia
   by Hanif Kureishi; Viking
                                                                                                       

   The Last World

                                                                                                       

   Clover
   by Dori Sanders; Algonquin Books
                                                                                                       

   Skywater
   by Melinda Worth Popham; Graywolf Press
                                                                                                       

   Rush
   by Kim Wozencraft; Random House
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maxwell Communications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Macmillan Inc. said its computer unit acquired
RightSoft Inc., a Sarasota, Fla., software publisher in a $5
million transaction.
   RightSoft's major product is RightWriter, a
personal-computer software program that checks style and
grammar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Macmillan is a unit of Maxwell Communication Corp.,
London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Equimark Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EQK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EQUIMARK Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Nicholas J. Zennario
resigned as president of the Equibank unit of this bank
holding company. Mr. Zennario, who said he will pursue other
business interests, will be succeeded by James H. McLaughlin,
who was Mr. Zennario's predecessor as president. Mr.
McLaughlin left that position in July to work on Equimark's
proposed acquisition of National Bancshares Corp. of Texas.
That deal fell through Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BCCI Had Huge 1989 Loss, Will Unveil
   Infusion of $500 Million, Sources Assert
   ----
   By Peter Truell and John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce International, which pleaded
guilty to money-laundering charges this year, is expected to
announce a huge loss for 1989, according to individuals close
to the Luxembourg-based bank.
   In addition, these individuals say, the bank will unveil
major changes in its management and ownership, including a
capital injection of well over $500 million from the ruler of
Abu Dhabi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank, which has grown to almost $21 billion in assets
from $10 million at its founding in 1972, had an operating
profit of about $200 million in 1989, the same individuals
said. But the need to substantially increase provisions for
bad and doubtful loans -- following pressures from auditors
and regulators -- led to its 1989 loss, estimated to total
about $500 million. The changes, which could be announced as
early as today, also are said to include a sharp reduction in
staff and the possible closure of some offices world-wide.
   The bank's capital, and its ability to make such huge
provisions, will, however, be bolstered by an infusion of
more than $500 million from Sheik Zayed al-Nahyan, president
of the United Arab Emirates and the ruler of Abu Dhabi. One
estimate has Sheik Zayed, who is already a major shareholder
in BCCI, injecting as much as $1 billion. Abu Dhabi, a big
oil producer, is the richest of the small sheikdoms on the
southern shore of the Persian Gulf.
   During a recent interview in London -- where BCCI has 45
branches -- bank representatives refused to discuss the
institution or its plans. But recently, company officials and
people close to the bank have indicated that they planned
major announcements that would transform it. Yesterday, bank
representatives couldn't be reached for comment.
   The massive infusion of capital -- made necessary by
losses from unsecured or poorly collateralized loans -- also
will be accompanied by substantial changes in the bank's
ownership. Sheik Zayed and the state-owned Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority, which the sheik and his family
effectively control, would become the bank's majority
shareholders, making the bank a government-owned institution.
   BCCI, which is closely held, doesn't disclose its
ownership; its parent is a Luxembourg holding company, BCCI
Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. But, according to recent reports,
and according to estimates based on interviews with several
people close to the bank, the bank is roughly 36%-owned by
Sheik Zayed and the Abu Dhabi investment agency. Khaled
Bin-Mahfouz, of the family that owns National Commercial Bank
of Saudi Arabia, is the next largest shareholder with about
20%.
   In an apparent link with the U.S., BCCI has several common
shareholders with First American Bankshares, the
Washington-based bank holding company. Sheik Zayed, the ADIA
and Mr. Bin-Mahfouz are estimated to own close to one-third
or more of First American.
   BCCI also is expected to name a new chairman to succeed
Hasan Abedi, the bank's founder and mentor who is an invalid
after a heart transplant in 1988. Meanwhile, Zafar Iqbal, who
is managing director and chief executive officer of BCCI's
unit in the UAE, would become co-president with Swaleh Naqvi,
BCCI's current acting president and chief executive. The two
presidents and three other appointees from Abu Dhabi would
form the bank's executive committee.
   BCCI also will slash its staff as part of a restructuring
it has worked out with its shareholders and discussed with
its regulators in Luxembourg and London, according to people
close to the bank.
   They said that the bank is taking a close look at its
far-flung branch network that now extends to 73 countries,
and that it is expected to close some offices. According to
one individual close to the bank, BCCI will close its Latin
American and Caribbean branches, and may even close up in the
U.S.
   After BCCI earlier this year pleaded guilty in Tampa,
Fla., to charges that it had laundered more than $14 million
of drug money, state banking authorities in Florida have said
they won't renew its banking license there.
   According to its annual report for 1988, BCCI's U.S.
assets totaled $390 million, a small part of overall assets
of $20.67 billion.
   According to one drastic retrenchment plan that top
management has considered, BCCI would relocate its
headquarters to the United Arab Emirates and restructure
itself as an Abu Dhabi-based bank with most of its offices in
the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Is Failing to Get Its Act Together
   On Foreign Aid as New Friends Struggle
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LATAM FORGN AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- While the new foreign friends of the U.S.
struggle, Washington is dithering over how to help them.
   Nicaragua now has a new president, and Panama's pro-U.S.
government has been in power almost four months. Yet Congress
and the White House have failed to agree on a basic package
of $720 million in "emergency" aid to help those two
countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What's more, that failure probably only foreshadows more
floundering this year in setting the broader foreign-aid
program of the U.S. The difficulties stem partly from
Congress's continued distaste for foreign aid and partly from
President Bush's failure to offer a new aid program more in
tune with world changes. Whatever the cause, the problems
raise doubts about whether the U.S. is up to meeting one of
the most rudimentary foreign-policy requirements of the
1990s: helping new democracies get on their feet.
   Instead of acting, Congress and the Bush administration
are bickering. That was clear recently when President Bush
and Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell had a discussion
on foreign aid that, according to a White House aide who was
there, degenerated into the nastiest argument of Mr. Bush's
presidency.
   Mr. Bush, who had invited congressional leaders to the
White House to discuss pending issues, asked whether the
Senate would get moving soon on the aid for Panama and
Nicaragua. Sen. Mitchell then dropped a bombshell: He said
the Senate wouldn't take up the aid package until after it
finished a complicated child-care bill.
   President Bush, sensing that the Central American aid was
going to be held hostage to force him to accept a child-care
bill he doesn't like, bristled. "You told me a week ago this
would be a top priority," he declared to Mr. Mitchell, one
observer recalls. Jousting between the two continued until
Sen. Mitchell said: "I'm going to run things the way I want
to run them," the observer recalls.
   Later, an agreement was worked out under which the Senate
has taken up the aid bill before the child-care measure. But
now President Bush, despite his insistence that the aid is a
top national priority, is the one threatening to kill the
package. The White House says he's nearly certain to veto the
aid bill unless senators remove an unrelated provision that
would allow the use of government funds for abortions in the
District of Columbia.
   For his part, Sen. Mitchell says he has a fundamental
problem with the president's approach to foreign aid. He
declares that the administration has offered "no plan at all"
for how to tie various pieces of foreign aid to emerging
democracies into a coherent package. He's cool to approving
aid in bits and pieces.
   That's a concern many other Democrats share. Many are
bewildered, for instance, that at the same time the
administration was proposing its emergency aid for the new
democracies in Panama and Nicaragua, it was offering a mere
$500,000 in aid this year for Namibia, an African nation that
has just become independent and democratic. Congress is in
the process of boosting that to $10 million.
   Rep. David Obey (D., Wis.), head of the House
appropriations subcommittee that handles foreign aid, has
complained to the State Department that the administration's
$15.3 billion foreign-aid budget proposed for next year would
increase overall funds for Eastern Europe by only about $100
million, despite the democratic revolution that has swept
that region. And despite the virtual end of the Cold War, the
Bush administration is seeking an increase in military aid
that, in percentage terms, roughly matches the increase in
non-military aid.
   Rep. Lee Hamilton (D., Ind.), a senior member of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, complains that the Bush
administration simply took its 1990 aid plan and said, "Ditto
for 1991." He adds: "There's not been an overall review."
   A fundamental obstacle to such a new strategy, though, is
the distaste in Congress -- and among the American people --
for foreign aid. Republican pollster Richard Wirthlin
recently asked in a survey whether America should help
rebuild the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe, as it did
in Western Europe after World War II. Some 62% of those
polled said America shouldn't help.
   So, the administration and congressional leaders face the
challenge of making a public case for foreign aid. "Foreign
aid isn't the most popular program in the Congress," says
Rep. Stephen Solarz (D., N.Y.) of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee. But, he adds, "with the end of the Cold War, the
foreign-aid program becomes a more important vehicle than
ever for the promotion of American values and protection of
American interests."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   European Community Leaders to Strive
   For `Political Union' by End of 1992
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   DUBLIN -- The European Community embarked on a journey to
an unknown destination called "political union," hoping to
arrive by the end of 1992.
   At a summit meeting here, the 12 EC leaders agreed to seek
ways to create a more unified and efficient EC, with more
joint decision-making, greater democratic checks and balances
and a less cumbersome institutional structure. Though they
have radically different visions about how much national
sovereignty they are willing to transfer to a European
government, and how quickly, they agreed "further decisive
steps should be taken" toward a new EC structure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign ministers will spend the next two months
collecting and assessing ideas and definitions of political
union. The formal calling of the talks, which will run
parallel with already-called negotiations about economic and
monetary union, is expected to take place at another EC
summit here June 25 and 26. But the wording of Saturday's
summit communique leaves no doubt about an eventual calling
of negotiations once a clearer plan evolves.
   "Today the Community firmly, decisively and categorically
committed itself to political union," said Irish Prime
Minister Charles Haughey, who chaired the meeting. "For that
purpose now, an intergovernmental conference will be held and
we will go on from there."
   The leaders also agreed unanimously to a much quicker
timetable for economic and monetary union negotiations than
originally planned. They said they will try to finish the
talks, which start in December, and the process of national
ratification of the new treaty by the end of 1992, to
coincide with the completion of the EC's single-market
program. Even after the treaty is in place, it will take
several years to introduce a system of central banks or a
single currency; but the agreement on a deadline for the
talks was considered a major boost for supporters of the
plan. They also agreed to aim for a political union treaty to
come into force at the same time.
   The agreements, issued in a 10-page joint communique, add
up to some of the most ambitious and detailed plans the
Community has ever set for itself. The summit not only set
out the EC's vision for its own future, but issued a
blueprint for the "New Europe" that is taking shape because
of reforms in the East bloc. Among some of the key points of
the agreement are the following:
                                                                                                       

   German unification: The leaders welcomed East Germany into
the EC as part of a unified Germany and agreed on a policy
and procedure to manage the integration of that country's
territory and 16 million citizens into the legal and economic
structure of the Community. West German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl said the EC Commission would be involved in the planning
and execution of the unification process to make sure German
monetary union and all other intra-German agreements are in
keeping with EC law and open to examination of the other EC
members. He reassured the poorer members of the EC that the
East German bailout won't rob them of limited regional
development funds, and said a revived East Germany would
beneift the whole EC.
                                                                                                       

   Eastern Europe: Ever-deeper contacts with reforming
Eastern European countries will remain conditional on these
countries developing democratic, free-market systems. A new
set of association agreements, which define closer economic
and political ties, could result in eventual full membership
in the EC. It was agreed that aid provided by the Group of 24
industrialized nations to this region, currently being
coordinated by the EC Commission and limited to Poland and
Hungary, should be extended to East Germany (until its full
unification), Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and
Romania.
                                                                                                       

   Relations with the U.S.: The leaders agreed to "further
develop close trans-Atlantic relations based on contacts at
the highest levels." This initiative, launched by EC
Commission President Jacques Delors and U.S. Secretary of
State James Baker, foresees twice-yearly meetings of the U.S.
president with the president of the EC council of ministers,
two meetings a year between the EC foreign ministers and the
U.S. secretary of state and high-level contacts between the
U.S. administration and the EC Commission.
   A surprisingly positive tone and agreement by British
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to go ahead with the
political talks reflects her belief that she will be able to
have a major influence on them.
   According to senior British officials at the summit
meeting, she told the other leaders they needed to reassure
"worried" publics that what was about to happen wouldn't
threaten such things as national identity, national culture,
language, electoral or legal systems.
   Officials of other countries at the meeting said they
agreed with many of the excluded items on Mrs. Thatcher's
list, and that by clarifying what political union is not,
Mrs. Thatcher probably had contributed to its ultimate
success. The EC won't scrap national parliaments or
presidents, and most expect the six monarchs of the EC to
keep their jobs.
   Mrs. Thatcher also made some small steps in the direction
of the supporters of more ambitious interpretation of
political union. She said she would consider reducing the
veto rights of individual states in EC decisions, allowing
for quicker and more efficient progress on legislation. Such
procedures, already enshrined in the single market program,
had served British interests well, she said. She also said
she would consider changes in the treaty making it more clear
what powers should be given to the EC and what powers should
be reserved for the member states.
   But Mr. Kohl said the EC states had to be prepared to
agree to more radical transformation of EC institutions,
parliaments and decision-making processes than Mrs. Thatcher
had in mind.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Officer Suspends Blinder Robinson
   For 45 Days, Bars It From Underwriting
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   ENTI
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Securities and Exchange Commission hearing
officer suspended Blinder, Robinson &amp; Co., once the nation's
largest penny-stock underwriting firm, for 45 days and barred
the firm from underwriting any securities offerings for two
years.
   Administrative law judge Brenda Murray also barred Meyer
Blinder, founder and president of the Denver-based firm, from
associating with any brokerage firm, with the proviso that he
can seek reinstatement as a registered broker after two
years. The unusually harsh sanctions stem from a 1980 casino
stock-underwriting in which the firm and Mr. Blinder were
charged with fraud and manipulative practices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In issuing her decision Friday, Ms. Murray said that the
evidence in the long-running case "indicates a high
probability that Mr. Blinder cannot ever operate in the
securities industry in compliance with the law."
   The decision becomes final within 15 days unless the firm
and Mr. Blinder ask the five-member SEC to review it. Both
were expected to file such petitions.
   Attorneys for Mr. Blinder and Blinder Robinson declined to
comment Friday afternoon.
   Under the 45-day suspension, Blinder Robinson will still
be able to make unsolicited trades for customers, complete
transactions outstanding, and make deliveries and transfers
of securities.
   Ms. Murray rejected the SEC's request for a permanent bar
against Mr. Blinder, opting instead for two years which, she
said, "will give Mr. Blinder an opportunity for
rehabilitation."
   The administrative case has been fiercely fought for
years. In 1985, another SEC hearing officer ruled that
Blinder Robinson and Mr. Blinder had violated securities laws
by, among other things, failing to disclose the firm's
purchase of American Leisure Corp. securities to close out a
$25 million underwriting for the Atlantic City company. In
1986, the commission imposed the same sanctions as Ms. Murray
did Friday. Attorneys for Mr. Blinder and the firm appealed
the sanctions to the federal appeals court here in 1987,
arguing that the SEC deals more harshly with newer brokerage
firms than "old-line houses."
   In January 1988, a three-judge appellate panel remanded
the case to the SEC for further hearing, saying the hearing
officer should have allowed the introduction of certain
evidence about Mr. Blinder's relationship with his legal
advisers on the casino-stock offering.
   Mr. Blinder had consulted with securities lawyers before
he decided against disclosing in the American Leisure
prospectus that Blinder Robinson was buying the last unsold
securities in the "all or none" offering. In such an
underwriting, if all of the securities aren't sold by a
specified date, the investors must be reimbursed.
   In her decision, Ms. Murray said that Mr. Blinder had
rejected the lawyers advice to disclose the American Leisure
purchases "because it would have damaged Blinder Robinson's
business reputation," indicating an inability to complete a
deal. "Taken as whole," she added, "the evidence is that Mr.
Blinder didn't rely on anyone's advice but did what he wanted
to do."
   Ms. Murray also rejected the argument that the SEC has a
double-standard of enforcement, meting out more severe
sanctions to firms, such as Blinder Robinson, that aren't
members of the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Milken May Get
   Immunity to Talk
   About Junk Bonds
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House subcommittee is considering granting
Michael Milken immunity to testify on his junk bond network,
sources on the panel said, and a spokesman for Mr. Milken
said the financier would accept such an offer.
   The testimony, which the House Oversight and
Investigations subcommittee hopes to schedule for late this
summer, could provide the first public forum for Mr. Milken
to discuss in detail the operations of the junk bond market
he created, as well as the government's case against him. The
former head of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s high-yield bond
department pleaded guilty last week to six felony counts,
including conspiracy and securities fraud, and agreed to pay
$600 million in fines and restitution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, the subcommittee hopes to question Mr.
Milken about 400 investment partnerships that involved Mr.
Milken and other Drexel employees. The panel, a part of the
Energy and Commerce Committee, held hearings two years ago
about the dealings of such partnerships in Drexel bond
issues. In recent weeks the panel has learned of an
additional 200 partnerships it didn't know of in 1988, a
staff member said.
   The subcommittee has asked Congress's investigative arm,
the General Accounting Office, to study the partnerships and
try to determine if they allowed Drexel insiders to benefit
at the expense of customers. At the hearings two years ago,
members of Congress charged that Drexel repeatedly ignored
the interests of its bond-buying clients, such as mutual
funds and insurance companies, by selling large blocks of new
issues of high-yield bonds to investment partnerships that
included about 150 Drexel officials. The partnerships often
resold the bonds at a profit within days or weeks.
   At the hearings, Drexel's chief executive officer,
Frederick Joseph, defended the operations of the
partnerships, saying that Drexel had "procedures in place" to
ensure employees didn't have an unfair advantage. Mr. Joseph
argued that the quick profits made by some of the
partnerships resulted from rapidly changing interest rates
and other market conditions. A week later, however, Drexel
stopped allowing its employees to buy parts of new debt
issues because of "public perception," Mr. Joseph said.
   The GAO hasn't begun its review of the partnerships, so it
is unclear what new information may emerge. However, a
subcommittee staff member said it appeared that Mr. Milken
participated in most of the partnerships.
   Mr. Milken refused to testify at the 1988 hearings, citing
his Fifth Amendment rights. If the subcommittee grants him
immunity, his testimony couldn't be used against him in any
legal proceeding. As part of last week's plea agreement, the
Justice Department cannot bring any further cases against Mr.
Milken relating to his work or investments while at Drexel.
But Mr. Milken is already the target of civil suits by
investors and others who claim they were defrauded.
   If the subcommittee "were to offer him immunity, then
Michael would testify," said Kenneth Lerer, a spokesman for
Mr. Milken. Mr. Lerer wouldn't comment on any of the
activities of the investment partnerships.
   The dealings of the partnerships weren't a target of the
original 98-count indictment against Mr. Milken, nor of the
Securities and Exchange Commission's civil complaint, which
was also settled last week. The government has never charged
that any of the actions of the partnerships were illegal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Crunching Zeros
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the March 19 article entitled "Brazil's Collor Stuns
Nation With Harsh Economic Plan," you reported that a measure
of the plan to deflate the Brazilian economy will be "the
creation of the fourth new currency in as many years, the
Cruzeiro, to replace the Cruzado Novo. . . ."
   The cruzeiro will replace the cruzado, but it is not, in
fact, "new." Brazil's currency was known as the cruzeiro
prior to Feb. 28, 1986. The replacement of the cruzeiro with
the cruzado came at a time when severe inflationary and
economic pressures were mounting in Brazil. In February 1986,
inflation was at a mere 500%, compared with current inflation
of more than 1,000%. At that time, the cruzeiro was trading
at an official rate of $12,000 and at a black-market rate of
$23,000. The Central Bank of Brazil designated the new
official rate of the cruzado novo at $12. Perhaps the central
bankers were tired of punching so many zeros into their
calculators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John P. Szuch
   Rochester, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Kids' Advertisers Play Hide-and-Seek,
   Concealing Commercials in Every Cranny
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY MCD AKLM NIPNY NLN
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Television viewers, advertisers complain, often miss
commercials by flipping to another channel or by racing to
the refrigerator for a snack.
   They needn't worry with "Video Power," a syndicated show
about video games starting next fall that will blur the line
between commercials and programming. "Informercials" -- the
word used for the commercials by Alan Bohbot, the show's
producer -- will be spliced into the show so seamlessly that
kids might not know the difference.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While critics may not be pleased, "we're ecstatic about
the format," exclaims Anthony Williams, an executive at
video-game maker Acclaim Entertainment Inc., which plans to
advertise on the show. "Video Power," he notes, will keep
kids glued to the set.
   "Video Power" is but one of a variety of creative new ways
that advertisers are slipping commercial messages into TV
programs, videocassettes, movies and video games aimed at
young people.
   McDonald's Corp., for example, has produced "McTreasure
Island," a video starring Ronald McDonald and pals in a
remake of the Robert Louis Stevenson classic. PepsiCo Inc.
has its label appear in a new Magic Johnson basketball video
game made by Tradewest. MTV may feature Worlds of Wonder
Inc.'s new Jaminator electric toy guitar on its Headbanger's
Ball program.
   "It's beyond commercial," says one MTV insider, noting
that inclusion of a brand name would be a departure from
MTV's standard practice of excising product promotions.
   Meanwhile, the related art of "product placement" in
movies has reached new heights. In "Back to the Future II," a
big favorite among children, more than a dozen brands were
strategically worked into the action.
   This trend toward blurring advertising with programming is
of growing concern to critics of children's shows. "It's
shameful and deceptive," declares Michael Jacobson, executive
director for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a
media watchdog in Washington, D.C. "Kids particularly are
vulnerable when they aren't told it's advertising. They don't
have their guard up."
   Thus far, critics haven't formally taken aim at disguised
ads, which aren't currently banned on television. They're
busy lobbying Congress to impose a limit on commercials
during kids' shows, because a previous ban of 12 minutes an
hour on weekdays and 9.5 minutes an hour on weekends was
lifted by the Reagan administration. But just as the critics
are making headway in Washington, some of the new ways of
promoting products could circumvent any time restrictions on
commercials.
   "Video Power," a half-hour show that will air weekdays
after school, will be "hosted" by a 14-year-old who goes by
the name of Johnny Arcade. Johnny will rattle off "news"
items, such as countdowns of top hits in video games.
Sandwiched in the minute-long countdowns will be 10-second or
20-second commercials, without so much as a pause between the
news and the commercial.
   The show also will include interviews with video-game
champions and celebrities, and it will feature cartoons with
characters from current video games. A few of those
characters are based on video games by Acclaim, which has
purchased 20% of the show's commercial time. Toys "R" Us Inc.
and NEC Corp. also have agreed to buy similar chunks of air
time.
   "Children change channels during commercials. For one
thing, their concentration span is shorter than that of
adults," says Mr. Williams, the Acclaim executive. "This, we
think, is a good way for both producer and advertiser to
sidestep that problem."
   Adds Mr. Bohbot, the program's creator: "Kids see an
average of 100 commercials every day, and between 30,000 to
40,000 a year. How does an advertiser's message stand out
through all of this? All we're trying to do is let the kid
walk away remembering the commercial."
   Peggy Charren, who heads the Boston-based Action for
Children's Television and is a frequent critic of commercial
programming, says she will monitor "Video Power" closely to
see that commercials are clearly identified in the TV show.
"If we don't stop it, there won't be editorial speech as such
any more," she contends.
   In McDonald's newly released "McTreasure Island" video,
Ronald McDonald and a retinue of characters open the Treasure
Island storybook and are magically transported into the tale.
Ronald uses his magic time and again to save Jim Hawkins, the
Stevenson hero, from the wiles of Long John Silver.
Eventually, the McDonald's characters stumble onto the
treasure and steer Long John Silver away from it so Hawkins's
crew can have it.
   About 250,000 copies of the videocassette have been sold
to retailers, notes Russ Kamalski, director of marketing of
Hi-Tops Video, the children's brand of Media Home
Entertainment Inc., which co-produced the video. Mr. Kamalski
adds that initial sales of the 30-minute home video, which
retails for less than $10, seem good enough for McDonald's to
attempt a similar project. McDonald's didn't return phone
calls seeking comment.
   "It's too bad Robert Louis Stevenson isn't around to sue
McDonald's," laments Ms. Charren. "Now, every time children
read that famous young readers' classic, they'll get hungry
for a Big Mac," she says. "I wonder what we're going to get
next? Ronald McDonald goes hunting for whales in `Moby
McDonald?'"
   McDonald's also figured prominently in the movie "Mac &amp;
Me" a couple of years ago, a film about the misadventures of
a mysterious alien creature (hence the name Mac) who
inadvertently lands on Earth. In addition to more than a
half-dozen references to Coke -- the cola brand carried by
McDonald's restaurants -- the movie had a six-minute
intergalactic dance scene in and outside a McDonald's
restaurant, its golden arches clearly in view. "What's really
disturbing are the commercial implications of `Mac &amp; Me,'"
wrote movie critic Richard Harrington of the Washington Post.
   Some movies resemble billboards on film with all the
brand-name products they feature. The recent release, "The
Wizard," features Nintendo Co. video games and Mattel Inc.'s
Power Glove, a video-game joystick used with Nintendo. "The
Wizard is one long Nintendo commercial," notes Mark Crespin
Miller, a communications professor at Johns Hopkins
University who's writing a book on the pervasive nature of
advertising.
   "It's almost become embarrassing," says Edward Mintz,
president of CinemaScore, a market research firm that helps
advertisers get products "placed" in films. Hollywood rakes
in about $1 million a week in product placement fees, more
than triple its take four years ago, placement executives
say.
   "Back to the Future II," starring Michael J. Fox, stuck
viewers with a shopping cart full of brand names: Toyota,
Miller, Nike, AT&amp;T, USA Today, Texaco, JVC, Black &amp; Decker,
US Mail Overnight Service, Pizza Hut and Pepsi (several
times), among others. "Pepsi was quite pleased {with the
movie}," says Mr. Mintz, who gets paid only when products
score well in viewer-recall surveys.
   A coming attraction, "U.S. Steal," a New Line Cinema Corp.
picture starring Hulk Hogan, also will display a host of
products, placed by Marvin Cohen, head of Marvin Cohen &amp;
Associates. "I'll have no trouble finding advertisers," he
says. "Hulk Hogan is a role model for kids."
   Unlike television, which is regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission, films and videos don't face
restrictions because of constitutional free-speech
protections. "There isn't a heck of a lot we can do," says
Ms. Charren, the children's-TV critic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Loses on Claim
   To Over $50 Million
   In Texas Firm Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- An uncompleted stock transfer cost the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. its claim to more than $50 million in
cash from the assets of First RepublicBank Corp., a
bankruptcy judge ruled.
   The ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven A. Felsenthal
will allow the creditors of the Texas bank-holding company to
share the cash under a reorganization plan that could be
approved as early as July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cash comprises the proceeds, and interest earned, from
the holding company's 1989 sale of its Republic Money Orders
Inc. unit to Greyhound Corp. of Phoenix.
   The FDIC, which seized First RepublicBank's bank units in
late July 1988, claimed the proceeds because the holding
company had assigned its Republic Money Orders stock to the
company's Dallas bank in 1978.
   But the bank never took possession of the stock
certificate or assignment, and the holding company continued
to list the stock as an asset held in a safe-keeping account
at the Dallas bank.
   "Since the holding company did not deliver and the bank
did not obtain possession of the stock certificate with
attached assignment, First RepublicBank Corp. remained owner
of the Republic Money Orders stock as a matter of law," Judge
Felsenthal ruled.
   The judge rejected the FDIC's argument that the agreement
establishing the safe-keeping account should be set aside
because it wasn't approved by the bank's directors and wasn't
part of the records available to federal examiners before the
bank's seizure.
   "Absent the {safe-keeping} agreement, there was delivery
of the stock," said Jeffrey W. Hurt, a Dallas attorney for
the FDIC in the dispute. Mr. Hurt said he expects the FDIC to
appeal Judge Felsenthal's decision.
   The FDIC is the largest creditor of First RepublicBank
Corp., which entered Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings
Aug. 1, 1988, just days after the FDIC seized its bank units.
The holding company isn't related to First Republic Bancorp
of San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Steel Exports Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese steel exports in the year ended March 31
fell 18% to 19 million metric tons, marking the fifth
consecutive annual decline from year-earlier levels, the
Japan Iron and Steel Federation said.
   Exports in fiscal 1990 fell to the lowest level in nearly
20 years, dropping below 20 million tons for the first time
since 1970. Steel exports for March followed the downward
trend, dropping 26% from a year earlier to 1.5 million metric
tons. A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sluggish steel exports reflect consistently strong
domestic demand for Japanese steel products, the federation
said. As a result, an official said, Japanese steelmakers
were preoccupied during the year with meeting the needs of
domestic industries, such as shipbuilding, construction and
auto manufacturing.
   Export prices for the latest fiscal year rose to a
historic high of $774 a ton, the official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Divorce Mediation:
   `Shining and Stinking'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   To suggest ("Warring Couples Shun Divorce Mediators and
Opt to Battle It Out in Court Instead," March 27) that
divorce mediation has been shot down by lawyers because it
represents "a threat to their livelihoods" is unfair.
Generally, divorce lawyers in America are operating on
"overload" and would welcome any process that could relieve
them of some of their burdens and, at the same time, afford a
vent for the parties' anger and frustration.
   Divorce mediation reminds one of John Randolph of
Roanoke's comment, "It is like rotten mackerel by moonlight.
It shines and it stinks." Divorce mediation is terribly
attractive and seductive in concept, glistening out there on
an otherwise angry landscape of discontent, but as you get
closer it turns out to be somewhat odoriferous, or, at least,
not as attractive as initially perceived.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, the mediators are uneven in training and
often inexpert in application of their skills. Ofttimes they
create more problems than they solve. While I suppose it is
true that "there is a great deal of competition for the
family law dollar," one hopes that the money will be spent
for solutions that are more effective in operation albeit
less appealing in presentation.
   Raoul Lionel Felder
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
AIRLINES (AIR)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AIDS IN CUBA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three-quarters of Cuba's sexually active population has
been tested for AIDS, the official Communist Party newspaper
Granma said.
   The tests revealed 434 carriers of the AIDS virus to date,
of which 63 had developed the disease and 27 died from it. Of
those who tested positive, 315 were men and 119 were women.
Their average age was 26, the youngest a girl of 15 and the
oldest a man of 57.
   The Cuban government says it has managed to control the
spread of the disease on the island by means of massive
testing and obligatory segregation of AIDS patients in a
special clinic. Patients can work and receive a salary while
being treated at the clinic.
   The importation of blood products has been banned in Cuba
since 1983.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREA'S `FX' PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   South Korea will spend $77 million on developing a
facsimile machine to compete with similar products in Japan
and other countries. Yonhap, the South Korean news agency,
said the "FX" project was approved by government officials
because Japan and other nations were reluctant to transfer
their advanced technology. Yonhap said South Korea wants to
begin exports of the machine in 1995.
                                                                                                       

   DRASTIC MEASURES IN GREECE
                                                                                                       

   The newly elected Greek government announced drastic price
rises and higher indirect taxes. The measures are intended to
increase state income by 400 billion drachmas ($2.43 billion)
this year but will increase the annual inflation rate by 4
percentage points, Economy Minister George Souflias said;
last year's rate was 15%. Said Mr. Souflias: "Of every 100
drachmas the state spends it has to borrow 40. This has to
come to an end."
                                                                                                       

   NEW ZEALAND EMIGRATION
                                                                                                       

   New Zealand's net population loss through emigration has
slowed sharply, the Department of Statistics said. The
department said that in the 12 months ended March 31, net
loss through migration movements fell 83.6% to 4,040 persons,
down from a net loss of 24,708 persons in the 12 months ended
March 31, 1989. The net loss in the 12 months to March was
the smallest net loss in six years. New Zealand last recorded
a net gain in population through migration in the 12 months
ended March 31, 1984. At the last census, in 1986, New
Zealand's population totaled 3.3 million people.
                                                                                                       

   NORWEGIAN TV PROPOSAL
                                                                                                       

   Norway's government proposed opening national airwaves to
private television broadcasts and lifting an almost-total ban
on TV commercials. The proposal to parliament calls for the
creation of a second channel, funded by up to 30 minutes a
day of advertising. The one existing channel, financed by
viewer licenses and state transfers, has had a near monopoly
on radio and TV broadcasts since it was founded in 1933.
                                                                                                       

   A NO-TAX PLEDGE IN GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   Helmut Seiters, the chief of staff of the West German
government, said the German economic and monetary union will
be financed with the help of strong economic growth, a rise
in the budget deficit and spending cuts -- but without any
tax increases. Speaking in the West German parliament, he
said: "Tax increases aren't necessary." The strong rise in
gross national product, which is expected to climb 4% this
year, should boost tax revenue by 30 billion marks (about $18
billion) in 1990 and 1991, Mr. Seiters said.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA CHANGES COURSE
                                                                                                       

   China has dropped its earlier opposition to Hong Kong's
plan for a multibillion dollar port and airport complex,
Chinese officials said.
   The Hong Kong-based officials said the economic-research
units of China's state-owned companies in the British colony
were examining the project to see if China could take part.
Experts from the New China News Agency, the de facto Chinese
embassy in Hong Kong, and the Bank of China group, China's
major financial arm, are monitoring and analyzing the plan,
they said.
   Hong Kong's governor, Sir David Wilson, unveiled plans
last year for a $16.28 billion complex, including a new
international airport, a high-speed rail link, a six-lane
highway and a new port. The project, to be financed by the
government and the private sector, is seen as demonstrating
confidence that Hong Kong will remain a vibrant international
center after China regains sovereignty in 1997.
   Chinese officials have said they oppose using Hong Kong's
cash reserves for the airport, saying the money was intended
for territorial government after 1997. A Bank of China
official said: "Basically we have no objection to the plans
because it eventually serves Hong Kong. But we must ensure it
will not become a burden to us when the British are gone."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Playwright Eugene Ionesco said the return of ex-King
Michael was the only way of ending unrest in Romania. "Only a
king could halt the debacle in poor Romania," the
Romanian-born dramatist, now a resident of France, wrote in
Paris's Le Figaro. . . . A Chernobyl telethon run by Soviet
TV last week raised millions of rubles and dollars for
children who suffered from the world's worst nuclear
disaster, Tass reported. Contributions reportedly ranged from
$500,000 from a family company in Australia to dozens of
dollars donated by individuals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MYCO UT NU
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Connecticut Light &amp; Power Co., a unit of Northeast
Utilities, shelf offering of up to $300 million of first and
refunding mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Gensia Pharmaceuticals Inc., proposed initial offering of
2.5 million shares of common stock, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
Inc., Montgomery Securities and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

   Mycogen Corp., proposed offering of 1.7 million common
shares, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and Montgomery Securities.
                                                                                                       

   United Telecommunications Inc., shelf offering of up to
$500 million of debt securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Digital Equipment
   Staff-Cut Effort
   Shy of Expectations
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Digital Equipment Corp., burdened by soaring personnel
costs in a period of slack sales growth, is moving more
slowly than expected with its effort to reduce its huge work
force.
   The big computer maker, based in Maynard, Mass., said it
expects 2,000 employees will leave by its fiscal year end on
July 1, out of a total of 5,000 who will be offered voluntary
severance packages by that time. As of March 31, Digital's
work force stood at 125,800.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Digital also indicated that an expected fourth-quarter
charge against earnings may not be necessary. If 2,000
employees leave, "then the restructuring charge already
announced will be adequate to cover separation costs," a
spokesman said. Digital took a $150 million charge in the
third quarter for work-force reduction costs, and had warned
that further charges were likely in coming quarters.
   After the charge, third-quarter net income fell 90% from
the year-earlier period, while revenue grew just 4.3%. Those
results reflect the weakness of much of the computer industry
over the past year.
   The disclosure marked the first time Digital outlined the
scope of the staff-reduction program. But the numbers fall
well short of earlier indications by people inside the
company and the forecasts of many analysts, who had predicted
cutbacks ranging from 5,000 to 8,000.
   "If this is it, Wall Street is likely to be disappointed,"
Carol Muratore, an analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., said.
"It's no surprise they're moving slowly, but I don't think
2,000 is enough."
   Digital shares dropped $1.375, to close at $82, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday.
   Digital didn't exactly say that it is finished in making
cuts. The spokesman said that results of the voluntary
severance program will be evaluated at the end of the fiscal
year, and "if there is another program . . . it is likely to
be different" from the current program. The current incentive
program provides insurance benefits for a year and lump-sum
payments of between 40 weeks' and two years' salary,
depending on length of service.
   The spokesman emphasized that no layoffs are planned.
Through the voluntary program, Digital has eliminated jobs at
plants in Phoenix, Ariz., and Colorado Springs, and
facilities in Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East German Investment Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- East Germany is considering selling half of
its nationalized industries to its own citizens through the
distribution of investment certificates, a key economic
official said.
   Peter Moreth, head of the East German trustee agency for
public property, told the West German daily Die Welt that
only the remaining half of the industrial holdings will be
offered to foreign investors. That 50% share open to
foreigners also includes all joint ventures and cooperation
pacts signed to date, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trustee agency was set up earlier this year to take
over so-called publicly owned companies, and privatize them
at a later point.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Stock Funds'
   Inflows Surged
   During March
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stock prices may be falling, interest rates rising and
Japan's market in turmoil, but the small investor seems all
but oblivious. In March, stock funds enjoyed their biggest
inflows in three years, and April seems to have been another
good month.
   "Main Street is showing much greater confidence in the
future than Wall Street," says Avi Nachmany, an analyst with
Strategic Insight, a division of Jesup &amp; Lamont Securities.
"It's manifested in equities outselling bonds, and growth and
aggressive growth equities outselling conservative equities.
That's totally different from the post-crash environment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mutual fund groups reported strong inflows into stock
funds for April, though the pace was less brisk than in
March. According to the Investment Company Institute's data
for March, stock funds pulled in $3.1 billion more than they
surrendered to departing shareholders. That produced the
industry's best month since April 1987, when $5.5 billion
poured into stock funds. (These figures include fund switches
as well as sales and redemptions; they exclude reinvested
dividends.)
   Despite the relatively strong investment results of
technology and small-company funds during the first quarter,
investors continued to shy away from both types of fund in
April.
   Vanguard Group reported overall net outflows from its
three small-company stock funds and its technology specialty
fund. Even T. Rowe Price Associates, which has traditionally
been strong in the small-company area and also has one of the
better-performing no-load technology funds, saw little
interest in either type of fund.
   Instead, Vanguard reported strong interest in its Standard
&amp; Poor's 500 index fund. T. Rowe Price said its best sellers
in April were its international funds and its equity-income
fund.
   While investors snapped up stock funds, stock fund
managers turned even more bearish. In March, they kept 11.9%
of their portfolios in cash, up from 11.6% in February and
8.7% in March 1989.
   For junk fund managers, the bad news was the April sale by
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. of its $290 million
portfolio of junk bond mutual funds. But while Shearson was
redeeming, it seems a good number of small investors were
buying.
   "Some people have come in and started bottom fishing in
the high-yield area," reports Michael Hines, a marketing vice
president with Fidelity Investments.
   The bottom fishing began in March, when the people who
regularly switch from one mutual fund to another started
moving into high-yield junk. Although the switchers put more
into junk than they pulled out, redemptions by departing
shareholders far outpaced new sales, so that junk bond funds
suffered a net outflow of $231 million for the month. That
was the smallest loss since junk funds started hemorrhaging
assets in July 1989.
   Despite Shearson's massive redemption, the biggest loser
in April seems to have been bond funds that don't hold junk.
Rising interest rates panicked bond-fund holders,
particularly those in longer-term government bond funds.
   Massachusetts Financial Services and Fidelity Investments
both saw net outflows from bond funds in April, while
Vanguard saw its inflows cut by half compared with March.
   April's setback followed buoyant sales in March, when all
bond funds (other than junk) picked up $1.2 billion. "When
you look at bond funds {for March}, the biggest pickup is in
the Ginnie Mae area and the government bond area," notes Mr.
Nachmany. Ginnie Maes were offering the highest yield after
junk funds, so "money was rolling in."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Price of Fame:
   William Farley's Quest
   For Status Threatens
   To Topple His Empire
   ---
   West Point-Pepperell Deal
   Exhausts Magnate's Cash,
   Triggers Default on Loan
   ---
   Bid for Presidency on Hold
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FTL WPM X.FRY
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- From his lofty Sears Tower office, which
associates call "The Dream Factory," William F. Farley laid
plans that made him a rich industrialist. But that wasn't
enough. He wanted to be famous too.
   So the chairman and principal owner of Fruit of the Loom
Inc. hired one of Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen's speechwriters
and made the aide vice chairman of the holding company Farley
Inc. Mr. Farley ran a series of national television ads that
featured his views on American competitiveness -- and never
mentioned his company's products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He considered running as a Democrat for president in 1988,
but modestly decided that the timing wasn't right since he
was only 44 years old. He took to the airwaves again, with
ads portraying a trim and sweaty Mr. Farley pumping iron in a
Fruit of the Loom T-shirt and sweat pants. And then he
decided to make another acquisition, one with well-known
consumer products that, according to former aides, would be
easily recognized by voters and would boost Farley's annual
revenue to an impressive-sounding $5 billion. Mr. Farley
early last year acquired West Point-Pepperell Inc., the maker
of Martex sheets and Lady Pepperell blankets.
   Since then, Mr. Farley has had little time for politicking
or image burnishing: He is locked in the financial fight of
his life, and he could end up losing everything.
   The $2.5 billion West Point takeover now appears to be on
the verge of collapse. Last month, Mr. Farley defaulted on
$1.5 billion in debt and then offered to relinquish a
majority stake in West Point if bondholders would agree to
lower interest rates and deferred payments.
   But now even that plan may fail. In recent days, people
familiar with the talks say, Mr. Farley's creditors have
privately rejected his offer. Negotiations are continuing,
but the outlook for a favorable ending appears grim. "We're
beginning to think we may get a better deal from a bankruptcy
judge," says a Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. official hired to advise
the bondholders.
   A bankruptcy-law filing is a distinct possibility. Mr.
Farley's chief lenders, Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Bankers Trust
Co., could force him into bankruptcy court at any time
because he failed to repay a $796 million short-term loan,
due March 31. But so far, they have been awaiting the outcome
of the bondholder negotiations -- which could free up cash
needed to pay the banks.
   If he does end up in bankruptcy court, Mr. Farley's empire
could be ruined. While he certainly would lose control of
West Point Acquisition Corp., the company he set up to buy
the Georgia textile concern, other Farley enterprises could
be jeopardized as well. Farley Inc., Mr. Farley's 77%-owned
holding company, whose units make Acme Boots and metal parts
for industry, now has twice as much debt on its books as
assets; it posted a pretax loss of about $40 million in 1989.
Creditors might also seek to go after his controlling stake
in Fruit of the Loom.
   Mr. Farley declined to be interviewed for this story. His
vice chairman, Jack Albertine, the onetime lobbyist and
Bentsen speechwriter, quietly resigned two weeks ago. "Bill
doesn't need a public policy person anymore," Mr. Albertine
says.
   There's always a chance that Mr. Farley will find a way to
save the West Point transaction and keep his dreams alive.
More than once, he has emerged from last-ditch negotiations
with a cocky smile and a transaction safely closed.
   In 1977, when a Farley-owned paper-folding machine plant
in Sidney, Ohio, was near bankruptcy, he left his family
behind in Chicago and moved to an apartment near the plant.
For a year, he personally managed the factory while pleading
with his bankers for leniency. Eventually, the plant posted a
profit and was saved.
   "He has a flair for last-minute heroics," says Paul Shaum,
vice president of corporate bond research at Salomon Brothers
Inc. "The only question is: Has he gone too far this time?"
   A former encyclopedia salesman and son of a Pawtucket,
R.I., postman, Mr. Farley graduated from Boston College Law
School and went on to an investment-banking career at Lehman
Brothers Kuhn Loeb, which he left to become his own
dealmaker, assembling a $4 billion empire -- largely with
other people's money -- in just 14 years.
   "Bill is incredibly good at phoning bankers and making
them feel he's doing them a favor {while they are} lending
him millions of dollars," says an associate.
   Along the way, Mr. Farley acquired a taste for the good
life, hiring a valet to accompany him everywhere and even to
accept his hotel room-service deliveries. He also made plans
to commission a 120-foot yacht. Those plans, like his
political career, are now on hold.
   Mr. Farley's first deal involved a citrus-processing plant
in Anaheim, Calif. The owner, NL Industries Inc., was asking
$1.7 million, with a cash down payment of $200,000. Mr.
Farley had a mere $25,000, but he persuaded NL to ignore
other bids for six months while he borrowed the rest of his
"equity" from four other lenders. The plant was his
collateral for the rest of the loan and a subsequent one to
remodel the place.
   The experience taught Mr. Farley that the leveraged
buy-out could be a way to mint money. In the early 1980s,
long before junk bonds put a pin-striped gloss on going into
hock, Mr. Farley parlayed promissory notes into a dozen
plants making such unglamorous items as screws and pinsetters
for bowling alleys.
   Aligning himself with the emerging junk-bond specialists
at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in 1985, he made his first $1
billion acquisition -- Northwest Industries Inc., a maker of
aerospace, defense and chemical products. Shortly afterward,
his personal fortune was estimated at $50 million, including
his 24% stake in Fruit of the Loom, which he spun off from
Northwest. He bought houses on the ski slopes at Snowmass,
Colo., and on the shore in Kennebunkport, Maine, near the
retreat of President Bush. Mr. Farley sometimes brags that
his twin-engine Magnum powerboat is so fast the U.S. Secret
Service bans it -- for security reasons -- when the president
is angling in nearby waters.
   With Northwest under his belt, Mr. Farley began to feel
the lure of politics because, as one close friend quotes him
as saying, "I have done everything else."
   In 1986, he hired Mr. Albertine, who encouraged the
Chicago industrialist's presidential ambitions and told him
he needed a veteran of Washington political circles to
promote his name and to coach him on national issues.
   Mr. Albertine crafted a $2.5 million series of unusual
television ads that ran on the networks and featured Mr.
Farley in various sporting locales, such as a football locker
room, extolling the work-ethic virtues of teamwork and good
management. "Just imagine being a diver for a coach who
pushes you to do lots of dives as fast as you can, instead of
going for that one perfect dive," says Mr. Farley, standing
by a swimming pool. "Is putting quantity before quality any
way to win?"
   In 1987, Mr. Farley made about a dozen personal
appearances in Iowa, site of the first primary caucuses, at
which he promised -- despite his own borrowing binge -- to
reduce the federal deficit if elected president. But then he
abruptly withdrew from the race, saying he wasn't yet ready
for a national campaign.
   While Mr. Farley was toying with politics, he made the
business decision that may prove to be his undoing. In early
1988, he began planning his next acquisition with Drexel
officials, who helped him raise a $500 million war chest
through the sale of junk bonds.
   He yearned to make a run for Pillsbury Co., but it was too
expensive. West Point-Pepperell did fit Mr. Farley's profile,
and the fourth-generation Lanier family management appeared
vulnerable to an aggressive, hostile takeover attempt.
   As expected, West Point-Pepperell's board at first
rejected Mr. Farley's offer in October 1988 to pay $48 a
share, or $1.3 billion, while also assuming $1 billion in
West Point debt. West Point lawyers lobbied state legislators
for anti-takeover legislation, employees burned Fruit of the
Loom underwear in demonstrations and Joseph Lanier Jr., the
chairman, vowed to fight Mr. Farley "until hell freezes over,
and then we'll fight him on the ice."
   Mr. Farley rushed to Georgia, believing he could convince
Mr. Lanier of his good intentions for West Point-Pepperell.
But Mr. Lanier avoided him. Mr. Farley finally caught up with
him in the restroom of an attorney's office.
   "I'm delighted to meet you," Mr. Lanier recalls Mr. Farley
saying.
   "I wish I could say the same," replied Mr. Lanier, who
brushed past his visitor, ending the meeting.
   After West Point-Pepperell put itself up for auction in an
attempt to escape his clutches, Mr. Farley surprised some
Drexel officials by raising his bid, in stages, a full $10 a
share, to $58, despite the fact that no other bidder ever
stepped forth publicly. Former Drexel officials say the
now-defunct investment concern warned that he was probably
overbidding by at least $200 million. Mr. Farley, however,
was adamant about the higher bid, people familiar with the
transaction say. He won control of the company in a tender
offer, but he had purchased only 95% of the shares when he
ran out of money.
   Mr. Farley had expected to complete the purchase of West
Point by floating other bonds through Drexel or by borrowing
cash from Drexel if necessary. But the collapse of the
junk-bond market, followed by Drexel's bankruptcy filing,
eliminated those options. Meanwhile, Mr. Farley's ability to
pay off West Point's debt was diminished by the poor price he
got for the company's Cluett, Peabody &amp; Co. unit, which
makes, among other products, Arrow shirts. He ultimately
realized only $350 million in cash plus a $60 million note
from the buyer -- far below his asking price.
   Mr. Farley couldn't use the Cluett proceeds directly
because of arrangements he had with certain lenders. Thus Mr.
Farley couldn't scrape up the $83 million he needed to buy
the remaining 5% of West Point's common stock. Without 100%
ownership, he couldn't use the Cluett proceeds to help repay
the $796 million short-term loans from Wells Fargo and
Bankers Trust.
   Instead of demanding immediate repayment, however, the
banks agreed to wait for Mr. Farley to try to negotiate a new
deal with the holders of the junk bonds he issued to finance
the lion's share of the transaction.
   Two weeks ago, Mr. Farley offered the junk-bond holders a
65% equity stake in West Point -- equal to about $1.1 billion
based on the tender offer price of $58 a share -- in return
for substantially lower interest rates and substantially
delayed debt payments. People familiar with the talks say,
however, that the noteholders want at least a 75% stake and
much higher interest rates than Mr. Farley is offering. They
may oppose to Mr. Farley's plan to retain control of West
Point's board.
   Mr. Farley could conceivably sell his $120 million
personal stake in Fruit of the Loom and use that to complete
the West Point deal, but he has been reluctant to do that.
   Privately, people close to him say he is admitting his
takeover win has turned into a financial defeat, and he
merely wants to recover the $220 million he personally put
into the West Point deal, particularly since most of that was
money he borrowed and must repay over roughly the next
decade.
   His repayment record is already suspect in the town of
West Point, Ga., where he borrowed $40 from Mayor H.E. Steele
to buy a pair of jogging shoes that caught his eye in March
1989, while on a downtown good-will tour.
   It wasn't until this month that Mr. Farley finally sent
the mayor a check. "Don't know whether to frame it or cash
it," says Mr. Steele.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Aerospace, Responding to Decline
   In Defense Outlays, Will Cut 4,200 Jobs
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   GE LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Electric Co.'s aerospace division, responding to
defense spending cuts, said it will eliminate 4,200 jobs,
farm out production of standard parts and consolidate several
plants.
   Earlier this year, GE had said the defense cuts might
prompt it to eliminate as many as 10,000 jobs over the next
three years. The announcement Friday gave the first
indication of the diversified concern's extensive
restructuring plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The GE unit said it expects to lay off about half of the
4,200 workers. The rest will be absorbed in other GE
operations or their positions will be eliminated through
attrition and retirement.
   "We're entering a decade that will provide a difficult
challenge for defense companies," said Jon Rittenhouse,
senior vice president of GE Aerospace in Valley Forge, Pa.
"In this difficult environment, only the most-efficient,
highest-quality manufacturers will survive and win."
   Tassos Philippakos, an aerospace analyst at Moody's
Investors Service Inc., applauded GE's action. He said it was
the first such major move by a defense contractor.
"Unfortunately, the U.S. defense contractors are responding
slowly to the reality. That will definitely hurt their
profitability," he said.
   Mr. Philippakos said a major reason for most defense
contractors' slow response is that it isn't clear whose
programs are going to be axed. But if the companies don't
begin to make broad plans, many of them will find themselves
with excess capacity and other high fixed costs. "The
European defense industry is moving a lot faster. We're
seeing European companies consolidating their products and
forming consortiums," he said.
   A GE Aerospace spokesman said that if the defense budget
continues to decline the way the division anticipates, "we
expect that some of the plants will be operating at 75% to
80% of capacity, or less." He said the cutbacks and
consolidation will eliminate the potentially unused capacity
of 20% to 25%, thus bringing the operations closer to full
capacity.
   GE, which is based in Fairfield, Conn., said the 4,200
hourly and salaried jobs will be eliminated over the next 2
1/2 years in five locations: in Binghamton, Syracuse and
Utica in New York state, and in Camden and Moorestown in New
Jersey.
   GE will purchase standard parts, such as printed wire
boards and cables, from outside suppliers. It said this would
allow the aerospace division to concentrate primarily on
final assembly, testing and systems integration, enabling it
to reduce inventory and overhead costs, as well as to cut
excess capacity. Currently, 70% of GE Aerospace's business is
devoted to final assembly and testing, and the rest to the
manufacture of parts.
   GE also will consolidate its dozen plants that manufacture
advanced electronic parts into two centers. One center, which
will be located in Conklin, N.Y., will serve six businesses
in the New York and New England area. The other, for which GE
is considering Logan Township, N.J., as a site, will supply
six GE operations that are primarily in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey. These two centers will become operational in the
spring of 1991.
   Separately, Lockheed Corp. said it will lay off 2,750
employees in its Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. unit by
the end of June. Like GE, Lockheed cited the shrinking
defense budget, as well as its completion of several military
aircraft production programs.
   A spokesman for the unit, based in Burbank, Calif., said
that of the layoffs, 2,000 will be in Southern California and
750 in Marietta, Ga. The layoffs will be "across the board"
and include manufacturing, finance, administrative and
clerical employees, the spokesman said. Supervisors will be
included, he said.
   Lockheed Corp., based in Calabasas, Calif., is a military,
aerospace and electronics concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toughen Up, Lithuanians Tell Bush
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   There were hints over of the weekend of a possible
compromise in the standoff between Lithuania and Moscow along
lines suggested last week by German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
and French President Francois Mitterrand. In an interview
with the Wall Street Journal's Edward McFadden conducted
before these developments, Gediminas Vagnorius, chairman of
the committee on economy of Lithuania's parliament, discussed
the standoff. Egidijus Klumbys, vice-chairman of the foreign
affairs committee, accompanied Mr. Vagnorius. The two were in
Brussels Saturday on a mission to win support in Europe for
Lithuanian independence. Andre Miknevicius translated. An
edited transcript:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WSJ: What is the situation in your country?:
   Due to the complete blockade by the Soviet Union many
people have now stopped working. Because oil, gas and goods
no longer arrive, the factories cannot work normally. We have
had to lay off doctors. They have nothing to heal their
patients with. We don't have basic drugs, even oxygen for
surgery is in short supply. There are no longer goods in the
shops.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: What are the prospects for a peaceful negotiation?:
   Up to now, Lithuania has been doing everything it can to
start negotiations and Moscow has refused. We are open to
negotiating everything except the restoration of
independence. That would be like selling our mothers and our
fathers.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: From the Lithuanian point of view, what would be the
minimum acceptable outcome from negotiations?:
   The legal recognition of the March 11 declaration of
independence. All the rest is negotiable in satisfying the
vital interests of Lithuania, but also satisfying what Mr.
Gorbachev considers to be the Soviet Union's vital interests.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Do you think that you will gain your freedom
peacefully?:
   Of course. We have no other way. We have no army, no
armored force. Lithuania will negotiate everything
peacefully. I was recently in the southern Caucasus republics
and there the situation is much more critical than in the
Baltic states because there they are of a mind to use force
and they have the means to do it. They have the natural
boundaries, and they have the temperament.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Before you declared independence did you believe you
would get greater Western support than you have received?:
   Almost all Western countries did not recognize the
annexation of the Baltic states to the Soviet Union. We were
convinced the Western states would be consistent with their
former position and would support an announcement of
restoration of our independence. Due to the very weak
position taken by the West, Moscow is feeling much more free
to do whatever it wants not only in Lithuania but in all the
republics and especially in the treatment of other democratic
forces in the Soviet Union. As you know the Soviet economic
situation is catastrophic. They are bankrupt. The position of
the West will influence the internal political actions which
Moscow will take.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: What would be appropriate measures for the West to
take?:
   The West must accept the legality of the independence act.
I don't think the West understands the internal politics of
the Soviet Union. The West thinks that silence strengthens
the democratic forces but the exact opposite is true. If the
silence continues, you have to expect events very similar to
what happened in Romania. The difference is that you will
have assured the victory of the conservative forces in this
civil war.
   It is a complete mistake for the Bush administration to
think that Mr. Gorbachev is representative of democratic
forces. Inside the Soviet Union, the democratic forces think
exactly the opposite. A month ago, Mr. Gorbachev appointed a
special board of advisers -- the most powerful body in the
Soviet Union -- and he picked nothing but conservatives.
There is not one democratic member on the board. From what we
have seen, it is clear that Mr. Gorbachev is legalizing his
dictatorship.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: If the West wanted to send aid in the form of fuel,
medicine, etc. does Lithuania control a port of entry?:
   Nowadays, all the borders on sea and land are controlled
by not only the Red Army, but also the KGB army. They are
confiscating all the goods coming from other countries.
Moscow confiscated all the currencies that belong to the
Lithuanian factories and enterprises. This is due to the
centralized banking system of the Soviet economy. There are
two things that the Soviet Union will now openly dare to do:
First, armed intervention -- the use of force; second,
confiscating all the goods and humanitarian help that reaches
the borders from the West. We hope that this will become an
international scandal.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Russia is withholding fuel from Lithuania, and
Lithuania food from parts of Russia. Which side will feel the
most pressure?:
   We don't need anything from the Soviet Union. We just wish
that they would stop the blockade. Before World War II the
economy of Lithuania was completely Western-oriented. Our
standard of living was the same as Denmark. Look at where
Denmark is today, and look at us. Of course now we need the
commerce from the East and we would like to preserve this
commercial relationship and to develop it as I would our
relationship with other republics in the Soviet Union. I have
received a lot of offers from regional authorities, from
other cities in the Soviet Union -- Leningrad, Lvov, etc. --
to support Lithuania but because of the army, they can't.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Do you agree with Mr. Gorbachev's view that Lithuania
owes the Soviet Union financially for its support the past 50
years?:
   When the Soviet Union first occupied Lithuania, the
standard of living was much higher than in Russia. The output
and productivity gains of Lithuania during the 50-year period
were always higher than any other republic. Capital
investment put back into Lithuania was only the average of
what all the republics received, so clearly we received less
for what we produced. Between 1941 and 1952 we lost 15% of
our population, 300,000 people were forcibly deported to
Siberia to work outside of their homeland.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: So when it comes right down to it, you don't think
you owe them anything:
   Right. We have been a Western country that has been
occupied for 50 years.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: How are the Lithuanians prepared to cope?:
   It is very difficult to make plans because all the borders
are controlled by the KGB border guards. They can make a
crackdown with blood at any time and we are trying to break
the blockade by any peaceful means available. We are also
here to try to get very urgent humanitarian aid.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: Do you really think that the KGB will let this
humanitarian aid in after letting nothing else in so far?:
   We must try. If the KGB confiscates these goods and
humanitarian aid, then it will be a shame not only for the
Soviet Union but also for all the Western countries. The
physicians have no medicine, we especially need the medicine.
As soon as we can, we are trying to convert all of the
internal production to try to produce some of the goods being
held out by the blockade. I think you should understand that
the blockade is not only keeping things out, but there is an
internal blockade as well. All the internal traffic,
especially on the railways and roads is blocked. If our
conversion is to succeed, our first goal is to get petrol. We
have some reserves, but not much.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: And the general public is willing to sacrifice like
this? What would happen if two weeks from now, the people
said, "Enough. We can't take this any more"?:
   That is a statement that will only be issued by Moscow,
not by the Lithuanian people. The day before this delegation
came here, we received over a thousand phone calls saying,
"`Please hold your position. We are ready to support
everything." Please take into account that this is not a
struggle that just started on March 11. This is a struggle of
50 years. And as deep as the pressure is from Moscow, so is
the determination of the Lithuanian people.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: We have received reports that officials from
Lithuania's government are being sent out of the country to
form an international network, in case there is a serious
crackdown and the independence movement is struck down:
   Powers have been given to some of the former ambassadors
who were in place before World War II to continue to do
everything that is suitable to regain independence for
Lithuania. But no new leaders are involved. We have a
government-in-exile set up in case Lithuania is annexed a
second time or the West recognizes the first annexation,
which in fact is what they are doing right now.
                                                                                                       

   WSJ: If you could speak directly to Mr. Bush and the
American people, what would you say?:
   Mr. Bush, the stability of the Eastern nations is in your
hands. Please be careful.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grand Jury Indicts
   2 Former Officials
   Of Paramount Unit
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal grand jury indicted two former top
marketing executives of Paramount Pictures Corp. on
tax-evasion charges involving alleged kickbacks from
companies doing business with Paramount.
   The former executives, Gordon Weaver and Stephen Rose,
resigned from their jobs at Paramount's motion-picture
division in 1984 at the company's request. Paramount, a unit
of Paramount Communications Inc., asked the two men to resign
following an investigation of unethical practices allegedly
involving the company's suppliers. The indictment apparently
involves the same allegations made against the two men in
1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Weaver, formerly president of marketing for the
motion-picture division, was indicted on charges of
conspiring to evade federal taxes and filing false tax
returns for 1983 and 1984. Mr. Rose, formerly senior vice
president for marketing in the motion-picture division, was
indicted on one count of filing a false 1984 tax return.
   The indictment accuses the men of receiving kickbacks of
money, goods and services from various companies doing
business with Paramount. The kickbacks allegedly included
free use of a summer home on Fire Island in New York for Mr.
Weaver and the purchase of a MercedesBenz for Mr. Rose.
   The indictment says that the two men failed to report the
kickbacks as income on their tax returns. Avraham Moskowitze,
the assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting the case, declined to
disclose the total value of the alleged kickbacks.
   The indictment also alleges that between 1978 and 1984 Mr.
Weaver extorted kickbacks from companies doing business with
Paramount by threatening that Paramount would withhold its
business if the kickbacks weren't made.
   In a statement, Mr. Weaver, who now runs his own marketing
company, Gordon Weaver Enterprises, said the allegations were
"unsupported" and "utterly lacking in credibility." His
attorney, Robert Fink, said, "These allegations are six years
old. . . . As the statute of limitations on these charges was
about to run out, there was a rush to indict."
   Gerald Walpin, an attorney for Mr. Rose, said, "When all
the facts come out, this won't be considered anywhere near a
major charge against Mr. Rose." He declined to comment when
asked whether Mr. Rose denied the allegations.
   A spokeswoman for Paramount declined to comment.
   According to the indictment, Mr. Weaver and Mr. Rose
received the kickbacks from Spiros Associates and Filmland
Production, two New York companies that did business with
Paramount. The indictment says that Mr. Rose asked Filmland
to provide him with the Mercedes-Benz in April 1983. He also
is accused of receiving about $2,260 from Filmland in
November 1983 to pay for a party for his daughter.
   The two men are to be arraigned in federal court in
Manhattan Thursday. If convicted, Mr. Weaver would face a
maximum fine of $700,000 and a prison sentence of up to 17
years. Mr. Rose would face a maximum fine of $100,000 and a
sentence of up to three years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SciMed Life Systems Is Sued
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   BCR SMLS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- SciMed Life Systems Inc. said competitor
C.R. Bard Inc. filed a suit in federal court here alleging
that SciMed is infringing on a C.R. Bard heart-catheter
patent.
   In a statement, Dale Spencer, president of SciMed, said
the company is reviewing the matter with counsel. He said,
"SciMed's policy is not to violate the patent rights of
others. SciMed intends to vigorously defend against this
suit."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SciMed, a medical products maker, has run into other legal
troubles. Two suits by an Eli Lilly &amp; Co. unit, which allege
that SciMed infringed on Lilly heart-catheter patents, are
still pending, according to Mr. Spencer, who was reached at
home.
   Officials of C.R. Bard, based in Murray Hill, N.J.,
couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Israel Plans Sale
   Of Heavy Water
   Back to Norway
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6E
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Israel has tentatively agreed to sell heavy
water back to Norway in an effort to avoid an inspection of
its secret nuclear weapons facilities.
   In a proposed agreement announced by Norway's Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, Norway agreed to drop its request to inspect
Israel's use of 21 metric tons of heavy water that it sold
Israel in 1959.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In return, Israel agreed to sell back half of the heavy
water, 10.5 metric tons, to Norway for $1.8 million. The rest
of the heavy water, according to Israel, has been used or
lost in normal reactor operations.
   Heavy water is an isotope, or close chemical relative of
water, which is used to cool and control some types of
nuclear reactors. Norway has been concerned about the sale
since 1987 when news reports showed that Israel was operating
a large nuclear reactor at Dimona as part of its nuclear
weapons program.
   The nuclear reactor's main function is believed to be to
produce plutonium, the most commonly used explosive in
nuclear weapons. Under the initial sale contract in 1959,
Norway held inspection rights to ensure that the heavy water
was being used only for peaceful purposes. During the lengthy
negotiations that ensued, Israel refused to give Norway's
inspectors access to Dimona.
   "This agreement was done to full satisfaction of both
sides," said Ruth Yaron, spokeswoman for Israel's Embassy in
Washington. It replaces the old agreement, she explained, and
ends Norway's inspection rights.
   Gary Milhollin, the head of a Washington-based research
center that tracks nuclear materials, was the first to trace
the heavy water in the Israeli reactor to Norway. He says
that he believes that some of the material may still remain
in Israel's hands after the 10.5 tons return to Norway.
   The normal heavy water loss rate for the type of reactor
Israel is using, according to Mr. Milhollin, is 0.5% a year.
He calculates that as much as eight tons of the initial
shipment may remain useable by Israel at Dimona after the
10.5 tons are shipped back to Norway. "This is the first time
that a nuclear supplier (Norway) has neglected to enforce an
inspection pledge," he said.
   The accord still must be formally approved by Israel and
Norway, which must get budgetary approval from its parliament
for the repurchase.
   Meanwhile, the Norwegians are continuing to investigate
what happened to 12.5 tons of heavy water it sold Romania in
1986. The new Romanian government has produced documents that
suggest the heavy water was reshipped to India, in violation
of Romania's obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation
Treaty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Vietnam's Last Laugh
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Today marks the 15th anniversary of the fall of Saigon.
With communism receding in Europe, Vietnam's plight reminds
us that politics in other areas of the world remain grim and
dangerous.
   Fifteen years is a long time for Vietnam's communist
victors to remain shunned by the West, their government
unrecognized and their trade embargoed by the United States.
So, is it time for rich and mighty America to forget the
grudges of the 1970s and offer Ho Chi Minh's heirs the trade
and aid traditionally allotted to former enemies?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Absolutely not, unless America wants to risk one more
sucker punch. Unhappily, 15 years has not been long enough to
turn Vietnam into a benign presence in Asia.
   Today's anniversary has inspired a stack of sermons on the
virtues of wound-healing and chapter-closing. "Washington
continues to act as if Hanoi had sent its troops to invade
Virginia instead of down the Ho Chi Minh trail," chides a
Newsweek article. Like many others, this article goes on to
blame the U.S. trade embargo for the pathetic state of
Vietnam's centrally planned economy. The idea seems to be
that direct U.S. contact would woo over the Hanoi politburo
to the American ways of peace, capitalism and democracy, even
though that tack has hardly worked in China.
   Vietnam remains a bastion of repression and a threat to
its neighbors. It is important to insist that it first behave
like a civilized nation before offering it friendly gestures.
That may sound like antique rhetoric at a time when the
Berlin Wall has been reduced to a heap of paperweights. But
in Asia, from China to North Korea to Burma, Laos, Cambodia
and Vietnam, there has so far been no crackup of communist
dictatorships. Neither has there been any significant
reduction in the Pacific military might of Vietnam's Big
Brother, the Soviet Union.
   Since 1979 Hanoi has allowed the Soviet Pacific fleet
exclusive use of Vietnam's huge facilities at Cam Ranh Bay.
This provides Moscow with a warm water Pacific port for its
warships and submarines, in easy striking distance of the
Philippines, southern China, and the narrow shipping lanes
off Indonesia that link the Persian Gulf and Japan. Were the
Soviet Union's glasnost a done deal, Cam Ranh Bay could be
ignored. But disintegrating empires are dangerous.
   Both the Vietnamese and the Soviets have recently been
talking a good game on Cam Ranh Bay, suggesting that American
ships might soon be allowed to dock there. Vietnamese foreign
minister Nguyen Co Thach told a U.S. congressional delegation
earlier this month that the Soviets would be out by 1992. But
Americans should know by now to watch what Vietnam does, not
what it promises to do.
   Vietnam also hasn't given up its adventures in neighboring
Cambodia and Laos. A troop withdrawal from Cambodia last
September was much publicized. But there is again evidence of
Vietnamese troops fighting in both Cambodia and Laos.
   True, in Cambodia the Vietnamese army may be battling the
even more noxious Khmer Rouge guerrillas. But if Vietnam had
been dedicated to free and fair government, it could have
used its 11-year occupation of Laos and Cambodia to sponsor
genuine reform and elections instead of propping up hated
puppet regimes.
   Vietnam's rulers continue to systematically deprive even
their own countrymen of basic rights and freedoms. They have
been experimenting with China-style economic reforms and the
West has heard so many mentions of them by now that one would
think the place must be getting pretty livable. Not so.
Vietnam is still one of the world's most tightly controlled
societies, and hence one of its most stifled, dirt poor
economies.
   That's why desperate Vietnamese refugees have for 15 years
been risking their lives to seek asylum abroad. That's why
more than 40,000 such refugees piled into the camps of Hong
Kong last year; that's why boat loads of refugees have been
in the news again recently, pleading for asylum in Indonesia
and Malaysia.
   The problem for the West is how to reach out toward the
people of Vietnam without simultaneously handing cash and an
unearned stamp of approval to the disgusting government in
Hanoi. Like China, Vietnam is a country run by a
thick-skinned gang of old communists who have not recognized
that their century is ending, who would rather go on wrecking
their country than risk losing power.
   The wisest move for a gracious America would be to take in
the Vietnamese refugees now locked in the camps of Asia. Not
least, these people offer the best conduit for genuine help
to the citizens of Vietnam. Refugees who succeed abroad often
find ways to share their new wealth with relatives back in
Vietnam.
   The other contribution America can make -- both to the
people of Vietnam and to their Asian neighbors -- would be to
offer no concessions until it is a sure thing that the 1975
fall of Saigon was indeed Hanoi's last laugh. It will be time
to recognize Vietnam when Hanoi's communists take a hint from
Eastern Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Wachovia Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FW
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST WACHOVIA Corp. (Winston-Salem, N.C.) -- A new chief
financial officer and two new board members were named by
this banking company. Anthony L. Furr was named chief
financial officer. Mr. Furr, 46 years old, is currently
Piedmont Triad Region executive for Wachovia Bank &amp; Trust Co.
He succeeds H. Jack Runnion Jr., 60, who will retire June 30.
The two new directors are Thomas K. Hearn Jr. and F. Kenneth
Iverson. Mr. Hearn, 52, is president of Wake Forest
University. Mr. Iverson is chairman and chief executive
officer of Nucor Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pennsylvania's New Anti-Takeover Law
   Fuels Controversy, Faces Fight in Court
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pennsylvania Gov. Robert P. Casey signed the nation's
toughest anti-takeover statute on Friday, just in time to
protect Armstrong World Industries Inc. against Canada's
Belzberg family in the proxy fight at Armstrong's annual
meeting this morning.
   Within minutes of the law's enactment, two lawsuits
challenging its constitutionality were filed in U.S. District
Court in Philadelphia, promising that the controversy over
the statute's provisions may not be over for months or even
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This law fundamentally alters the relationship between
the corporation and its shareholders," said Richard
Greenfield, an attorney for the plaintiffs in one of the
lawsuits. "Under this law, there is no way to attack
corporate decisions."
   The new law, first introduced at Armstrong's behest to
fend off a possible bid by the Belzbergs, has four major
provisions designed to dissuade a takeover.
   Most immediate to the Armstrong-Belzberg conflict, the law
would "disgorge" the profits of short-term shareholders who
sell within 18 months after a failed attempt to "control" a
company through a buy-out or proxy fight. The profits would
be turned over to the target company. The law also withholds
the voting rights of shareholders who control 20% or more of
a company's stock until "disinterested" shareholders agree to
restore their votes.
   Another provision redefines the fiduciary duty of
directors, allowing them to base decisions not only on
shareholders' interests, but also on the interests of
employees, customers, suppliers and other "stakeholders."
Under the provision, directors would also be insulated from
most lawsuits by aggrieved stakeholders. Finally, the law
guarantees labor contracts and severance pay in the event of
a takeover.
   Many states, such as Indiana, New York, Massachusetts and
Ohio, have some form of anti-takeover statute, and
Pennsylvania last adopted such protections two years ago. The
new law's backers, which include the state's business chamber
and largest labor unions, say that it will further dissuade
raiders from making runs at Pennsylvania companies and
attract even more companies to the state. Currently, only
about 4% of New York Stock Exchange firms are incorporated in
Pennsylvania, compared to nearly 50% for neighboring
Delaware.
   But critics, including the Belzbergs, institutional
investors, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, say
that the new law so seriously infringes upon the rights of
shareholders that it will drive them away from Pennsylvania.
In any case, they argue, the law is probably
unconstitutional.
   Indeed, two individual Armstrong shareholders filed a suit
against the company, its officers and state officials,
alleging that the law diminishes the value of their holdings
and deprives them of their constitutional rights. The
Belzbergs, who own 11.5% of Armstrong, filed a similar
lawsuit, seeking to block enforcement of the law,
particularly with respect to its battle today for four seats
on the board of Armstrong, a Lancaster, Pa., flooring and
building-products concern.
   The suits say the statute conflicts with federal
securities laws, unduly burdens interstate commerce in
shares, curtails free-speech rights of shareholders,
interferes with contracts and violates property rights.
   Legal scholars said the law is most vulnerable on
interstate commerce and supremacy grounds. The Supreme Court
has upheld the right of states to regulate internal corporate
affairs. "But who gets the gain on a transaction between two
non-Pennsylvania residents?" says Ronald Gilson, a Stanford
University law professor. "That is a transaction many states
would have an interest in," particularly for taxation
purposes.
   In addition, the voting restrictions appear to conflict
with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, which regulates
proxy contests.
   But given the Supreme Court's recent support of
control-share voting limits and merger restrictions, the
outcome of the constitutional challenges is not clear, said
Gregg Jarrell, former chief economist of the SEC and a
finance professor at the University of Rochester. "The courts
have to give the benefit of the doubt to the state," he said.
"After all, the legislation passed almost unanimously."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Genetically Made Hormone to Raise
   Cow Milk Output Is Banned in Wisconsin
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC LLY UPJ ACY
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gov. Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin signed legislation to
temporarily ban the commercial use and sale in the state of a
genetically engineered hormone that increases milk production
by dairy cows.
   The governor's action was claimed as a victory by
opponents of the hormone, who had argued that it would hurt
dairy farmers by causing a milk glut and forcing milk prices
lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But whether a temporary ban would delay the marketing of
the hormone for long remained unclear, since it still must
get marketing approval by the Food and Drug Administration
anyway.
   For several manufacturers -- Monsanto Co., Eli Lilly &amp;
Co., Upjohn Co. and American Cyanamid Co. -- the hormone is
the first potentially big product to emerge from agricultural
biotechnology. Some estimates of the world-wide market range
as high as $1 billion annually.
   A Monsanto spokesman said, "We'll continue battling and
are confident that in the long run the product's merits will
carry the day."
   Mr. Thompson approved a ban on the hormone, called bovine
growth hormone (BGH) or bovine somatotropin, until June 1,
1991. At the same time, he vetoed another measure that would
have extended the ban until July 1, 1991, or six months after
FDA approval, whichever came later. The FDA is expected to
approve BGH this year or next.
   Whether to ban BGH has been a hot issue in Wisconsin for
several years. Mr. Thompson, a Republican who is up for
re-election in November, had indicated his opposition to
stronger bans but hadn't publicly disclosed until Friday how
he would respond to the latest bills to pass the state
legislature.
   The governor said his action would provide "sufficient
time to allow for additional farmer and consumer education on
the use" of BGH "without compromising Wisconsin's ability to
compete" in milk markets.
   Opponents of BGH have argued that any drop in milk prices
because of its use would particularly hurt small dairy
farmers. Among the opposition have been small-farm groups and
the Foundation on Economic Trends, which is headed by the
anti-biotechnology activist Jeremy Rifkin.
   State Sen. Russ Feingold, a Democrat who sponsored
anti-BGH bills, called the product part of a "technological
treadmill" that is forcing small farmers out of business. In
addition to the economic issue, the opponents say, some
questions about the safety of BGH need more study.
   The companies that developed the hormone maintain that its
use wouldn't favor big farmers over small, and that it
wouldn't disrupt the dairy-farm economy more than have
previous innovations, like artificial insemination. Farmers
in various states have volunteered to take part in BGH
trials.
   As for safety, the companies note that FDA officials have
already said milk from BGH-treated cows is safe for human
consumption; continuing studies focus on the health effect on
dairy herds.
   BGH, a protein that is nearly identical to a growth
hormone that cows produce naturally, is manufactured by
fermentation. The gene encoding the protein is inserted into
bacteria, which then produce the protein in quantity.
Injected into cows, BGH has boosted milk production 10% to
25%.
   Opponents of BGH said the they expect the temporary ban in
Wisconsin to help their efforts in other leading dairy
states. For one thing, the Wisconsin law appears strong
enough to activate a one-year ban in Minnesota, which was
contingent on action in Wisconsin or other states.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Searches
   For Drugs
   Roil Boaters
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The federal government's war on drugs is snaring thousands
of innocent pleasure boaters. But often they can't do much
more than complain.
   Coast Guard and Customs Service officials say the
boardings and searches are a small price to pay in the war
against drugs. But many boaters say boarding parties often
behave like storm troopers and leave owners with whopping
repair bills that they must pay largely by themselves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "These intrusions on the boating public are beginning to
take their toll," says Michael Sciulla, a spokesman for the
350,000-member Boat Owners Association of the U.S. "Some
innocent citizens now face thousands of dollars of damage to
their property. Others, who live on their boats, no longer
feel safe from the government in their own homes."
   Unlike homeowners and car drivers, boaters enjoy little
protection under the Fourth Amendment's search and seizure
doctrine. The Coast Guard can board and search any vessel,
whether docked or at sea, to check its compliance with safety
rules. The Customs Service has similar latitude to check for
contraband when a vessel comes from a foreign port. Both
agencies need nothing more than a reasonable suspicion -- a
commander's judgment that something is amiss -- to search for
drugs.
   The searches can last for hours. A boat may even be
detained overnight in dry dock while inspectors search it
with drug-sniffing dogs, drills, saws and crowbars.
   Holding either agency accountable for damages is tricky.
The Customs Service can be held liable for no more than
$1,000 under federal tort law. The Coast Guard's liability
isn't limited, but the agency determines what it will pay
boaters; people who are unhappy with its judgment can sue.
   Law enforcement agencies say they have little choice but
to continue the searches. "Law enforcement isn't easy, and
we're as concerned as anyone about doing the job in a
professional, unobtrusive manner," says Rear Adm. W.T.
Leland, chief of law enforcement for the Coast Guard. "The
problem is that some boaters and yachtsmen have smuggled
drugs and will continue to do so for as long as the
attraction lasts."
   Both agencies maintain that the searches pay off. The
Coast Guard seized 37,000 pounds of marijuana and 8,000
pounds of cocaine from pleasure boats last year. Customs
seized 20,972 pounds of cocaine and 58,185 pounds of
marijuana in 1989 from pleasure boats in the Gulf Coast and
Florida area.
   Both agencies also say they are trying to be less
intrusive on pleasure boaters. Coast Guard boardings of all
kinds of boats fell 29% to 50,000 in the fiscal year ended
last September from two years earlier. Customs Service
boardings of noncommercial vessels in the Atlantic Ocean near
Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Caribbean fell by one-quarter
last year to 3,710 from 1987.
   But the widespread searches have overwhelmed free-spirited
pleasure boaters, particularly those cruising the Gulf
Coast-Florida area. Those waters long have been considered a
pleasure boater's semitropical paradise, where the Coast
Guard was perceived as a lifesaver and unobtrusive safety
inspector. Contact with Customs was rare. But boat owners see
their paradise slipping away.
   Craig Klein, a University of North Florida journalism
professor, says his newly purchased secondhand sailboat was
impounded and damaged by Customs before he even sailed it. As
a hired crew was transporting it last spring to Jacksonville,
Fla., from St. Petersburg, Customs agents became suspicious
because two characters in its state registration number were
hard to read. When the agents boarded, the hired crew was
vague about who had hired them. The agents found a gun, and
the original copies of ownership documents weren't aboard as
required.
   Customs took the boat to dry dock, where inspectors
discovered recent repairs to the hull. They removed wood and
fiberglass panels and drilled holes into the boat, but found
no drugs. The agency estimated the damage to the boat at no
more than $1,000. But Customs also told Mr. Klein that it
wouldn't pay him anything because the search was reasonable
under the circumstances.
   Mr. Klein, who says his $17,000 boat sustained $4,000 of
damage, has no realistic recourse because of the $1,000 limit
on the Customs Service's liability. "I feel violated," he
says. "My government has greatly disappointed me."
   Brooks Thomas, a Customs Service lawyer, declines to
comment on the Klein case. But he says the rule of thumb is
that "Customs is not liable for damage it causes in a
detention situation."
   Elaine Dickinson, a spokeswoman for the boat owners group,
says recreational boaters tend to have more problems with
Customs than the Coast Guard because Customs personnel aren't
as familiar with boat construction. But the Coast Guard,
which had 20 claims filed against it last year by boaters,
also makes mistakes.
   In February 1989, a 46-foot-long boat owned by Robert and
Kay Weeks Jr., of Charleston, S.C., was boarded by the Coast
Guard 17 miles off the Florida coast and taken into custody
at Port Everglades. The agents used chain saws and drills to
rip into the floorings and furnishings and left
16-inch-square holes in the deck.
   The Coast Guard told the couple how much it would pay to
repair the boat. (It hasn't made the figure public.) Lt.
Cmdr. James Simpson says that as a matter of policy, the
Coast Guard feels compelled to pay for the damages it causes
to innocent boaters. "It's sort of an outgrowth of our search
and safety mission," he says. "Why should an innocent boater
bear the cost of damages when we chop up his boat?"
   But the Weeks, who say their boat sustained more than
$400,000 in damage, say the Coast Guard proposal was
inadequate. They filed suit last September in federal court
in Charleston.
   Neither agency is unresponsive to boaters' protests. When
the Boat Owners Association brought the Weekses' story and
others to the attention of a congressional subcommittee on
the Coast Guard last year, the agency changed its rules on
boarding and searching. The Coast Guard agreed that all
agents would keep their sidearms holstered when boarding a
boat and said it would develop a computerized system to
protect against repeated boardings, a subject of complaint by
some boaters.
   Also, Customs and the Coast Guard both say their personnel
will now issue summonses only when they find quantities of
drugs clearly indicating trafficking rather than personal
use. That marks the end of the so-called zero tolerance
policy, under which boats would be seized if any illegal
drugs were found, no matter how small a quantity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ryland Agrees With Analyst's Estimate
   Of $3.25 to $3.50 Per Share Net for '90
   ----
   By Anne E. Nichols
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   RYL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBIA, Md. -- Ryland Group Inc. considers an analyst's
estimate of 1990 per-share earnings of $3.25 to $3.50 to be
"reasonable" despite slower housing-market conditions in some
parts of the country, Charles E. Peck, chairman and chief
executive officer, said in an interview.
   For 1989, the home builder reported earnings of $58
million, or $3.25 a share, on revenue of $1.4 billion. On
Thursday, Ryland reported a 39% increase in first-quarter
profit, to $6.5 million, or 46 cents a share, from $4.6
million, or 35 cents a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Peck attributed the recent improvement to a record
number of homes delivered during the first quarter, a 12%
increase from a year earlier. Unusually warm weather during
the first quarter and strong sales in the third and fourth
quarters last year contributed to the large number of
deliverable homes.
   But the number of new homes sold by Ryland decreased 12%
from 1989's first quarter. Moreover, some industry observers
are concerned that rising mortgage interest rates will damp
demand for new homes. Lawrence J. Horan, an analyst with
Prudential-Bache Research, said he thinks declining order
trends "will come home to hurt earnings." Mr. Horan predicted
that Ryland's earnings will erode in 1990 to the range of
$2.25 to $2.35 a share.
   Mr. Peck dismissed such pessimism as "very dark." He said
Ryland feels "good about first-quarter earnings at the same
time we recognize uncertainty for the rest of the year." He
also conceded that declining orders would affect earnings "if
the trend were to go on forever."
   Ryland's profit margin rose to 3.7% of sales in 1990's
first quarter, compared with 2.2% a year earlier. Mr. Peck
said the margin will be under pressure as the company moves
more aggressively into Southern markets. "We are seeing a
shift of new business toward Texas and Florida, where the
homes are small and so are the profits," he said.
   Noting that home building is a very local business, Mr.
Peck said market conditions vary widely. In some markets,
such as California, demand seems to be increasing, he said.
"Traffic at our model homes shows that lots of people are
interested in buying new homes." In Houston, for example,
"demand is exceeding supply," Mr. Peck said.
   Ryland doesn't plan any acquisitions during 1990. "Because
the market is so big, we don't need to acquire businesses,"
said Mr. Peck. "We expect growth from increased business and
an expanding market share." He said the company is already
expanding into Wilmington, Del., and from Sacramento to San
Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stock Prices Move Higher on Strength
   In Blue-Chip Electricals; London Ends Lower
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks finished higher in quiet trading Friday,
helped by investment trust buying of blue-chip electrical
shares, traders said.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues, which lost 139.78
points Thursday, closed 160.22 points higher at 29584.80.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volume on the first section reflected pre-holiday
sluggishness, estimated at only 480 million shares, down from
766 million shares Thursday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues, 503 to 395,
while 198 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the first section, which slipped 0.41 point Thursday,
added 5.86 points, or 0.27%, at 2205.96.
   The second section index, which gained 6.89 points
Thursday, jumped 15.23 points, or 0.43%, to close at 3530.95.
Volume in the second section was nine million shares, up from
7.2 million Thursday.
   Traders said that the most notable buying of the day came
from investment trust funds, which supported blue-chip
electrical shares toward the afternoon close.
   The substantial rally in many of these high-priced issues
boosted the Nikkei index, they said.
   But Christopher Leighton, manager of international equity
sales at Schroder Securities (Japan) Ltd., noted the advances
weren't sectorwide, as many electricals were hit by
profit-taking.
   Moreover, many observers doubted the possibility that
index-linked buying of the Nikkei 225 issues was responsible
for the afternoon rise, saying that they would expect a
broader-based upward movement if that were the case.
   Meanwhile, incentive-backed shares, particularly Osaka
Gas, were struck by a wave of selling in the afternoon. While
a company spokesman had said Thursday that its new materials,
which might be used in high-efficiency batteries, are still
in the experimental phase, the stock was heavily bought
Friday morning, only to be sold when investors' excitement
fizzled.
   "These were really clobbered down, as investors were
obviously just looking for some quick money," said one trader
at a foreign brokerage firm.
   "The market has been trading on stories rather than
fundamentals," said Kevin Haag, a trader in international
equity sales at Nomura Securities Co. "It's just a little
game for the market."
   Investors are putting off big strategic positions and are
concentrating on speculative trading, which is fine as long
as the currency and bond markets hold up, Schroder's Mr.
Leighton said.
   But the yen's weakness hasn't abated, and bond prices are
still under pressure, traders noted.
   Kyocera ended 90 yen (57 cents) higher at 7,310 yen
($45.91), while Fanuc jumped 170 to 7,140.
   Sony continued its recent strength, up 120 to 8,470. Sharp
was up 20 to 1,710, while TDK rose 40 to 6,880. Advantest
gained 50 to 5,150.
   Hirose Electric rose 200 to 6,500, and Tokyo Electric
Power was up 50 to 4,140.
   But Pioneer fell 20 to 5,960 and Fujitsu also fell 20, to
1,400.
   The top story in the market Friday afternoon concerned
talk that Middle Eastern companies are considering buying a
stake in a Japanese oil refinery. Showa Shell soared on the
rumor and closed 90 higher at 1,150.
   Investors lost their incentive to back Suzuki Motors,
which lost 79 to 931. Isuzu was also hit by profit-taking,
falling 40 to 1,100.
   Osaka Gas ended 15 lower at 635.
   Alps Electric, which reported worse-than-expected earnings
Thursday night, closed 180 lower at 2,040.
   London share prices ended a second day of sharp losses in
light dealings Friday, pressured by overhanging economic and
political gloom, markdowns on the end of the three-week
trading account and a dearth of buyers.
   "Market-makers didn't want to be stuck with any stock,"
one dealer said. "Sentiment is just as bad as it could be,"
he added.
   Additionally, a poor performance on Wall Street added to
the market's woes. Wall Street and London were hurt by the
release of U.S. first-quarter figures for the gross national
product, which showed a lower-than-expected growth rate and a
higher-than-expected inflation measure.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index
finished down 27 points at 2106.6, slightly above its
intraday low of 2105 and greatly lower than its intraday high
of 2140.2, reached in the first hour of official trading.
   At the close, the narrower FT 30 share index was down 17.4
points at 1658.7. Volume was 536.7 million shares compared
with 510.9 million a day earlier, a relatively healthy number
in light of the dismal trading volume during the past month.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
finished at 2135.0, down from its close of 2156.0 Thursday.
   Banking, property and insurance stocks were hit
particularly hard by the bearish tide, as negative statements
by Midland and Barclays banks earlier in the week and a
profit warning by construction company George Wimpey Friday
were poorly received, traders said.
   Among bank shares, Barclays shed 7 pence (11 cents) to
500, Lloyds was off 2 to 250 and Midland sunk 8 to 279.
   In the property sector, MEPC dove 2 to 479, Land
Securities skidded 14 to 465 and Hammerson lost 3 to 727.
George Wimpey slipped 8 to 227 after its bearish statement.
   Composite insurers Commercial Union lost 12 to 447,
General Accident dropped 16 to #10 ($16.33) and Sun Alliance
shed a penny to 298.
   Food and drinks group Grand Metropolitan plunged 16 to 554
after Britain's Monopolies and Mergers Commission said Friday
it would investigate the pending merger between the brewing
and beer retailing operations of Grand Met and Australia's
Elders.
   Elsewhere, stock prices closed lower in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Brussels, and higher in
Milan. South African gold stocks closed firmer.
   Share prices declined in Hong Kong, Sydney, Wellington and
Manila, and were higher in Seoul and Taipei. Singapore was
closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                           Apr 26      Apr 25      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ..................    307.8       307.0     - 5.3
 Britain ...............    634.5       637.0     -12.0
 Canada ................    369.3       366.4     -14.6
 Japan .................   1251.8      1250.4     -24.4
 France ................    579.4       583.9     + 2.2
 Germany ...............    293.3       295.5     + 2.8
 Hong Kong .............   2239.5      2247.4     + 6.8
 Switzerland ...........    200.5       200.9     - 9.2
 Australia .............    295.5       296.4     -10.8
 World index ...........    478.8       478.3     -15.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Abortion Divides Democrats in Iowa Primary
   As Activists From Washington Leap Into the Fray
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   NEWTON, Iowa -- The abortion wars are being fought in the
community halls of Iowa again.
   The parking lot is chock-full of pickups and vans, and
inside the union hall, a windowless building dropped beside a
cornfield here in central Iowa, Donald Avenson is vowing to
"protect the most important decision that a woman may have to
make."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Avenson, Iowa's House speaker, is involved in more
than a bitter gubernatorial primary to see which Democrat
will face two-term GOP Gov. Terry Branstad in the autumn
election. He is a principal in perhaps the greatest electoral
challenge that his abortion-rights allies have faced
nationwide since the Supreme Court last July gave the states
room to restrict abortion.
   Although polls consistently have shown that Iowans favor
abortion rights, an abortion opponent, Attorney General Tom
Miller, for months has led Mr. Avenson and banker John
Chrystal, both abortion-rights supporters. Mr. Miller, whose
lead has dwindled as the June 5 primary approaches, attracts
a surprisingly substantial backing from abortion-rights
supporters.
   "If the abortion-rights movement is going to have any
weight, it has to get its supporters in line," says Arthur
Miller, a University of Iowa political scientist. "There's
something wrong with the pro-choice message if they can't win
this."
   Abortion-rights activists sense this, too, and last week,
armed with an infusion of cash from the National Abortion
Rights Action League in Washington, they began an advertising
offensive against Mr. Miller, saying he "wants to take away
your right to choose and give it to the politicians."
   But the offensive, already handicapped because the
abortion-rights vote is largely split between two candidates,
encountered two obstacles it hadn't anticipated: the refusal
of seven television network affiliates across the state to
air the ads and the ferocious backlash of Iowans -- including
many of the candidates' own supporters -- who regard the
Washington activists as modern-day equivalents of the
handcart pioneers, the unwelcome outsiders who flooded Iowa
in the 19th century on their way west.
   "I wish NARAL had kept their butt out of here," says Mr.
Chrystal, who trails the two other men in a very close race.
"Maybe it's to my benefit, but I find it offensive when a
group comes in from Washington, D.C., and tries to tell us
what to do."
   The worry here in Newton, where the jobs of most of the
voters are related to the ingenuity of the Maytag brothers --
one whose tinkering with farm machinery led to a
washer-and-dryer works, the other whose agricultural bent led
to Maytag blue cheese -- is that the anti-Miller drive might
backfire.
   "It's absolutely sleazy for any of the fringe fanatical
groups to come in and spend all that money trying to pull one
over on Iowans," says Democratic state Rep. Dennis Black of
Newton, an Avenson supporter. "If they bash Tom Miller too
much, they could help him."
   These calculations aren't the idle ruminations of
politicians who are lost in the arcana of public-opinion
polls. Democrats, who have been kept out of the Terrace Hill
governor's mansion for 22 years, know that abortion was
critical in the defeats of two of their incumbent senators,
Richard Clark in 1978 and John Culver in 1980.
   Abortion, moreover, is part of the landscape of even the
smallest Iowa crossroad town. Thirty miles from here, across
the street from the 65-foot memorial to the devout Dutch
farmers who settled the small community of Pella, and just
beside the Vander Ploey Bakery, which specializes in the
S-shaped Dutch pastries filled with almond paste, Francis
Schiebout, the local State Farm Insurance agent, has hung a
large "Preserve Life" sign across his window.
   Mr. Avenson, the longest serving House speaker in Iowa's
history, and Mr. Chrystal, a Coons Rapids banker who has
pioneered U.S. agricultural ties with the Soviet Union and
has had a longtime association with Mikhail Gorbachev, favor
no restrictions on abortion. Mr. Miller opposes the use of
Medicaid funds or the use of public health facilities for
abortions except in cases of rape, incest or danger to the
life of the mother. The 12-year attorney general, who says he
doesn't expect major changes in Iowa's liberal abortion law,
supports a provision requiring parents of minors to be
notified of their daughter's intentions to have an abortion.
   In recent days, Mr. Miller, so sensitive about the
abortion issue that for 10 months he has refused to complete
a questionnaire submitted to him by his allies at the Iowa
Right to Life Committee, has tried to shift the attention
away from abortion. When the issue flared during a televised
debate in Sioux City last week, the attorney general pleaded
that it was "time to move on" to other issues.
   Mr. Avenson's campaign has won important labor
endorsements and seems to have the most momentum. He tried
unsuccessfully to muscle Mr. Chrystal out of the race in
recent days but stands to win NARAL's support if the group,
for the first time, decides to make an endorsement in a
primary.
   Although abortion opponents customarily have been the
first to raise the issue in Iowa elections, abortion-rights
activists took the initiative this time. Now, however, they
are worried that unless they succeed in defeating Mr. Miller,
the November election could be lost in June because both Gov.
Branstad and his Democratic challenger would oppose abortion.
"We may have to look at new strategies," says Kate Michelman,
the group's executive director. "I don't want to see Tom
Miller win because we have split the pro-choice vote."
   In the meantime, local organizers are planning hundreds of
house parties around the state to identify and mobilize
abortion-rights activists and are pressing their efforts to
force TV network affiliates to join the cable outlets in Des
Moines and in the Eastern reaches of the state that are
airing the NARAL ad.
   But in a state where, according to the Des Moines
Register's Iowa Poll, half the likely primary voters say
their decision will be shaped by the abortion issue, Mr.
Miller's lead has withered away. "Avenson wants this to
become a referendum on abortion," he complains.
   Mr. Avenson is attempting to capitalize on the issue,
moreover, by portraying abortion rights as a symbol of
Iowans' independence and their reflexive distrust of
government. "People here are Iowa-stubborn," asserts Mr.
Avenson, who voted against requiring motorcycle riders to
wear helmets, who doesn't wear a seatbelt even though it is
required by law and who, barreling his van toward the pink
and purple horizon of the cornfields with a reporter the
other night, turned on a radar detector to avoid speed traps.
"We don't want to be told what to do."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Framingham Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FSBX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM SAVINGS BANK (Framingham, Mass.) -- The board
elected Ted S. Valpey Jr. and Allen M. Glick to the new posts
of chairman and vice chairman, respectively. The company also
said Allen Model, a Philadelphia lawyer, was elected to the
board, succeeding Charles Patterson, who retired. The company
said it is "implementing a plan of succession" to select a
successor to Donald Hughes, president and chief executive
officer. A spokesman said Mr. Hughes will be 64 years old in
September but declined to say when he might retire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cirrus Expects to Report Profit Soared
   In Its 4th Period on Strong Chip Sales
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   CRUS
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cirrus Logic Inc., a fast-growing semiconductor start-up
concern, expects to report net income more than doubled in
its fiscal fourth quarter, adding to a series of improved
results from computer chip companies.
   Cirrus expects today to report net of $5 million to $5.5
million, or 33 cents to 34 cents a share, for the fourth
quarter ended March 31, compared with the year-earlier $1.9
million, or 15 cents a share, said Michael Hackworth,
Cirrus's president and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Milpitas, Calif., chip company was expected by
analysts to report net of 30 cents to 31 cents a share for
the quarter, Mr. Hackworth said.
   Mr. Hackworth attributed the favorable results to growing
strength in chip demand among office-automation equipment
makers that are Cirrus's main customers. Cirrus expects to
post fourth-quarter sales in the range of $27.5 million to
$28.5 million, compared with $12.1 million in the
year-earlier quarter, Mr. Hackworth said.
   "The overall office-automation market was stronger than we
had anticipated," he said. "Last year everyone was walking on
eggs about 1990. We're feeling much more bullish about the
market than we did five months ago."
   For the year ended March 31, Cirrus expects to post net of
$15 million to $15.5 million, or $1.02 to $1.03 a share,
compared with $4 million, or 32 cents a share, last year.
Cirrus expects to report revenue in the year of $84 million
to $85 million, up from $27.5 million to $28.5 million a year
earlier, he said. Cirrus had about $40 million in cash and
equivalents at the quarter's end, he said.
   Mr. Hackworth attributed the earnings to
better-than-expected sales of its new chips used in
laptop-computer screens and in computer disk drives. Cirrus's
improved profits are a welcome boost for the five-year-old
company, which went public last June.
   And Cirrus's earnings boost comes after several big chip
makers -- including Intel Corp., LSI Logic Corp. and Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. -- announced better-than-expected
quarters. The industry's leading indicator, the so-called
book-to-bill ratio, is at its highest level since July 1988.
   Cirrus's orders in the fourth quarter were strong and
presage a strong first quarter, Mr. Hackworth said. He said
he was comfortable with analysts' estimates that the company
would have net of about $4 million, or 24 cents a share, in
the quarter ended June 30, compared with net of $2.5 million,
or 14 cents a share, a year earlier. Cirrus is comfortable
with revenue estimates for the quarter of $29 million to $30
million, up from $14.8 million last year, he said.
   Mr. Hackworth said the company plans to add 10 to 20 new
chips to its lineup, which now includes about 40 chips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Uses New Regulatory Measure
   To Scrap National Bancshares Bailout
   ----
   By Michael Allen and James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NBCTC EQK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Emboldened by a new weapon in its regulatory arsenal, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. scuttled its planned, $366
million bailout of National Bancshares Corp. of Texas rather
than bow to bondholders' demands that it sweeten a debt-swap
offer.
   The unexpected move -- which, according to one analyst,
turned on a mere $6 million gap between the two sides --
undid nine months of work by Equimark Corp., the Pittsburgh
bank holding company which had planned to acquire National
Bancshares for $116 million. And it reopened for sale
National Bancshares' rich Texas banking franchise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm very unhappy about not getting this deal, very
unhappy," said Alan S. Fellheimer, Equimark's chairman, who
said he, unlike the FDIC, was willing to accede to
bondholders' demands that they be paid more.
   "The FDIC has more power now," he added, "and it's itching
to send a message to the arbs: Don't mess with the FDIC."
   The FDIC's new muscle derives from the 1989 thrift bailout
law, which authorizes the agency to seize assets of solvent
subsidiaries of a financial institution to help defray the
costs of rescuing insolvent units -- a tactic which, if
upheld by the courts, would deprive holding company creditors
of assets which they might otherwise sell to recoup their
loans.
   Analysts say they expect National Bancshares to provide
the first major proving ground for the weapon: The FDIC has
repeatedly threatened the company's bondholders that it would
use the so-called "cross guarantee" provisions if at least
85% of the company's $25 million in outstanding debentures
weren't tendered -- at a 70% discount to face value -- by the
April 26 deadline set forth in the recapitalization plan.
   On Friday, National Bancshares announced that only 22% of
the debentures were tendered, and added that it won't extend
the offer. Shareholders, on the other hand, approved the plan
by more than two-to-one, the company said.
   Alan Whitney, an FDIC spokesman, declined to say what the
agency's next move will be, other than to say that it and
other regulatory agencies "are proceeding immediately to
consider alternative resolutions to the NBC situation,
including contacting qualified prospective acquirers."
   Jay Lustig, an analyst at Drake Capital Securities Inc.,
Santa Monica, Calif., blasted the FDIC for failing to
complete the planned deal with Equimark, calling the agency
"inflexible." Mr. Lustig contended that, had the FDIC agreed
to a proposal by creditors to swap the current debentures for
securities worth 60 cents on the dollar of original debt, the
total cost of the recapitalization would only have risen by
$6 million.
   Frank Anderson, an analyst with Stephens Inc., Little
Rock, Ark., agreed that the amounts of money involved are
small, and speculated that the FDIC was mainly interested in
sending a signal to bondholders. "I don't think the money has
anything to do with it," he said. "I think the FDIC just
doesn't want to look like a patsy or a pushover in the
future."
   Meanwhile, some in the industry speculated that the
recapitalization failure owed as much to Equimark's problems
at home as it did to recalcitrant bondholders. Buffetted by
the weak commercial real estate market, Equimark lost $15.4
million in the first quarter. And the company's weak stock
price scuttled a planned stock offering, meaning the company
had to resort to such measures as selling its credit card
business to help raise the $116 million.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
Friday, Equimark's stock closed at $8.125, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pacific Scientific Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PSX
</CO>
<LP>
   PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC Co. (Newport Beach, Calif.) -- Edward
S. Brower, 59-year-old president and chief executive officer,
was named to the additional post of chairman, succeeding
Harry R. Goff who retired. Mr. Goff, 74, was named director
emeritus. John C. Dieckman was elected a director, filling
Mr. Goff's position on the board. Mr. Dieckman is a trustee
for the McAllister Trusts, which owns beneficially 247,392
shares or 4.4% of Pacific Scientific's stock. Pacific
Scientific makes and markets technology based proprietary
products for niche markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Should the World Welcome Japan's Transition?
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- At age 70, Kiichi Miyazawa is a walking, talking
history book. He became secretary to Japan's finance minister
in 1942, not long after the infamous and ill-advised attack
on Pearl Harbor. After the war he entered politics and rose
to the high councils of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party
(LDP). In the 1960s, he headed economic planning and
represented Japan in the highly meritorious Kennedy Round
trade negotiations.
   In 1970, he took charge of the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI), the vaunted centerpiece of Japan
Inc. He became minister of foreign affairs in 1974 and in the
late 1980s he was minister of finance, second only to prime
minister as Japan's most important post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He, along with other high LDP officials, later were swept
out after revelations of high-level influence buying by
Recruit Cosmos, a large employment agency. But he remains one
of the LDP's most influential figures, and probably one of
the wisest. After all, he has been on the scene through
nearly 50 years of Japan's evolution from cruel and arrogant
militarism to postwar destitution to constitutional democracy
to industrial restoration, and ultimately to today's role as
a major industrial power.
   Now, Japan is entering a new stage, and the transition
will have importance for a larger world that has come to
depend heavily on Japanese production and capital. Holding
court for a group of American editors in his small,
unpretentious LDP office, the engaging and diminutive Mr.
Miyazawa defines the transition. The LDP is responding to its
sagging popularity with Japanese voters, he says, "through
more attention to the consumer sector."
   What policy measures does that entail? He says that the
Japanese bureaucracy will deal with that. It has focused on
promoting production and exports. Now it will bend its
efforts to opening ways for the Japanese people to enjoy the
fruits of their hard work.
   Indeed, the redirection began some time ago and was only
intensified by the LDP's loss of the upper house of the
Japanese Parliament last July. One reason Prime Minister
Toshiki Kaifu was able to establish rapport with George Bush
and the U.S.-Japan "structural impediments" negotiations
turned out well is that the LDP has had very strong signals
from Japanese voters that they too want the system opened up
to more competition, more access to foreign products and, as
a consequence, living standards that would begin to rise
toward those American workers enjoy. The LDP's policy has
been reflected in a substantial rise in imports and a smaller
trade surplus.
   As this transition occurs, there is every possibility that
Japan will have a very different economy from the one that
has generated such pride among narrowly focused Japanese
mercantilists and fear among their mercantilist brethren in
Europe and America. Instead of producing huge surpluses of
Sonys and Toyotas for the world to buy and enjoy, the
Japanese are bent on employing more of their productive
resources toward meeting their own needs.
   If that happens, and if it results in a permanent decline
in Japan's trade surpluses, Japan will become a less
significant exporter of capital to other parts of the world,
and particularly to the U.S. Since the Japanese have been
financing some 30% of the U.S. budget deficit through their
use of their surplus dollars to buy Treasury bonds and notes,
and since they also are important buyers of other financial
and real assets in the U.S. and Europe, a decline in Japanese
capital exports can have world-wide importance.
   In the postwar era, the world has had three major cycles
of capital exportation. In the 1950s, a resurgent U.S.
economy generated capital to pour into rebuilding the
war-ravaged industries of Europe and Japan. Much of that
capital was private, invested with great efficiency by
rapidly expanding U.S. "multinationals." That process gained
a full head of steam in the 1960s, but late in that decade it
was stalled by U.S. government budgetary and monetary
excesses.
   Those same excesses carried over into the 1970s, when
attempts to mask them with price controls exploded into an
"oil shock." Then the OPEC nations became the big capital
exporters. Much of that surplus was squandered on
ill-considered developing-world investments, generating the
"debt crisis." With the U.S. industrial machine stalled as
well, world economic progress slowed dangerously.
   In the 1980s, thanks in large part to reforms in U.S.
economic policy, the world economy came back to life. This
time it was Japan's turn to become the big capital exporter.
Although some of that capital was used to finance big budget
deficits in the U.S. and Europe, much of it was used
efficiently by the Japanese to build productive facilities in
the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.
   So what about the future efficiency of capital generation
and recycling? On the margin, Japan's transition could make a
difference. The Japanese population is aging, which means
that Japan will spend more of its surpluses on merely
maintaining the incomes of people who are no longer
productive. It most likely will spend more for public works.
While such investments have a return, public money usually is
spent with less efficiency than private investment, even in
Japan. Japan will simply consume more and save less.
   Where are there other good prospects for capital
surpluses? Western Europe could become more effective at
generating surpluses as European Community barriers fall.
Capital investments in Eastern Europe also could begin to
have large yields if genuine market systems come into being.
That is mainly because those economies have so much room for
improvement.
   But those two huge, sick giants, China and Russia, at this
point show very little prospect of being anything other than
a drag on the world economy. As to the U.S., Congress seems
once again bent on killing off economic vigor with new
burdens -- the Clean Air Act, for example -- that have
dubious cost-benefit yields.
   This is all beginning to sound like a doom-and-gloom
scenario, but it need not be. Resources are only finite if
productivity remains frozen. Japan already is trying to
offset its labor-shortage problem with huge investments in
automation. U.S. industry has made major investments of that
type, too. European industry surely will do so as economies
of scale become more achievable through market expansion.
   Indeed, a world less dependent on a single huge recycler
of capital could be a healthier world economically. It might
be a world in which lenders will exercise more caution in
their investments, applying some discipline to borrowers that
have profligate tendencies. Finally, the economy Mr. Miyazawa
helped build has a lot of life in it yet. That is no bad
thing for the world at large.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Won't Name More `Unfair Traders,'
   Sparking Some Criticism From Congress
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST LATAM CANDA MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S., signaling that it prefers
cooperation to confrontation in trade issues, declined to
name any new countries as unfair traders and called the
successful completion of multilateral trade-liberalization
talks its top priority.
   The Bush administration, despite heavy pressure, dropped
Japan from the list of unfair traders. But the administration
again cited India for unfair trade practices in investment
and insurance. India was designated last year along with
Japan and Brazil under terms of the "Super 301" provision of
the 1988 trade act.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the U.S. has in recent months reached agreements
with Brazil and Japan, "we have made no progress whatsoever
with India. I really couldn't refrain from naming them," U.S.
Trade Representative Carla Hills said. The U.S. is likely to
take trade retaliatory measures against India July 15.
   India criticized the U.S. action, and few observers there
think it will lead to policy changes soon. The Super 301
citation is "against all the tenets of multilateralism," and
India won't negotiate trade policies under U.S. threats,
Indian Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh said.
   But, by substituting the current multilateral talks under
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for new Super 301
designations, the U.S. is sidestepping potentially disruptive
quarrels with other trading partners and putting its best
efforts behind the GATT talks, which are to be completed this
year.
   Those talks "are the most promising route for creating new
opportunities for American industry and agriculture and
strengthening the global trading system," President Bush
said.
   The GATT round coincides with the second, and last, year
for Super 301, which requires the White House trade
representative to name the nation's top trade priorities and
designate countries that maintain egregious barriers to
foreign trade. The administration is then required to
negotiate those barriers away within 12 months to 18 months.
Failure to do so carries the threat of trade retaliation.
   The deadline for designating unfair trade practices under
Super 301 was April 30. There had been substantial lobbying
from the Congress and the Commerce Department for Japan to be
named again, and there now is some anger at the failure to do
so. Last year Japan accounted for about half the nation's
$100 billion trade deficit.
   Sen. John C. Danforth (R., Mo.) termed the decision
"deeply disappointing and a serious tactical mistake," while
House Majority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D., Mo.) said the
U.S. had given Japan "a free trade furlough."
   The administration vehemently rejects that view. "What was
a good tool 18 months ago isn't necessarily a good tool now,"
Mrs. Hills said, discussing Super 301. Japan, she argued, has
"moved farther and faster than any of our other trading
partners in the past 12 months." In the past year, the U.S.
and Japan have reached trade agreements covering
supercomputers, satellites, telecommunications and wood
products.
   But Mrs. Hills, who pays careful attention to Congress,
warned, "I have made it very clear that if I don't get the
results I want, I will use the tools I have."
   Some important trade hawks in Congress have also backed
away from outright condemnations of the administration's
approach: Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) said he's glad some
designations were made, and contented himself with saying
he's "a bit of a skeptic as to whether recent agreements
{with Japan} will make much difference."
   "I hope that Congress will realize that we do have all
these checkpoints, and that those looking at it from a
non-partisan point of view should be satisfied," Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher said. "The president very wisely
asked Carla {Hills} for an expanded semiannual report which
will be due in the fall," and will give the administration a
chance to review the progress on enacting bilateral trade
agreements with Japan, the commerce chief added.
   In the meantime, the administration is throwing its weight
behind the GATT talks. They represent "a unique opportunity
to commit nearly 100 countries," including the European
Community and Japan, "to open their markets fully, and to
trade freely and fairly," said Mrs. Hills.
   In those talks, the U.S. is particularly pursuing five
goals: increased market access, with the aim of a tariff-free
world; fundamental reform of agricultural trade; agreed rules
in the new areas of trade in services, investment and
intellectual property; curbs on trade-distorting subsidies;
and integration of the developing world into the trading
system. The GATT talks are known as the Uruguay Round because
they were launched at a multilateral meeting in that
country's seaside resort of Punta del Este.
   Partly because of the GATT round, this year's approach to
Super 301 was much more sober than that in 1989. At that
time, the administration was prepared to rattle the sabers
with Congress, brand other countries as unfair traders and
even joke about it.
   In Mrs. Hills's conference room here, a message about last
year's Super 301 -- signed by President Bush and dated June
29, 1989 -- adorns the wall. It shows Mr. Bush standing with
his hands over his eyes. He has inscribed it: "The 301 award
1989 given to Carla Hills. Shown here is the president just
having heard from Sarney, Gandhi and Uno" (the respective
political leaders of Brazil, India and Japan at that date).
   The administration also again this year held back from
specifically designating countries under so-called Special
301, a clause of the 1988 trade act that covers unfair
practices in intellectual property such as patents, software
and copyrights.
   As it did last year, the administration published two
watch lists to put transgressors on notice: a "priority watch
list" that includes Brazil, China, India and Thailand, and an
ordinary watch list that includes Argentina, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Egypt, Greece, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia,
Spain, Taiwan, Turkey, Venezuela and Yugoslavia.
   ---
   Anthony Spaeth in New Delhi contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Support for Sentencing Rules Withdrawn
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TX PZL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Attorney General Dick Thornburgh withdrew the Justice
Department's support for tough new mandatory sentencing
guidelines to punish corporations convicted of crimes.
   The action last month came after intense lobbying of the
Bush administration by major companies claiming the proposed
guidelines were too severe and after White House Counsel C.
Boyden Gray raised concerns about the matter with Mr.
Thornburgh's top aide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The guidelines, under consideration by the U.S. Sentencing
Commission, would require federal judges to impose large
fines -- in some cases hundreds of millions of dollars -- on
companies convicted of such crimes as cheating on government
contracts and polluting.
   Mr. Thornburgh has endorsed stiff sentences of convicted
companies and corporate executives. His spokesman, David
Runkel, tried to minimize the significance of the withdrawal
of support for the guidelines, saying the shift in position
came because the attorney general hasn't had an opportunity
to review the proposed guidelines personally.
   Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) criticized the
department's "about-face," which he said "comes at time when
increasing numbers of Americans are being victimized by
fraudulent government contractors" and other corporate
wrongdoers. The Washington Post reported Mr. Thornburgh's
action Saturday.
   In February, Donald Ayer, the deputy attorney general,
wrote to the Sentencing Commission, formally reiterating the
Justice Department's "strong support" for more-stringent
mandatory sentences for corporate criminals. Subsequently,
lobbyists and trade associations representing numerous major
companies protested to the Bush administration that the
guidelines were too harsh.
   Mr. Gray, the White House counsel, called Mr. Thornburgh's
executive assistant, Robert Ross, to say the president's
staff wanted to be "a part of the review process," according
to Mr. Runkel. The attorney general, who hadn't been aware of
Mr. Ayer's earlier endorsement, then ordered that a new
letter be sent to the Sentencing Commission, withdrawing the
Justice Department's backing while the administration studied
the guidelines further, Mr. Runkel added.
   Mr. Ayer committed "a procedural mistake" by failing to
clear the earlier supportive letter with the attorney
general, Mr. Runkel said. But "the whole thing is
meaningless," the spokesman added, because the seven-member
Sentencing Commission has three vacancies and has postponed
further action on corporate guidelines until next year.
   The commission, established by Congress in 1984 to force
greater uniformity in federal sentencing, previously imposed
mandatory guidelines for a wide array of crimes committed by
individuals.
   ---
   IMMIGRATION RULES are reducing chances of easing nursing
shortage.
   Immigration lawyers and the health-care industry are
finding that a new law meant to alleviate a shortage of
nurses in the U.S. may have little impact because of strict
rules adopted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
   The bill, signed into law in December, was expected to
enable 16,000 foreign-citizen registered nurses to remain in
the U.S. as permanent residents. The bill was spurred by
changes in immigration law that would have required the
nurses, mainly from the Philippines, to leave the country for
a year before seeking to renew their work visas. When the
bill was passed, health officials -- already facing a severe
shortage of nurses -- said some hospitals in New York City
and other urban areas might have to close if the nurses
weren't allowed to stay.
   But now, immigration lawyers say that under the INS's
rules for implementing the law, less than half of the nurses
will qualify. Most of the nurses will be disqualified, the
lawyers say, because at some point during the past three
years they worked overtime at hospitals other than their main
employer. Because their visas only allowed them to work at
assigned hospitals, that extra work was illegal, the lawyers
say. The INS has said only nurses who never worked illegally
during the past three years can qualify under the new law.
   "There was an urgent need for nurses in these hospitals.
As a result, many of these nurses moonlighted," said Hyman
Abrams, an immigration lawyer in New York with many Filipino
clients. He said immigration lawyers were led to believe
additional work wouldn't violate a work visa as long as it
was in a related field.
   "The purpose of the law was to assist hospitals, which
have a tremendous shortage of nurses," Mr. Abrams said.
"They're defeating the purpose of the law by not opening it
up a little bit."
   Katherine Abelson, executive vice president of a New York
City health-care workers' union that helped draft the law,
said she was shocked when an INS official told a meeting of
union members that many foreign nurses wouldn't qualify.
   "The health-care system is going to face quite a problem,
given the INS's rules and regulations for enforcing the law,"
Ms. Abelson said. "You take these nurses away in the city,
and it will look like the hospitals are on strike." She said
some hospitals in New York already are 25% short of the
registered nurses they need.
   Many of the foreign nurses, when they first came to the
U.S., worked in hospitals at a level below registered nurse
while waiting to pass their state-licensing exams, said Ms.
Abelson. Lawyers said such work disqualifies them under the
new law. Another problem is that the law makes no provisions
for the nurses' spouses or children; although the nurses may
qualify for permanent residency, their families would have to
wait years before legally residing in the U.S.
   A spokesman for Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.), who was
instrumental in getting the bill passed, said the
congressman's office is aware of the situation.
   "We think it's more of a problem of technicalities," he
said. The spokesman said corrective legislation is being
drafted to get around the disqualifying conditions that the
INS is applying. He said the proposed legislation will also
provide for nurses' family members.
   An INS spokesman said the agency is merely enforcing the
requirements of the law. "This law is not meant to {give
permanent residency} to every nurse in the U.S.," he said.
"We have no authority to broaden the criteria.
   ---
   FRAUDULENT SCHEME in "secured" credit-card program is
alleged in suit.
   Secured credit cards allow people who have poor credit
ratings to establish a credit line by putting down a deposit
that can be used to cover any unpaid charges. If the card is
canceled, cardholders get the money back.
   But a lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan, N.Y.,
accuses four banks and financial companies of taking part in
a scheme to defraud thousands of secured-card applicants. The
suit charges that deposits made for the accounts were used to
pay prior obligations, rather than being invested in
interest-earning accounts as promised. The suit claims that
applicants were deceived into applying for the accounts based
on the belief that their deposits would be invested and
protected.
   The suit names as defendants Universal Bank of Maryland,
Trust Co. Bank of Atlanta, Security Trust Co. of Arlington,
Texas, and Liberty Securities Group Inc. of New York City. A
lawyer for Universal Bank couldn't be reached for comment. A
Trust Co. Bank spokesman said he was unaware of the suit and
couldn't comment. A Security Trust spokeswoman said the
thrift is a failed entity and will be closing in a few weeks.
Liberty Securities is no longer operating.
   The suit's allegations involve a secured credit-card
program operated by MoneyCard Systems Inc. of Washington,
D.C., which went bankrupt in 1988. The suit accuses Universal
Bank, Security Trust and Trust Co. Bank of authorizing
MoneyCard to administer Visa and MasterCard secured-card
accounts without disclosing the arrangement to customers. The
suit also accuses the defendants of falsely claiming that the
customers' deposits were being held in investment accounts.
   Michael Malakoff, an attorney for the cardholders, said
banks are prohibited under their Visa and MasterCard
agreements from hiring independent agents -- such as
MoneyCard -- to administer their programs.
   ---
   LAW FIRM'S PAYMENT to Texaco-Pennzoil trial judge is
questioned.
   Baker &amp; Botts, a Houston firm which represented Pennzoil
Co., paid Solomon Casseb Jr. $25,000 eight months before he
was named to hear Pennzoil's suit against Texaco Inc. At the
time, Mr. Casseb was a retired judge and practicing lawyer,
and had no connection with the Texaco-Pennzoil case. He was
reimbursed for helping Baker &amp; Botts in unrelated litigation
over an oil and gas field near Laredo, Texas, the law firm
said.
   Pennzoil went on to win a $10.53 billion jury verdict
against Texaco in 1985, the largest civil verdict in history.
Mr. Casseb, who succeeded the original trial judge who became
ill, was the first judge to uphold the verdict. The case
ultimately was settled for $3 billion.
   The $25,000 fee was first brought to light by Texas
Lawyer, a trade publication, which raised questions about
whether the payment should have been disclosed when Mr.
Casseb was appointed to hear the Texaco-Pennzoil case. The
payment is one of numerous expenses being disputed in a legal
malpractice suit alleging that Baker &amp; Botts overcharged its
clients in the Laredo case.
   E. William Barnett, Baker &amp; Botts's managing partner,
contends Mr. Casseb was hired as a consultant in the Laredo
litigation and was simply being reimbursed for those
services. He also contends that the arrangement with Mr.
Casseb in the Laredo case has no relation to his subsequent
appointment as judge in the Texaco-Pennzoil litigation.
   "He was just a lawyer functioning in a case with us," says
Mr. Barnett. Mr. Casseb couldn't be reached.
   ---
   NO BAIT CAMP: Dallas banking lawyer Charles J. McGuire,
who briefly considered opening a bait camp after a falling
out with his partners at Winstead, McGuire, Sechrest &amp;
Minick, has opted to join Houston-based Andrews &amp; Kurth. Mr.
McGuire, 48 years old, will lead the banking practice in his
new firm's 30-lawyer Dallas office. His old firm now is named
Winstead Sechrest &amp; Minick.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Computer Associates to Unveil Strategy
   To Bring Order to Its Software Products
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CA
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Computer Associates International Inc. will unveil today a
strategy designed to bring some order to the collection of
software products it has accumulated in its acquisition binge
in recent years.
   Customers and consultants said the announcement should
address some of the concerns that customers and investors
have developed about Computer Associates in the past year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Computer Associates, the largest independent software
company, had been growing nearly 50% annually in the past
several years and generates more than $1 billion of revenue a
year, but it stumbled badly in the summer. The acquisition of
Cullinet Software Inc. took much longer to work through than
expected. Sales stalled while customers waited to see how
Computer Associates would handle the overlap in the two
companies' product lines.
   Those problems then brought to a head existing concerns
about Computer Associates; Gartner Group Inc., a
market-research firm, says the Garden City, N.Y., company
ranks at or near the bottom of its user-satisfaction surveys.
   Investors quickly got nervous, too, and have stayed that
way. Some analysts already were saying they believed the
company was using aggressive accounting procedures during its
numerous acquisitions to make results look far better than
they were. So, at the first sign of weakness, the stock
tumbled 50%. It closed Friday at $13 a share, down 12.5
cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, still
some 40% below its 52-week high.
   In an attempt to get some momentum going again, Computer
Associates executives said they will, in effect, promise to
cross-pollinate their numerous products. The best-known of
those are mainframe and minicomputer products that make
computer systems run more efficiently. The company also sells
data bases and packages aimed at specific markets, such as
banking.
   The Computer Associates executives said features in
products for International Business Machines Corp. hardware
will be made available on Digital Equipment Corp. machines,
and vice versa. The ability to grab data from relatively new
"relational" data bases will be provided in older systems,
known as hierarchical or navigational data bases. Software
that generates reports from a banking package may be made
available on other products.
   The strategy plays into the major concern that corporate
customers have these days: Now that they've spent millions of
dollars on all this hardware and software, how are they
supposed to get it all to talk to each other? The strategy
should also reassure customers that Computer Associates
doesn't plan a wholesale abandonment of many of the products
it has acquired.
   Still, the announcement doesn't include a timetable, and
such broad efforts usually take several years to implement.
They also almost always prove to be tougher to develop than
expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Placed a Big Bet on Junk Bonds -- and Lost
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Who are some of the biggest victims of the
junk bond market's collapse?
   Nobody can say for sure, but here's one particularly
noteworthy candidate: American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman
Hutton Holdings Inc. unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this month, Shearson announced it was bailing out
of $480 million of junk bond holdings -- taking a $115
million writedown in the process -- and ending a
spectacularly unsuccessful foray into the high-yield junk
market by the big securities firm.
   The fiasco raises questions about management controls at
Shearson and the judgment of former chief executive officer
Peter A. Cohen, analysts say, and shows the pitfalls of
taking steep short-term market risks.
   In early 1989, just as the junk bond market was reaching
its peak, Shearson and its money management subsidary, Boston
Co., made a big bet on the junk market. Boston Co. plunked
down $290 million to buy shares in seven junk-bond mutual
funds. And Shearson bought $190 million of individual junk
bond issues through an unusual "special purpose investment
subsidiary."
   The big securities firm funded the long-term junk bonds --
which were then yielding well above 12% -- by issuing
short-term floating-rate paper with yields of less than 9%.
   As Shearson saw it, "If I can gross 12% and pay 9%, that's
a return on assets equal to four times what I'm getting on my
normal business," says James Hanbury, an analyst at Wertheim
Schroder &amp; Co. "It was a simple arbitrage play." Other
analysts called it more of a casino gamble.
   Trouble is, Shearson's timing -- both buying and selling
-- probably couldn't have been worse.
   A junk bond manager familiar with Boston Co.'s mutual-fund
purchases says that the buying largely occurred last spring
when the prices of many junk bonds were at their peak. "They
may not have hit the bottom {with their selling}," the
manager says. "But they couldn't have done much worse."
   A Shearson spokesman says all the mutual fund shares were
sold this month, in addition to part of the individual junk
bond holdings. Shearson declined further comment about the
junk holdings.
   Which funds were the beneficiaries of Boston Co.'s
largesse? A Boston Co. spokesman refuses to say but says none
of the money ended up in Shearson's own broker-sold mutual
funds.
   Boston Co. put most, if not all, the money into no-load
funds, which don't charge upfront fees and are often sold
directly to investors by telephone and mail, and not through
brokers. "I'm sure they had some in Fidelity High Income, and
maybe some in T. Rowe Price and Vanguard," says the portfolio
manager familiar with the fund purchases.
   Both Vanguard Group and T. Rowe Price Associates said
there would have been net inflows into their junk bond funds
in April, but for hefty redemptions by a single financial
institution, which they refused to identify. A Fidelity
Investments executive declined to comment.
   Shearson has tried to blame the trip-up largely on its
former chairman Mr. Cohen, who resigned under pressure
earlier this year. A Shearson spokesman notes, for instance,
that the trades took place on Mr. Cohen's watch. Shearson
declined further comment.
   But other top Shearson and American Express executives,
including current Shearson chief executive Howard L. Clark
Jr., clearly knew about the junk holdings -- or should have,
analysts say.
   "It was a failure of management," says Mr. Hanbury, the
Wertheim Schroder analyst. "The buck has been passed about,
but the ultimate responsibility of the business still was
with {Peter} Cohen."
   Mr. Cohen, who hasn't spoken to reporters since his
resignation, declined to comment.
   Boston Co.'s decision to bet $290 million of its $5
billion investment portfolio may have reflected pressures at
the firm for short-term results. And, "You can't beat junk
bonds for short-term income," says a fund manager at a
competing Boston firm.
   Shearson's $115 million charge against first-quarter
earnings were part of a massive $630 million restructuring
charge: $70 million in reserves were for the Boston Co. junk
portfolio, and $45 million went toward Shearson's special
purpose investment unit. All told for the quarter, Shearson
posted an industry-record loss of $915 million.
   Although securities firms long have used special-purpose
units to buy mortgage-backed obligations, it's very unusual
for them to buy the more risky junk bonds. And, in Shearson's
case, says Wertheim Schroder's Mr. Hanbury: "It was a major
miscalculation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   GM, NBC Are Negotiating Huge 3-Year Media Package
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GE IPG PG SAA CPB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp. and National Broadcasting Co. are
negotiating a massive media package in which GM would spend
well in excess of $500 million over three years at the
nation's No. 1 prime-time network.
   NBC and GM officials refused to comment. But executives
familiar with the negotiations said the package would be
substantially more than $500 million and perhaps close to $1
billion, depending on certain conditions. It would include ad
time during prime-time programming and National Football
League games, as well as time on NBC's fledgling CNBC cable
network and its Sports Channel America cable network. The
executives said that, barring last-minute complications, the
deal should be announced this week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other advertisers have negotiated packages with networks
before. General Electric's NBC unit and American Home
Products crafted a three-year package several years ago, for
example, while ESPN last week announced a five-year, $100
million deal with Anheuser-Busch.
   But the huge NBC-GM deal would dwarf all of them. If the
deal goes through, GM -- among the nation's largest TV
advertisers -- would spend more at NBC than at any other
network. The big auto maker most likely would continue
spending at its usual levels at ABC and CBS, but spending at
those two networks could be negatively affected in certain
cases. If GM were to cut its ad budget, for example, or if it
were to shift some of its budget away from network television
and into local or magazinead spending, those cuts would come
from ABC and CBS, not from NBC, executives close to the talks
said.
   The proposed deal would give GM tremendous power in the
network prime-time arena and allow it to dominate its
automotive competitors on the top-rated network. It would
give GM first dibs -- apparently at attractive prices -- on
the most desirable prime-time and sports programming,
according to the executives. GM would also be able to lock
out or severely restrict its competitors from some of the
hottest prime-time shows; prime-time programs allot only a
certain number of commercial spots to auto makers and GM
apparently would be able to grab up many of those slots
before its rivals had a chance.
   The executives said GM's spending commitment is flexible,
with both GM and NBC having options each year of the
contract. Although GM would be required to spend a minimum
amount over the three years, it would be protected somewhat
if NBC's ratings plummet: NBC would guarantee certain
audience sizes -- as the networks often do -- and would make
up for any shortfalls with additional commercial time, the
executives said.
   The package would involve a number of other complex
provisions designed to give both NBC and GM some flexibility.
NBC can set limits on how much of its best inventory is sold
to GM; for example, if it comes up with another hit as big as
"The Cosby Show," it wouldn't be forced to sell all of the
show's ad time to GM at below-market prices, the executives
said. GM, for its part, could be flexible in how it uses the
commercial time; rather than buying ads scattered across many
shows, it could opt to become a major sponsor of several "big
event" shows.
   The proposed deal is sure to have a substantial ripple
effect across the ad business, and could affect coming price
negotiations for the fall season. Those so-called upfront
negotiations typically begin in June. NBC clearly hopes that,
by selling such a big chunk of its ad time before
negotiations begin, it will boost prices as other advertisers
scramble to buy what's left. Meanwhile, other advertisers are
sure to rush to calculate just what sort of prices GM would
be paying as they prepare to negotiate prices themselves.
   The proposed deal would pair two market leaders. General
Motors is consistently ranked as one of the country's largest
two or three advertisers, spending in excess of $1 billion a
year across various media. Last year, according to ad
industry executives, it was the largest advertiser on
prime-time TV as well as on sports programming. Its size
makes it one of the most influential advertisers in the
country, along with fellow giants Philip Morris -- including
its Kraft General Foods -- and Procter &amp; Gamble.
   By negotiating the three-year package, GM may be reacting
to last year, when network prices soared largely because of
strong demand by car companies -- especially GM. If the deal
goes through, GM wouldn't face that sort of uncertainty. It
would be protecting itself against major price hikes like
those last year.
   GM has been negotiating the package along with its two
major ad agencies, Leo  Burnett, which handles GM's
Oldsmobile division, and Interpublic Group's Lintas agency,
which creates ads for Chevrolet, the executives said.
   NBC, meanwhile, has been on an unbroken winning streak for
five years, thanks to enduring hits like "The Cosby Show."
But the network has come under increasing pressure from ABC,
which has been developing its own hits like "Roseanne," which
toppled "The Cosby Show" from its No. 1 prime-time ranking in
the latest season. Industry executives suggested NBC may have
been willing to offer an attractive multiyear deal in order
to shore itself up for a less certain future.
   ---
   Chatting About Chores
                                                                                                       

   Procter &amp; Gamble is expected to announce today that it is
the sponsor of a new "infotainment" program on the Telemundo
network in which the big stars will be P&amp;G brands like Tide,
Crisco and Scope.
   The program, called "Hablando," is billed as a half-hour
"information, education and entertainment program for
Hispanic women." Scripts call for actors to chat about
household chores, using and mentioning by name a number of
P&amp;G products.
   "`Hablando' is a unique opportunity to address the needs
of Hispanic women in their role as care-givers," P&amp;G said in
a statement.
   Telemundo said the show will feature Hispanic actresses
playing homemakers and a Hispanic actor as a building
superintendent. It will air twice a week in an afternoon time
slot on the cable TV network.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   BACKER SPIELVOGEL: Campbell Soup Co., Camden, N.J., named
Backer Spielvogel Bates, New York, to handle advertising for
its microwave single-serving soup business. Estimated
billings are $3 million to $4 million. Backer Spielvogel, a
Saatchi &amp; Saatchi agency, is Campbell's main agency for its
condensed-soup line.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: George Guimaraes was named regional chairman,
Midwest, of Young &amp; Rubicam Advertising. He was previously a
group general manager at Young &amp; Rubicam's New York office.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: P'nosh Beverages awarded its ad account to
Sacks &amp; Rosen. Billings haven't been determined. Sacks &amp;
Rosen, New York, will develop ads for P'nosh's new
ready-to-drink canned Iced Coffee and Iced Cappuccino
beverages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   To Educate the Young, Get Them out of School
   ----
   By Stephen S. Hamilton
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Most people learn best by doing something useful with what
they are learning. Without application, school learning fades
rapidly. By the time they reach high school, young people who
do not expect to go on to college are often persuaded that
school subjects are irrelevant. Their work experiences
encourage this belief: More than half of all U.S. high school
students are employed outside of school hours, but teen-agers
jobs' seldom require academic skills, leaving them with a
distorted view of school's connection to work.
   German apprenticeship is an educational institution that
links school and work and that engages young people in
significant tasks under the supervision of knowledgeable
adults. Apprentices learn at work some of the things they
missed in the classroom. Simultaneously, they discover that
apparently irrelevant subjects are important in jobs that are
more demanding than serving hamburgers or stocking shelves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the consensus among English-language historians
that industrialization doomed apprenticeship, it thrives in
all the German-speaking countries, enrolling more than 60% of
high-school-age youth in West Germany. Traditional
apprenticeship persists in the U.S., especially in the
construction trades, but it is a small institution, and the
median age of the quarter million or so American apprentices
is greater than 25. Apprentice-like opportunities such as
community service, school-based enterprises, and cooperative
education are more accessible to teen-agers, but
college-bound students are often given preference over the
students who most need out-of-classroom learning.
   In the U.S., apprenticeship programs are frequently
casualties of pressure to increase test scores, raise
academic standards, and cut costs. A program in New Jersey
was terminated the year after being hailed as an example to
the nation in Ernest Boyer's book, "High School" and in a
film based on the book.
   West Germany's apprenticeship system would not work in the
U.S. But it demonstrates that work-based learning can be
incorporated into an educational system on a large scale.
German apprentices typically spend one day a week in school
during a three-year apprenticeship that begins between the
ages of 15 and 18. A national examination certifies that each
apprentice who has passed has acquired adequate German,
social studies, math and science, as well as specifically
job-related knowledge and skills. By age 18 or 20 apprentices
have qualified themselves for career-entry jobs and for
further schooling. Even training in an unrelated area is
advantageous because it demonstrates to a prospective
employer the applicant's diligence, responsibility and
ability to learn. The American problem of illiterate high
school graduates is unknown in Germany.
   Apprenticeship puts employers in the education business.
German firms pay apprentices' training costs and a wage
appropriate to their productivity, usually one-third to
one-half of a skilled worker's wages. School officials,
government representatives, labor-union delegates and others
are involved in designing and overseeing the system, but
employers have the majority voice because they make the
largest investment.
   Why would American employers invest in the education and
training of youth? Only because they concluded that schools
alone were unable to provide them with young workers equipped
to meet the future's challenges. In West Germany, corporate
leaders are so convinced of apprenticeship's value that they
steadfastly resist labor unions' proposals to substitute
tax-supported schooling for apprenticeship, gladly picking up
the tab in order to maintain control over training quality.
   An American apprenticeship system must be as flexible and
diverse as our labor market and educational system. It should
open doors, not channel people into narrowly defined
occupational slots. To prepare youth for the future, it must
first promote the acquisition of basic academic knowledge and
skills, because they are the foundation for learning and
upgrading specific job skills.
   U.S. apprenticeship would not be neat and tidy. It would
grow from local and regional efforts, rather than from
central planning. Experiments are in the planning stages at
Aetna Corp. in Hartford, with a consortium of steel producers
in northern Indiana, and on a regional basis in Boston and
Pittsburgh. Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole has created a
new Office of Work-Based Learning to support demonstration
efforts such as these. All of them will turn workplaces into
places for learning and connect school learning with learning
on the job.
   Corporate leaders have become advocates for school reform
because they recognize that deficient education threatens the
nation's prosperity and social order. But schools are not the
only, or even the best, place for learning. A far more active
-- and more costly -- partnership is now required, in which
learning on the job becomes as least as important for youth
as learning in school.
   ---
   Mr. Hamilton is associate professor of human development
and family studies at Cornell and the author of
"Apprenticeship for Adulthood: Preparing Youth for the
Future" (Free Press, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Staloff Resigns From Posts
   At Commodity Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Arnold Staloff, president and chief executive
officer of the Commodity Exchange, resigned on Friday after
only nine months on the job. His resignation is effective May
1.
   The Comex is the nation's fourth-largest futures exchange
and the biggest precious-metals marketplace. Mr. Staloff was
brought in from the Philadelphia Stock Exchange with
considerable fanfare because of his reputation as a developer
of new financial products such as the first foreign-currency
options and a computerized trading system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Comex has failed to keep up with rival exchanges in
Chicago in the introduction of new futures products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DNB
</CO>
<LP>
   DUN &amp; BRADSTREET Corp. (New York) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc., a unit of this business information provider,
named Daniel N. Heimowitz executive vice president and
director of the public finance department. Mr. Heimowitz, 36,
succeeds Freda Johnson, who resigned in January to start a
consulting company within the industry. After Ms. Johnson
resigned, her duties were split between Mr. Heimowitz, who
then was vice president and managing director of ratings and
Joseph Rosenblum, vice president and managing director,
ratings administration. Mr. Heimowitz joined Moody's in 1977.
Moody's public finance area grades the credit-worthiness of
municipalities and their securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MANAGING
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   All Pulling Together,
   To Get the Carrot
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   INCENTIVES are filtering down to the factory floor.
   It used to be incentives were just for managers, but now,
more companies are dangling monetary rewards to motivate
groups of lower-level employees. A new survey by consultants
Towers Perrin shows that half of such group incentive plans
found at 144 companies came into being in the past two years.
   After severely paring staff in recent years, companies
view performance and profit incentives as a way to squeeze
quality and productivity improvements from remaining workers,
while giving them greater control over their financial fates.
   At Borden Inc., some 28,000 workers at 180 different
plants can win bonuses ranging from $250 to $800 each this
year, depending on how their individual plants perform
against a variety of attendance, safety, quality, production
and financial goals.
   These plans were revised from one a few years back in
which Borden tried to peg incentives to return on equity. The
food-products company concluded that such a technical
financial target was "too difficult for the hourly employee
to understand," says Allan L. Miller, senior vice president
and chief administrative officer.
   Towers Perrin agrees, saying incentive plans work best
when workers can actually see how they influence targets, as
in the case of reducing waste or improving products coming
off their production line.
   Among the plans Towers Perrin studied, payments to workers
for meeting or exceeding group goals averaged $1,300 per
participant. "Companies are using these programs as a way to
create a competitive advantage through their work force,"
says James E. Nickel, head of the firm's alternative rewards
practice.
   Under 13 of 21 incentive plans at Monsanto Co., rewards
aren't simply add-on bonuses, but represent a share of
scheduled salary increases. Meeting goals brings employees up
to par; exceeding them means extra cash.
   "We used to focus on pay to attract, retain and motivate,"
says Barry Bingham, Monsanto's corporate compensation
director. "Now, we're using pay as a tool to drive results."
                                                                                                       

   Push a Phone Button,
   Save Mundane Steps
                                                                                                       

   PUSH-BUTTON phones, with new uses, are becoming an
important corporate tool to increase efficiency and reduce
tedium for workers.
   Employees of Public Service Electric &amp; Gas Co., a New
Jersey utility, can call a special line and run through
push-button programs to check health benefits or arrange
loans from their pension plans. Burroughs Wellcome runs a
computerized line that screens for experience and career
interests and then describes jobs for which callers are
qualified.
   While such systems, costing as much as $200,000, can give
companies an excuse to eliminate jobs, they can also "free
human resources and administrative people from answering
routine and mundane questions, to use their skills in other
areas," says Nenette Kress, a consultant with Coopers &amp;
Lybrand and a manager of the firm's communications practice.
   Under pressure to quickly dissolve a $100-million employee
stock ownership plan to avoid a $10-million tax penalty,
Nabisco Brands Inc. last fall asked 12,000 people to call in
push-button instructions for handling proceeds from their
accounts. Many called the line after work and fewer than 50
queries a day were handled by a staffed help line, says Steve
Awerman, manager of savings plan administration at the RJR
Nabisco Inc. unit.
   By contrast, he says, manually managing the tender offer
vote among stock-holding employees during the buy-out of RJR
earlier last year was a disaster. It took twice as long, he
says, with four benefits department employees handling up to
400 queries a day for weeks.
                                                                                                       

   Top Execs Are Loyal,
   But First to Themselves
                                                                                                       

   WITH THE AX swinging and job-security waning among middle
managers and hourly employees, high-level executives may be
the only ones upholding corporate loyalty these days. Or are
they?
   A new survey suggests that allegiance to company is
wavering at the top, too. Of 551 senior executives
questioned, more than 90% said they are loyal to their
subordinates and are willing to work "beyond what is
expected" by their companies. But at the same time, nearly
half said they are "always interested in other career
opportunities" while just one-third said they aren't.
   "It says something about the position they're in," says
Charles C. Jett, a partner with McFeely Wackerle Jett, the
Chicago executive search firm that sponsored the survey. "If
you're LBO'd out of existence, you're in outplacement, so
you'd better keep your ear to the ground."
   While several executives said companies could renew a
tradition of loyalty by investing more in employee career
training and development, others were more cynical. One
wrote: "Maybe you cannot be loyal to or expect loyalty from
anything that does not bleed when cut."

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   IN TO AFRICA: Two American black M.B.A. students from the
University of Virginia's Darden School of Business spent
their spring break last month in South Africa, cultivating
corporate contacts and exploring a possible exchange program
between the U.S. school and the University of Witwatersrand
Business School in Johannesburg. . . . "Z" is the author of
the "Black Book of Executive Politics," a guide to get-ahead
ploys that the National Institute of Business Management will
mail to newsletter subscribers "in a plain wrapper."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pic `N' Save Corp.:
   California Retail Chain Sets
   Annual Meeting for June 20
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pic `N' Save Corp., the target of a potential takeover by
a partnership led by David H. Batchelder, set its annual
meeting for June 20 in Los Angeles.
   The Dominguez, Calif., company is expected to face a proxy
challenge from Girard Partners L.P. for control of the board.
The La Jolla, Calif., partnership holds a 6.6% stake in Pic
`N' Save.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Girard has said it intends to make a bid to acquire the
company and to solicit shareholder votes for its board
nominees at the meeting.
   Pic `N' Save is a retail chain that buys manufacturers'
close-out merchandise and sells it at deep discounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NESB Sets Pact on Default
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   NESB
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW LONDON, Conn. -- NESB Corp., a banking concern, said
it signed a letter of intent with its insurance company
lenders on a plan to correct its default of covenants in a
$50 million loan agreement.
   The plan, which needs approval by the NESB board and bank
regulators, consists of early payments of interest and the
pledging of certain bank assets to the insurance companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company has said its first-quarter loss put it in
default of covenants of a $50 million long-term debt
agreement with a group of insurance companies. The money was
used to finance NESB's $48 million acquisition of OmniBank.
In February, OmniBank was merged with New England Savings
Banks, NESB's only subsidiary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Gloom Surrounding Dollar Will Vanish
   By End of May, Market Observers Predict
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In May, the yen will confirm it has hit
bottom, the mark will narrowly survive economic-union
jitters, and gloom surrounding the dollar will vanish.
   That's the outlook of 10 economists and currency dealers
in Tokyo; Frankfurt, West Germany; London and New York
interviewed by Dow Jones International News Service. By the
end of May, these experts' average forecast calls for the
dollar to stand at 159.20 yen and 1.6980 marks. The mark is
seen slipping to 93.76 yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In late Friday afternoon New York trading, the dollar was
at 159.30 yen, up from 159.23 yen late Thursday, and at
1.6775 marks, down from 1.6803 marks. The mark was trading at
94.96 yen up from 94.76 yen.
   Where and whether interest rates will rise remains a
source of widespread speculation and disagreement. While most
see real U.S. rates rising relative to Japanese and West
German rates, others see them falling or holding even.
   But there is a consensus that the yen is undervalued and
the mark overvalued, suggesting both deserve correction.
   At the beginning of April, a similar survey predicted the
dollar would be about 156.73 yen by the end of April, with
estimates spread evenly between 162 yen and 150 yen. One bear
said 136 yen.
   The early April survey saw the dollar at 1.7150 marks by
the end of April, with estimates ranging from a low of 1.65
marks to a high of 1.75 marks.
   "Real" interest rates -- nominal rates minus anticipated
inflation -- were cited by most in the survey as the key to
predicting exchange rates. While acknowledging problems with
the political and economic unification of the two Germanys,
most of the respondents said the mark would be the main
currency of Europe in the 1990s. The survey's two West German
experts, however, were relatively bearish on the mark's
prospects for May.
   Ingo Kuller, chief trader at Westdeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Duesseldorf, said reunification will cast a
shadow over the mark for many months to come, and the
energies of the Bundesbank will be diverted away from holding
the dollar down as it grapples with the specter of rising
inflation. He sees the dollar climbing to 1.7640 marks by the
end of May and higher, to 1.78 marks, in 90 days.
   Klaus Groner, chief trader at Bayerische Vereinsbank in
Munich, differs over the 90-day term, expecting the U.S.
currency to fall against the mark to 1.65 marks later in the
spring as worries about the monetary union with East Germany
abate. "I see a renaissance for the mark," he said. "The way
the government in Bonn is systematically tackling the
problems with monetary union is encouraging."
   Most of the respondents said the Bundesbank can keep
inflation under wraps, predicting a 3% or lower rate for the
year. Though most survey respondents said a boost in West
German interest rates was in the cards, one economist
suggested that nation's rates would ease because politics has
outrun economics.
   "I recognize it's a new ball game for the Germans," said
Irwin Kellner, chief economist for Manufacturers Hanover
Trust in New York, "but I'd say the markets have already
discounted the effects of this and then some," leaving the
dollar room to correct.
   Mr. Kellner said trade-related pressures have led to an
undervaluation of the dollar against European currencies and
an overvaluation against the yen. The dollar should be buying
fewer than 140 yen, he said, instead of 159 yen.
   The U.S. posted an unadjusted $959.6 million trade surplus
with Western Europe in February, compared with a $309.8
million deficit in January, putting the U.S. ahead $650
million through March. Against Japan, meanwhile, the
unadjusted trade gap widened in February to $3.12 billion
from $2.86 billion in January.
   Survey participants generally agreed the Japanese base
interest rate wouldn't fall, but were reluctant to say it was
certain to rise in the month or 90-day period. The yen, in
this scenario, likely will stay weak but not slip further.
   Russell Sheldon, senior economist at Mellon Bank,
Pittsburgh, said Japan may have an emerging inflation
problem. "I don't think they'll be tightening policy to the
degree they'd need to" to control inflation, he said. Japan's
consumer prices, a key index of inflation, rose 2.9% in the
fiscal year ended March 31, the largest gain since 1981.
   As long as Tokyo stock and government bond markets stay
shaky and prospects for European growth are good, "strong
demand for dollars and other currencies will keep the yen
weak," said Shigeito Yanase, manager of foreign-exchange
trading at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. in Tokyo.
   Political problems still dog the yen, Mr. Yanase noted.
Talk in Tokyo that Liberal Democratic Party elders could
force Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu to resign before
a July economic summit in Houston will hinder any sort of yen
recovery, he said.
   Prospects for a tightening of U.S. monetary policy, which
would tend to boost the dollar, are at least as tenuous as
those for Japan and West Germany. Again, no one saw the U.S.
Federal Reserve lowering interest rates, but only two said
flat-out that rates would rise.
   Supporting that view were sharply higher inflation
readings released Friday with U.S. provisional first-quarter
gross national product data. The implicit price deflator rose
at a 5.7% rate, the largest increase since the third quarter
of 1982, and the fixed-weight deflator, another inflation
gauge, was up 6.5%, the largest leap since the fourth quarter
of 1981.
   "U.S. consumer price inflation should be around 4.5% in
the second quarter, an unacceptable level for the Federal
Reserve Board," said a senior corporate dealer with a large
Tokyo-based bank.
   The same dealer said growth in Japanese institutional
investor demand for dollar-denominated investments should
fall off, but dollar investments will still grow in absolute
terms.
   Forecasts for the pound averaged $1.613 in 30 days and
$1.606 in 90 days, and were the most tightly-grouped
forecasts among the currencies surveyed. All 10 participants
said the pound would be about $1.6 in both periods, ranging
from five $1.6 estimates to a low of $1.65 in the 30 days;
for the longer period, estimates ranged from a bearish $1.53
to $1.67. Late Friday in New York, sterling was at $1.6350,
below $1.6343 late Thursday in New York.
   On New York's Commodity Exchange Friday, current-delivery
gold settled at $371.10 an ounce, up 20 cents. Because of
computer failure, trading was limited. Estimated volume was
only 700,000 ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $371.60 an ounce.
   ---
   Douglas Appell and Christopher Hill in Tokyo, Erik
Kirschbaum in Frankfurt, Nicholas Hastings in London and
Brandon Mitchener in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Semi-Tech, Partner
   Defy Deal to Buy
   Unit of Provigo
   ----
   By Michael T. Malloy and G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   T.ISE T.PGI P.BJY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Semi-Tech Microelectronics Inc., based in
Markham, Ontario, said it and a Malaysian partner called off
an agreement to buy Consumers Distributing Co. for 165
million Canadian dollars (US$142.1 million), because of
"serious deterioration" in the Provigo Inc. unit's balance
sheet.
   International Semi-Tech, a fast-growing merchandising,
manufacturing and electronics concern, said it and Berjaya
Corp. of Malaysia had begun an action in Ontario courts to
seek damages from Provigo, a Montreal-based food distributor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Germain Lecours, chief financial officer of Provigo, said
the company "completely denies all the allegations" by
International Semi-Tech. He said Provigo regards the sale
agreement as still binding.
   Provigo agreed in February to sell Consumers Distributing
to a partnership that is 19%-owned by International Semi-Tech
and 81%-owned by Berjaya, a holding company with interests in
manufacturing, retailing and gambling. The purchase was to
have closed today.
   A spokesman for International Semi-Tech said that after
the agreement was reached, the partners received audited
statements for the year ended Jan. 27, showing Consumers
Distributing's balance sheet and operating results had
deteriorated sharply from the unaudited statements previously
supplied for the 11 months ended Dec. 31.
   "I don't mean a little, I mean tremendous," he said of the
difference between the two sets of statements. He said
Consumers Distributing took "significant write-offs" in
January. He declined to elaborate.
   Mr. Lecours of Provigo declined to discuss Consumer
Distributing's results. The wholly owned subsidiary is one of
three nonfood units that Provigo put up for sale in October,
after deciding to concentrate on its core grocery business.
   The International Semi-Tech spokesman said the company and
its partner "would still love to buy" Consumers Distributing,
but for "a lot less" than agreed upon in February. He
declined to say what price they had in mind. He said the
partners' suit seeks the recovery of legal fees and expenses
related to the transaction. He said the amounts hadn't been
determined.
   Consumers Distributing owns more than 200 stores, mostly
catalog showrooms, across Canada. The acquisition was seen as
establishing a North American outlet through which the
Malaysian tycoon Tan Chee Yion, who controls Berjaya, could
distribute consumer goods made by his Malaysia-based
companies.
   International Semi-Tech beat Berjaya last year in a
bidding war for SSMC Inc., which made and distributed Singer
brand sewing machines and consumer products. The two
companies then made peace, with Berjaya becoming 21% owner of
International Semi-Tech's Hong Kong subsidiary, which now
owns the Singer name.
   Consumers Distributing has been a drag on Provigo's
earnings. Provigo sold the subsidiary's 90-store U.S. unit to
International Semi-Tech's Hong Kong subsidiary last year for
US$40 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Computer Firms See the Writing on the Screen
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM AAPL MSFT BORL SPCO JAPAN CPC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Computer makers are scrambling to cash in on people who
find the pen mightier than the keyboard.
   International Business Machines Corp., Apple Computer Inc.
and other big computer makers are staking out positions in
the nascent market for "note-pad computers," small machines
that let users enter data by writing rather than tapping
keys. The note pads typically recognize numbers and letters
printed on a screen with a special pen and convert them into
conventional electronic characters. The information is then
stored for later transfer to a personal computer or a
company's main computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The size of the market for note-pad computers isn't clear,
but Infocorp, a Santa Clara, Calif., market-research firm,
estimates the market will grow to 3.4 million units sold in
1995 from 22,000 units this year. Only one company, Tandy
Corp.'s Grid Systems unit, currently sells note-pad computers
in the U.S.; its model, introduced last September, is priced
at $3,000. But new ventures are expected to introduce several
note-pad machines this year. And already, big computer makers
are fighting quietly for control over software standards for
these gadgets, which require different programs from those
used with keyboard computers.
   "This is a group of people fundamentally worried about
their future," says Stewart Alsop, editor of PC Letter. "No
one wants to be left behind."
   The early wrangling pits IBM, the world's largest computer
maker, against Microsoft Corp., the biggest supplier of
software for personal computers. In the 1980s, the two
companies teamed up to set a software standard for personal
computers called MS-DOS. Today, however, they appear to be
approaching note-pad computers on different paths.
   Microsoft is determined to stay within the MS-DOS standard
for note-pad software. Though the company may be willing to
write applications for other standards, "I don't believe you
have to come up with a new operating system to succeed in
this business," says Jeff Raikes, who runs Microsoft's
word-processing division.
   But in an apparent effort to set a different standard, IBM
has struck an alliance with Go Corp., a tiny Foster City,
Calif., company. Go is expected to introduce later this year
a note-pad computer incompatible with MS-DOS, the basic
software needed for most personal computers, including IBM's.
People close to the deal say IBM has agreed to license Go's
software for use in future note-pad computers of its own.
   The standards battle is hard to handicap. Go has persuaded
some large software makers, including Borland International
Inc., to write applications that work with its operating
software. But Grid Systems chose Microsoft's MS-DOS for its
note-pad computer, and Software Publishing Corp. turned down
a request to produce programs for Go "because the last thing
we need is another operating system," says Fred Gibbons,
Software Publishing's chief executive officer.
   U.S. companies tackle software issues in earnest because
software is an area where they hold an advantage over
Japanese competitors. Japanese companies, however, figure to
supply much of the basic hardware -- the displays, the screen
coating on which people write and the circuitry -- for
note-pad computers.
   The new gadgets should help broaden acceptance of personal
computers in Japan, where the country's elaborate written
language has frustrated typists and forced many to maintain
handwritten records. In March, Sony became the first company
in Japan to sell a note pad that recognizes Japanese
characters.
   Despite intense interest, note-pad computers aren't a sure
thing. They could become "an exotic flop" because of
restrictions on handwriting that may disappoint buyers
expecting the devices to recognize script or messy printing,
says Peter Teige, an analyst at Infocorp, the market-research
firm. For instance, Grid's note pad can only accurately
recognize clearly printed letters and numbers. That means
many users may have to modify their ordinary handwriting when
using the pad.
   Such limitations are expected on a note pad from Go,
expected to be introduced later this year, and industry
officials expect subsequent models from other U.S.
manufacturers to require careful printing as well. "We won't
see cursive writing for anywhere from three to 15 years,"
says Vern Raburn, who last year founded Slate Corp., a
Scottsdale, Ariz., company that plans to produce software for
Go's computer.
   For at least the next few years, note pads will function
most readily by contrasting clearly printed letters against
"static" images of letters stored in memory. An alternative
"dynamic" approach recognizes curves and connections between
letters, but because English writers exhibit idiosyncratic
styles, producing highly accurate systems is hard. Japanese
makers are using this more complex approach, but mainly
because Japanese people are more consistent in their
penmanship.
   Besides technical concerns, there are serious questions
about whether the size of the market for note-pad computers
justifies all the effort. "It's an open question how much
someone is willing to modify their normal practice to use" a
note-pad computer, says Michael Swavely, president of Compaq
Computer Corp.'s North American operations. "Unfortunately,
the {computer} industry has a long history of promising more
than it can actually deliver. I think we're in that mode with
handwriting recognition."
   Boosters of the devices, though, say that for a vast
number of workers, a note pad rather than a laptop computer
better suits their routine. Moreover, they say most people
find writing with a pen more natural than typing on a
keyboard.
   At the very least, these gadgets should win a following
among mobile workers who now keep track of business on forms
attached to clipboards. To improve the accuracy of its
records, Best Foods Baking Group, a unit of CPC International
Inc., is starting to outfit its 1,500 delivery-truck drivers
with Grid Systems computers. The note-pad computers replace a
system of keeping records on paper forms.
   Besides Best Foods, Grid has obtained large orders for its
note pad from Southern Pacific Transportation Co. and several
other companies. "This is a blue-collar computer, a computer
for truck drivers," says Alan Lefkof, Grid's president.
   Handwriting aside, pens seem destined to leave their mark
on personal computers. Future models are likely to sport a
pen controlling some of the machine's functions; pointing at
spots on the screen will trigger operations much as clicking
a button on a mouse, or pointing device, works today.
   Says Jean-Louis Gassee, Apple's chief of product
development: "The question isn't keyboards vs. pens," but how
they can complement each other.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Technology Stocks Will Be Less Exciting
   But More Profitable, Fund Manager Says
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM DEC AAPL SUNW MSFT ORCL CPQ CHPS ACAD ERTS INTS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Technology investors, take courage. You need it these
days, according to the top-performing technology mutual-fund
manager of the past year.
   "Every once in a while, the market gives you a chance to
be brave," says Roger B. McNamee, manager of the T. Rowe
Price Science &amp; Technology Fund. "This looks like a good
time."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course, what he calls brave others may think foolhardy,
Mr. McNamee concedes. One technology stock after another has
plummeted in recent weeks because of disappointing earnings:
Oracle Systems plunged 31% on March 28. Legent sank 29.3% the
following week. Network Technologies has plummeted 69.6%
since the end of March. And one week ago, Digital Microwave
dived 49.5% in a spectacular, one-day free fall.
   But such "classic Maalox moments" can provide
opportunities as well, says Mr. McNamee, whose fund earned a
38.72% return for the year ended March 31. That compares to
the average return of 17.6% for the same period among 23
science and technology funds tracked by Lipper Analytical
Services.
   Mr. McNamee contends that, despite the recent earnings
shocks, technology companies as a group will become less
exciting but more profitable for investors. And he believes
that predictability will command a premium, particularly as
other industries limp through what he calls "an earnings
recession."
   That's not to say technology stocks will be shock-proof.
Companies developing new, unproven technology, often at
breakneck speed, will undoubtedly produce some flops and some
will "go ballistic" to success, he says.
   Mr. McNamee shuns the industry's "old leaders," such as
International Business Machines and Digital Equipment, in
favor of the "new leaders" -- Apple Computer, Microsoft, Sun
Microsystems, Oracle, Compaq, Chips &amp; Technologies and
Autodesk -- and the special-niche "incubators," such as
Integrated Systems and Electronic Arts.
   "I'm looking for companies who understand the world has
changed" during the seven-year bear market for technology,
says Mr. McNamee. The flood of venture capital that poured
into companies a decade ago is now a trickle. Demand for
personal computers has slowed to a crawl. Gone, he says, are
the days of 100% average annual revenue growth.
   "It's no longer appropriate for companies to sacrifice
{profit} margins to maximize revenue growth," he says. He
wants companies with big, secure market shares that can
deliver steady, reasonable rates of return.
   Earnings growth of 15% to 20% is reasonable, he says, even
for an industry accustomed to much higher rates. While
retailers, for instance, are struggling under huge debt
burdens, Mr. McNamee says his "new leaders" are secure in
their markets, have little debt and generate cash.
   "I'm not forecasting a bull market in technology," Mr.
McNamee cautions, "but I do think there's above-average
opportunity for investors."
   Among his stock picks:
   Sun Microsystems: Shares of the Mountain View, Calif.,
maker of high-performance desktop computers plunged last year
to 15 when it stumbled on a new product transition. Mr.
McNamee praises its transition in the past nine months from a
rapid grower of revenue with deteriorating profit margins to
a company that last week reported a gross profit margin of
48%, the highest in 18 months.
   Oracle Systems: "Its 25% to 30% growth rate will seem like
a vacation compared to what they were doing before," he says.
At 15 1/2 a share, the stock looks cheap in terms of the
$1.30 a share Mr. McNamee predicts the Belmont, Calif.,
marketer of database management will earn in fiscal 1991.
   Chips &amp; Technologies: "I'm being paid to wait," Mr.
McNamee says. The semiconductor maker's stock recently fell
to 16 from 22 after the company said earnings would be below
expectations. He thinks the company's franchise, cloning
microchips, is secure and the stock is inexpensive in view of
his fiscal 1991 earnings forecast of $2.21 a share.
   Autodesk: Earnings of the Sausalito, Calif., maker of
design and drafting software for architects and engineers
have been growing at about 50% a year. That rate will slow to
33% a year, Mr. McNamee says, but that's much better than
average. He estimates fiscal 1991 earnings of $2.50 a share.
   Integrated Systems: A recent initial public offering, this
company makes software largely for use in the auto industry,
such as in anti-lock braking systems and fuel-injection
systems. A "concept" stock with little history, Mr. McNamee
cautions that it's expensive at 40. But its product improves
auto makers' productivity and will be in demand, he predicts.
   Electronic Arts: The San Mateo, Calif., maker of games
used in personal computers should see revenue growth of about
30% a year, he says. It recently announced a licensing
agreement with Nintendo of America Inc.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The over-the-counter market slipped, as futures-related
program selling on the New York Stock Exchange set the tone.
The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 3.08 to 417.98, down 0.73%
for the day and 1.8% for the week.
   TPI Enterprises ended unchanged at 6 3/4 on more than 6.8
million shares after a 3.5 million-share block of the New
York-based restaurant and theater owners changed hands. Late
Thursday, Alltel Corp. sold the block, 16% of TPI's total
common shares outstanding, to S.G. Warburg Securities, which
placed it Friday with two dozen institutions.
   Telebit finished unchanged at 11 1/2 on more than 2.3
million shares. The Mountain View, Calif., computer modem
maker's initial public offering of 2,090,000 shares was
priced late Thursday at $10 each.
   Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream rose 2 1/2 to 32 1/2 after the
Oakland, Calif., company reported net income for the first
quarter of 24 cents a share, up from 17 cents a share a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lithuanians Try to Keep a Stiff Upper Lip
   ---
   Soviet Squeeze Prompts
   Defiance -- and Reflection
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. -- Ever since Lithuanian authorities
started rationing gasoline last week, black marketeers at the
openair bazaar on the edge of town have been doing a roaring
trade, even though they risk two years in jail and fines up
to $8,000 if they are caught.
   One afternoon, six of them chat and joke by their cars,
falling silent as a burly Russian with a walrus moustache
approaches. "How much?" he asks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Seventy," one replies.
   That's ridiculous, says the Russian, a foreman at a local
furniture factory. "Two days ago, it cost 50." The black
marketeer shrugs and turns back to his colleagues. "That's
what happens if Lithuania gets independence," the Russian
mutters, walking away empty-handed. "Prices will go up every
half hour."
   Seven weeks after Lithuania's elected parliament declared
independence, the people of this tiny Baltic republic are
beginning to pay the price. As economic sanctions imposed by
Moscow start to bite, gasoline at $25 a gallon is a taste of
further hardship. Ten thousand people are out of jobs or
taking unpaid leaves, and tens of thousands more could become
unemployed as factories close because of shortages of fuel
and parts.
   In Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and other Soviet republics,
people would riot over less. But so far, most Lithuanians
display a calm bordering on stoicism. They are proud of their
government's defiance of Moscow, and insist they are prepared
to suffer for it. Just beneath the surface, however, lurks a
nagging feeling of uncertainty as many now quietly admit that
what started out as a fairy tale might not have a happy
ending.
   "People just don't know what will happen next," says Ona
Matulioniene, a 72-year-old pensioner who spent eight years
in a Siberian prison camp after the Soviets annexed Lithuania
in 1940. "How will our children and grandchildren live?"
   Last week, the Vilnius plastics plant where Mrs.
Matulioniene works as a part-time cleaner sent a truckload of
piping to a customer in Leningrad. When the driver arrived,
filling stations there took one look at his Lithuanian
license plates and refused to fill his tank. "The Soviets
aren't gentlemen," says Gintautas Andriunas, an official at
the plant. "It's rather ridiculous."
   The government thinks so, too. As it scrambles to find
ways to beat the blockade, it is sending out a cheerful,
upbeat message. Rather than venting anger at Mikhail
Gorbachev, officials prefer to gently ridicule his strong-arm
tactics.
   "Whoever gave orders for an economic blockade of Lithuania
should be nominated for one of the republic's major awards,"
says Romualdas Ozolas, the deputy prime minister. "A new
economic system is being formed in Lithuania."
   (Yesterday, however, there was a conciliatory signal from
Moscow. The Associated Press quoted Vilnius Radio as saying
that the Soviet Union unexpectedly eased part of its economic
blockade against Lithuania, almost doubling the amount of
natural gas flowing to the republic.)
   In the absence of a compromise with Moscow -- and of
support from the West -- the Lithuanians are pinning their
hopes on potential allies in the other Soviet republics.
Managers and government officials are busy contacting
suppliers and customers throughout the union, hoping to
establish direct trade ties that circumvent the central
planners in Moscow. Vilnius says it would even be prepared to
pay hard currency for Soviet supplies of oil.
   "I'm sure the blockade will resolve itself in a happy way
for Lithuania and the Soviet Union, too," Mr. Ozolas says.
"Of course," he adds, "I'm a philosopher, not an economist."
   The government, in fact, has more than its fair share of
academics, starting with President Vytautas Landsbergis, a
rumpled music professor. At times, occupying the moral high
ground can seem just as important to them as surviving the
nail-biting battle of nerves with Moscow.
   Emerging from a lengthy session of the government's
anti-blockade commission, Prime Minister Kazimiera Prunskiene
is collared by a Lithuanian journalist who has a couple of
tricky suggestions. During World War II, Hitler forged
British money in an effort to destabilize its economy. Why
doesn't Lithuania do the same to the Soviet Union, the
journalist asks. And why doesn't it ask Lithuanian women to
donate their wedding rings to be melted down and sold abroad
for precious hard currency?
   Mrs. Prunskiene, a 47-year-old economist dubbed
Lithuania's Margaret Thatcher, grins. Lithuania would rather
print its own currency, she says. As for the rings,
"Lithuanian men aren't going to let women donate all their
jewelry."
   Behind the scenes, the Lithuanians can be pragmatists.
Officials have spent two weeks knocking on doors in Moscow,
signaling a willingness to compromise on at least part of
their independence declaration. Though they refuse to tear it
up, there is talk of a suspension in return for the start of
formal independence negotiations. The chances of a diplomatic
solution along these lines received a boost after West German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl and President Francois Mitterrand of
France made a similar plea over the weekend.
   Hard-line Lithuanian activists reject any retreat from
their independence drive. "It would mean jail again,"
complained Donatas Davicsa, a bearded campaigner from the
Lithuanian Freedom League, during a small protest rally
outside Parliament. As a U.S. television camera spots him, he
holds up a placard, which declares: "Freedom is light for
wich (sic) many have died in darkness."
   Vytautas Zemaitis is less critical. He has spent an hour
sitting in his battered green Moskvich auto, waiting in line
for his monthly quota of seven gallons of gasoline. The
blockade is "a good lesson," he says. "Self-awareness is very
important." Turning effusive, he adds, "In the month we have
had our independence, we have crossed out all the propaganda
we have had to put up with for 40 years."
   Little seems amiss during a stroll around town. There are
fewer private cars than normal and buses are crammed. Several
traffic lights have been switched off to save energy, but a
big neon sign by the town center flashes news headlines and
commercials. As ever, stores are much better stocked with
food and clothes than the ones in Moscow and prices in the
market haven't risen much. Though the Soviets have cut back
sharply on deliveries of natural gas, which most Lithuanians
use for heat and cooking, there is still enough to live on.
   It's a different story at industrial plants in town.
Supplies of natural gas, ball bearings and metal have been
slashed at the factory that makes parts for diesel-tractor
engines, forcing the shutdown of some lines. Two hundred of
the 7,000 workers have taken their vacation early.
   On a line churning out fuel pumps, Algis Tetravicius
shouts above the din of machinery. "Of course I support
Lithuanian independence," he says, wiping his hands on his
grimy blue overalls. But faced with the prospect of
unemployment, he has some doubts about the ability of the
republic's leadership to end the crisis. "Landsbergis is not
so good," he frets. "He's a philosopher."
   The engine plant, however, is one reason why Mr.
Landsbergis and other officials are convinced a prolonged
Soviet economic blockade will backfire. It is the sole
supplier of certain key parts for Soviet engines. If it stops
functioning, two big tractor factories in Minsk and Vladimir
will grind to a standstill, says Alfonsas Spudis, the deputy
director of the plant. The Soviets won't be able to shift to
imports because the parts are made to special Soviet
specifications, he says.
   As a result, Mr. Spudis says that even as Mr. Gorbachev
tightens the economic blockade of Lithuania, the ministry for
autos and tractors in Moscow is trying to break it, arranging
for deliveries of key materials to the plant.
   Across town, at the plastics factory, the story is
similar. It sends 80% of its production to Soviet republics.
Now that its energy supply has been cut drastically and
deliveries of polyethylene and polystyrene have ground to a
halt, the plants in the other republics won't be able to keep
operating much longer.
   "I don't understand politics. It's a children's game,"
says Mr. Andriunas, the factory official. Ironically, the few
items the plant can continue producing for some time are
mainly plastic containers sold in Lithuania. They include
sturdy canisters for gasoline. "The trouble is, " Mr.
Andriunas sighs, "There's no gasoline in Lithuania."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brain Child:
   Computer Gets Good
   At Outwitting Experts
   In Ventures Like Chess
   ---
   IBM `Deep Thought' Stresses
   Speed Over Knowledge,
   In Revival of `Brute Force'
   ---
   Training for Champ Kasparov
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAWTHORNE, N.Y. -- The chess grandmaster sits on the
laboratory floor, quietly replaying variations on recent
games. Nearby perch his handlers, boasting of past and future
conquests.
   Although he has beaten some of the world's top players and
is touted to topple world champion Gary Kasparov, this player
never brags.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He can't: He is less than two years old. And he is a
computer.
   Known as Deep Thought, the silicon prodigy is the
offspring of five graduate students from Pittsburgh's
Carnegie Mellon University, long a cradle of artificial
intelligence -- AI, as its practitioners call it. The machine
also challenges the conventional wisdom in an overhyped field
that has long promised, but never delivered, computers that
can "outthink" their human creators.
   Financed by International Business Machines Corp., Deep
Thought comes close to that goal. If IBM's claims prove out,
it will soon exceed the goal. But although it duplicates a
feat that humans generally deem intelligent, Deep Thought
doesn't know much -- and therein lies its significance.
   Deep Thought uses custom-built circuits to sift through a
million possible board positions per second. In 18 months,
with better chess instincts and a specially designed set of
chips, IBM expects to have it considering one billion
possibilities a second.
   This "brute force" approach to AI was largely abandoned 25
years ago in the belief that it is more efficient to beef up
a computer's knowledge than its speed. Now, Deep Thought and
its ilk are turning that approach on its head. Speedy
circuits look like a key to intelligent behavior -- and not
just in chess.
   At Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc. in Waltham, Mass.,
AI pioneer Raymond Kurzweil calls computing horsepower the
magic ingredient that will enable his machines to understand
human speech. Students at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology have used brute force to help identify proteins
and control a robot arm. Carnegie Mellon researchers recently
found that special brute-force circuitry recognizes voice and
image patterns 10 to 100 times faster than traditional
methods.
   "AI grew up in an era when machines were pretty puny,"
says David Waltz of Thinking Machines Inc., a Cambridge,
Mass., maker of special AI-oriented computers. "Powerful
machines like Deep Thought will make everyone re-evaluate
their assumptions."
   Back in the lab, Deep Thought shows why -- as it follows a
match in progress halfway around the world, between former
world champion Anatoly Karpov and Dutch grandmaster Jan
Timman.
   Murray Campbell, a Canadian programmer, keys in Mr.
Karpov's latest move. Faster than you can say "Indian
defense," Deep Thought zips through myriad versions of the
next few moves and isolates combinations that score for Mr.
Timman. Then, it tracks promising scenarios through as many
as 40 sets of moves and countermoves, narrowing its focus
through a process called "singular extension" until it finds
the best outcome. Twenty seconds later, Deep Thought's answer
pops up on a nearby screen. It's the same move Mr. Timman
chooses -- after several minutes.
   "Some people say that brute-force searching isn't `real'
intelligence," muses Edward Fredkin, a computer-science guru
who has offered a $100,000 prize for the first machine to
beat the human world chess champion. "They might just as well
say that flying with an engine isn't real flying because that
isn't how birds do it."
   Patrick Winston, the director of MIT's Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory, concurs. "It's misadvised to suppose
that intelligence will turn out to be one sort of thing," he
says. Using another nonstandard approach to AI, his
colleagues have built robots that aren't very smart but learn
to walk through a trial-and-error process that is eerily
lifelike.
   Though limited in its applications, chess has long been
popular in AI circles because it illustrates a classic
trade-off between knowledge and processing power.
   The average board position offers roughly 35 possible
moves; checking out just the next three moves and
countermoves involves looking at more than one billion
possible positions. Humans, of course, ignore almost all this
"search space" to concentrate on a minuscule number of moves,
the moves that seem promising.
   During the mid-1960s, people became convinced that giving
computers a little knowledge -- telling a sock-finding
machine to ignore sweaters, for example -- would do just as
well as turbocharging them to search faster. Once the very
stuff of AI, searching fell into neglect while researchers
devised software to teach computers human feats such as
rule-following, learning, logic and inference.
   Once that task was accomplished, they promised, computers
would outdo humans in many routine "intelligent" tasks --
guarding buildings, interpreting X-rays, summarizing
documents, steering ships. But progress toward these goals
has been painfully slow: Even the most sophisticated "expert
systems" stumble when faced with the unexpected and are
outperformed by well-trained humans. Nevertheless, many AI
researchers still believe that programming computers with
knowledge is the road to intelligence.
   "Current machines are perfectly adequate," asserts Douglas
Lenat of Microelectronics &amp; Computer Technology Corp., a
Texas research consortium. "The hardware solution is clearly
here. AI is almost completely a matter of software."
   But this view never caught on in computer chess. Instead,
a handful of researchers continued to work on solutions that,
like Deep Thought, use massive number-crunching.
   "There really haven't been many advances in computer chess
for a long time, except speed," says Ken Thompson, a
researcher at American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s Bell
Laboratories and designer of the first chess computer to beat
a master-level player. "You put in the meat, crank the crank
and sausage comes out. People have tried other approaches,
but they always get beaten by brute force."
   This pragmatism is echoed by the Carnegie Mellon team that
built Deep Thought, an extremely powerful machine that
conquered the chess world almost by accident. Like many
prodigies, Deep Thought had humble roots. His father was
little more a testing device for a specialized computer chip
designed by Feng Hsiung Hsu, a disheveled, Taiwan-born
computer-science graduate student. But "Chiptest" started
beating highly rated chess computers, Mr. Hsu recalls, "and
somehow we got ambitious."
   With four other graduate students who had worked on
Chiptest, Mr. Hsu scrounged parts from other projects and
designed a machine that best used the team's limited chess
expertise. Built with only $5,000 of equipment, Deep Thought
was born in May 1988. Almost immediately, the Hsu team became
the frontrunner in the race to wrest the world chess title
away from Gary Kasparov with a computer.
   Nearly two years later, Mr. Hsu sits below a board listing
Deep Thought's "scalps," including Bent Larsen, the first
grandmaster ever to be beaten by a computer; former U.S.
champion Robert Byrne, who writes on chess for the New York
Times; and former British champion Tony Miles.
   On the U.S. Chess Federation scale, which is based on whom
you have managed to beat, Deep Thought is rated at 2,552 and
has performed lately at about 2,650, which would make him, if
human, a grandmaster. But he still is nearly 300 points below
Mr. Kasparov, who whipped him last October and recently
became the highest-rated player in history.
   Even so, Deep Thought is good enough to stomp on all but
about 200 players world-wide. He recently gave Mr. Karpov,
Mr. Kasparov's perennial challenger, a scare during an
exhibition game in Boston. Deep Thought could have drawn that
game but threw away the opportunity by failing to realize
that sacrificing some pieces could have yielded long-term
benefits.
   Such blind spots have taught the Deep Thought team that
they can't depend on brute force alone. Even checking a
million positions a second, Deep Thought's special hardware
usually looks only 10 moves and countermoves into the future.
Thus, it sometimes misses the long-range impact of his
choices.
   Not that it is stupid: Along with special searching
techniques, Deep Thought is programmed with quite a bit of
chess knowledge. It knows, for example, that a piece usually
is worth more when it is in the center of the board. Right
now, it may use such knowledge to follow certain sequences
through as many as 40 sets of moves and countermoves; in the
future, this horizon will extend to 60 sets.
   And soon, it will get another infusion of knowledge. Maxim
Dlugy, a grandmaster and one of the top 10 U.S. players, is
helping Mr. Campbell develop new opening strategies and
evaluation procedures. By year-end, Mr. Campbell says, Deep
Thought should be rated around 2,700.
   But brute force will continue to be the machine's forte.
Mr. Hsu says a single next-generation chip will be five times
as fast as Deep Thought's current pair of chips and will have
a rating between 2,800 and 2,900. Hooking 1,000 of these
chips together will increase even that speed by a factor of
200. That's enough, in theory, to raise the machine's rating
to about 3,500 -- more than enough to challenge the common
wisdom about the trade-off between knowledge and search.
   The new machine will cost IBM about $300,000 in equipment,
Mr. Hsu says, and will probably be different enough from Deep
Thought to merit a new name. (Leading candidate: Blue Chip.)
The souped-up hardware, he thinks, will make victory over Mr.
Kasparov all but inevitable.
   More significant, Mr. Fredkin says, will be Deep Thought's
role in the overthrow of AI's 25-year software fixation.
"It's purely a matter of evolution," agrees Carnegie Mellon's
Raj Reddy, director of the university's robotics institute.
   Within a few years, Mr. Reddy predicts, Deep Thought's
type of brute force will solve such mature AI problems as
computer vision, speech recognition, language understanding
and knowledge processing. Already, Carnegie Mellon has built
a car that drives itself by using television cameras for
eyes. Brute-force circuits process the visual information and
rapidly search video frames for threats and obstacles. If
researchers were to tackle the same task with conventional AI
software, Mr. Reddy says, the programming would take forever
-- and the car would probably move at a snail's pace.
   At Mr. Kurzweil's firm, researchers found that computers
equipped with conventional AI can understand human speech
only if the speaker pauses between words. To understand
normal speech, as well as different accents and slurred
words, they must emulate Deep Thought and "throw a lot of
computer at it," Mr. Kurzweil says.
   And Randal Moulic, who oversees IBM's Deep Thought team,
says brute force also will prove invaluable for huge
scheduling problems, such as those at airlines. Juggling
hundreds of planes among many destinations -- and lots of
gates at those destinations -- generates as many
possibilities as Deep Thought faces in chess.
   Luckily, Deep Thought has proved that brute force is
relatively cheap. "We are talking about a world where someone
with a Cray (supercomputer) can get blown away by a few
graduate students from Carnegie Mellon," Mr. Moulic says.
   Indeed, Hans Berliner, a leading Carnegie Mellon computer
scientist and inventor of a chess computer ranked second only
to Deep Thought, thinks that the government should try to
transfer the chess talents of specialized brute-force
circuitry to areas of national importance. Candidates for
such an approach, according to Mr. Berliner, are other
problems with large "search spaces." Molecular structure,
weather forecasting and human genetics top his list.
   "If Mr. Hsu's chip were focused on some real-world problem
rather than chess, it would already be worth a fortune," he
says. "IBM isn't doing this for the fun of it."
   But IBM's Deep Thought team members -- a third Carnegie
Mellonite, Thomas Anatharaman, has joined Messrs. Hsu and
Campbell at the company's Hawthorne facility -- say they
don't much care about debates in the AI world. They just want
to beat Mr. Kasparov. While visiting New York, the
27-year-old Soviet genius generously praises the progress
made by computers. But he is too cocky to believe a machine
will defeat him soon. "Chess is intuition, it's in your
head," he says. "How can a computer copy this process? Even I
don't know how I do it."
   However, he worries that eventually a computer may triumph
by outlasting him and making fewer mistakes. The oldest he
wants to be when he next does battle, he says, is 30. "That
is the key in playing a computer, to be young and strong," he
explains. "The computer is always young and strong."
   Mr. Kasparov says his next face-off with a computer --
probably the 1,000-chip version of Deep Thought -- will be
"the most exciting challenge I will face," and he talks of
defending the honor of the human race. But even if he loses,
he won't be impressed by the brute-force approach.
   "I am not afraid to lose to such a computer," he says. "I
am more afraid of what people will lose by working only on
such computers. You could lose your soul with such a
computer."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Home Owners Is Put
   In Conservatorship
   By Thrift Regulators
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HFS HNCP
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Federal thrift regulators took over the
Burlington, Mass., headquarters of Home Owners Savings Bank,
and a smaller Massachusetts bank disclosed that it is seeking
assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision placed Home Owners under
government conservatorship and appointed Resolution Trust
Corp. to manage the institution -- the first such action in
Massachusetts since the passage of the thrift bailout law.
Conservatorship allows the institution to conduct business.
But it is often a prelude to a government-assisted sale or
liquidation. With $3.6 billion in assets, Home Owners is one
of the biggest thrifts in New England.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, the Office of Thrift Supervision said it placed
Home Owners under conservatorship because it "was operating
in an unsafe and unsound manner." The company is a former
high-flying institution that built a nationwide
mortgage-banking operation in the 1980s. The agency said Home
Owners had tangible capital of negative $106.3 million as of
Dec. 31.
   Meanwhile, Home National Corp. of Milford, Mass., said it
expects a $4.8 million first-quarter loss to reduce its
shareholders' equity to a deficit of at least $4.1 million. A
spokesman for Home National, which has $486 million in
assets, said the bank's proposal calls for shareholders to
"retain a percentage of the company." But the company
wouldn't provide further details. An FDIC spokesman said the
agency hasn't made a decision on the request.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global Airline Fares
   Rose an Average 6%
   In Year, ICAO Says
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- International passenger airline fares rose an
average 6% in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, 1989, the
International Civil Aviation Organization said.
   The Montreal-based international agency said its estimates
are for normal economy fares priced in local currencies.
Expressed in U.S. dollars, international fares rose 1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ICAO said that passenger fares on international routes
rose 10% within the Asia/Pacific region, 6% on North Atlantic
routes, 7% within Europe, and 9% within North America. ICAO
said the average normal economy fare for an international
route of 3,300 kilometers was $548.
   ICAO said international general cargo rates for shipments
under 45 kilograms rose an average 2% in the period. ICAO
said general cargo rates on international routes rose 6%
within the Asia/Pacific region, 1% on North Atlantic routes,
and 9% within North America. ICAO said the average cargo rate
on an international route of 3,900 kilometers was $4.64 per
kilogram for shipments under 45 kilograms.
   Separately, ICAO said it estimates that the world's
scheduled airlines as a group earned operating profit of 4.7%
of total operating revenues in 1989, compared with 6.1% of
revenues in 1988.
   ICAO said it estimates operating revenues for scheduled
airlines were $182.5 billion last year, up 10% from $166.2
billion in 1988. ICAO statistics exclude domestic airline
operations in the Soviet Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norton Expects Net
   To Triple This Year
   SEC Filing Shows
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Norton Co. expects net income to more than
triple in 1990 to $346.1 million as sales increase 4.6% to
$1.6 billion, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
   The filing was made by Cie. de Saint Gobain S.A. in
connection with the French glassmaker's $1.9 billion, or $90
a share, tender offer for all of Norton's shares outstanding.
Norton, a Worchester, Mass., maker of abrasives, ceramics and
other products, agreed last week to be acquired by
Saint-Gobain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The filing said Norton's projected 1990 net income figure
includes, among other things, a $249 million gain on the sale
of its Eastman Christensen operation. For 1989, Norton had
net of $105.1 million, or $5.02 a share, on sales of $1.53
billion.
   To fund the acquisition, Saint-Gobain said it plans to
obtain $900 million through borrowings under a 1987 credit
facility with banks including Banque Nationale de Paris. A
further $600 million will be obtained through a 1988 facility
with banks including Chemical Bank, while the remainder of
the $1.9 billion purchase price will be taken from its
general corporate funds, the company said.
   Saint-Gobain said it has agreed to pay its financial
adviser, Lazard Freres &amp; Co., $6 million in connection with
the offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Consumers' Big Role
   Gets Even Bigger
   ----
   By Henry F. Myers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Consumer spending has long accounted for about
two-thirds of the nation's gross national product. But with
plant-and-equipment outlays rising only modestly, exports
unlikely to surge and government at all levels forced to hold
down expenditures, consumption may play a bigger-than-ever
role in determining whether America's 7 1/2-year expansion
can keep going.
   Economists at WEFA Group, a Philadelphia consulting firm,
estimate that "roughly 75% of the growth in 1990 will be
accounted for by consumer spending, and three-quarters of
that will be solely due to growth in expenditures on consumer
services."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, the consumer, as an economic forecaster,
produces. Fabian Linden, the executive director of the
Conference Board's Consumer Research Center, says its
consumer confidence index has often signaled turning points
accurately. He notes, for example, that a special survey
shortly after the October 1987 stock-market crash indicated,
in contrast to many forecasts, that the economy wouldn't
plunge into a recession. And it didn't.
                                                                                                       

   So, what are consumers saying now? Clearly, they are
cautious. Their spending rose 0.4% in February, mostly
because of rising prices. "In real terms, consumer spending
was flat," economists at Merrill Lynch comment. "After
adjusting for inflation, spending on durable goods declined
2.9% because car sales weakened substantially. Spending on
nondurables was up 0.3%, and spending on services rose 0.8%."
                                                                                                       

   When it comes to retail sales alone (excluding services),
the message is particularly scrambled. They were distorted by
unusually cold weather in December and unusually warm weather
subsequently. In addition, auto sales have been driven up and
down by buyer-incentive programs.
   In March, retail sales fell 0.6%. However, Edward Yardeni,
an economist at Prudential-Bache Securities, notes that their
"January jump was so big that the first quarter's sales
average was 10% above the fourth quarter's average, at an
annual rate."
   What determines consumer spending?
   Above all, consumers tend to spend if they have the money.
So, their spending is strongly influenced by the level of
economic activity -- much as that activity is influenced by
consumer spending. And as employment in the relatively stable
service industries bulks larger and larger in the economy,
personal-income numbers should become more and more stable.
   Right now, the numbers are reassuring. Personal income
rose 0.7% in January and 0.9% in February. Further gains seem
likely. In March, civilian unemployment fell to 5.2%, and
workers' weekly earnings, adjusted for inflation, rose 0.1%.
                                                                                                       

   Looking ahead, the forecasters surveyed monthly by Blue
Chip Economic Indicators recently raised their consensus
forecast for inflation-adjusted growth in 1990 GNP to 1.9%.
For disposable personal income, they now expect a 2.2% gain.
And they predict 2.3% increases in both statistics next year.
                                                                                                       

   However, "in addition to growth in total personal income,"
Reeder's Economic Digest observes, "consumers' spending
decisions are influenced by the rate of inflation, the level
of interest rates, the amount of installment debt they
already have, and factors such as whether or not auto
manufacturers are offering rebates." Mr. Linden, commenting
on "the stuff that shapes the consumer's view of the
economy," cites such things as "more or fewer overtime hours
on the job than the week before, the expansion or contraction
of their plant's night shift, rumor that the company's back
orders are strong or weak."
   Of such factors, the WEFA economists conclude that
"consumer confidence is most closely tied to inflation.
Hence, unless there is a sharp rise in inflation, there will
not be a decline in confidence of the magnitude or duration
that preceded previous recessions in the past 25 years."
   The March report on consumer prices showed a disquieting
upswing in inflationary pressure. Even earlier, Norman
Robertson, the chief economist at Mellon Bank, warned that
"recent income gains have been eroded by rising prices.
Adjusted for inflation, wages and salaries are now rising at
a yearly rate of about 2.5%, well under the 3.7% pace
registered during 1989.
   "Moreover," he added, "consumers are spending less of
their income. The personal savings rate is currently in the
vicinity of 5.5%, somewhat below the historical norm but
significantly above the average of 4% reported in the late
1980s."
                                                                                                       

   The growth in consumer installment debt has slowed. In
February, it rose at only a 5.7% annual rate, the smallest
increase since last October. Revolving credit, largely bank
cards and retail borrowing, grew at a mere 2.9% annual rate.
Consumer-loan delinquencies are rising, and lenders have
grown wary.
                                                                                                       

   Consumers' currently conservative stance, if not carried
too far, seems beneficial. "They are building a foundation
for maintaining spending at current or higher levels," says
Alexander P. Paris of Barrington Research Associates.
   And apparently becoming a bit more confident. The
Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose last month,
in the first significant gain in five months -- though it
remained well below the March 1989 reading. "In looking
ahead," Mr. Linden says, "people are now more optimistic than
in the first two months of the year."
   That confidence suggests that consumers will keep
bolstering economic growth for the foreseeable future -- at
least until they are hit by some unexpected economic blow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Boston Is Put
   On S&amp;P CreditWatch
   In Wake of Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. placed certain debt
and preferred stock of Bank of Boston Corp. on CreditWatch
with negative implications, following the company's report
Thursday of a 50% drop in first-quarter earnings.
   S&amp;P said the first-quarter results "indicate that asset
quality continues to deteriorate, resulting in risk-adjusted
capital levels that are low relative to peers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ratings under review include those for the company's
triple-B-plus senior debt, triple-B subordinated debt,
triple-B-minus preferred stock, and single-A-2 commercial
paper. Also on CreditWatch are First National Bank of
Boston's single-A-minus/single-A-2 letter of credit-backed
issues and certificates of deposit, and single-A-2 commercial
paper programs of units Boston Australia Ltd. and Bank of
Boston Canada, which are fully guaranteed by First National
Bank of Boston.
   About $800 million of debt is affected.
   The ratings will remain on CreditWatch "until S&amp;P meets
with Bank of Boston's management to discuss asset quality and
capital issues," the rating agency said. The bank's senior
debt rating is expected to remain in investment grade, "even
if an adverse rating action is made subsequent to the
management discussions," S&amp;P said.
   A Bank of Boston spokesman said the company is "obviously
disappointed that Standard &amp; Poor's has put us on their watch
list. We expect to be meeting with the agency very soon to
discuss the details of our banking operations and help
alleviate their concerns."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Stora Kopparbergs Obtains
   86% of Feldmuehle Nobel
   ----
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   S.STO G.FDN S.INV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB ended
weeks of intensive bargaining by capturing West German
pulp-and-paper giant Feldmuehle Nobel AG in the biggest
international takeover to date by a Scandinavian company.
   Stora and its two biggest owners -- Wallenberg group
holding companies AB Investor and AB Providentia -- said they
acquired 86% of Feldmuehle's shares outstanding and intend to
seek full control through a public tender offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stora and its allies paid an average price of 567 marks
($337) a share, valuing the whole of Feldmuehle at 3.97
billion marks ($2.36 billion). If the offer succeeds, Stora
expects to keep 75% of Feldmuehle with Investor and
Providentia holding 25%.
   The transaction is subject to review by West Germany's
antitrust agency. But Stora's legal advisers said they don't
expect objections.
   The acquisition would cement Stora's position as Europe's
biggest pulp-and-paper concern -- and vault the Swedish
concern to a position of global leadership. Stora claims the
expanded concern would be the world's biggest producer of
printing paper and market pulp -- and No. 4 world-wide in
overall pulp and paper capacity, trailing the U.S.'s Stone
Container Corp., but roughly equal with two other U.S.
concerns, Georgia-Pacific Corp. and International Paper Co.
   "Consolidation among domestic forestry companies is nearly
finished in Sweden, Finland and the U.S.," said Stora's chief
executive officer, Bo Berggren. "Now we're seeing the same
process get under way on a global scale."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Is Warned
   About Federal
   Home Loan Banks
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thrift regulators and Congress should be wary of further
erosions of the earnings of the Federal Home Loan Banks,
according to separate warnings from the president of the
Dallas bank and thrift analysts at Salomon Brothers Inc.
   "A further drop in the (banks') dividend yield and, in
turn, the value of (bank) stock could have horrendous
implications for the savings institutions we cover," Salomon
Brothers analysts Bruce Harting and Susan Silverstein said in
a report.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thrifts, which own stock in the 12 regional banks equal to
at least 1% of their mortgages outstanding, count the
holdings as part of the tangible net worth they must maintain
to stave off regulatory actions. As dividend yields have
fallen, many of the thrifts have been reducing their holdings
in the Federal Home Loan Banks.
   Part of the decline in dividend yields is caused by a
ceiling imposed by the banks' regulatory board. The ceiling
is roughly one percentage point above the federal funds rate,
placing the current dividend yields between 8.2% and 8.5%.
The funds rate is what banks charge each other on overnight
loans.
   But yields are also suffering from provisions of the
federal thrift-bailout legislation that took effect in
August. Among those provisions is a requirement that the
Federal Home Loan Banks contribute $300 million annually,
regardless of earnings, to pay for the cost of failed
thrifts.
   In addition, the banks are watching their major source of
revenue -- loans, or advances, to member thrifts -- dry up as
thrifts cut borrowings in an effort to shrink to meet the
law's stringent capital standards. The decrease in borrowings
is also helping push down dividend yields.
   "As this bank shrinks, it is going to be more and more
difficult to pay reasonable dividends," said George Barclay,
president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas. For the
first time, the Dallas bank will tap a reserve fund to keep
its dividend yield at about 8.5% for the second quarter, he
said.
   Mr. Barclay said the Dallas bank has fed the reserve by
deliberately keeping dividends low during the past several
quarters to counteract the loss of revenue as borrowings by
member thrifts decline. Advances from the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Dallas fell from a peak of $27.5 billion in June 1989
to the current level of about $19 billion, Mr. Barclay said.
   Other more-profitable banks, such as the one in San
Francisco, had been paying member thrifts substantially
higher dividend yields than the Dallas bank. But that has
ended. The San Francisco bank dropped its yield from about
12% in early 1989 to the current rate of about 8.5%.
   "The real concern about this is that net worth be
preserved," said Ray Martin, chairman and chief executive
officer of Coast Savings Financial Inc., parent of Coast
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Los Angeles. Coast Savings is a
shareholder of the San Francisco Federal Home Loan Bank.
   Mr. Martin said Coast has reduced the amount of its
holdings in the San Francisco bank by about $240 million to
about $100 million. Those holdings represent about 49% of
Coast's tangible net worth, according to the Salomon Brothers
report.
   Coast isn't concerned as long as Congress and the
regulators don't do anything to erode the earnings of the
Federal Home Loan Banks further, Mr. Martin said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Futures Trading in London
   And New York Is Cut Short
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Trading in London and New York futures markets
was cut short Friday because of a communications breakdown in
New York and by a bomb scare on one London exchange.
   Late Friday, a spokesman for the Commodity Exchange
Center, which directs operations of the five futures
exchanges here, said that technicians had "sidestepped an
electric short in the distribution system. We have not yet
solved the problem but we are operational at the moment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said the problem was expected to be corrected by the
opening of trading today. Computers were functioning
properly, but the problem was in the network that sends
information out to customers' price-quotation tickers, he
said.
   The five exchanges affected here are the Commodity
Exchange, the Coffee, Sugar &amp; Cocoa Exchange, the New York
Cotton Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and the New
York Futures Exchange. All ceased trading about 90 minutes
earlier than usual.
   On the London Futures and Options Exchange, trading had
hardly begun when it was stopped by a bomb scare. The
exchange reopened at 2:30 p.m. London time, to have a closing
call. The exchange trades coffee, sugar, cocoa and gas
(heating) oil futures.
   New York analysts and dealers said it was the first time
they can recall trading being disrupted in both New York and
London futures markets on the same day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Broad Inc. Net Rose
   22% in Second Period
   To Total $9.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BRO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Broad Inc. said fiscal second-quarter net
income rose 22% to $9.9 million, or 30 cents a share, as the
first profits from Broad's acquisition of Integrated
Resources Inc.'s core financial services businesses boosted
profit.
   Eli Broad, chairman and chief executive officer, said he
expects net for the year ending Sept. 30 to be in line with
analysts' estimates of $1.20 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Broad based his projection on sharply reduced overhead
expenses as a result of the company's consolidating and
computerizing its back-office operations here and a higher
level of both investment and fee income on increased assets.
They include about $4 billion of annuity reserves and assets
under management acquired from Integrated in January.
   "We're looking forward to continued revenue and profit
increases as all the things we've done in the last two years
come on line," said Mr. Broad. "We're just starting to get
the benefits."
   The back-office operations will be completely computerized
by September, he said. Broad has spent about $15 million in
the past 18 months to install laser-imaging equipment that
"eliminates over 90% of the paper we have to handle."
   The company's earnings in the period ended March 31
exceeded those of any quarter since Broad was transformed
into a financial-service concern in March 1989 through a
restructuring of the former Kaufman &amp; Broad Inc. In 1989's
second quarter, Broad had net of $8.1 million, or 25 cents a
share.
   Broad primarily sells tax-deferred, single premium
annuities. Annuity buyers pay the company a lump sum at
purchase in return for the company's repayment of principal
plus interest, usually at a much later date.
   The company's operating profit before investment losses
rose 56%, to $13.1 million from $8.4 million; investment
losses were about $5.1 million, compared with $459,000. The
year-ago quarter included a $675,000 gain on the corporate
restructuring.
   In the first half, net was $13.2 million, or 40 cents a
share, compared with a net loss of $11.2 million, or 37 cents
a share, a year earlier. The earlier result included $27
million in charges related to the restructuring.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ConAgra Unit Forms
   Barge Joint Venture
   With Japanese Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAG J.CIT
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OMAHA, Neb. -- ConAgra Inc. said its ConAgra Grain Cos.
unit formed a joint venture with Consolidated Grain &amp; Barge
Co., under which the two concerns will merge their barge and
tow-boat operations.
   ConAgra, a food company, said it will hold an 80% stake in
the newly formed company, Superior Barge Lines Inc. The new
company will combine ConAgra's 570 barges, which transport
grain from river terminals in the middle of the U.S. to
export grain elevators, with Consolidated Grain's
approximately 550 barges. Financial terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For ConAgra, the deal lifts its river-barge fleet from a
midsized concern to among the largest. For Consolidated --
which was acquired in 1988 by Japanese trading house C. Itoh
&amp; Co. and Zen-Noh, a Japanese farm co-operative -- the
transaction appears designed to allay legal headaches over
ownership of the barge operations. A statute known as the
Jones Act sharply constrains foreign ownership of marine
assets, and some Consolidated Grain competitors had raised
that issue following the company's acquisition by the
Japanese buyers.
   Consolidated Grain also operates some 40 U.S. grain
terminals; those operations aren't involved in the plan with
ConAgra. Consolidated Grain officials weren't available to
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Charges Dismissed
   Against Defense Consultant
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal judge dismissed conspiracy and
fraud charges against Thomas Muldoon, a defense-industry
consultant already convicted on separate charges stemming
from his role in the Pentagon bribery and procurement
scandal.
   Judge Albert Bryan in Alexandria, Va., dismissed last
month's indictment of Mr. Muldoon for allegedly funneling
sensitive bid-related information to major defense
contractors. In his ruling, Judge Bryan agreed with defense
motions that prosecutors may have unfairly singled out Mr.
Muldoon for tough treatment by seeking a second round of
felony charges against him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Muldoon, who has consistently refused to cooperate
with prosecutors, is appealing his earlier conviction and
27-month prison sentence on charges of scheming to bribe a
Navy acquisition official.
   Prosecutors have described Mr. Muldoon as an important
player in the procurement scandal, dubbed "Operation Ill
Wind." The government contends that the second indictment was
proper because it dealt with a separate conspiracy and a
different set of government and industry officials than those
mentioned in Mr. Muldoon's earlier indictment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Revco D.C. Inc.:
   Chain Will Sell 221 Stores
   To Reliable Holdings Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Revco D.C. Inc. said in Twinsburg, Ohio, that it agreed to
sell 221 of its stores to Reliable Holdings Corp., which was
formed by Acadia Partners Limited Partnership and the
management of Reliable Drug Stores Inc. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The drugstore chain announced in January that it would
seek buyers for 712 of its 1,873 stores as part of a
corporate reorganization. The company filed for bankruptcy
court protection in July 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction with Reliable Holdings is subject to
approval by a U.S. bankruptcy court. If the plan is approved,
Revco would sell all its stores in Illinois, Iowa, Indiana,
Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri and western Tennessee.
   Acadia Partners is a Fort Worth, Texas-based partnership
that includes Robert M. Bass. Last year a group led by the
Texas billionaire made an unsuccessful $925 million offer for
all of Revco.
   Reliable Drug Stores is a drugstore chain based in
Indianapolis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Foreign Exchange Curbs
   Are Eliminated in Italy
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Foreign Trade Minister Renato Ruggiero
said the free flow of capital to and from Italy will help
force the Italian government to reduce the public-sector
deficit.
   Mr. Ruggiero signed a decree Friday to lift on May 14 all
of Italy's remaining foreign exchange restrictions, ahead of
the June 30 deadline of the European Community to abolish
barriers to crossborder capital flows.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He likened Friday's move to Italy's decision in 1979 to
join the European Monetary System (EMS). "The entrance of our
currency in the EMS created the premise for winning the
battle against inflation and to give competitiveness to our
country that wasn't based on currency devaluations," he said
in a telephone interview from Rome.
   The measure will allow Italians to open foreign bank
accounts, hold foreign currency in domestic accounts and
borrow foreign currency from domestic banks. Mr. Ruggiero
said the foreign exchange liberalization will be followed by
measures to bring savings taxes in line with those of Italy's
European partners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Monsanto's Searle Canada
   Gives Ulcer Research Grant
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- G.D. Searle &amp; Co.'s Canadian unit awarded a
research grant of one million Canadian dollars (US$860,000)
to a University of Calgary research team that responded to a
Searle scientific challenge in Canadian newspapers.
   In full-page advertisements in several Canadian newspapers
last year, Searle invited proposals for a new, simple
technique of detecting stomach ulcers caused by arthritis
medicines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chicago-based Searle, a unit of Monsanto Co., St. Louis,
is believed to be the first drug company to use newspaper ads
for such a purpose, a spokeswoman for Searle Canada Inc.
said. Research solicitations usually are made in medical and
scientific publications. Searle's ads drew 125 inquiries, and
detailed proposals were requested from 11 of the respondents.
These were assessed by a panel of independent scientists,
which unanimously recommended the University of Calgary
team's submission.
   The Calgary team's proposal involves a blood or urine test
for detecting stomach damage caused by arthritis medicines.
Now, the main method of identifying or confirming such
stomach damage is a costly and uncomfortable procedure called
endoscopy, which involves inserting a tube down a patient's
throat into the stomach.
   Arthritis medicines damage cells that line the stomach,
giving rise to substances that may be detected with blood or
urine tests, the University of Calgary team said. The team's
members include Drs. Jonathan Meddings, John Wallace and
Lloyd Sutherland, all physicians.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American President
   Posts 1st-Period Loss
   Totaling $2.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   APS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- American President Cos. said it had a
first-quarter loss of $2.5 million, or 21 cents per share. It
earned $5.8 million, or 14 cents per share, in the
year-earlier period.
   The shipping and transportation concern said revenue in
the quarter ended April 6 increased 3%, to $587 million, from
$571 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company attributed the loss to an $11.2 million pretax
loss in its transportation operations, which had pretax
income of $7.9 million in the 1989 quarter.
   Like other transport concerns, American blamed the loss on
increased fuel and equipment expenses and a decline in
margins at its freight-brokerage operation. The company also
cited competitive pressures in its Asia transportation
business.
   The Asia operations, the company said, were a drain on
international revenue, but those operations still posted a 5%
increase in the quarter to $405 million, from $399 million, a
year earlier. Domestic revenue of $172 million was
essentially unchanged from the 1989 quarter, the company
said.
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, the company closed at $23.375, down 50 cents.
   Earnings also were affected by the sale of 48 acres,
resulting in pretax contribution of $6.8 million, compared
with $1.4 million in the first quarter of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cineplex Odeon Corp.:
   Some Theaters Sold to SKS
   In First Tier of Asset Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cineplex Odeon Corp. said it agreed to sell the bulk of
its Virginia theaters to SKS Enterprises Inc. for $18
million, the first of what are expected to be several asset
sales over the coming months.
   The troubled movie theater chain said $17 million of the
proceeds will be used to reduce its bank debt, which at last
report totaled about $620 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cineplex will get the remaining $1 million in SKS
preferred shares, it said.
   The assets being sold include 80 screens in 18 locations.
Cineplex said it will retain its theaters in the Washington,
D.C., area and nearby Virginia communities.
   Cineplex has promised its bankers to raise $200 million
this year from asset sales to apply against debt.
   The company said the agreement is subject to post-closing
adjustments, which it said aren't expected to be material.
The sale is expected to close May 25, Cineplex said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Import Contracts Signed
   By Big Japan Firms Soar
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Import contracts signed by Japan's major trading
companies in March jumped a record 53.8% from a year earlier
to 2.874 trillion yen ($18.05 billion), the Japan Foreign
Trade Council said Friday.
   Export contracts climbed 39.9% to 3.406 trillion yen,
posting the strongest year-on-year advance since March 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A council official attributed the rise in export contracts
to sharp increases in plant and machinery export contracts
during March.
   A rise in fuel import contracts paced the overall advance
in the import category, with the council citing a weakening
of the oil market as a factor prompting an increase in
contracts signed.
   The council's monthly reports are based on contract
statistics provided by 18 major Japanese trading companies,
and are widely considered to be short-term indicators of
overall trade trends. The companies furnishing contract
statistics account for roughly half of Japan's general
exports and about two-thirds of imports.
   In February, export contracts rose 1.2% from the year
before, the first increase in three months. Imports edged up
0.3%, the smallest rise in four months.
   For fiscal 1989, export contracts rose 10.1% to 14.568
trillion yen, while import contracts climbed 20.4% to 17.088
trillion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   High-Tech Outlays of U.S.
   To Rise 11% in Fiscal '91
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM UIS T
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The federal government will spend $20.4
billion on computers, software and telecommunications
services in fiscal 1991, up 11% from the current fiscal year,
said Federal Sources Inc., a Vienna, Va., market-research
firm that tracks government spending.
   Federal Sources said increased spending at the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Internal Revenue Services and the Defense
Department accounted for much of the expected overall
increase. Civilian agencies represent 53% of the anticipated
spending, while the Pentagon accounts for the rest, the
consulting company estimated. The federal government
typically represents about 10% of the entire market for
so-called information technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NASA is expected to increase its computer and
telecommunications spending to get ready for the deluge of
space-based data, including a project to study the Earth from
space. The FBI is increasing spending to update its
computerized criminal records. The IRS is enhancing several
computer systems that track taxpayer compliance.
   Federal Sources said that Unisys Corp. was the leading
information-technology vendor in the federal market during
fiscal 1989, with sales of $590.1 million. American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph Co. was second with $434.6 million, followed by
International Business Machines Corp. with $376.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manufacturers Hanover's
   Head of Branches Resigns
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC FES WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The head of Manufacturers Hanover Corp.'s
branch network, William A. Buckingham, resigned to take a
similar position with Buffalo-based First Empire State Corp.
   Mr. Buckingham, 47 years old, is highly regarded within
Manufacturers, and his departure, according to bank
executives, was for "life-style reasons." Mr. Buckingham, an
executive vice president, and his wife are both from the
Buffalo region. Mr. Buckingham couldn't be reached.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an internal bank memo, Vice Chairman Edward Miller said
he accepted Mr. Buckingham's resignation "with deepest
regret."
   Since Manufacturers encountered some liquidity problems
following the failure of Continental Illinois Bank in the
early 1980s, Mr. Buckingham played an important role in
increasing the bank's consumer-deposit base.
   Last year, Manufacturers' core deposits accounted for 25%
of net liabilities, up from 22% in 1988.
   No successor has been named.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.:
   Payout Cut of 50% Planned;
   Sales and Profit Woes Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FJH
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd., the maker of Subaru cars, said
Friday that it plans to cut its year-end dividend in half to
two yen (1.3 cents) a share for the fiscal year ended March
31 because of slumping sales and plunging profits.
   Company officials said the proposal to halve the dividend
will be submitted to a general shareholders' meeting
scheduled for late June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first half of the fiscal year, Fuji paid an interim
dividend of four yen, unchanged from a year earlier.
   Officials said the Japanese company has decided to cut the
year-end dividend, as both sales and profits sagged from the
prior fiscal year. Profits, especially, will show a sharp
drop, they said.
   During the fiscal year, officials said, car sales both in
the domestic market and overseas slipped below the prior
year's levels. The setback in the domestic market wasn't
especially serious, as demand remained high, but sales in the
U.S. showed a conspicuous decline, according to officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Receives a Counteroffer:
   It Can Have the Salem Witch Trials
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   It's bad enough that Texans should claim that the first
Thanksgiving took place near El Paso 392 years ago today. Now
they want Massachusetts, home of the real Thanksgiving, to
agree.
   Last week, the Texas House of Representatives passed a
resolution declaring that "a site in present-day San Elizario
is the location of the first Thanksgiving celebration by
colonists in America." Then the Legislature resolved to send
the resolution to the Massachusetts house "as a formal
request that its members also" admit the first Thanksgiving
"occurred in Texas on April 30, 1598."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As they say in Massachusetts: Fat chance.
   "That's about as likely as Texas proclaiming Massachusetts
the chili capital of the country," says Lawrence Alexander, a
state representative from Marblehead, Mass. "Texas may have
conceived a way to bring the Democrats and Republicans
together here."
   The Pilgrims didn't get to Massachusetts until 1620, but
to Bay State eyes that just means whatever happened in Texas
wasn't really Thanksgiving. "The Pilgrims were never there,"
says a spokesman for Massachusetts' speaker of the house.
"They don't have a Plymouth Rock."
   To be sure, the Texans do have some historical
justification. In 1598, Don Juan de Onate, a wealthy Mexican,
led some 400 colonists north across the desert, arriving at
the Rio Grande (then the Rio Bravo) on April 20. Ten days
later, they gathered for a feast and formally claimed the
land for Spain. For the past two years, the event has been
celebrated in El Paso with a reenactment on the last Sunday
in April.
   Texas Rep. Nancy McDonald, a four-term legislator from El
Paso, sponsored the resolution with backing from the state
tourism industry, which sees firsts as potential boons.
Johnny Johnson, lobbyist for the Texas Travel Industry, a
trade group, says: "We have this Hispanic Catholic heritage
that sometimes has been overlooked. In 1598, a guy named
Onate had a priest conduct a service. I'm a Methodist
preacher's son, but I'm still impressed."
   Ms. McDonald adds, "I wanted to put Texas out there where
it should be -- No. 1 with Thanksgiving, too." She adds,
"We're a pretty boastful state, so nobody found this
unusual."
   There's one part of the history Texans don't boast about.
After the Thanksgiving, the Onate party packed up and headed
for what is now New Mexico.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Carolco Pictures Inc.:
   De Laurentiis Entertainment
   Reorganization Plan Cleared
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC DEG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A bankruptcy court confirmed the previously announced
revised reorganization plan for De Laurentiis Entertainment
Group Inc., a movie studio.
   The Los Angeles-based De Laurentiis concern revised the
plan in March as part of an agreement by Carolco Pictures
Inc. to acquire the company. De Laurentiis filed for creditor
protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in
September 1988 after a string of box-office bombs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, Carolco will acquire 49.9% of De
Laurentiis's common shares, and creditors will receive the
remainder along with cash and certain rights and warrants.
Because of certain preferred stock to be issued to Carolco as
part of the reorganization, Carolco will own from 60% to 70%
of shareholders equity in the new company.
   Current shareholders of De Laurentiis will receive no
distribution under the plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Marubeni Corp.:
   Oil Refining Joint Venture
   Planned in East Germany
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MRB EUROP C.NES G.THY
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Marubeni Corp., a major Japanese trading house, said it
plans to join Finland's state-owned oil company Neste Oy and
the West German steelmaker Thyssen AG in establishing a joint
oil refining company in East Germany.
   The three concerns agreed to conduct a feasibility study
with East German authorities, said Marubeni, which hopes to
sign a formal accord and establish the joint company next
year, and to complete construction of the refinery by 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Initial plans call for creating the joint company to build
the refinery near Rostock harbor on the Baltic coast of East
Germany at a cost of about $1.2 billion, to process about
120,000 barrels of oil a day. This would be East Germany's
first facility for refining oil supplied by the West. East
Germany has depended on the Soviet Union for most of its oil
needs, but it is planning to diversify its sources of supply,
in view of the planned unification with West Germany,
Marubeni officials said.
   The three companies have obtained approval from East
Germany and are seeking cooperation by West Germany in
financing the project, officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Champion Enterprises Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CHB
</CO>
<LP>
   CHAMPION ENTERPRISES Inc. (Dryden, Mich.) -- Walter R.
Young Jr. was named president and chief executive officer of
this manufacturer of motor homes and medium-duty buses,
succeeding Joseph J. Morris, 61 years old, who is retiring.
Mr. Young, 45, was previously president of Wheelabrator Corp.
He has also held various positions with Budd Co., which makes
and distributes parts for the automotive industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Hey, New York, Give Us a Break, Huh?
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   As a native Philadelphian who regularly visits New York, I
can report only that Nicholas King's Leisure &amp; Arts article
of March 27 on Philadelphia is hogwash.
   Philadelphia is not a strange place to the sophisticated
New Yorker (and who else does the New York intelligentsia
write of?). To the contrary, New York is filled with native
Philadelphians and people who went to school there. The New
York Times has a regular Philadelphia-oriented column to meet
this interest; it does not deal only with crime and
corruption.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nor do Philadelphians ignore New York. Resent. Dislike.
But not ignore. Philadelphians with the means to travel know
New York too well. That is why we visit often and live in
Philadelphia.
   Finally, reading Mr. King's fanciful portrait of
Philadelphia as if it were some glistening, sparkling wonder
of a city makes me wonder if he has ever really seen its
"Downtown." Grungy, strewn with litter and homeless,
increasingly dangerous and increasingly shunned by
Philadelphians, the downtown areas reminds us of, well, New
York. It does not have a good reputation. True, our cabbies
are friendlier than yours, but that's easy to do and is not
saying much.
   I recommend that you have a Philadelphian write next time
rather than the director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York. Perhaps Mr. King can write about London or Paris,
presumably something he knows about.
   Mark E. Squires
   Philadelphia
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Rep. Akaka to Fill
   Matsunaga's Senate Seat
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   HONOLULU (AP) -- U.S. Rep. Daniel Akaka of Hawaii was
appointed to fill the Senate seat of Spark Matsunaga, who
died April 15.
   Hawaii Gov. John Waihee signed a proclamation naming his
fellow Democrat to the post, effective May 16. Mr. Akaka will
serve until January, when the winner of special elections
held during the regular primary and general elections will be
seated to serve the remaining four years of Sen. Matsunaga's
term.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Akaka, 65, has announced that he will enter the race
to fill Sen. Matsunaga's full term. Hawaii's other member of
the House, Republican Rep. Patricia Saiki, has said she is
interested in running.
   Sen. Matsunaga, a Democrat, was elected to the Senate in
1976 after serving 14 years in the U.S. House. He died of
complications of prostate cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Degussa AG:
   First-Half Earnings Dropped
   Despite 3% Increase in Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DGS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Degussa AG said earnings declined in the six months ended
March 31 because of weaker profit at its chemical division.
   The West German metals and chemicals concern said
six-month group sales advanced 3% to 7.1 billion marks ($4.22
billion) from 6.86 billion marks a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Degussa didn't give any profit figures. At the annual
shareholder meeting, Chairman Gert Becker said negative
foreign exchange movements and rising competition caused
profit margins in the chemical sector to shrink.
   But Degussa's metals and pharmaceuticals division posted
higher earnings, and Mr. Becker said he is still confident
for fiscal 1990, which ends Sept. 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI FFB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOCAL HOUSING REVENUE bonds totaling $837.5 million in 114
issues suffered ratings cuts by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
Another 43 issues totaling $1.48 billion were placed on the
CreditWatch list by the credit-rating concern. The issues are
supported by investment agreements with Citicorp or Citibank.
The moves follow S&amp;P's cuts in the long-term debt ratings of
the New York bank holding company and its subsidiary, to
double-A-minus and double-A, respectively.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP. (Newark, N.J.) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. downgraded about $710 million of
securities of First Fidelity Bancorp. and its units. The debt
rating agency said earnings of the bank holding company would
continue to be affected by the weakening quality of its
assets, especially its real estate portfolio. It added,
however, that First Fidelity should benefit from significant
cost savings as a result of consolidating operations and
initiatives undertaken by new management. Among the
downgrades, Moody's lowered the rating on First Fidelity's
subordinated debt to Baa3 from Baa2. It reduced to Baa3 from
Baa1 the rating on the company's preferred stock. The rating
on the long-term deposits of First Fidelity Bank unit was
reduced to single-A-3 from single-A-2, while the rating on
short-term deposits was dropped to Prime-2 from Prime-1.
Subordinated debt for the Fidelcor Inc. unit was downgraded
to Baa3 from Baa2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Huntington Bancshares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HBAN
</CO>
<LP>
   HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES Inc. (Columbus, Ohio) -- William J.
Lhota, executive vice president, operations for American
Electric Power Service Corp.; Gerald E. Mayo, president and
chief executive officer of Midland Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
and Melvin L. Schottenstein, executive vice president and
treasurer of M/I Schottenstein Homes Inc., were named
directors of this regional bank. Huntington said board
membership is increased to 11 from nine, with one of the new
members filling a vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Market Turns Attention to OPEC Meeting
   Amid Belief Outcome Will Be a Boost to Prices
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   For oil markets, this is OPEC Week.
   Barring oil field disasters or political upheavals
elsewhere, oil traders are looking to Geneva for the next few
days for clues about the direction of petroleum prices.
Nothing else matters much pending the meeting there of the
monitoring committee of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, beginning Wednesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The outcome of such meetings is unpredictable, of course.
Still, there is a growing belief among oil analysts that the
result of this one will be a boost for petroleum prices. The
oil ministers are expected to confirm "voluntary" output cuts
to trim the glut.
   Just the fact that the meeting is being held already has
given support to oil prices, which fell rapidly in recent
weeks because of OPEC's excess output. Announced production
cuts not only should firm volatile prices but could lead to
further gains in the weeks ahead.
   Charles T. Maxwell, Cyrus J. Lawrence's vice chairman and
senior energy strategist, is among those expecting prices to
recover. "The reason the price will be getting better is
based on the assumption that OPEC will put it all together"
by bringing output down to some 23 million barrels a day from
the current 23.5 million, he said.
   Mr. Maxwell doesn't foresee an immediate turnaround. He
looks for the price of West Texas Intermediate crude,
currently posted at $17.50 a barrel, to drop a few cents more
in May but then to rebound by June. By August, he said the
WTI price should be up to $18 a barrel. He predicted a price
of $19 in September and $20 in October.
   WTI field postings by refiners generally lag those quoted
in futures trading. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, June
WTI settled Friday at $18.54 a barrel, up three cents for the
week.
   The OPEC monitoring committee can't take action on its
own. The responsibility of the eight ministers on the
committee is to review oil markets and prices and make
recommendations. But all 13 oil ministers are due in Geneva
and could quickly turn the meeting into an emergency OPEC
conference that could take action.
   But that isn't likely. Instead, the meeting is expected to
be "quick and dirty," as one oil analyst puts it, concluding
after only one or two days. Hard decisions on production
quotas or OPEC's reference price, currently a fictional $18 a
barrel, will be postponed until the midyear conference, which
begins June 25.
   Still, the ministers must show a solid front for the sake
of the markets in order to keep oil prices from collapsing.
That's why it is widely anticipated in the industry they will
announce production cuts.
   "Although a disastrous outcome of {this week's} OPEC
meeting would mean a further fall for crude prices, it is
unlikely that such an outcome will occur," said John A.
Redpath, an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc., which
monitors world oil supplies.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Things could get off to a bang at the opening of trading
today.
   Prices of soybean futures contracts rallied Friday at the
Chicago Board of Trade amid rumors that the National Weather
Service would issue a prediction for dry and hot weather for
the planting season, which is under way.
   After the close of trading, however, government
forecasters predicted near normal precipitation and
temperatures. As a result, prices might come under downward
pressure early.
   The influence of weather forecasts on commodity prices
will increase as planting gathers steam. But the spotlight
for much of the week will probably fall on the soybean
harvest in Brazil.
   Last week, soybean prices soared on signs that the
rain-slowed harvest in Brazil, a major soybean exporter,
might force some importing nations to buy more of the crop
from the U.S.
   The Soviet Union, for example, has been rumored to be
interested in buying as much as 400,000 metric tons of U.S.
soybean meal. This time of year it often buys from South
America.
   The soybean harvest in Brazil is about half complete.
Normally, 85% of the crop would be harvested by now, said
Walter Spilka, a grain analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co., New York.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Traders this week will be watching for a continuation of
the tight supplies that enabled the April futures contract to
command a 15-cent a pound premium over May when it expired
last Thursday.
   There had been concern that there wouldn't be enough
Commodity Exchange copper stocks to satisfy April contracts
outstanding. But a combination of contract liquidation and
strong inventory increases in the last two days allowed an
orderly April expiration.
   It was significant, though, that the April price didn't
weaken or collapse. In fact, the price at expiration actually
rose one cent a pound for the day.
   The market paused on Friday and eased slightly. Today is
the first day on which notices to deliver copper against May
futures contracts will be issued. Traders believe today's
market action may give a clue as to whether April's strength
will be extended to May.
   Statistics on May contracts outstanding and exchange
supplies are relatively meaningless at this point, but Comex
inventories continued to rise Friday, adding another 615 tons
for a total of 6,619 tons.
   According to one analyst, the key to whether the tightness
of supplies is real or just a technical, exchange-related
phenomenon will be the price spread between the May and July
contracts.
   As of the close Friday, May had an eight-cent premium over
July. "If it narrows, then supplies may really be more ample
than was thought. If it widens, then there is really a
tightness," he said.
   Giving some support to the latter view is the fact that
supplies haven't increased as quickly as had been expected,
in part as a result of a strike in Peru that began March 12
and may cause a loss of as much as 40,000 tons of refined
copper. There also are some production problems in Chile that
have caused cuts in output estimates, the analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   Sugar
                                                                                                       

   The May contract on Friday ran up more than 16 cents a
pound but couldn't hold that gain. A contributing factor
could have been the fact that the contract will expire today.
   Traders will be watching to see if the market holds on to
gains better this week, particularly since the world market
in effect has lost 250,000 tons that have been added to the
U.S. quota.
   In addition, European sugar beet planted acreage is down
from the original estimate and the crop still has to go
through its growing period. In the background, there are
recurrent rumors that Mexico, historically an exporter, may
seek to buy sugar to meet domestic needs and export
commitments. One analyst guessed that Mexico may have already
bought 600,000 tons and may need an additional 400,000 tons.
   Thailand's crop may fall short of expectations, one dealer
said. Output may amount to about 3.4 million tons, down from
an earlier projection of about four million tons.
   Trading in London sugar futures was cut short by a bomb
scare and the New York market's activity was curtailed by a
computer communications breakdown. "It was the first time in
history the two markets were down like that," said the
dealer, who has been in the market many years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi :
   Italy Energy Conglomerate's
   Profit for '89 Increased 23%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.ENI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, Italy's state energy
conglomerate, said 1989 earnings rose 23% to 1.613 trillion
lire ($1.31 billion) from 1.31 trillion lire a year earlier.
   The results fell short of ENI's October estimate of 1.7
trillion lire in profit, partly because of disappointing
earnings in its chemical sector. ENI is composed of 278
operating companies with interests in oil exploration,
refining, distribution, engineering and services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue rose 11% to 36.467 trillion lire from 32.837
trillion lire.
   Operating earnings rose 17% to 7.209 trillion lire in 1989
from 6.165 trillion lire in 1988. Pretax earnings rose 32% to
2.272 trillion lire from 1.723 trillion lire.
   Net debt rose to 15.849 trillion lire at the end of 1989,
up from 14.513 trillion lire a year earlier. Net equity rose
to 14.516 trillion lire from 12.904 trillion lire, so the
debt-to-equity ratio eased to 1.09 at the end of 1989 from
1.12 a year earlier.
   Cash flow rose to 5.624 trillion lire in 1989 from 4.973
trillion lire, covering nearly all investments, which last
year rose to 6.345 trillion lire from 5.859 trillion lire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Colgate-Palmolive Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CL
</CO>
<LP>
   COLGATE-PALMOLIVE Co. (New York) -- William A. Sander, 50,
was appointed vice president, U.S. operations for this
consumer products company. Previously, Mr. Sander was vice
president, manufacturing and distribution at Sterling Drug
Co.'s Lehn &amp; Fink unit. He succeeds Robert Swinney, who is
retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Filmstar Inc.:
   Firm Makes Bid for Assets
   Of AEG Acquisition Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   FLTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Filmstar Inc., Los Angeles, said it made a bid to acquire
the assets of AEG Acquisition Corp., a closely held
entertainment concern that is in bankruptcy-law proceedings,
for $10 million in cash and securities.
   Filmstar, which provides services to independent movie
producers, said its bid consists of $7.5 million in cash and
the balance in securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bid is for some of AEG's receivables, its domestic or
foreign distribution rights to about 117 movies, seven
unproduced movies, and interests in about 20 other
development projects, as well as four offices and two
residential properties that AEG owns.
   Alan Saffron, AEG chairman and chief executive officer,
said bids have been received from two other parties that he
declined to name. One is an all-cash offer, "which the estate
favors very much," he said.
   AEG has been operating with protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code since July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Rare Peek at the Performance
   Of Smart-Money `Hedge Funds'
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- George Soros and Michael Steinhardt conjure up
an image of smart money. These money managers run so-called
"hedge funds" that take sizable risks, are closed to small
investors and institutions and available only to the very
wealthy.
   Their funds use leverage-borrowing to magnify profits, a
technique that can also amplify losses. They sell short,
betting on stock prices falling. And sometimes the fund
manager bets the ranch, putting the entire fund into one or
two positions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Normally, the track records of these funds are available
by invitation only. But a rare peek at their performance
shows what those big risks are all about. While the best of
them sometimes shoot the lights out, as George Soros did in
more than doubling his investors' money in 1985, sometimes
they stumble badly, as Asher Edelman did when one of his
funds tumbled 33.6% last year.
   The rare peek is provided by a new booklet, "The U.S.
Offshore Funds Directory," by Antoine Bernheim. It lists
vital statistics of about 78 funds incorporated in tax havens
from Bermuda to Panama and managed for non-U.S. investors who
aren't subject to U.S. capital-gains taxes or investment
regulations.
   Mr. Bernheim, a 36-year-old New York consultant to
European investors, says he obtained most of the numbers
merely by asking for them. One reason it was so easy: Mr.
Bernheim represents Carlo de Benedetti, the Italian financier
and chairman of Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co., a major European
computer and electronics concern.
   None of the fund managers contacted for this story
disputed the accuracy of the figures, most of which are
calculated after subtracting managers' fees, typically 1%
annually plus a hefty 20% of profits. Mr. Bernheim plans to
charge $295 for the directory.
   Of all the directory's statistics, none is more
eye-catching than the 1985 performance of Quantum Fund N.V.,
managed by Mr. Soros. It delivered a total return including
dividends of 122.2%, while the stock market as a whole,
measured by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.'s 500-stock index,
returned 31.6% that year.
   The next two years weren't shabby, either, for a fund that
has grown to $2.2 billion in assets at the end of 1989. In
1986, Quantum returned 42.1%, against 18.6% for the S&amp;P 500;
in 1987, its return was 14.1%, against 5.1% for the S&amp;P 500.
   Stan Druckenmiller, a managing director of Soros Fund
Management, explains that Mr. Soros outperformed the market
in that period mainly with a big bet that the Japanese yen
would rise and the U.S. dollar would fall. It was a trend
that gained momentum in the fall of 1985 after finance
ministers of the major Western industrial powers agreed to
make that their policy in order to correct world trade
imbalances.
   Mr. Soros also gained from betting that oil prices would
decline in 1986 and by investing in cyclical industrial
stocks in 1986 and 1987. Although he sustained estimated
losses of $700 million during the October 1987 stock market
crash, he still finished the year far ahead of the overall
market.
   However, even investment gurus falter occasionally. In
1988, Quantum was behind the market with a return of 10.1%,
vs. 16.6% for the S&amp;P 500. And in 1989, Quantum merely
matched the S&amp;P's gain of 31.7%. The fund took a hit when the
dollar bounced back against the yen, and when Japanese stocks
defied logic and rose instead of collapsing -- until they
finally slumped this year.
   Quantum would have lagged behind the U.S. market by being
too cautious last year, Mr. Druckenmiller explains, if it
hadn't hit home runs with investments in Thailand, where the
stock market doubled, and in Europe, where the German stock
market soared when the Berlin Wall fell.
   The situation was just the reverse at Jaguar Fund N.V., a
hedge fund run by Julian Robertson that returned 49.5% last
year and topped the market by 10 percentage points in 1988.
That followed two years of badly lagging behind the market in
1986 and 1987.
   Mr. Robertson said he was helped in 1989 by selling a big
position in United Airlines's parent UAL Corp. -- which had
nearly tripled during a takeover attempt -- before the stock
collapsed when the deal failed. But in 1986 and 1987, he
said, he was hurt by an oil-stock hedge that misfired, by
being in value stocks instead of earnings-momentum stocks,
and by betting prematurely on a drop in Japanese stocks.
   Although the past two years have helped Jaguar overtake
the market, Mr. Robertson says, "It shows how difficult it is
for a hedge fund to come back from a rocky start. If you lose
50%, you have to make up 100% just to get back even."
   Performance also has been uneven at two of the funds in
the directory that go beyond passive investments in markets
or stocks and actually try to influence the outcome of
corporate events. Called "strategic block investing" by the
directory, these funds try to buy enough stock to put
pressure on a particular company to restructure, either
through a takeover or recapitalization.
   Coniston Partners has enjoyed considerable success with
this method of investing by forcing restructurings at such
companies as Allegis Corp., the predecessor to UAL, Viacom
International and TW Services Corp. During the heyday of
corporate raiders, Coniston acted like a raider to produce
spectacular returns of 69.3% in 1985, 36.7% in 1986, 15% in
1987 and 38.2% in 1988.
   However, Coniston's returns faltered last year, when the
weather turned stormy for corporate raiders. While still
posting a 14% return, Coniston's offshore fund lagged the
market by more than 17 percentage points. And Coniston faces
a potentially difficult 1990 as well because it is losing
money on its $400 million stake in UAL, and future profits in
that stock depend at the moment on a union group obtaining
financing for an acquisition. Coniston wouldn't comment.
   Asher Edelman, a takeover stock trader who became a
corporate raider in the mid-1980s, hasn't matched Coniston's
success with a similar fund he formed in 1988. Although the
fund outperformed the market by 10 percentage points that
year, it lost 33.6% in value last year, apparently hurt by
Mr. Edelman's setbacks at Datapoint Corp. and particularly in
Storehouse PLC, where an attempted raid was quashed by
British takeover rules. A spokeswoman for Mr. Edelman
declined to comment.
   Another hedge-fund manager, Cumberland Associates, led by
a team including Oscar Schafer and Richard Reiss Jr., enjoys
a reputation as an excellent stockpicker using fundamental
values. But results of its overseas Cumber International N.V.
have lagged behind for the market for three of the last five
years. Its executives couldn't be reached for comment.
   As an investor with one of the shortest-term orientations
on Wall Street, Michael Steinhardt focuses on the present --
so much so that he can't remember the reasons his S.P.
International S.A. outperformed the market in 1985 and 1986.
   Mr. Steinhardt says that although managers are measured,
and get paid, based on their year-to-year performance, he
thinks a long-term perspective is more relevant. Although he
lagged the market by seven percentage points in 1989, he
outperformed it by 18 percentage points in 1988.
   After successfully pursuing post-crash bargains in 1988,
Mr. Steinhardt says he was too cautious about the market in
1989 because of "the level of anxiety about the likelihood of
a recession, and the demise of various financial institutions
such as savings and loans, junk bonds and leveraged
buy-outs."
   He also stumbled in 1989 by acquiring 9% of USAir Group
Inc., which despite his best efforts wasn't borne aloft by
takeover fever like other airlines. In that case, Mr.
Steinhardt concedes, "ego got in the way of logic."
   ---
              How the `Smart Money' Really Did
                                                                                                       

                              ANNUAL RETURN*
                                                                                                       

 NAME (MANAGERS)       1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
 Coniston North       69.3%  36.7%  15.0%  38.2%  14.0%
 Atlantic Int'l Corp.
 (Keith Gollust,
 Paul Tierney,

 Fund Type: SBI**
 Assets: $225 million
                                                                                                       

 Cumber               39.9   14.2   -7.7   20.0   22.2
 International N.V.
 (Oscar Schafer,
 et.al.)
 Fund Type: Hedge
 Assets: $66 million
                                                                                                       

 Edelman              ---    ---    ---    26.0  -33.6
 International Ltd.
 (Asher Edelman)
 Fund Type: SBI**
 Assets: $12 million
                                                                                                       

 Jaguar Fund N.V.      ---    8.9  -12.9   26.7   49.5
 (Julian Robertson)
 Fund Type: Hedge
 Assets: $83 million
                                                                                                       

 Quantum Fund N.V.   122.2   42.1   14.1   10.1   31.6
 (George Soros)
 Fund Type: Hedge
 Assets: $2,200 million
                                                                                                       

 S.P. International   43.8   23.0    3.6   38.5   24.2
 SA
 (Michael Steinhardt)
 Fund Type: Hedge
 Assets: $350 million
                                                                                                       

 Standard &amp; Poor's    31.6   18.6    5.1   16.6   31.7
 500*
 Fund Type: ---
 Assets: ---
                                                                                                       

   *Including dividends  **Strategic block investing
   Source: The U.S. Offshore Funds Directory Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lincoln NC Realty Fund Inc.:
   Silverstone Partners' Offer
   Of $19 Million Is Rejected
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   LRF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lincoln NC Realty Fund Inc., Palo Alto, Calif., said it
rejected an offer from Silverstone Partners, a closely held
Los Angeles partnership, because it viewed the proposal as
unfair.
   In a letter, Silverstone Partners offered to buy all of
Lincoln's common stock and warrants outstanding at $9.21875 a
share and 3.1 cents a warrant in a transaction valued at
about $19 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading Friday on the American Stock
Exchange, Lincoln fell 12.5 cents to $8.375.
   Lincoln previously rebuffed Silverstone. In March, the
investment trust terminated a letter of agreement to be
acquired by Silverstone because Lincoln's banker couldn't
confirm the financial fairness of the deal.
   Silverstone, which couldn't be reached to comment, holds
8.6% of Lincoln.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton S.A.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LVMHY
</CO>
<LP>
   LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON S.A. (Paris) -- Bernard
Arnault, chairman of this French luxury-goods group, said a
successor has been found for Henry Racamier, who resigned
Thursday as chairman of Louis Vuitton S.A. Mr. Arnault said
Jean Dromer, currently president of Societe Financiere
Agache, will take the reins at the luggage and leather-goods
unit. Mr. Racamier resigned following the Paris Court of
Appeal's announcement Thursday of its decision not to cancel
a bond issue that helped consolidate power within LVMH in the
hands of Mr. Arnault. Mr. Racamier launched several court
cases challenging the bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Grand Metropolitan PLC:
   British Commission to Study
   Firm's Accord With Elders
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.GME A.EXL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Britain's secretary of state for trade and industry
ordered a review of the proposed tie-up between Grand
Metropolitan PLC and Elders IXL Ltd.'s brewing and retail
operations, expressing concern there may be "effects on
competition in the U.K. market for beer in terms of increased
concentration. . . ."
   The Monopolies and Mergers Commission, the competition
watchdog charged with making such investigations, was given
until Aug. 21 to complete the review.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under an elaborate agreement between the two companies
reached in March, Australian-based Elders is to pay #366
million ($597.9 million) for Grand Met's breweries, which
include local British beer brands Websters, Trumans, Ruddles,
Wilson and Ushers. Elders is also due to receive Grand Met's
local brewing and distribution rights to several non-British
brands, including Carlsberg and Budweiser.
   At the same time, Grand Met, a British group that has
extensive interests in food products and restaurants as well
as brewing, agreed to merge its U.K. public houses (pubs)
with those controlled by Elders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alpharel Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AREL
</CO>
<LP>
   ALPHAREL Inc. (Camarillo, Calif.) -- This financially
troubled maker of computerized data storage systems said its
president and chief executive officer, John A. Fasching,
resigned. Alpharel said Mr. Fasching also resigned from the
company's board. Alpharel's chairman, Robert T. Bruce, will
assume the additional duties of president and chief
executive, the company said. Mr. Fasching couldn't be reached
for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MicroAge Inc.:
   Olivetti Holding N.V. Sells
   Its 30% Stake in Franchiser
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MICA I.OLV LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MicroAge Inc., Tempe, Ariz., said Olivetti Holding N.V.
sold its 30% stake, or 1,298,854 shares, in MicroAge through
several private transactions.
   In an announcement made after the stock market closed
Friday, the microcomputer store franchiser said the stake was
sold at an average of $12 a share. MicroAge closed unchanged
Friday at $11.50.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said 880,000 of the shares sold were purchased
by Banstock Co. which MicroAge identified as a "privately
held Pacific Rim investor" and 83,333 shares were purchased
by Fred Israel, a Washington, D.C., investor.
   MicroAge said it loaned its employee stock ownership plan
funds to buy 208,333 of the shares, boosting the ESOP's
holding to 313,551 of the company's common shares. MicroAge
bought back the remaining 127,188 shares.
   The transactions leave MicroAge with 4,182,190 shares
outstanding. The company said Olivetti also surrendered its
right to royalties on sales by European franchisees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Saab-Scania AB:
   Swedish Auto Maker's Sales
   Jumped 14% in 1st Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SAA GM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saab-Scania AB said sales jumped 14% and pretax profit
increased at a somewhat faster rate in the first quarter.
   But the Saab Automobile AB joint venture with General
Motors Corp. had falling sales and continued to struggle with
costs at Swedish plants, Saab-Scania Chief Executive Georg
Karnsund said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a speech at the annual meeting, Mr. Karnsund said
Saab-Scania's first-quarter sales rose to 7.4 billion Swedish
kronor ($1.21 billion) from 6.5 billion kronor a year
earlier. Profit wasn't disclosed, pending the company's
financial report for the year's first four months.
   But Mr. Karnsund disclosed that operating profit fell at
the Scania truck division in the first three months --
despite a 9% increase in sales.
   Mr. Karnsund said retail sales of Saab cars skidded 15%,
to 24,700 from 29,200, continuing the downward trend of
recent years. The unit's operating profit fell as a result of
lower volume, rapid cost increases and high interest rates
prevailing in Sweden, he added.
   Directors elected Anders Scharp, chief executive officer
at Swedish appliance maker AB Electrolux, Saab-Scania's
chairman, succeeding Sten Gustafssons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Dress Rehearsal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Regarding your April 5 page-one story on school dress
codes:
   If you tell those inner-city kids that when they play for
the New York Yankees they will have to wear a uniform, maybe
they can understand a dress code in high school isn't so bad.
If you also tell them that when they become executives at
General Motors they will have to wear a uniform, maybe
they'll get the picture.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Everyone wears a uniform -- even Santa Claus.
   Alan Hirsch
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Another Large
   California Thrift
   Is Seized by U.S.
   ---
   S&amp;L Unit of Financial Corp.
   Of Santa Barbara Calls
   Step `Complete Surprise'
   ----
   By William Celis III
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FSB BAC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal regulators seized yet another large California
thrift, Santa Barbara Savings &amp; Loan Association, just weeks
after the company's parent, Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara,
completed a recapitalization that left it nominally solvent.
   Santa Barbara Savings is one of several of California's
biggest S&amp;Ls that have failed recently, or are in danger of
failing, because of a second wave of problems brought on by
ill-fated diversification either outside the state or outside
traditional home-loan lending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association of Beverly Hills and
Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan of Van Nuys, for instance,
currently are insolvent but haven't yet been seized; other
thrifts, such as Far West Savings &amp; Loan of Newport Beach, a
unit of Far West Financial Corp. and Great American Bank of
San Diego, have lost most of their tangible capital and are
struggling to survive.
   In an earlier round of problems, some of the state's
biggest thrifts, including Lincoln Savings of Irvine and
Gibraltar Savings of Beverly Hills, were taken over by
regulators.
   In contrast, about four or five other giant California
thrifts are thriving, partly because their troubled
competitors are being restricted in bidding for deposits or
loans.
   On Friday, the Financial Corp. thrift unit called its
seizure by the Office of Thrift Supervision "a complete
surprise." Just last week, the parent Financial Corp.
reported first-quarter net income of $37.7 million, or $1.71
a share, including a $36.5 million extraordinary gain from a
debt-for-equity swap.
   Philip Brinkerhoff, Financial Corp.'s chairman and chief
executive officer, called the debt swap "an incredible boon
to our capital position," adding: "We will continue to
aggressively pursue opportunities to increase capital,
including capital infusion or sale."
   But while the one-time gain eliminated a tangible-capital
deficit, it still left the thrift unit with only about
one-third of the capital required by regulators, and little
or no operating profit. The parent, which has $4.7 billion of
assets, incurred a loss of $60.3 million, or $10.01 a share,
for all of 1989.
   Moreover, the parent company recently let go its auditor,
Deloitte &amp; Touche, after the accounting firm refused to issue
an opinion concerning the 1989 financial statement due to
"material weakness in internal controls," according to a
Financial Corp. news release.
   Regulators are apt to move swiftly against an even
nominally solvent S&amp;L if they find evidence that the thrift
has insufficient controls to monitor and stanch losses. The
OTS already had prohibited Santa Barbara Savings from making
new loans, an order considered by some regulators to be
tantamount to a death sentence. Regulators were unavailable
for comment over the weekend.
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Financial Corp. closed at 25 cents a share, off
3.125 cents.
   Separately, Resolution Trust Corp., created under the
thrift-bailout bill to manage failed institutions, said it
approved the sale of First Federal Savings &amp; Loan in
Bakersfield, Calif., for $1.5 million to Bank of America
National Trust and Savings Association, a unit of BankAmerica
Corp. Under the sale, the BankAmerica unit will assume $125.2
million in deposits and secured liabilities.
   The BankAmerica unit will acquire $78.3 million of the
failed Bakersfield institution's assets, which include $21.5
million in cash and $56.8 million in loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE ECONOMY APPEARS to have rebounded mildly in the first
quarter. GNP grew at a 2.1% rate, a slow but healthy pace and
nearly twice the fourth quarter's 1.1% rate. But a GNP
inflation index rose 6.5%, the sharpest gain in over eight
years. Most analysts expect the Fed to keep its credit policy
on hold, though some believe the worsening inflation could
prompt some tightening.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Machine-tool orders surged 37% in March from the month
before, aided by a large order from a Soviet auto plant. But
demand from U.S. durable goods makers remained sluggish.
   ---
   Santa Barbara S&amp;L was seized by federal regulators, the
latest big California thrift to fail. The move came just
weeks after parent Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara
recapitalized the S&amp;L, leaving it nominally solvent.
                                                                                                       

   The FDIC scuttled its planned bailout of National
Bancshares of Texas rather than bow to bondholders' demands
it sweeten a debt-swap offer.
   ---
   Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce is expected to post a big 1989
loss and unveil changes in management and ownership. The
Luxembourg-based bank recently pleaded guilty to
money-laundering charges.
   ---
   The U.S. dropped Japan from its list of unfair traders, as
expected, signaling Bush's preference for cooperation rather
than confrontation in trade issues. The U.S. also said its
top priority is successfully completing global
trade-liberalization talks.
   ---
   Stock mutual funds posted the biggest inflow of funds in
three years during March. The strong growth appears to have
continued in April, though at a slightly slower pace.
   ---
   General Motors and NBC are negotiating a huge media
package in which the auto maker would spend well over $500
million over three years at the television network.
   ---
   Major securities firms are forming a joint venture with
leading bond brokers to distribute government securities
price data 24 hours a day.
   ---
   The toughest anti-takeover law in the nation was adopted
in Pennsylvania Friday, but legal challenges may not end for
months or even years.
   ---
   Michael Milken may be granted immunity by a House
subcommittee in return for his testimony on his junk-bond
network, sources said.
   ---
   Computer Associates will unveil a strategy to bring some
order to all the software products it has gained during a
recent acquisition binge.
   ---
   Blinder Robinson was suspended for 45 days by an SEC
hearing officer and barred from underwriting any securities
for two years.
   ---
   Bank of New England reported a $46.6 million quarterly
loss despite one-time gains from selling assets. The bank is
struggling for survival.
   ---
   Wang Labs posted a $146.6 million quarterly loss,
reflecting a number of one-time charges and continued
weakness in its computer sales.
   ---
   GE's aerospace division plans to eliminate 4,200 jobs and
take other steps in response to defense cutbacks.
   ---
   Fixed-rate mortgages are nearing their highest levels in
over a year. More increases are expected, hurting an already
weak housing market.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 130,630,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2645.05, off 31.53; transportation 1128.20, off 10.85;
utilities 203.72, off 2.89.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3221.32, up
6.65.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.36, off 0.75;
spot index 135.49, off 0.79.
   Dollar: 159.30 yen, up 0.07; 1.6775 marks, off 0.0028.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Midway Airlines Inc.:
   Net Loss of $22.9 Million
   Reported for First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Midway Airlines, stung by high fuel costs, reported a
deeper-than-expected net loss of $22.9 million, or $2.39 a
share, for the first quarter.
   A year earlier, net income was $2.9 million, or 17 cents a
share. Revenue rose 34% to $157.2 million from $117.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Chicago-based carrier said its bottom line is still
being affected by costs associated with the start-up of a
Philadelphia hub of operations. Midway has been expanding
service out of Philadelphia since November. Until then, its
only hub of operations was at Chicago's Midway Airport.
   Last summer, Midway Chairman David Hinson cautioned that
it might take a year before the expansion in Philadelphia
contributes substantially to the company's earnings.
   Although Midway didn't disclose how much its fuel costs
rose in the first quarter, many Wall Street analysts are
estimating that average prices surged 25% to 30% from a year
earlier. For that reason, most airlines have been reporting
losses for the first quarter.
   Midway's first-quarter operating expenses rose 61% to
$183.3 million from $113.7 million the year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Western Union, in Seeking to Avoid a Crisis,
   Talks With Noteholders, but No Applause Yet
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   WU
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Seeking to avoid a game of chicken that could
wind up in bankruptcy court, Western Union has been meeting
with noteholders before a crisis is at hand. But despite the
company's efforts, it's beginning to look as if brinksmanship
may be the name of the game.
   Late Friday, Western Union filed a proposal that would
give holders of $530 million in notes a 21% stake in the
company's stock. Chairman Bennett S. LeBow's stake would be
cut to 32% from 46%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an unusual twist, Western Union had carried on
extensive talks with noteholders before filing the
out-of-court exchange offer -- hoping to avoid the sort of
rejection that other troubled companies have recently gotten
from bondholders.
   But there's no applause yet from the creditors' camp. Ken
Moelis, a Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette investment banker who
represents a group of noteholders, issued a terse statement,
saying that while the terms "definitely are not acceptable,
negotiations are continuing."
   Robert J. Amman, Western Union chief executive officer,
says, "We are anxious to have a deal before June 15." Western
Union has a $51 million interest payment due on that date
that it might be unable to pay. "This company doesn't belong
in bankruptcy," Mr. Amman says. "Brinksmanship doesn't make
sense."
   But privately, noteholders say the offer falls far short.
Of the detailed talks preceding Friday, one noteholder says:
"I'm not sure what purpose they served." Merrill Lynch's
Nathan Thorne, who represents Western Union, says the talks
did result in an agreement on basic structure. Now, he says,
"the negotiations will mostly be about how much of the
company noteholders should own."
   Western Union's troubles are, in part, a legacy of Drexel
Burnham Lambert, the defunct junk bond powerhouse. In 1987,
when Mr. LeBow acquired control of Western Union, the company
issued $500 million in five-year, 16 1/2% senior secured
notes. Drexel, then at the height of its powers, designed a
"reset" feature to protect the notes' market value: the
coupon would be reset to any level necessary so that the
bonds would trade at their full face value.
   But in practice, not even Drexel was able to get highly
troubled bonds to trade at par. Western Union got the worst
of both worlds: its coupon was raised to 19 1/4%, worsening
its cash squeeze, and the market value of its notes plunged.
The notes traded Friday at about 38 cents on the dollar.
   Mr. LeBow was quoted in this column one year ago as
saying: "No one is going to lose a penny on those notes."
Noteholders now want to hold him to it. They say their aim is
to get the 16 1/2% return on investment promised in the
original notes.
   Western Union says they will achieve this under its plan
-- if its stock goes to $5 a share by 1995. The stock now
trades at 56 cents.
   Under the plan, each holder of a $1,000 note would get 150
shares of Western Union stock and a total of $1,000 face
value in two new notes. The new notes wouldn't pay or accrue
interest for two years, then they would pay an average rate
of interest of 8.2%.
   One of the new notes would mature in 1992, the other in
1995. Western Union's preferred stock also would be converted
to common.
   "Management has an incentive to take the noteholders out"
when the notes mature, "and that's what noteholders wanted,"
Mr. Amman says. The company could extend both of the new
notes -- but if it did so the noteholders' stake could rise
to as much as 53%.
   Western Union's telex business has been mauled by the
growing use of facsimile transmission. Telex revenue last
year plunged to $140 million from $350 million in 1987. But
its other businesses -- a variety of electronic message and
money transfer and payment services -- are growing. Without a
debt restructuring, it projects a total of $79 million in
free cash flow -- far below its $217 million interest bill --
in 1990 and 1991.
   The restructuring would get it over the hump. In 1992
Western Union projects that its money transfer and message
businesses would generate free cash flow of $109 million.
Interest would be only $56 million.
   One item noteholders want to examine is the $2.4 million
in annual advisory fees that Western Union pays to Mr. LeBow
and his partner. And generally, one holder says, "the
proposal doesn't mesh with Western Union's rosy projections
for their business."
   Mr. Amman counters that the point of the restructuring is
to move the company back from the edge of the cliff. "We want
to take the `troubled' out of our name," he says. "The
long-term outlook is positive, but we don't want to wind up
back where we are today."
   Both sides have an ace card. The company says its money
transfer businesses might suffer in bankruptcy proceedings --
and thus, the noteholders won't push them that far. But
Western Union has no bank debt. Thus, noteholders would be
first in line in a bankruptcy. "We would lose in a
bankruptcy," one holder says, "but LeBow would lose more."
   ---
   Western Union
   (NYSE; Symbol: WU)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Communications systems and services
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $628.7 million
   Net loss: $32.3 million*; or $1.53 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1989:
   Per-share loss: 42 cents vs. $6.38**
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   471,525 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 67.1 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $5.2 million nonrecurring gain
   **Year-ago profit of $244.2 million includes $215 million
restructuring charge
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Gentner Electronics Corp.:
   Loss Is Posted for Quarter,
   Expected for Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   GTNR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gentner Electronics Corp. reported a loss of $241,034, or
eight cents a share, in its fiscal third quarter and said it
expects to report a loss for all of fiscal 1990.
   In the 1989 quarter, the maker of electronic audio
equipment had net income of $179,622, or six cents a share.
Revenue in the quarter ended March 31 declined 3% to $1.47
million from $1.51 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the quarter, the company said spending on research
and development peaked. The substantial costs in developing
new products and slower-than-expected growth in existing
product sales were primary factors in the quarterly loss, the
company said.
   Three products designed to enhance the company's existing
line of sound equipment for use at FM radio stations and a
new line of telephone products are in the final stages of
development. The company said it expects to begin shipping
those products "in the near future."
   For the nine months, Salt Lake City-based Gentner had a
loss of $274,000, or nine cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net of $333,000, or 11 cents a share. Revenue
increased 14% to $4.1 million from $3.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   John H. Harland Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS JH
</CO>
<LP>
   JOHN H. HARLAND Co. (Atlanta) -- Robert R. Woodson was
named chief executive officer of this check printer. Mr.
Woodson, 57 years old, is currently president and retains
that position. He succeeds J. William Robinson, 70, who
continues as chairman of the board and chairman of its
executive committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Horten AG:
   Dividend for '89 Halved;
   Declining Earnings Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HOR G.DBK BTI G.CBK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Horten AG, West Germany's fourth-largest retailer, halved
its 1989 dividend to three marks ($1.78) a share, continuing
its widely fluctuating payout pattern of recent years and
citing falling profit.
   The company reported that 1989 profit fell 57% to 15
million marks ($8.9 million) from 35 million marks in 1988,
citing costs associated with the reorganization of its
Galeria department store operations. It didn't provide any
more financial data, though earlier this year, Horten said
1989 sales fell 3.7% to 3.02 billion marks, citing the
shedding and restructuring of some operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Horten is 51%-owned by Batig Gesellschaft fuer
Beteiligungen G.m.b.H., the West German holding company of
B.A.T Industries PLC of Britain, and 25%-owned by an
investment partnership of Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank
AG; the rest of the shares are publicly held.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp.:
   Malapai Mining Unit's Sale
   To Firm in France Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW F.TCF F.EDF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pinnacle West Capital Corp., Phoenix, Ariz., said it
agreed to sell its Malapai Resources Co. uranium mining unit
to an affiliate of Electricite de France of Paris. The cash
price wasn't disclosed.
   Pinnacle West, parent of Arizona Public Service Co., the
state's largest electric utility, said in January it had put
Malapai up for sale. Proceeds will be used to cut Pinnacle
West debt of about $1.1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Malapai had total equity and liabilities of $86.4 million
at Dec. 31, Pinnacle West said, and expects a $36.6 million
pretax loss for the 18 months ending June 30.
   Pinnacle West said Electricite de France is the only
electric utility company in France, where about 75% of all
electric power is nuclear-generated. Malapai, which mines
uranium for nuclear plants, would be operated by Total
Minerals Corp., a unit of Total Cie. Francaise des Petroles,
under a separate pact between Total and the Electricite de
France affiliate, which is in formation. The sale is subject
to a definitive agreement and regulatory approvals. Pinnacle
West said it hopes the deal can be completed by the end of
June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dartmouth Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DBCI
</CO>
<LP>
   DARTMOUTH BANCORP (Hookset, N.H.) -- Daniel Edgar resigned
as president and chief executive officer of this bank holding
company and its Dartmouth Bank affiliate. Raymond Closson,
chairman, will become acting chief executive of the holding
company. Robert Keller, senior executive vice president and
chief operating officer of Dartmouth Bank, will become acting
chief executive of the bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Troubled Mortgages
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your March 23 Heard on the Street ("Real Estate Woes
May Hurt Big Insurers"), you quote selectively from a report
by Fox-Pitt Kelton, identifying mortgage exposure as an
investment concern. The report found that "the level of
troubled mortgages was actually down vs. year-end 1988,"
although many commercial banks and savings and loans had
significant increases in their troubled mortgages during the
year.
   The report also said: "We do not view the {Lincoln
National} mortgage portfolio or its potential for
deterioration from its present condition as an investment
risk of any significance."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert W. Crispin
   Fort Wayne, Ind.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Social Problems
   At Colleges Studied
   In Carnegie Report
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6E
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- College social problems, such as excessive
drinking and racial tension, reflect murky standards of
conduct and administrative ambivalence about enforcing the
rules that do exist, a new report on campus life concludes.
   The study by Ernest Boyer, president of the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, comes amid
growing reports that colleges across the country are
struggling to deal with heavy student drinking, as well as
with increases in racial and ethnic slights, including
anti-semitism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The idyllic vision so routinely portrayed in college
promotional materials often masks disturbing realities of
student life," the report contends. One reason is that "on
most campuses, expectations regarding the personal conduct of
students are ambiguous, at best," the report says. "What we
found particularly disturbing is the ambivalence college
administrators feel about their overall responsibility for
student behavior."
   The report cites efforts to control drinking as one
example. The study was based in part on a survey of 382
college and university presidents conducted by the foundation
and the American Council on Education. In the survey, 67% of
the presidents rated alcohol abuse as a problem on their
campuses. Many college administrators say drinking
contributes to a number of campus problems, including
vandalism, crime and sexual harassment.
   Yet many colleges don't take a firm stand against alcohol
use, even by minors. In part, that's because they would
rather have students drink on campus than force them to drink
off campus and then drive back.
   "If state laws say alcohol use is illegal for those under
21, colleges should make this fact clearly known to students
and declare that they will support the law, rather than
ignore it," Mr. Boyer says, adding that students "need models
of integrity, not equivocation."
   Many colleges are crafting firmer anti-drinking policies,
driven in part by several well-publicized drinking-related
deaths on campus and increasing fears of liability.
   While Mr. Boyer praised these programs, his report,
entitled "Campus Life: In Search for Community," recommends
that colleges and universities adopt basic principles on
which to base their policies. The first principle, it
suggests, should be to pay more attention to education. He
notes with some despair that many students simply don't study
very much. According to one nationwide survey, only 23% of
college students study 16 or more hours a week.
   Other principles stress the importance of discipline,
justice and open debate in campus communities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Winning the Race to the Marketplace
   ----
   By R. Balachandra
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   Japan's prowess in translating new technologies into
commercially viable products and bringing those products to
the market fast has achieved legendary status throughout the
world. It is widely assumed that the root of Japan's superior
technological performance lies in the renowned Japanese work
ethic, popularly conjured up in the image of the obsequious
employee who keeps his nose to the grindstone day in and day
out. In reality, Japanese workers often contribute more to
the goals of their firms by looking around them and by
talking to one another.
   Japanese companies are continually assessing and
reassessing the status of their technology. Such evaluation
requires constant examination of the marketplace. The
critical question is: Are both the size of the market for the
proposed product and the product's expected profit margin
large enough to justify the research?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based on my own research in Japan, top management rate
research projects in new technology every six months,
granting them one of three possible grades: Tops in the
world, at the same level as the leading players or lagging
behind. If the self-rating is "tops in the world," Japanese
companies don't merely rest on their laurels; management
pushes even harder to get the technology ready for a
marketable product in the appropriate time window. If the
technology is far superior to the competition's, the company
may even advance the date of introduction to gain greater
advantage in the marketplace. Last summer, Toshiba and
Hitachi both pushed up by more than six months their 4-MB
chip introductions after coming to such a conclusion.
   If self-ratings are low, research management may decide to
upgrade the technology to bring it to the top level, or at
least to the average level, before they bring the product to
market. Or, if employees feel they are lagging too far behind
the best in the world, the firm may drop the research
altogether.
   If they believe their research in a given area to be among
the world's best, Japanese firms will focus on patents to
protect their competitive position. "Patents First" seems to
be the motto of many Japanese firms, which often emphasize
patents and patentable research at the cost of basic
research. Although there are fewer lawyers overall than in
the U.S., Japan abounds in patent attorneys. In major
technology firms such as Toshiba, NEC and Hitachi, 8% to 10%
of the staff in research labs are patent attorneys and staff.
   To rank themselves on any scale, companies must know what
it is they are ranking. To that end, Japanese researchers
interact with product designers, marketeers, and
manufacturing engineers to a much greater degree than is
common in the U.S. In Hitachi's labs, researchers meet with
marketing personnel at least once a month to determine the
"hot" projects. For more basic research projects, meetings
might take place every three to six months. For projects with
great patent potential, however, contact between the business
unit and research arm are more intensive. Management wants to
provide adequate funding and personnel to keep up with
schedules.
   And despite what outsiders often conceive of as the rigid
structure of the Japanese corporation, these working
relationships bypass the normal hierarchy. Interaction is
lateral and personal. It is quite common to see the
researchers visiting the production facilities and the design
and marketing personnel visiting the labs.
   In addition to the official visits, colleagues usually go
out together to bars. These after-work beer parties generally
contribute more to corporate goals than simply a sense of
camaraderie among colleagues. While researchers may gather
technology -- ranking information at professional
conferences, in meetings with peers at other companies or
universities, or just generally through the grapevine, it is
often easiest to do comparative studies over a couple of
beers at day's end.
   Thanks to the camaraderie developed at such informal
communication channels, Japanese researchers get to know
their colleagues in the distant halls of their companies.
When a new project gets under way, the researcher knows which
design engineer or marketing person to contact about it, and
information sharing can begin right along with research.
   Once there is general understanding of
product-introduction goals, Japanese companies continue to
rely on communication across departments for technology
transfer from lab to factory. Two often-used transfer modes
include the exchange not only of information but of personnel
between the labs and the business units. In a number of
projects I studied, management assigned the researcher to the
business unit on a short-term basis to get production
started. In others, the development engineer spent
considerable time with the research unit during the research
phase, long before the actual transfer occurred. Such
attention to technology transfer means that the business unit
will be ready to produce the product as soon as the research
is completed, with essentially no start-up problems.
   U.S. industry rarely spends as much time keeping its ears
and eyes open for information regarding technology and
markets and the relationship between the two. Inadequate
attention to technological threats can lead to disasters like
"Polavision" (film-based instant movies). U.S. companies
should also scrutinize patent issues more intensely. With
global competition affecting the smallest of local
industries, firms must examine not only U.S. patents, but
patents in competing countries.
   With regard to cross-corporate communication, some leading
U.S. firms already have achieved significant progress.
Perkin-Elmer, for example, has found that such interaction
between professionals has dramatically reduced the number of
engineering changes. Ultimately, close interaction between
personnel from different walks of corporate life may be the
most important factor. Just ask Intel. After discovering the
acceleration advantages of their GYAT ("Get Your Act
Together") meetings, which united manufacturing professionals
with design engineers once a week, the microchip giant
started an even broader program for its next product. They
dubbed it PDQ2 -- "Perfect Design Quality, Pretty Damn
Quick." Intel had learned its Japanese lesson.
   ---
   Mr. Balachandra is associate professor of business at
Northeastern University in Boston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Is Asking Suppliers
   To Refund 3% on '89 Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Xerox Corp., in an unusual approach to
cutting costs, essentially asked its key suppliers to refund
3% of the amount they billed the company during 1989.
   Xerox also asked the suppliers to cut their prices 10% by
1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The requests, which Xerox said were unrelated to its
record $254 million first-quarter loss, came as part of the
company's continuing effort to boost efficiency in its
business-equipment operation. Total costs and expenses in
that operation rose 3% in the first quarter from the year
before.
   A Xerox spokesman said suppliers who don't comply won't
necessarily face any consequences. "It isn't a demand," he
said. "It's a request, a suggestion. Should a supplier
decline to agree with that suggestion, that wouldn't be a
determining factor in our relationship."
   Xerox said it asked 350 suppliers world-wide -- mostly
producers of parts for Xerox's business machines -- to reduce
their 1990 billings by an amount equivalent to 3% of their
1989 billings. The spokesman said he had no estimate of the
saving Xerox expects from the move, of which it notified
suppliers about three weeks ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Foundation's Plan to Sell Gannett Stake
   Raises Question: Is Media Firm in Play?
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI KRI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Gannett Foundation's plan to sell its 10%
stake in Gannett Co. has raised questions about whether the
broadcasting and media giant has been put into play as a
possible takeover target by Allen Neuharth, the former
Gannett chairman who now heads the foundation.
   The foundation, the largest Gannett holder, this past week
said it hired investment bankers to negotiate the sale of its
stake in the company, which had revenue of $3.5 billion last
year. The foundation's 15.9 million shares, based on
Gannett's recent stock price of about $36 apiece, have an
indicated market value of close to $600 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said that while Gannett would be a difficult and
costly takeover target, a major block of Gannett stock on the
market could attract unfriendly bidders from the U.S. or
overseas. So far, Gannett has said it hasn't decided whether
it might buy the stock itself. The foundation said it would
prefer to put the stock in the hands of Gannett, but "our
financial adviser will explore all alternatives."
   Wall Street analysts speculated that the planned sale also
appears to reflect a growing rift between Mr. Neuharth and
his successor, John J. Curley, Gannett chairman, president
and chief executive officer. Mr. Neuharth denied that is the
case, and said in an interview that the foundation's move was
spurred by Internal Revenue Service regulations that forced
the foundation to consider diversifying its holdings.
   "Our bankers have told us to invest our assets in
something with a higher yield to meet the obligations the IRS
puts on us," Mr. Neuharth said. Putting the entire block of
stock up for sale at once is also an attempt to "maximize
{the stock's} value, rather than dribbling out portions of it
over time," he said.
   Analysts stressed that a takeover of Gannett would be a
monumental task for anyone. While Gannett has only one class
of stock and doesn't operate with specific anti-takeover
provisions, it is regarded as one of the best-managed
companies in the industry, with more than 80 consecutive
quarters of uninterrupted earnings growth, despite its costly
launch of the USA Today newspaper.
   "Gannett is really protected by the fact it is efficiently
run and financially strong," said John Morton, an analyst
with Lynch, Jones &amp; Ryan. "It would be difficult for an
outsider to say they could improve on the operating profits."
   During Mr. Neuharth's reign, Gannett had friendly merger
conversations with other large media companies, including CBS
Inc. and Time Inc., though nothing ever came of the talks.
While Gannett has in the past been mentioned as a potential
target for an unfriendly suitor, a raider would have to come
up with more than $6 billion to purchase Gannett's 161
million shares outstanding. And that's at the current stock
price; a buyer would probably have to come up with a
considerable premium.
   What's more, highly leveraged takeover attempts are
becoming far more difficult for U.S. companies to mount. And
foreign companies with the financial muscle would face
another problem: Gannett owns seven television stations, and
foreign ownership of broadcasting properties is restricted by
U.S. federal rules.
   "A foreign buyer would run into a buzz saw of regulation
problems, since Gannett owns TV stations too," said J.
Kendrik Noble, an analyst for PaineWebber Inc. "However, you
can't rule out another media company buying {the stock} and
can't rule out an unfriendly takeover."
   Mr. Morton of Lynch Jones said he expects most other
newspaper companies to keep their distance. "A fraternity
exists in newspapers. There would be long talks before any
such move were made," Mr. Morton said. Asked if his company
was interested in Gannett stock, James K. Batten, chairman
and chief executive officer of Knight-Ridder Inc. said he
wasn't interested. "We have discretionary money, but that
wouldn't make sense to us."
   Despite the foundation's statement about IRS rules,
analysts are still puzzled by the timing of the planned sale.
With the newspaper industry in one of its worst periods in
decades, newspaper stocks have been hard hit, including
Gannett. In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Gannett fell $1 to $36.125; in the summer of 1987,
when Gannett shares were trading in the $50s, the
foundation's stock would have been valued at as much as $900
million.
   "I think the personality question needs to be resolved,"
said Peter Appert, analyst for C.J. Lawrence. "Why's Al doing
this now? The timing is crazy." Analysts cited evidence of
tension between Mr. Neuharth and Mr. Curley; Mr. Curley, for
example, has kept up a running commentary in front of
securities analysts about how he has cut the lavish corporate
expense budget that once belonged to "Al {Neuharth} and his
entourage." Mr. Curley, who was handpicked by Mr. Neuharth,
has cut at least $16 million from corporate expenses. Mr.
Curley has sold off at least one company jet, and unlike Mr.
Neuharth, prefers taxis to limousines. Gannett has instituted
strict cost controls companywide this year, such as cutting
corporate travel expenses.
   Asked about a rift between the two, who often throw barbs
at each other publicly, Mr. Curley said that "honestly, there
isn't one." Mr. Neuharth said: "Anyone who knows us knows
that for 20 years we have been jabbing and ribbing each
other. I did select him to succeed me. But I understand where
the speculation is coming from."
   In part, the speculation comes from Mr. Neuharth himself.
In a recent column in USA Today about Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev's troubles with Lithuania, he said, "I know how
Gorby feels. In recent years, some people I favored or
fostered over a quarter century have turned and bitten my
hand." Mr. Neuharth said of the column, "You can speculate
but there's been lots of people in my life -- friends,
family."
   Last week, Mr. Curley, along with other current Gannett
executives, withdrew from re-election to the foundation's
board to avoid any potential conflict of interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dofasco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.DFS
</CO>
<LP>
   DOFASCO Inc. (Hamilton, Ontario) -- Paul J. Phoenix was
named chairman in addition to his current position of chief
executive officer. Mr. Phoenix will be succeeded as president
by Willam L. Wallace, who remains chief operating officer.
Frank H. Sherman, 74 years old, will retire as chairman of
the steel-making concern, becoming honorary chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Oakland Rejoins U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Over 160 cities and towns declared themselves
"nuclear-free zones" during the 1980s, but only Oakland,
Calif., tried to restrict the transit of nuclear material and
outlawed nuclear-weapons work within its borders. One physics
consultant was told he would have to move out of town to
comply. A federal judge has now struck down the law, saying
it interfered with the federal government's authority over
national defense. Oakland officials may appeal, but it looks
as if they are back under the U.S. nuclear umbrella whether
they like it or not.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   To Earn Residence,
   New Migrants Cram
   A 40-Hour Course
   ---
   They Absorb Little English
   But a Lot of Humiliation;
   Grad Ceremony in Spanish
   ----
   By Alfredo Corchado
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The question sounds simple enough. "Ignacio,"
the counselor asks, "who discovered America?"
   A hush falls over the class as Ignacio Prado's dark,
weather-beaten face turns pale and sweat rolls down his
forehead. His wife and two daughters watch in solemn
embarrassment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Prado's interrogator, Angel Loredo, paces the floor,
playing with a long rubber band. "Ignacio, he's not Mexican
and he's not George Washington or George Bush," he says
impatiently. Mr. Prado's eyes light up. "Dan Quayle," he
blurts out. "God no," wails Mr. Loredo, who hurls the rubber
band in frustration and orders everyone to repeat: "I want to
learn. I will learn. I'm going to learn."
   But Mr. Prado's problem isn't ignorance of history. When
the counselor repeats the same question in Spanish, Mr. Prado
gets it right.
   So goes another teeth-grinding day in amnesty class, part
of a $4 billion government effort to quickly assimilate the
largest single group of newly legalized immigrants in U.S.
history.
   Mr. Prado, a native of Monterrey, Mexico, hid from
immigration officials for more than 20 years. He is one of
about 1.7 million undocumented aliens who were granted
temporary resident status under the amnesty provisions of the
historic immigration reform law of 1986. But, it turns out,
they weren't home free.
   To gain permanent resident status by November -- the
deadline set by the law for most of them -- the immigrants
must show proficiency in the English language and knowledge
of U.S. history and civics. A majority of amnesty-seekers try
to meet these requirements by taking 40-hour cram courses
sponsored by the government.
   Previous immigrants didn't have to worry about language
and history unless they were seeking U.S. citizenship. But to
get the reform bill passed with the controversial amnesty
concept intact, congressional supporters agreed to the
stiffer requirements. "There was a sense of making the
applicants earn their legal status," says Michael Zamba, a
director of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials, known as NALEO.
   Now, however, a growing number of critics say the cram
courses are a waste of money for taxpayers and a humiliating
ritual for immigrants. "Why kid ourselves?" asks Robert M.
Paral, an NALEO immigration policy analyst. "How can anyone
expect a person to learn English in 40 hours? It's simply
unrealistic."
   The Immigration and Naturalization Service apparently
thinks so too. It declines to deport any immigrants as long
as they get a certificate from their teacher asserting they
put forth a "good-faith effort" to learn the required
subjects.
   "I was told by a supervisor if a student is there for 40
hours, give him a certificate -- no questions asked," says
Susan McBride, a teacher in an amnesty class. At last count,
95% of the applicants taking the course nationwide have
passed, although, like Mr. Prado, few have mastered the
intricacies of English or the three branches of the
government.
   The near certainty of passing doesn't make the program any
less painful for the immigrants. Consider the experiences of
Mr. Prado's class of 42 immigrants -- construction workers,
cooks, bus boys and maids -- which met three times a week for
a month and a half in a brightly lit room at St. Augustine
Catholic Church.
   It is Saturday, the end of the first week, and some
students, unable to afford babysitters, have brought their
children to class. When Ms. McBride, the teacher, steps out
for a few minutes, the students give vent to their
frustrations. "I don't understand this in English or Spanish,
I don't, I don't," moans Hermelinda Garibaldi, banging her
head on a desktop.
   Other students agonize loudly over a list of singular and
plural nouns. Jesus Reyes, whose name is taped to his
workshirt, tries to restore order. "Don't lose hope," he
bellows. "We've made it this far."
   Ms. McBride reappears, a bit overwhelmed by the chaos.
"Relax. Stand up. Take a deep breath and say, `We're having a
good day,'" she croons in the time-honored patter of the
third-grade school teacher she is. The exercise pacifies the
students momentarily, but as soon as classwork resumes, so
does the fidgeting. "Maybe I'm throwing out too much, too
soon," Ms. McBride concedes.
   As the hour draws to a close, Ms. McBride flips through
her Spanish-English dictionary and reads out the word "tarea"
-- homework. She then hands out mimeographed sheets with
fill-in-the-blank grammar questions -- her only option, since
textbooks haven't arrived. The students groan. "Aw, c'mon,
break your head a little," the teacher implores, tapping her
own head with a fist. "It won't hurt."
   But it feels painful for most of these harried students.
Many don't relish demonstrating their lack of education.
Others are just bone-weary from long hours at their jobs.
Aura Sanchez, 25, a housekeeper with two children and a third
on the way, works a full day while her mother-in-law cares
for her two preschool-age children; the classroom burdens
only add to her parental guilt. "Sometimes I feel as though
I'm being a bad mother, neglecting my children," she says.
   During the second week, 28 slower learners are transferred
to John Lopez's classroom. Normally a seventh-grade teacher,
Mr. Lopez asks the students to name the 13 original colonies.
   "Teacher, no more questions," Ms. Garibaldi pleads. "My
head feel no good." And then, slipping into Spanish, "I have
to get up at 5 a.m. to work." Ms. Garibaldi cleans downtown
office buildings from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. every morning,
supplementing her meager pay with part-time housekeeping and
waitressing jobs.
   It is that kind of existence these students hope to
escape. For most of them, life prior to amnesty was one of
uncertainty and fear. Mr. Prado spent several years building
a small food-distribution business; as an illegal immigrant,
he could have lost it in a heartbeat.
   At the next session, Mr. Lopez and Ms. McBride introduce a
tutor named Angelina, a high-school student who emigrated
here from Jalisco, Mexico. She works with students who are
practically illiterate, even in Spanish, and thus in need of
more one-to-one attention. But by the end of the week, the
funds to cover Angelina's salary still haven't been approved
by a web of federal, state and local agencies. With no
guarantee that her wages will ever be approved, she quits.
   The third week brings more bad news. Because funds are
held up, the textbooks still haven't arrived. And now Mr.
Lopez announces they probably won't be available until a few
days before graduation. He has been covertly making copies of
his teacher's manual for the students. The manual contains
the same material as the textbooks, but includes the answers
to study questions in the back. "I've already been caught
once," he confesses, adding that he was let off with a
warning by school officials. "But my students are more
important. This is their only chance to learn."
   Mr. Lopez's group seems buried in despair, struggling with
the simplest of concepts, such as the colors of the flag. By
contrast, Ms. McBride's much-smaller advanced group, people
who came into the class with a firmer grasp of English,
easily discuss predicate nouns and the three branches of
government. "We're rolling now," she says. "Next thing you
know, they'll be asking for a pay raise."
   Over the next few sessions, the cocky advanced group even
engages in bilingual debates on U.S. democracy, civil rights
and press freedoms. Maria Gomez, a native of Mexico City,
offers to recite the preamble to the Constitution. "We the
people . . . " she begins, painstakingly completing the
passage amid cheers and a standing ovation from her jubilant
classmates. Ms. McBride is teary-eyed.
   The books finally arrive during week five, but only three
classes remain. Some students consider petitioning for more
classroom hours. Liliana Anaya, 24, a secretary at a clothing
factory, plans to continue language courses on her own. "My
boss tells me that if I learn more English, I can work in
computers," she says.
   On the last day of class, the final exam is overshadowed
by plans for a party. But Vicenta Faz, 48, is weeping softly,
fearful of failing the exam, fearful that her infrequent
participation in class discussions will prompt the teacher to
withhold her certificate. The night before, she barely slept.
"I'm scared because I don't think I've learned much," she
says.
   But the final exam is easier than anticipated; only two of
the 42 students fail and both are deemed worthy of
certificates.
   At graduation, with their hair slicked back, the men in
suits and the women teetering on high-heeled shoes, the St.
Augustine class listens intently as the keynote speaker,
immigration attorney Juan Jasso, urges them to become
politically active in their new homeland.
   Mr. Jasso, whose parents also are immigrants, addresses
them in Spanish, of course. "Otherwise, they won't understand
me," he explains.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We'll All Be in the Red
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   George Melloan's April 2 Global View "Who Will Pay the
Bill for Russia's Decline?" was truly outstanding. Mr.
Melloan should be commended for clearly and concisely
portraying the capital demands that exist today. As a
financial consultant with a global view of investing, I keep
asking how all the capital needs that these new-found
democracies require will be met.
   So far, the only answer is probably higher interest rates
and greater market uncertainty. To answer the question of who
will pay the bill: We all will.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William J. Sharpe
   Vice President
   Partnership Council Member
   Prudential-Bache Securities
   St. Petersburg, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CMS Venture Sets Power Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEARBORN, Mich. -- CMS Energy Corp. said the Midland
Cogeneration Venture will sell 200 megawatts of power to
Ontario Hydro, Canada's largest electric utility, from May
through September.
   A CMS spokesman described the transaction as the first
major sale for the Midland Cogeneration Venture, but he
wouldn't provide a dollar value for the deal. CMS is a
49%-owner of the Midland Cogeneration Venture.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Midland Cogeneration Venture was designed originally
as a nuclear power plant but was abandoned before completion
in 1984. The plant was reopened on March 16 as a gas-fired
plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fidelity National Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FNF
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fidelity National Financial Inc. said
210,542 shares were tendered in a Dutch auction for up to
250,000 shares of its stock.
   The shares were tendered at, or below, the $10-a-share
purchase price the company said it preliminarily expects to
pay for the shares. Determination of the final purchase price
for the shares is subject to final confirmation of the number
of shares tendered and delivery of the shares, Fidelity
National said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fidelity National issues title insurance and performs
other title-related services in 31 states and the District of
Columbia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Revenge of the Turtles
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   It's true that parents don't "get it" when it comes to
Teen-age Mutant Ninja Turtles ("Ninja Turtle Juggernaut
Demolishes Box Office Record," April 3). I get it -- in
spades. The Turtles are my parents' revenge for the Three
Stooges. Their antics consumed my every waking moment 31
years ago the way my four-year-old now lives and breathes
Cowabungas.
   Jack Jackson
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Needham, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Premark Begins Offer for Sikes
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PMI SK.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Premark International Inc. said it
began its tender offer for all the Class A common shares
outstanding of Sikes Corp. at $16.40 a share.
   The consumer and restaurant products concern has agreed to
pay about $201 million for Sikes, a Lakeland, Fla., maker of
ceramic tile. Premark will also pay $26.78 a share for
Sikes's 861,136 Class B common shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Premark said the offer is conditioned upon the tender of a
majority of the Class A shares. The company said the offer is
scheduled to expire May 24.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Langenscheidt Publishers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MASPETH, N.Y. -- Langenscheidt Publishers Inc., said it
acquired Arrow Publishing Co., a Boston publisher of street
and road maps. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Arrow will continue to operate as Arrow Map Co. and retain
its current management. Langenscheidt, also a map publisher,
said the acquisition will expand its coverage of the East
Coast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Treasury to Sell
   $10 Billion in Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $950 million in
new cash Thursday by selling about $10 billion in 52-week
bills and redeeming $9.06 billion in maturing bills.
   The bills will be dated May 10 and will mature on May 9,
1991. They will be available in minimum denominations of
$10,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills must be received by 1 p.m. EDT
Thursday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or
branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Judge Invalidates
   Avon's Amendment
   To Its `Poison Pill'
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a victory for Avon Products Inc.'s largest
shareholder, a federal judge invalidated a key amendment to
the company's "poison pill" provision.
   Separately, Avon said the sale of its 60% stake in Avon
Japan to Friends of Freesia Co. and its president, Veji
Sasaki, for $450 million has been officially terminated. At
an analysts' meeting last week, Avon's chairman and chief
executive officer, James Preston, said that Avon will
aggressively seek a new buyer for the line.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a decision Friday, U.S. District Court Judge Pierre
Leval entered an order against Avon's attempt to lower the
threshold at which its shareholder rights plan goes into
effect. The rights are attached to each share of common and
allow shareholders to acquire Avon stock at half price if any
buyer acquires a 20% holding.
   Avon had sought to reduce that percentage to 12.5% to
prevent Chartwell Associates Limited Partnership, the
company's largest shareholder, from acquiring more stock
without tendering for the company. Chartwell, which had
challenged the proposed amendment, currently controls 12.4%
of Avon. Unless the judge's ruling is overturned, Chartwell
will be able to buy another 7.5% of Avon common at market
prices rather than paying the premium that accompanies a
tender.
   Chartwell consists of oil heir Gordon Getty, Mary Kay
Corp. Vice Chairman John Rochon and the Fisher real estate
family of New York.
   An Avon spokesman said Friday that Avon will appeal Judge
Leval's decision. A Chartwell spokesman declined to comment
on whether the partnership will buy additional Avon shares.
Chartwell and Avon avoided an expensive proxy fight earlier
this year when Avon agreed to support two Chartwell
candidates to Avon's board. But relations between management
and Chartwell remain frosty.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Avon
shares rose 37.5 cents to close at $35.50.
   Wall Street analysts said the judge's decision will
probably spur additional interest in Avon shares.
   "Avon has resisted Chartwell at every turn, and this is
one more hurdle that has been knocked down," said Alice Beebe
Longley, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. "This will enable Chartwell to get up near
20% and then tender for the rest. Chartwell's plans continue
to bolster Avon's stock."
   Ms. Longley said that she considered it likely that
Chartwell will now attempt to buy more shares, either in
large blocks or on the open market.
   Andrew Shore, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc., described Judge Leval's order as "a significant
development," and indicated he also expects Chartwell to
continue buying Avon shares until it reaches the 20% level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Herman Miller's Ruch
   Adds President's Post
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MLHR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ZEELAND, Mich. -- Herman Miller Inc., an office furniture
maker, said Richard H. Ruch, 60-year-old chief executive
officer, was elected to the additional post of president,
succeeding Edward R. Simon, 52.
   Mr. Simon said earlier this month that he was resigning to
"provide {Mr. Ruch} with an opportunity for further alignment
of the organization."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philip J. Mercorella, 45, president of the Milcare Inc.
unit, was named senior vice president, global sales,
marketing and dealer distribution, succeeding David
Armstrong, 54, who is taking early retirement as senior vice
president, sales and marketing. The company said Mr.
Mercorella's post involves broader responsibilities than Mr.
Armstrong had. Mr. Mercorella will remain Milcare president
until a successor is named.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rain Damages Australia Cotton
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA -- Australia's cotton crop has been damaged by
widespread rains that have flooded much of eastern Australia.
   A spokesman for the Australian Bureau of Agricutural and
Resource Economics said the quality of cotton will have been
spoiled by the heavy rains and this will lower export
returns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In December, the bureau estimated that Australia's cotton
exports would total 508 million Australian dollars (US$383.2
million) for the year ending June 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PHM Corp. Selects
   Ex-Chrysler Executive
   As Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   PHM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich. -- PHM Corp. said it hired former
top Chrysler Corp. executive Harold K. Sperlich as chairman
and chief executive officer, succeeding James Grosfeld, who
has retired.
   PHM, one of the nation's largest home builders, didn't
elaborate on the reasons for Mr. Grosfeld's retirement, which
was announced late Friday afternoon. The company said he will
remain on the company's board and act as co-chairman with
founder William J. Pulte of the board's executive committee.
He also will serve as a consultant to the company. PHM said
that it purchased 1,770,634 shares of PHM from Mr. Grosfeld
"at approximately market price." He will continue to hold
about three million shares, or about 13% of PHM's common
stock, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PHM stock closed at $9, unchanged, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Friday.
   Mr. Sperlich, 60 years old, left his post as president of
Chrysler's automotive unit in January 1988 amid reports that
he had clashed with Chairman Lee A. Iacocca and other
executives over the 1987 acquisition of American Motors Corp.
and other issues.
   While at Chrysler, Mr. Sperlich was credited with
masterminding the development of two critical products: The
front-wheel-drive "K-cars" that saved Chrysler in the early
1980s, and the hugely successful minivans that are central to
the company's profitability now. Since leaving the auto
maker, Mr. Sperlich has headed Sperlich &amp; Associates, a
consulting firm. He joined PHM's board in July 1989.
   PHM announced the change at the top in conjunction with
its first-quarter earnings, which rose 14% to $12.2 million,
or 46 cents a share, from $10.8 million, or 41 cents a share.
Revenue dropped nearly 12% to $238.7 million from $271
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   EF FHT SWY WAL BEAV GCCO HFMO ORBI TBIT UNIT CGEN VS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced five new
stock listings and the National Market System of the
over-the-counter market six.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joining the Big Board Friday under the symbol EF was
Europe Fund Inc., a diversified closed-end management
investment company specializing in European equities.
                                                                                                       

   Fingerhut Cos., a Minnetonka, Minn., direct-mail marketer,
was listed Wednesday under FHT.
                                                                                                       

   Safeway Inc., an Oakland, Calif., food retailer, started
trading Friday under SWY.
                                                                                                       

   Vista Resources Inc., a leather-products company here,
begins trading today under VS.
                                                                                                       

   Wahlco Environmental Systems Inc., a San Diego provider of
air pollution-control systems for utilities, joined the New
York exchange last Wednesday, under the symbol WAL. Europe
Fund, Fingerhut, Safeway and Wahlco were listed after their
initial public offerings. Vista joins the Big Board from the
over-the-counter market.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the OTC market is BE Avionics Inc., a Santa Ana,
Calif., maker of passenger control units for airline audio
and video entertainment and service systems, which began
trading under BEAV.
                                                                                                       

   Granite Construction Inc., a Watsonville, Calif.,
heavy-construction company, is trading under the symbol GCCO.
                                                                                                       

   Home Federal Savings Bank of Missouri, St. Louis, trades
under HFMO.
                                                                                                       

   Orbital Sciences Corp., a Fairfax, Va., space-technology
company, goes national OTC under ORBI.
                                                                                                       

   Telebit Corp., a Sunnyvale, Calif., manufacturer of
data-transmission products, is trading under TBIT.
                                                                                                       

   Unitrin Inc., a Chicago insurer spun off from Teledyne
Inc., is listed under UNIT.
                                                                                                       

   The American Stock Exchange opened trading last Monday on
put and call options on the stock of Collagen Corp., a Palo
Alto, Calif., manufacturer of products used to care for aging
skin and bones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aetna's Profit Rose
   3.6% in 1st Quarter
   To $179.8 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   AET
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co.'s
first-quarter earnings rose 3.6% to $179.8 million, or $1.61
a share, reflecting improved results in its group insurance
and pension business.
   Yet results for the company's personal auto insurance
business were disappointing. James T. Lynn, Aetna's chairman,
blamed high loss costs and inadequate pricing. Its
auto/homeowners business posted earnings of $1 million,
including a net realized capital gains of $2 million,
compared with a loss of $4 million in the year-ago quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the company's annual meeting Friday, Ronald E. Compton,
Aetna's president, outlined various steps the insurer is
taking to improve profitability of its personal auto
insurance business.
   Aetna has reduced agents' commissions on personal auto
insurance in many states. To lower expenses, it has
instituted stronger underwriting standards and improved its
claims-handling practices.
   Mr. Compton said the company will invest its capital in
the auto insurance business "only in those states where the
regulatory and political climates permit us to earn adequate
returns on our investments." Already the company has cut back
some 15% to 20% in states where the auto insurance business
is considered unprofitable.
   Earnings for Aetna's employee benefits group, which
includes group insurance and pensions, rose to $77 million,
from $42 million, in the 1989 first quarter.
   Aetna's first-quarter results included net realized
capital gains of $20 million, or 18 cents a share, compared
with net gains of $21 million a year ago. Capital gains of
$23 million from the sale of the company's Australian
insurance operations were also included in first-quarter
results. Revenue rose 4.3% to $4.8 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fixed-Rate Mortgages Continue to Rise,
   Threatening to Throttle Housing Sales
   ----
   By William Celis III
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fixed-rate mortgages are approaching their highest levels
in more than a year, with additional increases expected in
coming weeks, said economists. The increase threatens to
throttle an already weak housing market.
   Interest rates on fixed loans have been climbing
incrementally all year, but in the past two weeks they have
surged about one-half percentage point because of a variety
of concerns, including inflation. The average weekly rate for
30-year fixed-rate loans purchased by the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, increased to an indicated
11.03% Friday, including servicing fees. The rate is up from
an indicated 10.57% earlier this month, with many lenders
quoting fixed-rate loans at levels between 10.6% to 10.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Freddie Mac rate is indicative of where rates are
expected to be in 30 days, but some lenders said fixed loans
could hit that mark as early as this week, approaching the
11.23% rate of 30-year fixed loans in February 1989.
   As a result, adjustable-rate mortgages, which have been
relatively stable, are expected to regain favor among
consumers. ARM rates, said HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J.,
mortgage research concern, stood at a fully indexed rate of
10.50% Friday, down from 10.67% a month ago. But lenders
minimized the ARMs' ability to resuscitate an industry
already languishing from shrinking demand, affordability
problems and, now, higher rates.
   "The last two weeks have been very, very difficult," said
Walter C. Klein, Jr., chairman and president of Sears
Mortgage Corp., Riverwoods, Ill. The executive said Sears, a
unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., increased its mortgage rates
every day for the past 14 days, with the rates finally
reaching 10.5% Friday.
   Mr. Klein added that applications in April so far are off
15% from March and that loan volume this month will drop to
about $300 million, compared with $360 million in March. The
rate increase reduced loan applications nationwide 3% for the
week ending April 13, the most recent period available,
compared with a year earlier, according to the Mortgage
Bankers Association.
   "There's no question that loan volume has begun to slide,"
said Warren Lasko, the trade group's executive vice
president.
   Housing starts similarly are expected to come down,
following last week's interest-rate spurt. The National
Association of Home Builders' estimate of 1,350,000 starts
for 1990, already reduced once, is expected to fall to
1,300,000, trade group executives said. In addition to higher
interest rates, starts have been depressed by a plunge in
multifamily starts and a construction and development credit
crunch created by tighter thrift-lending rules.
   Although brokers across the country said it was too soon
to gauge the effect of higher rates on sales, existing home
sales remained flat in March, with 3,400,000 units sold on an
annualized basis, compared with February's 3,380,000 rate,
the lowest level in eight months. The National Association of
Realtors blamed the increased rates. New-home sales in
February, the last available month, grew 3.1% to 687,000 on
an annualized basis from 589,000 in January, but future
declines are likely.
   "I would expect {the interest-rate increase} to show up in
sales," said Michael S. Carliner, an economist with the
National Association of Home Builders.
   As dim as the industry's outlook is, ARMs are expected to
keep sales from dropping significantly, economists said.
Adjustables, on average, now are 2% points lower than
fixed-rate loans, the widest spread since March 1989. As a
result, economists said they expect ARMs to markedly improve
their current 25% market share in coming weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900430-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900430-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL LUV ENE BSE U CRCH DGN ALD NSH BETZ CBL CTCO KSF OCAS
ATXA CDO XRX WHR STO CTC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Delta Air Lines       $ .48  $ .38 (5)  $ .39  (13)  26.32
  Southwest Airlines      .18    .16 (3)    .13  (13)  12.50
  Enron Oil &amp; Gas         .15    ...        .08   (3)  87.50
  Boston Edison           .27    ...        .19   (4)  42.11
  USAir Group           (1.05)   ...      (1.43) (10)   ...
  Church &amp; Dwight         .28    ...        .23   (3)  21.74
  Data General           (.29)   ...       (.34) (10)   ...
  Allied-Signal           .90    ...        .81   (8)  11.11
  Nashua Corp             .39    ...        .37   (3)   5.41
  Betz Laboratories       .99    ...        .94  (10)   5.32
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Corroon &amp; Black       $ .49  $ .74 (3) $  .73   (5)  33.78
  Cross &amp; Trecker        (.19)   ...       (.12)  (4)   ...
  Quaker State Corp       .09    ...        .17   (4)  47.06
  Ohio Casualty           .80    ...       1.26   (8)  36.51
  Cross (A.T.) A          .22    ...        .34   (3)  35.29
  Comdisco                .45    ...        .66   (4)  31.82
  Xerox Corp             1.06    ...       1.49   (5)  28.86
  Whirlpool Corp          .42    ...        .52   (6)  19.23
  Stone Container         .61    ...        .74   (7)  17.57
  Contel Corp             .34    ...        .41   (6)  17.07

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
