<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0195
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0195.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Timken Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TKR
</CO>
<LP>
   TIMKEN Co. (Canton, Ohio) -- Larry R. Brown, managing
partner of the law firm Day, Ketterer, Raley, Wright &amp; Rybold
of Canton, Ohio, was named vice president and general
counsel, a new post at this specialty steels and bearings
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0194
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0194.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks That Soared in 1st Quarter
   Could Run Out of Gas by the Fall
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   AHM GWF GDW AMX PD
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Will the first quarter's dream portfolio
become nightmare stocks by the fourth period?
   It could happen. Investors don't expect all of the first
quarter's winning industry groups to be still flying high at
year end. The ideal portfolio in the just-ended quarter was
full of growth stocks and some shares of companies whose
fortunes swing with the economy; stocks sensitive to interest
rates were notable by their absence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But things change, and the transformation from dream to
nightmare could begin this quarter. Economic-cycle stocks
could be vulnerable the rest of this year, some analysts say,
while certain financial stocks could rebound.
   Few forecasters are predicting a recession this year,
though the sharp rise in interest rates during the first
quarter could slow domestic demand. Exports also could slow
because the dollar has strengthened.
   "Sales and inflation figures are going to start to
moderate," predicts Michael Strauss, chief economist at UBS
Securities Inc. "Underlying growth in the economy should be
weaker in the second quarter." Overall growth in the second
half of the year could be less than 1.5%, says Mr. Strauss,
who expects the Federal Reserve to respond to slackening
growth by nudging short-term interest rates a bit lower
around mid-year.
   Slowing growth could test the courage of investors who
hoped that a reacceleration of the economy would continue to
boost cyclical shares.
   "We think there is enough uncertainty in the economic
growth outlook that as we move through the year people will
lose conviction in cyclicals," says David Rajala, vice
president at One Federal Asset Management. "The
`safety-first' theme will resurrect itself."
   In the first quarter, "safety" meant growth stocks.
Winning industry groups, such as semiconductors and software,
are full of companies generating strong earnings because of
their dominant franchises and unique products.
   Air freight was the quarter's hottest industry group with
a gain of 19.6%. Federal Express, one stock in that group,
advanced 21.8% last quarter, partially due to takeover rumors
but mainly because of price increases in the freight industry
that promise stronger earnings ahead.
   "The swing from price cutting to an environment of price
increases has put life in these stocks," says David Guthrie,
analyst at Morgan, Keegan &amp; Co.
   Storage Technology, the best-performing stock on the New
York Stock Exchange with a gain of 81.9%, has all the
characteristics of a first-quarter favorite.
   First, the company is slicing debt from its balance sheet.
Storage Technology issued six million shares last month to
help pay down $285 million in high-coupon debt.
   Second, the company has a product that makes it dominant
in the computer-tape library market, says Mark Morris,
analyst at Hanifen, Imhoff Inc. "They own the tape library
market with no real competitor," he adds.
   And, Storage Technology's earnings could grow 32% this
year to $1.86 a share, Mr. Morris estimates, an increase in
line with proven growth stocks.
   EMC Corp., the No. 2 gainer on the Big Board, has a strong
alliance with Storage Technology. But the maker of computer
memory products also has other hallmarks of a first-quarter
winner, such as a broad, diversified customer base and a
niche product. Moreover, Richard Egan, chief executive
officer, says EMC finished the quarter with little debt and a
lot of cash on the balance sheet.
   Investors choosing among the cyclical stocks looked for
companies that had dominant positions in their industry.
Fluor, a part of the heavy-construction industry group, which
rose 13.2% for a No.3-ranked increase, is a world-wide leader
in engineering and construction. Its shares rose 16.3% in the
quarter.
   Stocks in the construction, heavy machinery, industrial
technology and factory-equipment industry groups also
benefited during the quarter from perceptions of higher
investment in factory and infrastructure rebuilding in the
U.S. and around the world. The rise in these shares reflects
"a shift in the economy to capital spending" and away from
military spending and consumption, says Alan Dorsey, analyst
at Dillon Read.
   Some analysts say the direction of interest rates will
tell the stock market's story at the end of 1990. Their
near-term bet is that short-term rates will fall a bit while
long-term rates stay where they are or even rise. If that
happens, many of the shares of well-run savings-and-loan
associations and financing companies that can buy money
cheaply and lend it more expensively could benefit, according
to Nancy Spady, analyst at Morgan Stanley.
   But investors should venture cautiously into thrift
stocks, Ms. Spady says. "You really want to focus on the
single-family housing lenders," she says. She is recommending
three: H.F. Ahmanson, Great Western Financial and Golden West
Financial.
   Poor first-quarter performers included banks with suspect
loan portfolios, insurance companies with suspect bond
portfolios and highly leveraged companies of any type. But
some good companies were tarred, and investors are beginning
to differentiate the good financial stocks from the bad.
   "We have begun to purchase selected insurance stocks such
as General Re and Chubb," says William Kufta, senior vice
president at Pitcairn Financial Management. Mr. Kufta also is
"looking for values" and preparing to buy bank stocks. "We're
doing our best to identify the true risks in loan
portfolios," he adds.
   In another category, Joseph McAlinden, director of
research at Dillon Read, thinks basic materials stocks will
outperform the market in the months ahead. Last quarter, the
basic materials sector, which includes companies such as
Aluminum Co. of America and Union Carbide, lagged behind the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index of 704 stocks.
   "Companies that are sensitive to GNP {gross national
product, or a nation's total value of goods and services} can
be risky as we go into the second quarter," Mr. McAlinden
concedes. But he argues that companies have just about worked
off once-bloated raw materials inventories. Soon, they will
go back out into the market and start bidding up prices for
copper, aluminum and other essential industrial commodities,
he says.
   "You want to be emphasizing the materials companies now,"
he says, adding: "Amax in the aluminum stocks, and copper
stocks such as Phelps Dodge."
   What about the dollar's recent strength? Won't that make
U.S. basic materials producers less competitive?
   "It's not that you have had a strong dollar but a weak
yen," he says. Against a basket of currencies, the dollar is
not significantly higher, he asserts.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stocks closed lower and ended the first quarter with the
lightest weekly volume in three months. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average fell 20.49 to 2707.21.
   End-of-quarter buying from institutions seeking to round
out portfolios before reporting to clients wasn't sufficient
to offset the influence of a weak bond market and rounds of
futures-related sell programs. Broader market measures, which
lagged the Dow industrials through the quarter, didn't move
down as sharply Friday.
   For the first quarter, the Dow industrials posted a loss
of 45.99 points, or 1.7%, but managed a gain of 2.93 points,
or 0.1%, for the week. The S&amp;P 500 fell 3.8% during the
quarter, the New York Stock Exchange Composite lost 4.2% and
the Dow Jones Equity Market Index slid 4%.
   Motorola retreated 2 1/2 to 65 as 1.4 million shares
changed hands. The company was ordered to halt sales of one
of its biggest-selling chips as part of a judge's ruling in
its dispute with Hitachi over patent rights, which ended in a
draw. Hitachi lost 3 3/4 to 98 3/4; stocks of other Japanese
companies traded in the U.S. also fell in the wake of a
selloff on the Tokyo stock market.
   L.A. Gear rallied 1 3/8 to 38 7/8 on 1.6 million shares
after posting earnings for the fiscal quarter ended in
February that exceeded analysts' estimates. Net income surged
to 69 cents a share from 31 cents a year earlier.
   On the takeover front, Unocal rose 5/8 to 31 7/8 as 1.6
million shares changed hands amid renewed speculation about a
possible offer from British Petroleum. BP and Unocal both
declined to comment on the rumor.
   Eljer Industries advanced 1 3/4 to 19 3/4 on a report by
Cable News Network that someone has been accumulating the
company's stock and may hold more than 5% of its shares as a
prelude to a possible takeover bid.
   CBS gained 2 1/8 to 176 7/8. USA Today reported that Walt
Disney might be pursuing a secret plan to acquire the
company, as has been rumored for several months.
   General Development, which said earlier this week that
several groups have expressed an interest in buying all or
part of the company or making a major investment, added 1 1/8
to 5 7/8.
   But Amax, the Big Board's most active issue for the second
session in a row, fell 1 1/8 to 27 3/4 on 2.4 million shares
as speculation about a potential offer eased. Another target
of takeover rumors, Armstrong World Industries, lost 1 1/8 to
33 1/8.
   Lockheed dropped 5/8 to 36 after claiming victory in its
proxy fight with Dallas investor Harold C. Simmons. The
company granted last-minute concessions in an effort to
attract the vote of major shareholders.
   More than 1.3 million shares of Irish Investment Fund, the
newest entry on a growing list of closed-end, single-country
mutual funds, changed hands on its first day of trading. The
stock closed at 12, unchanged from the price of its initial
offering of five million shares.
   Baroid added 3/8 to 10 3/8 on 1.4 million shares. An
offering of 11 million shares was sold at $10 each.
   Banc One gained 7/8 to 28 3/8. The company agreed to buy
credit-card receivables from the credit union of the American
Association of Retired Persons and to provide a Visa
credit-card program to the association's 30 million members
for 10 years.
   ---
              How Industry Groups Performed
                                                                                                       

   10 best and worst performing stock groups, percentage
change got the first quarter
                                                                                                       

 Air Freight                          19.68%
 Semiconductors                       14.33%
 Heavy Construction                   13.21%
 Heavy Machinery                      11.19%
 Software                             10.00%
 Computers (with IBM)                  9.45%
 Industrial Technology                 8.83%
 Factory Equipment                     8.61%
 Oil-field Equipment                   7.80%
 Medical &amp; Bio. Technology             7.75%
                                                                                                       


 Insurance - Life                    -11.20%
 Banks: South                        -11.22%
 Media                               -11.30%
 Regional Banks                      -11.69%
 Financial Services                  -12.06%
 Health Care                         -12.65%
 Major Banks                         -13.95%
 Banks: East                         -15.85%
 Casinos                             -16.94%
 Lodging                             -26.99%
   ---
                    Weighing on the Dow
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 45.99 points in
the first quarter. Of the 30 stocks in the price-weighted
average, these had the greatest effect.
                                                                                                       

                                   NET
                                CHANGE      MEASURED
                                  FROM       IN DJIA
                              12/29/89*       POINTS**
                                                                                                       

 Declines
                                                                                                       

 Alcoa                         -10.25         -18.47
 American Express              - 9.125        -16.44
 Merck                         - 7.875        -14.19
 Goodyear                      - 7.75         -13.96
                                                                                                       

 Increases
                                                                                                       

 Boeing                        +12.375        +22.30
 IBM                           +12.125        +21.85
 General Motors                + 3.625        + 6.53
                                                                                                       

   *Based on NYSE prices only, not on composite price of all
exchanges on which stocks are traded.
   **Computed by dividing each stock's net change by the
current divisor, 0.555.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Birinyi Associates Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0193
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0193.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parent of the Department Store Units
   Of Campeau Files Under Chapter 11
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
RETAILING (RET)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The U.S. parent of Campeau Corp.'s department
store units filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection in
what it said was a "procedural step" in the continuing
Chapter 11 reorganization of the retail units.
   Federated Stores Inc., formerly Campeau Corp. (U.S), said
it filed for Chapter 11 protection in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in San Francisco. That is the same court where three
Federated holding companies and a U.S. Campeau real estate
unit filed for Chapter 11 protection on Jan. 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federated is the holding company for Federated Department
Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., which filed for Chapter
11 protection in Cincinnati on Jan. 15. It also holds two
U.S. real estate units and a joint-venture development
partnership with Edward J. DeBartolo Corp., a Youngstown,
Ohio, shopping mall developer that lent Campeau $480 million.
   Federated said its filing is "meaningless" to Federated
Department Stores and Allied Stores, and won't affect their
ability to meet their continuing obligations in the normal
course of business. It said the filing doesn't affect Ralphs
Grocery Co., Campeau's Southern California supermarket chain,
which isn't under Chapter 11 protection.
   Federated and Allied are receiving merchandise shipments
from 98% of their "key" vendors and their department store
inventories are on a par with year-earlier levels, said Allen
Questrom, chairman and chief executive officer, and James
Zimmerman, president, in a statement.
   A spokeswoman for Federated said she couldn't comment on
whether the bankruptcy filing would effectively freeze the
Campeau/DeBartolo mall development partnership. The
spokeswoman also said Federated's filing wasn't related to
the Canadian parent's latest cash woes.
   Campeau Corp. didn't pay about $18.9 million of interest
due last Saturday on two debenture issues, and for the second
straight month likely will skip a $5.2 million monthly
interest payment due today to two major creditors.
   Campeau said the debentures will be in default if the
payments aren't made by April 30, and it wants to defer
paying the interest until it has a new business plan for its
Canadian and U.S. real estate operations.
   Campeau is already in default on $705 million of loans
from Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd. and DeBartolo because
it deliberately declined to pay February's $5.2 million
interest payment.
   A Campeau spokesman said it wouldn't be in the company's
best interest to pay the interest now. He said Campeau is
"pretty confident" the debenture holders will agree to defer
the payments. Approval of 66% of the debenture holders is
needed for such a deferral. He said the company is up to date
on paying interest due on other loans.
   Olympia &amp; York declined to comment, but a source close to
the real estate development concern closely held by Toronto's
Reichmann family said it probably would be amenable to
deferring payments. DeBartolo officials weren't available for
comment.
   Analysts weren't surprised by Campeau's decision to skip
the interest payments on its debentures.
   "It wasn't totally unexpected given the negotiations they
must get through with their creditors on debt owed by the
parent company," said Ross Cowan, of Toronto-based Levesque
Beaubien Geoffrion Inc.
   Analysts expect Campeau's business plan will include
renegotiated loan agreements and an accelerated program of
asset sales, including some of Campeau's prime properties
that are encumbered under loans.
   Campeau's debt crisis became acute when Federated and
Allied sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection. The
Canadian parent company needed the cash flow from Federated
and Allied to service debt taken on during its $6.6 billion
takeover of Federated in 1988.
   The interest payments Campeau missed Saturday include
about $13 million due on its $260 million of 7% convertible
debentures, all of which are held by Olympia &amp; York, and 6.9
million Canadian dollars (US$5.8 million) due on C$184
million of 7.5% convertible debentures, of which C$46.6
million is held by Olympia &amp; York. The interest rate on the
7% debentures was increased to 9.86% last September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0192
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0192.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VLSI to Post Profit
   Matching Forecasts
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8B
</SO>
<CO>
   VLSI
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- VLSI Technology Inc.'s first-quarter earnings
should meet analysts' expectations, the company's chairman
and chief executive officer, Alfred J. Stein, said.
   "We expect to do as well as the analysts are projecting .
. . between five and eight cents a share," Mr. Stein added.
VLSI makes standard and customized integrated circuits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stein noted that late last year, the company guided
analysts' first-quarter projections lower from earlier
estimates of around 15 cents a share.
   He said a slowdown in standard chip-set sales and a drop
in demand for custom chips by its largest customer, Apple
Computer Corp., stalled revenue growth in the quarter.
   The company had a loss of $6.3 million in the first
quarter of 1989, largely due to problems during the start-up
of its chip plant in San Antonio, Texas. VLSI earned 11 cents
a share in the latest fourth quarter.
   The company expects to release its first-quarter earnings
April 12.
   Mr. Stein said seasonal slowdown in Far Eastern demand for
the chip sets was partly responsible for damping growth in
the first quarter.
   The region's IBM-compatible computer makers use the sets
in personal computers that see their strongest sales before
the Christmas holidays. Far Eastern demand generally slacks
off in the first quarter, Mr. Stein said. Shipments to the
Far East account for about half of the company's chip-set
sales.
   Mr. Stein said demand for customized chips by Apple
Computer has recovered from a drop that also depressed
first-quarter revenue.
   "Apple is coming back very strongly to us," Mr. Stein
asserted. He added, however, that the impact of Apple's
resumed demand won't be felt until the second and third
quarters of this year.
   Apple accounted for 13% of VLSI's revenue in 1989, while
sales to International Business Machines Corp. rose to about
10% of total revenue.
   Mr. Stein said sales to IBM will exceed sales to Apple
this year because of increasing shipments to IBM, not because
of shrinking sales to Apple. The increasing importance of IBM
as a customer illustrates VLSI's strategic shift toward sales
of "application-specific standard product," primarily
standardized chip sets for personal computers, over the
customized chips designed for Apple Computer and others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0191
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0191.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Says
   Japan Air Lines
   Will Buy Planes
   ---
   Order Valued at $2 Billion
   Is for 10 MD-11s, Options
   On a Stretched Version
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle and Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MD JAPNY F.ABI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   McDonnell Douglas Corp. confirmed that it received an
order from Japan Air Lines Co. valued at about $2 billion for
10 of its MD-11 aircraft and options for 10 more that could
be converted into orders for a new stretched version of the
MD-11.
   Analysts said that McDonnell Douglas had been planning a
relatively simple variation on the wide-body, triple-engine
jet for a couple of years, but that now it appears to be
moving toward a more radically modified aircraft, the MD-12X,
which could involve a costly redesign of the wing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   JAL's interest in the bigger plane, which would seat
roughly 100 more passengers and compete with medium-range
versions of Boeing Co.'s 747 jetliner, gives the MD-12X a
"significant lift," said a spokesman for McDonnell Douglas's
commercial aircraft unit in Long Beach, Calif. "We expect to
have a business plan ready for approval by the board around
mid-year."
   St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas beat out Airbus
Industrie, the European aircraft consortium, for the JAL
contract. "After studying it (the two aircraft) from various
angles, we concluded that the MD-11 was the best buy," JAL
President Susumu Yamaji said at a press conference in Tokyo
on Friday. He didn't say specifically what tipped the
decision in McDonnell Douglas's favor.
   Mr. Yamaji denied that the decision to buy American rather
than European airplanes was a political move to deflect
tensions over Japan's $49 billion trade surplus with the U.S.
But analysts said the political element could not be
completely discounted. "(JAL's) reputation in the U.S. is
very important to them," one Tokyo analyst said.
   JAL, Japan's largest domestic and international airline,
said the MD-11s would be used to replace its current fleet of
16 DC-10 models. The purchase is part of the airline's plans
to add 20 medium-capacity jet aircraft to its fleet between
1993 and 1998. A decision on which engines will be installed
hasn't been reached. Delivery of the MD-11s is set to begin
in late 1993, McDonnell Douglas said.
   McDonnell Douglas said the JAL order brings to 340 the
total of firm orders and "other commitments" for the MD-11.
The jetliner, an updated version of the DC-10 model, made its
first flight test in January. "We're shooting for (Federal
Aviation Administration) certification in October, with
deliveries to begin soon thereafter," the company spokesman
said.
   McDonnell Douglas said that JAL may convert some of its
MD-11 options to MD-12X orders if the company launches the
proposed program by the end of the year. The MD-12X could
seat up to 441 passengers in a two-class configuration,
compared with 323 passengers in the MD-11, the spokesman
said. The MD-12X would have a range of about 5,600 miles,
versus 8,000 miles for the MD-11. McDonnell Douglas declined
to disclose any cost estimates for the proposed MD-12X.
   "If it needs new wings, which is almost certain, it would
be a formidable cost factor," said Paul Nisbet, an aerospace
analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. The development
cost could be more than $2 billion, he estimates. That is
roughly triple the $700 million the company has said it will
spend on the MD-11, which uses essentially the same wings and
fuselage as the DC-10.
   Mr. Nisbet said the proposed MD-12X triple-engine jet
could be more fuel-efficient than the Boeing 747, which has
four engines, on trans-Atlantic and other medium-range
routes. The MD-12X wouldn't be able to carry enough fuel to
fly from the East Coast of the U.S. across the Pacific Ocean.
However, he cautioned that the plane is "more or less wishful
thinking" until the company has firm orders, prices and
delivery dates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0190
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0190.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   CONGRESS last year approved $1.2 million for water, sewer
and power for a dormitory that MCA Inc.'s Yosemite Park &amp;
Curry Co. unit planned to build for its employees. The
purpose of the funds was misstated in last Tuesday's edition.
   (See: "Golden Valley: MCA's Yosemite Unit Pays Little,
Gains a Lot Running Concessions --- Critics Complain Park
Service Charges Inadequate Fees and Want New Contract ---
Trying to Increase the Traffic" -- WSJ March 27, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   THE PROPOSED ACQUISITION of a 60% stake in Genentech Inc.
by Roche Holding Ltd. must gain approval from the Federal
Trade Commission, which last month asked for more information
for its evaluation of the transaction. The federal agency was
misidentified in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Business Brief -- Genentech Inc.: U.S. Panel Clears
the Sale of Stake to Roche Holding" -- WSJ March 30, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0189
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0189.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World's Workers
   Are Uniting...
   For Capitalism
   ----
   By John H. Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Self-proclaimed progressives have held that the interests
of the poor are best served by socialism, and that it is only
because of capitalist manipulation and deception that workers
everywhere did not "unite and throw off their chains." That
theory has crashed into the brick wall of reality with the
recent elections in Nicaragua, East Germany and Hungary. In
each country, it was the working-class areas that most
emphatically rejected socialism and voted for free-market
parties.
   The first socialist country to throw Marxism into the
dustbin of history in fully free elections was Nicaragua in
February. It is true that UNO, the opposition coalition that
defeated the ruling Sandinista regime, was made up of 14
parties whose views ranged from free-market to far left. Its
economic platform, however, called for free markets and
privatization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The election results published in Barricada, the
Sandinista newspaper, show the depth of the repudiation the
party suffered in areas it had long considered its own.
   As expected, the Sandinistas turned out their loyal voters
in the capital of Managua. Middle-class areas filled with
homes that had been confiscated for use by government
loyalists voted for the Sandinistas. Many of the city's poor
barrios, however, rejected them. "In Monsonor Lezcano, UNO
won two to one," Barricada reported mournfully. In working
class San Judas, a Sandinista stronghold, UNO nearly won. The
day after the vote, Reuters reported, barrio residents burned
the Sandinista flag in the streets.
   The isolated southern area along Nicaragua's Caribbean
coast is probably the poorest region in the country. It gave
UNO more than 60% of the vote, its second-highest result in
any region. By way of contrast, the Rio San Juan area
bordering Costa Rica, perhaps the richest in Nicaragua, gave
the Sandinistas 58% of the vote and their best showing.
   In the area where the most severe contra fighting took
place, around Matagalpa and Jinotega, the Sandinistas claimed
voters would give them a landslide victory to express their
outrage at the U.S.-backed contra war. Instead, UNO won 58%
of the vote, the Sandinistas only 36%.
   Nicaragua's results should have prompted Western observers
to question media reports from East Germany that claimed
voters wanted to retain large elements of socialism. Carl
Bernstein, writing in Time magazine in January, said he
"could hardly find any citizens who said they wanted a
reunified, single Germany." He reported that "they love their
country. The German Democratic Republic, not the Federal
Republic of the West. They believe in socialism. Still."
   Mr. Bernstein could file this amazing dispatch only
because his interviews were done in East Berlin, the one part
of East Germany that clearly resisted the free market tide in
favor of rapid unification. The reform Communist Party won
30% of the vote in Berlin and the leftish Social Democrats
(SPD) and Alliance 90 another 41%. In the rest of the
country, the parties of the left won only 36% of the vote.
The high Berlin vote for the left reflected the high number
of Communist Party functionaries, court intellectuals and
policemen in the capital.
   Some Western analysts have attributed the conservatives'
victory to their supposedly massive rural support, but the
results indicate otherwise. Conservatives ran behind the vote
for the parties of the left in the most rural regions of the
country.
   But the conservatives triumphed in the densely populated
industrial areas of Thuringia and Saxony, the prewar
heartland of German socialism. The left won only 26% of the
vote in the Dresden district, and in the soot-begrimed
industrial region of Karl Marx Stadt, only 29%. Erfurt, where
the Social Democratic Party issued its political program in
1891, gave the SPD only 19% of the vote.
   The Social Democrats did poorly in part because many
workers harbored bitter memories of the years during which
the West German Social Democrats cooperated with the
Communist regime of Erich Honecker. "As time went on, the SPD
came to identify helping East Germans with helping the
Communist Party," bricklayer Olaf Wohlleben told John Barnes
of the Detroit News. Overall, exit polls showed that 60% of
working-class voters plumped for the conservatives and what
West German pollster Wolfgang Hartenstein called West German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's "petit bourgeois certainties."
   Support for those same values dominated Hungary's
elections last week. The two leading parties, Democratic
Forum and the Free Democrats, disagree only on how rapidly to
move to a market economy. Together they won nearly half the
vote. The Socialists and Communists won a total of 15% and
were swamped by the pro-market Free Democrats, even in the
poorer areas of Budapest.
   Despite this sweeping repudiation of socialism, it would
be an exaggeration to say a majority of people in these
countries have become convinced capitalists. People are
voting not only for a different political and economic
system, but also to make their societies less political. When
Lech Walesa visited the Journal last November, he was asked
what the Polish people wanted. "We want to rejoin the ranks
of normal societies," he said. "It isn't an issue of
ideology, it simply means we want a system where politics
isn't everything and people can live normal lives."
   Having lived in countries where every aspect of life from
university exams to child care was politicized, voters in
Eastern Europe and elsewhere are embracing a little-heralded
feature of the free society -- the freedom not to be obsessed
with political questions. They can instead immerse themselves
in family, career, church or self-improvement. In normal
societies people may forget about politics and concentrate on
the serious business of living. Socialism even in its most
benign form is a bureaucratic committee meeting that never
ends.
   ---
   Mr. Fund is an editorial writer for the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0188
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0188.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Gun-Control Schemes
   Won't Stop Assasins
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Your March 13 article on James Brady says the former White
House press secretary "makes a poignant personal point" by
comparing the inconvenience of gun owners' facing waiting
periods with his own inconvenience and pain resulting from
the head wound caused by John Hinckley's bullet.
   The so-called "Brady Bill," however, would not have
stopped Hinckley's attack on President Reagan, and if it
becomes law it will not stop future assassins or other
gun-toting criminals. Despite your claims, Mr. Brady brings
no "new dimension" to the highly polarized debate on gun
control. Emotion has long been an ally of the falsehoods and
distortions that are the stock and trade of Mr. Brady's
wife's group, Handgun Control Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gun-control schemes promoted by people ignorant about and
hostile to firearms may enjoy better prospects of passage
today than in the past, but they enjoy no greater chance of
affecting criminal violence. To develop regulations that
really would have an effect, lawmakers need to avoid the
battle between the NRA and HCI by seeking the support and
collaboration of honest gun owners for restrictions that
respect their own rights while targeting those who criminally
misuse firearms. The NRA and its membership would rally
behind such efforts, but they would not satisfy the
self-righteousness and cultural bigotry of the HCI crusaders.
   Lee Warren Smith
   Los Angeles
   ---
   You say many U.S.-made assault weapons are exported to
drug lords in Colombia and elsewhere. The drug lords, in
fact, are not interested in U.S.-made semiautomatic arms, but
prefer full automatic weapons, which they easily purchase
from many sources in Europe and Asia or occasionally steal
from local police and military forces. I've spent much time
in these areas on legitimate business and am not speaking
from secondhand knowledge.
   This "Colombian drug lord" gambit is simply the latest of
a long line of cliches foisted on the public by the
gun-control crowd to achieve its purposes.
   Robert L. Humphrey
   Los Angeles
   ---
   While the NRA is a very efficient lobby in Congress, it is
second to none in its ability to inform its members of any
attempt to weaken constitutional rights. Not only does it
inform its members, but through media attention brought to
its tactics it also informs the public at large and allows
citizens to consider both sides of the issue before voting
their convictions. The politicians know this. They also know
it is rarely beneficial to be on the side of an issue
supported by the minority opinion.
   Mitchael Cromeens
   Minerals Wells, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0187
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0187.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Marcor Resorts Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MAAR
</CO>
<LP>
   MARCOR RESORTS Inc. (Las Vegas, Nev.) -- Thomas Y.
Hartley, president and chief operating officer of Jim Colbert
Golf Inc., was elected a director of this real estate-based
investment and services concern, succeeding Lud Corrao, who
retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0186
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0186.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, March 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/2% high, 7 5/8% low, 8% near closing
bid, 8 1/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.25% 15 to 59 days; 8.20% 60 to 89 days;
8.15% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.35%
30 days; 8.35% 60 days; 8.33% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.76% one month; 7.82% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.89% six months; 8.17% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.30% one month; 8.40% three months;
8.55% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.18% 60 days; 8.16%
90 days; 8.16% 120 days; 8.16% 150 days; 8.15% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 7/16% to 8 5/16% one month; 8
7/16% to 8 5/16% two months; 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% three months; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% four months; 8 5/8% to 8 1/2% five months; 8
11/16% to 8 9/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/8% one month;
8 1/2% three months; 8 11/16% six months; 8 15/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 10.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, March 26, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.85% 13 weeks; 7.83% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.33%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
7.625%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.26%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.05%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.53%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0185
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0185.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medical Supply Firms Expected to Post
   Growth of 14% in First-Quarter Profit
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT HUM NME BCR BAX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The nation's health-care companies are expected to finish
the first quarter in robust shape.
   Medical-supply firms are expected to report earnings
growth of about 14% on average, analysts said, even though
sales growth has remained at about 10% over the past two
quarters -- a reflection of the medical industry's efforts to
hold down expenditures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the industry may face the threat of an economic
slowdown in 1990, an occurence that analysts said could
prompt insurers to further intensify pressure on hospitals to
cut costs. But even then, analysts add, the effect might be
minimal on suppliers, which have managed to hold down their
prices in recent quarters.
   Among the medical-supply concerns, Abbott Laboratories is
expected to report 15% growth in first-quarter earnings.
Sales for the Abbott Park, Ill., medical supplier rose 11% in
the fourth quarter to $1.46 billion, topping an 8.3% rise the
previous quarter.
   Baxter International Inc. is expected to report a 14%
increase in net income, with per-share earnings of 39 cents,
up from 34 cents a year ago. The Deerfield, Ill., company is
"on the verge of a significant restructuring move" that may
include corporate staff cuts and the sale of assets, said
David J. Lothson, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc.
   A few companies aren't likely to share in the overall
bright outlook. C.R. Bard Inc. is expected to report a 58%
drop in earnings, to about 16 cents a share from 38 cents a
year earlier. Since last summer, the Murray Hill, N.J.,
company has had to pull three angioplasty catheters from the
market after the Food and Drug Administration raised
questions about their design. The company is awaiting
approval to reintroduce the products.
   Hospital-management companies, benefiting from
restructuring and stabilized admission rates, continue to
report strong earnings.
   Despite some softness in the market for adolescent
psychiatric services, Los Angeles-based National Medical
Enterprises Inc. yesterday reported net income of $62.7
million, or 77 cents a share for its third quarter, ended
Feb. 28, up from $49.4 million, or 67 cents a share, a year
earlier.
   Humana Inc. reported earnings of $75.8 million, or 75
cents a share, for its second quarter, ended Feb. 28,
compared with $62.4 million, or 63 cents a share, in the
year-ago period. Analysts praised the Louisville, Ky., care
provider for securing a supply of patients for its hospitals
by boosting enrollment in its health maintenance
organizations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0184
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0184.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grand Met Expects
   15% Profit Rise
   In Fiscal 1990
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GME
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, SUPERMARKETS AND DRUGSTORES (RFD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Grand Metropolitan PLC expects a 15% increase in
earnings per share in fiscal 1990 and believes that its U.S.
businesses will generate half its profits, Chairman Allen
Sheppard predicted.
   The forecast assumes a 5% inflation rate and 10% real
earnings growth, Mr. Sheppard said. In the year ended last
Sept. 30, the London-based food, retailing and drinks concern
posted per-share earnings of 55.6 pence, an 18.5% gain from
fiscal 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Sheppard made his prediction while addressing
analysts, primarily from Britain, who this week toured some
of Grand Met's U.S. properties, including Heublein
distillers, Pearle health services, Pillsbury food and the
Burger King fast-food chain.
   Contending that "we don't have any bad businesses," Mr.
Sheppard said Grand Met will concentrate near-term on
expanding Burger King and Pearle as "international
brandings," while developing "critical mass" for its food
businesses in Central Europe.
   "We're looking for a stable of international brands --
that's our strategy," Mr. Sheppard said, adding that Grand
Met also is searching for "another Pearle that everybody else
has missed in service retailing."
   Mr. Sheppard and Group Finance Director David Nash also
said they hope to have Grand Met American Depositary Receipts
listed on the New York Stock Exchange by September. ADRs are
receipts for shares of a foreign-based corporation, which
trade much like stock in the U.S.
   "If we list I'd like to be able to issue some stock," Mr.
Nash said, indicating a total offering of perhaps $100
million. He and other Grand Met executives told analysts they
would expect considerable demand for such an offering in the
U.S.
   Grand Met has received the first round of bids for its
U.S.-based Alpo Petfoods Inc. unit and is "in the middle of
conversations with a number of serious purchasers," the
company said.
   Grand Met recently put Alpo up for sale because its goal
of building it into a billion-dollar business seemed
unobtainable, said Ian Martin, chief executive of Grand Met's
food sector.
   Mr. Martin termed Alpo's recent entry into the cat-food
business "very successful." Although its market share is only
around 1%, he said would-be buyers have been "surprised at
the success" of the new business.
   Reviewing Grand Met's extensive retailing (licensed
restaurants) group in Europe, Mr. Sheppard acknowledged that
Grand Met had "misread" the eating-out market in the United
Kingdom but is "back on track now."
   As for overseas expansion of Pillsbury brands, Mr. Martin
said he foresees "significant" opportunities for Green Giant
vegetables and Haagen-Dazs premium ice cream. He said the
company is seriously considering building a Haagen-Dazs plant
somewhere in Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   The Testament of Philly Lutaaya
   ----
   By Martha Bayles
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   It's a clear, sunny day -- the latitude is tropical but
the altitude is lofty. Gathered in crisp uniforms on a green
lawn are a hundred or so students of Gayaza High School, "the
oldest girls' school in Uganda." The camera pans their
smoothly sculpted faces, each lovelier than the last, while
their angelic voices pour forth a song to welcome an honored
guest. In this image of pure yet exotic beauty, we glimpse
why the British once called Uganda "the pearl of Africa."
   It's an image I grew up with, although I have never been
to East Africa. When I was seven years old, my physician
father was persuaded, by a former patient who had gone to
Uganda to teach in an Anglican missionary school, to pay the
modest school fees of a boy from a mountain village who
otherwise would have been unable to continue his education.
Since the boy was my age, the two of us became pen pals, and
my personal tie to Uganda was formed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The obvious thing to say now is that my pen pal (whom I
have met twice, in this country) is still alive. Mention
Uganda nowadays, and people do not think of schoolgirls
singing on a hillside above Lake Victoria. On the contrary,
they think -- or try not to think -- of the devastating
horror of the past 20 years, as the northern-based armies of
Milton Obote and Idi Amin imposed a brutal and genocidal
tyranny on their longstanding southern rivals.
   The horror has abated since 1986, when the exiled leader
Yoweri Museveni seized the government and instituted a policy
of amnesty and national reconciliation. But now another
horror is loose in Uganda -- AIDS. While some epidemiologists
debate the theory that one of the AIDS viruses originated in
the area of the Ugandan-Tanzanian border, others are
(rightly) more concerned with fighting the disease, which,
according to some estimates, now infects 800,000 of 16
million Ugandans.
   Which brings us back to Gayaza, where the guest of honor
is not a visiting bishop or a distinguished alumna, but a
popular singer named Philly Bongoley Lutaaya, who is dying of
AIDS. Mr. Lutaaya's public announcement of his condition, and
his travels throughout Uganda to educate his people about
AIDS, is the subject of "Born in Africa," a special combined
edition of "Frontline" and "The AIDS Quarterly" airing
tomorrow (9-10:30 p.m. EST, on PBS; check local listings).
   In Africa, AIDS is called "Slim," for reasons that are
obvious when we look at Mr. Lutaaya. Frail as a reed and
unhealthily reddish in color (except for the purple welts on
his skin), he wears wraparound sunglasses to protect his eyes
while delivering his message to the students: "Let us do our
best to have a virus-free young generation. It's easy to
avoid getting the virus. I beseech you, please be careful in
the way you handle yourselves. We need you."
   The message seems simple enough, and certainly Mr. Lutaaya
(who died in December) is an eloquent messenger. Early in the
film, the doctor who had been treating Mr. Lutaaya in
Stockholm describes the severity of the infections, tumors
and foot sores that, in his view, already have doomed the
singer to a bedridden existence. Yet Mr. Lutaaya defies this
prognosis by getting up, recording what would become a hit
song about AIDS, and then making the arduous journey back to
Uganda.
   Yet the message gets more complicated as we follow Mr.
Lutaaya through an itinerary that includes a great many stops
besides Gayaza. Part of the fascination of this film (made by
the award-winning Canadian film makers Virginia Storring and
John Zaritskyis) is its vivid portrait of contemporary Africa
as a place where the incursion of the modern world is both a
blessing and a curse.
   While still in Kampala, Mr. Lutaaya attends a party in the
neighborhood bar where he got his start as a musician. Here
we are reminded of the extreme moral permissiveness that has
existed in urban Africa for the past several decades. This
particular gathering is a sober one, but it's clear that the
bar is usually a spot where the music jumps, the beer flows
and traditional sexual morality -- whether tribal, Christian
or Moslem -- falls by the wayside.
   Such "liberated" environments attract young, uprooted
people who tend to be malnourished and afflicted with various
maladies, including venereal diseases, that have gone
untreated since the collapse of the Ugandan health system in
the early 1970s. Most researchers agree that it is this
combination of unfettered sexual activity and poor health
that has caused AIDS to become a heterosexually transmitted
epidemic in Africa.
   Therefore, in the spirit of scientific reason, Mr. Lutaaya
tries to convince people in mosques, churches, remote
villages (including his own) and the depopulated "ghost
towns" along the Trans-African Highway that AIDS is a
public-health hazard, not the work of witchcraft or a
punishment sent by God. He tactfully explains how the virus
is transmitted, and urges his listeners not to shun or
mistreat its victims.
   Here the complications begin, however. By insisting on a
non-judgmental attitude, Mr. Lutaaya may be inadvertently
furthering the process of secularization that contributed to
the problem in the first place. Given the role of religious
differences in Uganda's civil strife, we understand why Mr.
Lutaaya disapproves when a group of youngsters presents him
with a song blaming "rebellious" and "promiscuous" people for
bringing AIDS into their village, where it now kills the
innocent.
   Yet Mr. Lutaaya is caught on the horns of a dilemma, and
he is hardly alone. Public-health officials and religious
leaders throughout Africa agree that the best weapon against
AIDS is a return to monogamy, or (in the case of Islam and
traditional religions) polygamy, as long as husbands and
wives both remain faithful. But the only way to restore these
moral codes is to strengthen belief, which is also the source
of superstition and intolerance.
   Can people adopt strict moral behavior without rendering
strict judgment on the behavior of others? In the West, where
AIDS may not reach epidemic levels, we can afford this kind
of pragmatic pseudosolution. For us, the horns of the age-old
dilemma of religious toleration have become comfortably
blunt. But the same cannot be said of Africa, as this film
ably demonstrates. The fascination, and the sorrow, of Africa
is that it is a place where all human problems show up with
the sharpness of a razor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Century
   Says Creditors Clear
   Merger With Tescorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8C
</SO>
<CO>
   ACT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- American Century Corp. said its
creditors committee approved in principle a modified
reorganization plan that would allow the company to emerge
from federal bankruptcy court proceedings by merging with
Houston-based Tescorp Inc.
   American Century said the board of Tescorp, which makes
and distributes oilfield products, also approved the merger
in principle. The reorganization plan would give Tescorp
shareholders almost 93% of American Century, which owned
Commerce Savings Association, a thrift that was placed in
federal conservatorship last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recently modified terms call for American Century
debenture holders to receive 7.25% of the stock of the
reorganized company, changed from 5%. The plan also provides
for 700,000 shares of a new class of $5 par value convertible
preferred to be issued to debenture holders. Those holders
also would receive warrants to purchase a total of two
million common shares over three years at an initial exercise
price of $3.50 a share.
   Current American Century shareholders, meanwhile, would
get no shares; previously, they were allotted a 2.25% stake.
However, these holders would be given warrants to purchase a
total of 857,000 shares in the new company over a three-year
period for an initial exercise price of $3.50 a share,
American Century said.
   The merger and the reorganization plan remain subject to
approval by the bankruptcy court, American Century's
debenture holders and Tescorp shareholders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ricoh Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.RCH
</CO>
<LP>
   RICOH CO. (Tokyo) -- Hisashi Kubo, 58 years old, executive
vice president of this maker of copiers, fax machines and
office automation products, returned to the U.S. to serve as
chairman of Ricoh Corp., the U.S. unit. He succeeds Keiji
Endoh, 54, who returned to the parent as managing director in
charge of commercial affairs. Mr. Kubo led Ricoh's U.S.
operation as president and later chairman from 1979 to 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kodak Is Seen
   Posting Net Fall
   For First Period
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastman Kodak Co., still ailing from lower profit margins
despite measures last year to cut costs, is expected to
report another quarter of reduced profit.
   Most analysts in the past two weeks have dropped
first-quarter earnings estimates to 50 cents a share for the
photographic, chemical and pharmaceutical concern. In the
year-ago period, Kodak earned $200 million, or 62 cents a
share, on sales of $3.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Our assumption was that there was going to be a snap back
of margins from cost savings," said analyst Alex B. Henderson
of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. But "it's a continuation
of last year's difficulties."
   Kodak, which won't report its results until May 2, refuses
to comment on analysts' profit projections. But the company
has maintained that much of the cost-cutting measures taken
late last year won't bolster results until later this year.
"We've said all along that our restructuring will be felt in
the second half," a company spokesman said.
   Last August, after six-month net income slid 60%, Kodak
announced its fourth restructuring plan since 1983. Under the
latest plan, the company said it would divest itself of 20
businesses and eliminate about 5,000 jobs in the U.S. to
generate as much as $1 billion in cash flow this year.
   So far, the company has divested itself of its minilab
products and overhead projector business and closed its
professional videotape businesses, among others. The company
two weeks ago also sold its floppy disk unit, the largest
business yet to be sold under its restructuring effort.
Analysts estimate the unit was sold for about $200 million,
for an estimated pretax gain of $25 million.
   Most of the businesses sold or closed were in the
information systems group, which has been hurt by high
administrative costs. For 1989, the business group was barely
profitable, generating operating profit of $57 million before
charges on sales of $4.2 billion. Analysts foresee little
improvement in the group's business outlook this year.
   Moreover, sectors that had been strong, such as Kodak's
chemical group, are coming under greater pressure from the
weak economy. Operating profit is expected to fall 25% this
year.
   Adding to first-quarter woes has been the relative
strength of the dollar overseas, particularly in Japan.
Besides making Kodak exports more expensive in overseas
markets, the strong dollar also lowers foreign currency
earnings. Sales overseas represented about 43% of total sales
for Kodak last year.
   The company notes, however, that demand for consumer
photographic film -- Kodak's cash cow -- continues strong
despite the company's higher than normal price increase last
December. "Price increases have been accepted by the market,"
said analyst Donald Zwyer of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. He
estimates the price increase will contribute about half of
the sales gain in Kodak's imaging segment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National City Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NCC
</CO>
<LP>
   NATIONAL CITY Corp. (Cleveland) -- David C. Fynn, vice
president of sales administration, was named vice president
and corporate compliance officer of this bank holding
company, succeeding Richard Dorow, who retired in February.
Mary H. Griffith, senior vice president of public relations
at First National Bank of Louisville, was named vice
president and director of corporate communications, a new
post at National City. First National Bank is a member bank
of National City.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coast Savings Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CSA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Coast Savings Financial Inc. said it
withdrew its registration statement for a contemplated
offering of $150 million of convertible preferred stock,
citing poor market conditions and the excessive dilution that
would result from such an offering.
   Coast Savings Financial is the holding company of Coast
Savings &amp; Loan, one of the nation's largest savings and loan
associations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Even the Kitchen Sink Will Be Collected
   In New Recycling Program in Colorado
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7H
</SO>
<CO>
   LDMFA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Recycling is hot. But since most municipal curbside
programs pick up only aluminum cans, newspapers and glass,
many experts have questioned whether recycling will ever
fulfill environmentalists' dream of solving America's
solid-waste crisis.
   But a new program kicking off this morning in the
Ken-Caryl Ranch section of Littleton, Colo., suggests that
recycling's potential may be far greater than generally
thought.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Ken-Caryl program will pick up approximately 35
different items found in, around, even on the house, with
more to be added after the program gets rolling. Included is
almost anything aluminum, such as foil, pie plates, TV dinner
trays, pots and pans, lawn chairs, storm doors, window frames
-- even siding, rain gutters and car radiators.
   "This program's unique," says Resource Recycling magazine
editor-in-chief Jerry Powell. "If it works, it will be copied
everywhere," predicts Gregory Lawler, aide to Gov. James
Florio of New Jersey, a state up to its eyeballs in garbage.
   The Littleton program also will pick up every shape and
color of glass, plus a large number of paper products,
including corrugated cardboard, grocery bags, writing and
computer paper, even the kids' colored notebook paper, along
with newspapers. Plastic, too, is on the menu, specifically
plastic grocery bags, soda bottles and milk jugs.
   Then there are, for the lack of a better description,
specialty items, such as brass faucets, stainless steel sinks
and counter tops, copper wire and tubing, plus lawnmower
casings.
   "I'm cleaning out my house," says Ken-Caryl resident Cathy
Johnson, who pushed for the comprehensive recycling program
along with several other residents. "I'm throwing out huge
balls of aluminum foil and even my old lawn chairs," she
says.
   The Ken-Caryl program has other advantages over most of
the U.S.'s 5,000 or so existing curbside recycling programs.
One is that homeowners won't be asked to sort their
recyclables -- a task that has been a real turn-off for some
-- but rather will only have to put everything into a giant,
14-gallon bin. (The big items can be put out separately.)
Pick-up will be once a week by Laidlaw Waste Systems Inc., a
unit of Laidlaw Transportation Ltd. of Canada., which will
have a compactor truck follow its regular garbage truck
through the 2,700-home community.
   Another advantage is cost. According to Tri-R Systems
Corp., a Denver-based recycling firm that will sort and sell
the recycled 35 items picked up by Laidlaw, the typical
curbside recycling program currently costs about $2.50 per
household per month. Of that amount, about 15 cents flows
back to the community from the revenue generated by the sale
of the recycled goods.
   By contrast, the Ken-Caryl program will generate about 25
cents to 40 cents per household back to the community,
according to Tri-R chairman and president David Powelson.
Moreover, the additional revenue will come from more reliable
metals markets, offsetting the wide price swings for
newspaper and glass that have recently hurt many municipal
programs.
   Mr. Powelson says that among the other items scheduled to
be added to the Ken-Caryl program are tin cans, junk mail and
polystyrene. The latter has been banned by some
municipalities, but Mr. Powelson says that since the Food and
Drug Administration recently agreed to let recycled
polystyrene be used for making egg cartons, Tri-R will soon
have a resale market for that plastic material.
   Still, there are some things most homeowners commonly
throw away that won't be picked up. Batteries and motor oil
are two of them. Mr. Powelson explains that because both are
listed as hazardous substances, picking them up "would be
like picking up asbestos."
   Another common throwaway, the telephone book, also isn't
on the list, even though telephone books have been singled
out by environmentalists for needlessly filling up scarce
landfill space. The problem, says Mr. Powelson, is that the
only market for old telephone books is a small market
overseas: Some countries use telephone-book pages to wrap
fruit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   From remarks by Felix Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal
Assistance Corp. for the city of New York to the Woman's
National Democratic Club, March. 15:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Republican Party is internationalist and expansionary
militarily and economically; it is rigorously conservative,
if not to say reactionary, on social issues such as abortion,
school prayer, gun control, etc.; it is dedicated to the
pursuit of wealth through lower taxes and the absence of
regulation without any seeming concern for the appropriate
role of government. What does the Democratic Party stand for,
as an alternative to this program? It is exceedingly hard to
tell because the Democrats are not an opposition party. The
Democrats share power, they do not seek it. Seeking power
requires submitting alternatives to the voters and competing
for their allegiance; sharing power is an entirely different
role. The Democratic leaders in the Congress are men of
intellect and character, of decency and strength. But, they
are part of an existing power structure, almost a coalition
government with a Republican administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Street Smarts
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Insider trading
   Is considered a sin.
   That's why I'm glad
   I'm without, not within.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Candid Comment
                                                                                                       

   A lot of people would be more willing to serve their
country if the government would tip better.
   -- Marlys Huffman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Study Shows Anti-Inflammatory Drug
   Is Useful in Treating Spinal-Cord Injury
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Damage from spinal-cord injuries, frequently
the cause of paralysis, can be significantly reduced by large
doses of a common generic drug administered shortly after an
accident, medical researchers reported.
   The finding represents a breakthrough in dealing with
injuries that afflict about 10,000 victims a year, mainly
young men hurt in auto accidents. Many end up spending their
lives in wheelchairs. Caring for victims of spinal-cord
injury costs the U.S. government about $4 billion a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently there was little doctors could do to lessen
the destruction of such injury, but researchers found that
large doses of methylprednisolone, a commonly used
anti-inflamatory drug, given within eight hours of a
spinal-cord injury, can limit damage.
   The study provides "significant evidence that neurological
deficits can be reduced if treated quickly," reported Michael
Bracken, a professor of epidemiology at the Yale School of
Medicine, one of the coordinators of the tests.
   He said the use of massive doses of methylprednisolone
shortly after the accident can, in some cases, mean the
difference between being able to use a walker and being
restricted to a wheelchair. In other cases, he said, patients
who might otherwise be paralyzed from the neck down might be
able to regain some use of their hands because of the new
therapy.
   The study, which featured clinical trials involving
treatment of 487 victims of spinal-cord injuries at 10
medical centers, was sponsored by the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, one of the National
Institutes of Health. Results will be published in the New
England Journal of Medicine next month.
   The tests compared 162 patients treated with
methylprednisolone; 154 who received naloxone, an
anti-narcotic addiction drug that tests had suggested might
hold promise for treating spinal-cord injuries; and 171
patients receiving a placebo. Six months after their
injuries, the patients treated with methylprednisolone showed
nearly 60% greater improvement in motor skills, and more than
twice the improvement in their ability to experience touch,
than patients on the placebo. Naloxone didn't turn out to be
an effective treatment.
   The key to success is applying massive doses of the drug
within eight hours of an accident, explained Phanor Perot,
chairman of the department of neurological surgery at the
Medical University of South Carolina, one of the centers
involved in the study. Doctors gave an initial dose of 30
milligrams of methylprednisolone for each kilogram (2.2
pounds) of body weight, followed by an infusion of 5.4
milligrams per kilogram per hour for 23 hours. The drugs were
administered intravenously.
   The drugs for this treatment cost about $300.
Methylprednisolone is made by a number of companies. Upjohn
Co. donated the amounts used in the institute's study, called
the National Acute Spinal Cord Injury Study.
   Spinal injuries rarely sever the spinal cord. Instead,
they trigger swelling and a series of chemical reactions that
over time damage nerve cells in the spinal cord.
Methylprednisolone arrests some of this disintegration.
Scientists don't know exactly how it works, but they believe
it improves the blood flow to the injured area and reduces
swelling. Scientists used methylprednisolone after animal
tests suggested that it might work on humans.
   The new therapy has been so successful that the
investigators recommended that doctors start using it to
treat spinal cord injuries. In addition, they suggested that
paramedics could be trained to administer the therapy.
   Dr. Perot said that the success of the methylprednisolone
therapy suggests that there may be other drugs that will
interrupt or slow the cell disintegration that damages spinal
cords in the hours following injuries. "We may need a whole
salad of drugs" to arrest the cell disintegration process, he
said.
   Another area of research is focusing on cell grafts and
regeneration to patch damaged nerve fibers. "Once you limit
the initial damage, the next phase is how to repair it,"
explained Barbara Bregman, a professor of anatomy at
Georgetown Univeristy Medical Center. However, she said that
progress in this area of research lags behind efforts to
limit spinal-cord damage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   DEC Poised
   To Introduce
   Workstation
   ---
   Firm Touts Product's Size
   And Quality of Graphics;
   Speed Surpassed by IBM
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Digital Equipment Corp. plans to announce some new
engineering workstations tomorrow, but they won't surpass the
raw speed of the RS-6000 workstations unveiled by
International Business Machines Corp. in February.
   Digital is touting features of its new workstations other
than speed. Donald Gaubatz, group manager for workstations,
said that DEC's new products will have better graphics than
IBM and will fit on a desktop, unlike most rival workstations
that sit in consoles beside the desk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, "This announcement is less than one might
want," said Peter Kastner, an analyst with Aberdeen Group,
Boston.
   The workstation market has been a game of corporate
leapfrog in recent years as Digital, Sun Microsystems Inc.
and Hewlett-Packard Co. surpassed each other in producing the
latest "hot box." Digital's expected failure to top IBM shows
what a dramatic speed improvement IBM achieved when it
re-entered the market. The scientists, engineers and
programmers who use workstations demand fast machines to run
complex software and display detailed graphics.
   Digital has had a hard time in the market for fast
workstations that use reduced-instruction-set-computing, or
RISC, architecture and the UNIX operating system. Most of
Digital's workstation sales are VAXstations that run its
proprietary operating system.
   Mr. Gaubatz of Digital said that Digital's new
workstations will be based on Mips Computer Systems Inc.'s
R-3000 microprocessor. He said that Digital engineers have
coaxed performance of 24 million instructions per second, or
MIPS, an industry measure of performance. That far outspeeds
Digital's Decstation 2100 workstation, which processes 14
MIPS. But it falls short of IBM's new Powerstation 320, which
runs at 27 MIPS, and its more expensive Powerstation 530,
which runs at 34.5 MIPS.
   Analysts generally expect Digital to price its newest
model at less than $20,000, depending on features. Mr.
Gaubatz said the workstation will be competitively priced.
   Marc Schulman, an analyst with UBS Securities, said that
he thinks Digital's new workstation will run faster than
IBM's workstations in commercial applications, although it
will be slower for many scientific jobs involving heavy
computation.
   Digital entered the RISC-workstation market early last
year, breaking with tradition by buying a microprocessor
design from another company, Mips Computer, rather than
building its own design. Digital's goal was to get into the
market fast. However, analysts say that its entries, the
DECstation family, have gotten off to a slow start. Terry
Shannon, who follows Digital for International Data Corp.,
Framingham, Mass., estimates that Digital sold only about
6,000 of the DECstations last year compared with about 60,000
VAXstations.
   Domenic J. LaCava, Digital's vice president in charge of
workstations, noted that the DECstation sales are "all
incremental business," that otherwise would have gone to UNIX
competitors such as Sun Microsystems. But Digital's version
of UNIX is sufficiently different from others that many UNIX
programs have yet to be translated, or "ported" in industry
jargon, to the DECstations. Digital is pushing developers to
port their software.
   Mr. Gaubatz of Digital said that, "the first year was a
signal that Digital was serious about the UNIX market. The
features in the new product make up for all the shortfalls of
the current model."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Wins Contract
   For $402.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   GE LK UIS RTN GD IBM UTX F ML LOR GQ GRL DRM HON
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Electric Co. received a $402.9
million Air Force contract for fighter engines.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lockheed Corp. was awarded a $352.2 million Navy contract
for Trident missile services.
   Other contracts announced by the Pentagon went to:
                                                                                                       

   -- Unisys Corp., $85.8 million from the Navy for
fire-control systems and missile engineering services.
                                                                                                       

   -- Raytheon Co., $73.4 million from the Air Force for
radar and satellite equipment.
                                                                                                       

   -- General Dynamics Corp., $68.5 million from the Army for
Stinger missile parts.
                                                                                                       

   -- International Business Machines Corp., $35.2 million
from the Air Force for aircraft radar.
                                                                                                       

   -- United Technologies Corp., $31.1 million from the Navy
for helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   -- Ford Aerospace Corp., a unit of Ford Motor Co.,$26.7
million from the Air Force for Sidewinder missile parts.
                                                                                                       

   -- Honeywell Inc., $26.5 million from the Army for
munitions.
                                                                                                       

   -- Martin Marietta Corp., $20.9 million from the Army for
night-vision equipment.
                                                                                                       

   -- Diamond Shamrock Refining &amp; Marketing Co., $20.8
million from the Defense Logistics Agency for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

   -- Jaycor, $19.7 million from the Army for nuclear test
experiments.
                                                                                                       

   -- Loral Corp., $17.5 million from the Army for radar
warning receivers and intelligence training.
                                                                                                       

   -- Grumman Corp., $16.3 million from the Navy for E-2C
aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   -- General Instrument Corp., $13 million from the Air
Force for radar warning receivers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Separating Muj From Mobs
   ----
   By William McGurn
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   It was a mountaintop in Afghanistan, and it was hot. My
two companions, clad in Nike running shoes and the
traditional "shalwar kameez" -- baggy cotton trousers covered
by a long flowing shirt -- spread out their prayer rug and
made their obeisance to Allah. I leaned up against a tree,
wiped the sweat-soaked dust from my eyes and stared at the
glory of the Afghan countryside.
   The men I was with were not fanatics. Though they spoke of
jihad (holy war), of martyrdom, of Islam, no one in their
company would mistake them for the frenzied mobs that rail
against Great Satan America from Tripoli to Tehran.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   My problem then was the same others covering the war have
had -- how to convey this difference to an American audience
within the confines of an op-ed piece. In "Soldiers of God:
With the Mujahidin in Afghanistan" (Houghton Mifflin, 258
pages, $19.95), Robert D. Kaplan puts it this way: "These
were not the sorts of perceptions that would have survived
the brutal reductions of the television camera, the narrow
boundaries of hard-news writing, or the quantifications of
the think-tank analysts in Washington and London."
   Mr. Kaplan, until recently a free-lance reporter based in
Athens, is also the author of "Surrender or Starve," a book
about the barbarous, government-manufactured famine in
Ethiopia, and his experience shows. Indeed, his admitted
hostility toward other manifestations of Islam makes his
appreciation of the Afghans all the more impressive.
   "(B)ecause Afghans harbored no political insecurities and
were more relaxed in their faith than Arabs or Iranians," he
writes, "Islam in Afghanistan manifested a certainty and
unintimidating dynamism that did not exist in Iran, Pakistan,
or any of the Arab countries I had visited."
   His combination of firsthand war experience inside
Afghanistan and extensive reporting out of Peshawar -- base
of the seven-party alliance -- makes him sensitive to
distinctions that often escaped even devoted promoters of the
muj, local shorthand for the freedom fighters. The Peshawar
crowd, often ridiculed the more Westernized mujahedeen, many
of whom had relatives in Britain and the U.S. The national
Islamic Front of Afghanistan, for example, was dubbed the
"Gucci muj" and compared unfavorably with more rustic
warriors. But "the fact that members of their families were
abroad meant that they had other options," writes Mr. Kaplan,
who wonders whether that makes their decision to stay and
fight all the more significant.
   Equally telling are his criticisms of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
the one fundamentalist party leader whose zealous struggle to
turn Afghanistan into a centrally controlled theocracy
recalls the Ayatollah Khomeini. Mr. Hekmatyar has long been
accused of killing more muj than Soviets, but that never
stopped a disproportionate share of U.S. aid from flowing
through Pakistan into Mr. Hekmatyar's coffers.
   Just last week, a report by the House Republican Task
Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare wondered why
Mr. Hekmatyar's party's "fracticidal fighting against other
resistance groups, its close and growing cooperation with
both Tehran and Kabul, and its active participation in
anti-U.S. international terrorism" have had "little or no
effect on the delivery of CIA assistance."
   By contrast, there is Abdul Haq, the charismatic self-made
commander responsible for the Kabul area, who is often
unjustly lumped with Mr. Hekmatyar. Though no less devout,
Mr. Haq's vision of Afghanistan couldn't be more distinct: a
decentralized, traditional Afghanistan where local rulers
hold real power. His visit with Margaret Thatcher and Ronald
Reagan, moreover, is credited with Washington's decision to
provide the Afghans with the all-important Stinger missiles.
   "I told Mrs. Thatcher that my great-grandfather and his
father before him fought the British, who invaded Afghanistan
to keep the Russians out," remembers Mr. Haq. "So I asked
her: Now that the Russians have finally come, as the British
once feared, why are you so quiet?"
   Mr. Kaplan rounds out his story with nicely detailed
descriptions of the minor but no less colorful types drifting
through Peshawar. There is John Wellesley Gunston, the
British army officer turned photojournalist; Savik Shuster,
the Jewish refugee from Lithuania who reported on the war for
Radio Liberty/Radio Free Europe; Koshiro Tanaka, a Japanese
wouldbe Rambo whose goal is to kill a Russian with his bare
hands. At the outset of the book, Mr. Kaplan dismisses many
of them as "war freaks." But it seems hardly fair for him to
blast the big-name press and the international organizations
for their reluctance to assume great risks and hardships in
covering Afghanistan, and then complain about the few hardy
souls who did rise, however imperfectly, to that challenge.
   But this is a quibble with an otherwise first-rate account
of the determined hillmen who shot the Brezhnev Doctrine full
of holes, setting the stage for the dramatic events now
unfolding in Eastern Europe. However harsh the muj could be
on the battlefield, moreover, they did it without the
terrorist attacks on civilians that characterize most wars of
national liberation these days. In the face of the most
powerful weaponry, the latest strategies and the most modern
equipment, the stubborn Afghans taught the world an age-old
lesson.
   As one of Mr. Kaplan's colleagues put it: "Had the
Russians read Kipling more carefully, they might never have
invaded Afghanistan."
   ---
   Mr. McGurn is Washington bureau chief of the National
Review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   April's CD Buyers Face Lukewarm Yields
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   It's April again -- one of the two biggest months of the
year for maturing certificates of deposit.
   Over the next four weeks, according to some estimates,
investors will have to decide what to do with well over $100
billion of maturing CDs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial institutions around the country have been
gearing up for the occasion, readying a slew of special
promotions like "rising rate" certificates of deposit,
no-penalty CDs and even cash bonuses in an effort to capture
some of that treasure-trove.
   But unlike last April, when fierce competition among
banks, thrifts and brokerage firms helped drive some CD
yields into double digits, investors hoping for eye-popping
deals will be disappointed. The highest yield they can
expect: about 9% at some banks in a few especially
competitive markets, mostly in New England.
   "The bloom is off the rose," says Robert K. Heady,
publisher of Bank Rate Monitor newsletter.
   Interest rates in general are more than a percentage point
lower than they were a year ago. And with a softer economy in
some parts of the country tempering loan demand, many banks
have less need to go out of their way to attract deposits.
The government bailout of the troubled thrift industry has
also helped reduce aggressive competition, by eliminating a
number of institutions using extra-high yields to attract
desperately needed funds.
   All that might be considered good news for the stock
market. After all, yields on one-year CDs are generally
around 8%, two full percentage points below the historical
return on stocks, which has averaged 10% annually over the
past 63 years.
   Typically, however, investors are very conservative with
the money they put into CDs. Most of them simply roll over
maturing certificates into new ones of the same maturity.
This month will probably be no exception.
   "Customers are more wary of the stock market right now and
are looking for safety," says Anne Nelson, senior vice
president of CoreStates Financial Corp. in Philadelphia.
   Cautious CD investors do have some alternatives, however.
Treasury bills and money-market mutual funds both offer
yields higher than the average CD. Six-month T-bills were
yielding 8.22% last week, and the interest is exempt from
state and local income taxes. (T-bills, however, require a
minimum investment of $10,000.) The average seven-day
compound yield on money funds is 7.98%, and some funds are
yielding more than 8.5%.
   CD yields are actually up a bit from earlier this year. In
part, that reflects a slight rise in the general level of
interest rates. Some institutions have also increased rates
in recent weeks to beat the competition, says Norberto Mehl,
chairman of Banxquote Money Markets, a New York information
service. "It's a classic picture in March and April," he
says.
   April is a big CD month for several reasons, such as tax
deadlines and investments in individual retirement accounts.
Also, some of the cash that fled the stock market after the
October 1987 crash moved into six-month CDs, which, along
with one-year CDs, are the most popular maturities among
individual investors. That interest rates reached five-year
highs last April only added to the horde of cash becoming
available for reinvestment this month.
   Some banks and thrifts are trying to smooth out the
deposit inflows with odd-term CDs. New York's Bowery Savings
of America, for example, is offering four-month and
nine-month CDs with an 8.33% yield that could go up if
interest rates rise.
   Promotions on more popular maturities vary. In New York,
Bank of New York is advertising a six-month CD "that can only
go in one direction." Its yield, currently 7.78%, is
guaranteed to rise with any increase in the benchmark prime
lending rate. In the Washington, D.C., area, Perpetual
Savings Bank permits one withdrawal during the term of its
one-year CD without the usual penalty. Investors can also add
funds during the year.
   Provident Savings Bank in Cincinnati advertises "Cash
Bonus CDs" that "pay cash plus high yields." Bonuses range
from $50, for a $5,000 two-year deposit, to $2,500, for
$100,000 deposited for five years. The important thing for
investors is comparing yields. "The consumer-investor has to
look (at what the banks) offer . . . and see what he's really
getting," says Mr. Heady of Bank Rate Monitor.
   Bank of New York's six-month CD, for instance, is just a
tiny bit higher than the national average of 7.72% and
slightly below the New York average of 7.81%. Provident's
advertised yields include the cash bonuses.
   Long-term CD yields are relatively more attractive than
they've been in the recent past, which may encourage some
depositors to trade in their six-month and one-year CDs. In
San Francisco, for instance, both Wells Fargo Bank and Bank
of America are offering 8.44% on five-year CDs, compared with
7.90% for six months. A year ago, yields peaked at the
one-year or two-year maturities. Last October, another big CD
rollover month, yields were relatively flat across the board,
at around 8%.
   Investors looking for higher-than-average CD yields may
want to check with major brokerage firms, which negotiate
rates with the banks and thrifts whose CDs they sell. At
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., for instance, an investor can get a
one-year CD yielding 8.25% or slightly more. The average
one-year broker-sold CD is currently yielding 8.14%. That
compares with an average of 7.91% at major banks surveyed by
Banxquote Money Markets.
   For the very highest yields, investors will have to seek
out individual banks offering special rates, because of local
factors. For instance, several banks in Boston, Providence,
R.I., and some other New England cities are offering one-year
CDs with 9% yields. "The whole outlook on banking is negative
in this area," says Edward D. McCarthy, a Providence
financial planner. "The negative psychology really works to
the saver's advantage."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rubbermaid Says
   First Quarter Net
   Rose About 13%
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RBD
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rubbermaid Inc. will post first-quarter net income of
about $33 million, or 45 cents a share, up 13% from $29.3
million, or 40 cents a share, a year earlier, Stanley C.
Gault, chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   The expected earnings increase reflects higher sales of
Rubbermaid's housewares and lower raw-materials costs, the
executive said in an interview.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gault said revenue in the quarter rose slightly from
$349 million in the 1989 first quarter. The revenue gains
would have been stronger, officials said, had Rubbermaid not
held back on its retail inventory-building due to concerns
about the economy. "We want merchandise to move through the
stores, not just get the numbers up," Mr. Gault said.
   In its core housewares division, orders from retailers
were "on the light side" during the early weeks of the
quarter but have improved, said Walter W. Williams, president
and chief operating officer.
   Despite some worries about the economy, Rubbermaid
continues its fast-paced rate of new product rollouts. The
company unveiled 187 new housewares and specialty products in
January, including a 50-item line of brooms and brushes.
   Rubbermaid is optimistic of fast growth in that category,
despite the mature state of the market. The reason: larger
retailers could choose to stock the Rubbermaid line instead
of buying a variety of products from numerous suppliers.
   Besides, Rubbermaid hopes to create more demand by
boosting its advertising and promotion spending on that
product line and others. "We want to further enhance our
image with the consumer," Mr. Gault said. Last year's
advertising and promotion budget was about 3.6% of sales, or
about $45 million.
   For 1990, that will increase slightly, although the
company officials didn't offer details. One factor is how
much Rubbermaid saves on its raw-material costs. The company
expects polyethylene prices to drop during the year as
suppliers add capacity to plastic plants.
   Rubbermaid's Little Tikes toy division is expected to post
sales gains of between 10% and 12% over the year-ago quarter,
Mr. Williams said. The division's new management is
considering how to expand that business.
   The company's commercial products business should show
"average growth" in the quarter after lagging behind in 1989,
Mr. Williams said. One factor is the cautious spending among
food-service companies and others.
   For all of 1990, Rubbermaid agrees with analysts' earnings
estimates of between $1.80 and $1.85 a share, Mr. Gault said,
with revenue for the year topping last year's $1.34 billion.
However, the revenue figure won't include about $70 million
in sales from the housewares business in Europe. Those sales
are now part of a joint venture that isn't consolidated in
Rubbermaid's income statement.
   Capital spending is expected to climb 17% to about $100
million in 1990. The increase will cover new product
introductions, equipment replacements and other improvements,
Mr. Williams said.
   During the year, Rubbermaid will focus on management
succession in anticipation of Mr. Gault's retirement in May
1991. Mr. Williams is expected to become chief executive. "I
won't be running the company, but I'll be around to talk
about things," said Mr. Gault, who will remain a board
member.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Production
   Of Market Pulp Fell
   7.3% in February
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Canadian production of market pulp in February
dropped 7.3% from a year earlier, as the industry operated at
91% of capacity.
   The Canadian Pulp and Paper Association, an industry
group, said Canadian mills produced 534,000 metric tons of
market pulp in the latest month, compared with 576,000 tons
in February 1989. A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62
pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 91% operating rate in February was down from 99% in
January and 101% a year earlier. Operating rates can exceed
100% because some mills may operate for a limited period at
higher capacity than that for which they are rated.
   For the first two months of this year, Canadian mills
produced 1,180,000 metric tons of market pulp, a 4.5% decline
from 1,236,000 tons a year earlier. The industry operated at
95% of capacity in the first two months, down from 103% a
year earlier.
   Market pulp is wood pulp sold on the open market to
producers of paper, sanitary and other products. The
statistics exclude pulp consumed at the producing mill or
shipped to another mill that is affiliated with the producing
mill. Canada is the world's largest producer of market pulp.
   Total market shipments in January dropped 16% to 505,000
metric tons from 599,000 tons a year earlier. Shipments to
all markets were down.
   Market shipments for the first two months dropped 13% to
998,000 metric tons from 1,146,000 tons a year earlier.
   Canadian producer inventories at the end of February were
541,000 metric tons, a 30-day supply, compared with 512,000
tons, a 28-day supply, at the end of January, and 327,000
tons, a 15-day supply, at the end of February 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BTR, Pursuing Its Takover Bid, Sues
   Norton for Canceling Annual Meeting
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT U.BTR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- BTR PLC said it filed suit in federal court in
Boston to have Norton Co.'s canceled annual meeting
reinstated for April 26.
   Norton, target of an unsolicited $1.64 billion bid by BTR,
a London-based international conglomerate, on Thursday
canceled its annual meeting and scheduled a special
shareholders' meeting for June 26. Norton, a Worcester,
Mass.-based chemical and abrasives maker, said it needed more
time to weigh alternatives to BTR's bid, which it also
rejected as inadequate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If we get the date reinstated, we'll start our proxy
fight quite soon," said John C. Cahill, BTR chief executive
officer, in a telephone interview. BTR had given Norton until
Friday to accept its offer or face a possible proxy fight.
But if the June 26 special meeting date were allowed to
stand, Mr. Cahill indicated, any proxy fight wouldn't begin
for some weeks.
   In arguing that the annual meeting should proceed April 26
as scheduled, BTR noted that Norton's corporate bylaws state
that the annual meeting be held on the fourth Thursday in
April and that "no change in the date of the annual meeting
of stockholders may be made within 60 days before the date
fixed in these bylaws."
   BTR contended that Norton's board has tried to get around
the bylaws "by `cancelling' the annual meeting and
resurrecting it in the form of a `special meeting,' " but
that such a change is "impermissible."
   In response to BTR's request for an expedited hearing on
the annual-meeting issue, the court scheduled a hearing for
April 6.
   BTR's suit also asks the court to declare null Norton's
shareholder-rights plan and to declare that certain
anti-takeover laws of the state of Massachusetts are
inapplicable in the Norton takeover fight.
   Norton said it would "vigorously oppose" the BTR suit, and
filed its own suit in federal court in Boston seeking to
enjoin BTR's tender offer and to stop BTR from soliciting
proxies. Norton charged that BTR has violated federal
securities laws by, among other things, failing to disclose
"its practice and pattern of closing or moving plants and
laying off workers after various acquisitions it has made."
   The BTR chief executive said Norton's rejection of the bid
"was a very weak response." He added: "Norton made no
reference to shareholder value, and there is no expectation
that Norton can do anything short-term or medium-term" to
improve the company's operating prospects.
   Mr. Cahill urged Norton's board to provide BTR and other
Norton holders with whatever information it used to conclude
that BTR's bid was inadequate. BTR owns a fractional stake in
Norton. Mr. Cahill noted that before BTR made its $75-a-share
bid last month, Norton's share price never had exceeded $64
in the company's 105-year history.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
Friday, Norton closed at $73.50, down 37.5 cents.
   Mr. Cahill said he expected to meet Massachusetts Sens.
Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry in Washington, D.C., this
week to try to defuse political opposition to BTR's bid. "We
want to sit down in a spirit of good will and explain the
benefits of the bid to Norton and to the city of
Worcester," Mr. Cahill said.
   He also said BTR would run Norton "as a free-standing,
independent company" using Norton's current management.
   He held out the possibility that BTR might make capital
investments in Norton. Norton's capital investments "went
flat in the last four years, and I don't know why," he said.
"Perhaps it was because of poor cash flow."
   ---
   Lawrence Ingrassia in Boston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Physicians Service Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMPH WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN PHYSICIANS SERVICE GROUP Inc. (Austin, Texas) --
Kenneth Shifrin, chief executive officer of this financial
services company, was elected chairman, succeeding Jack
Murphy, a co-founder of the company, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Continental
   Suit Citing Regulators
   Is Dismissed by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit of
American Continental Corp. against federal regulators it had
accused of damaging its Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association
subsidiary by leaking confidential information to the press.
   Federal Judge Richard M. Bilby acted on a motion by
American Continental to dismiss the case without prejudice,
meaning that it may be refiled or reopened. But Judge Bilby
added that unless American Continental takes action by July
1, the case would be dismissed with prejudice.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Continental filed for reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code last April 13. The
government seized Lincoln Savings, of Irvine, Calif., the
next day. More than 23,000 investors claim they weren't
warned of the risks in buying uninsured junk bonds of Lincoln
Savings. They lost $200 million when the thrift failed.
   Judge Bilby precipitated the company's March 7 dismissal
motion when he barred American Continental from continuing to
pay attorneys to pursue the case. He said he feared that
attorneys' fees would use up the equity in American
Continental.
   James Feder, an attorney for American Continental, said it
wasn't clear whether the firm will attempt to refile or
reopen the suit. "We don't have the time and resources to
pursue this suit with the other litigation we have going," he
said.
   Government regulators have estimated that the Lincoln
failure may cost taxpayers $2 billion.
   American Continental had argued that top thrift regulators
regularly leaked information to the press that hurt the
survival possibilities of Lincoln Savings. Named as
defendants were M. Danny Wall, former director of the Office
of Thrift Supervision; Darrel W. Dochow, acting principal
supervisory agent for Lincoln, and William K. Black, general
counsel of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in San Francisco.
   The defendants couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great Pacific Capital
   Increases to 11.13%
   Its Stake in Ipco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IHS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -- Great Pacific Capital Ltd., a New
York investment concern owned by a Canadian financier, Jim
Pattison, said it raised to 11.13% its stake in Ipco Corp.'s
common shares outstanding from 9.37% last November.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Great
Pacific said it holds 563,600 Ipco shares, including 77,800
acquired between Jan. 30 and Tuesday, for $7.125 to $8.125
each. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Ipco shares closed at $7.75, down 25 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ipco operates a chain of about 250 Sterling Optical and
Ipco Optical stores in 20 U.S. states and Canada, which
generated earnings last year of about $453,000 on sales of
$123.9 million.
   Ipco officials weren't available to comment on the filing,
and a Great Pacific executive wouldn't elaborate. Great
Pacific said previously that it may buy additional Ipco
shares or "make a proposal with respect to a business
combination," among other things, depending on market
conditions and other factors.
   Mr. Pattison, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, has
various closely held companies that generate aggregate annual
sales of more than two billion Canadian dollars (US$1.71
billion). He formed Great Pacific in 1987 to search for U.S.
acquisitions.
   In a recent interview, Mr. Pattison said that he wants to
acquire U.S. assets to help diversify his holdings, and that
he is mainly interested in retail or consumer product
companies. "We're comfortable serving the public," he said.
Mr. Pattison's holdings include car dealerships, grocery
stores, and advertising and packaging companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Network Systems Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NSCO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NETWORK SYSTEMS Corp. (Minneapolis) -- Lyle D. Altman,
59-year-old president and chief executive officer of this
communications systems company, assumed the additional post
of chairman, succeeding Jim Thornton, 64, who remains a
member of the board. Network called the move part of its
succession plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Agency Agrees
   To Postpone Naming
   Receiver for Franklin
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FSAK
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Office of Thrift Supervision agreed to postpone the
appointment of a receiver for Franklin Savings Association of
Ottawa, Kan., pending the trial of a lawsuit challenging the
thrift office's dealings with Franklin.
   Franklin, in turn, agreed to withdraw its request for an
injunction that would have prohibited the OTS from appointing
a receiver and liquidating any of the thrift's $11.4 billion
in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreements effectively forestalled a court ruling on
the constitutionality of M. Danny Wall's appointment as
director of the OTS.
   "We just didn't touch that issue and didn't have to," said
Judge Dale E. Saffels, who is presiding over Franklin's
lawsuit in federal court in Topeka, Kan.
   Franklin and a handful of other thrifts are seeking to
block certain OTS actions because, they argue, Mr. Wall
should have been appointed by President Bush rather than
Congress. The OTS is currently appealing a decision favoring
that argument in a lawsuit brought by Olympic Federal Savings
&amp; Loan Association of Berwyn, Ill. In a similar lawsuit
brought by Benjamin Franklin Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association of Portland, Ore., the OTS won the first round
when Judge Helen J. Frye of Portland refused to block the
appointment of a receiver for the thrift. Benjamin Franklin
was placed in conservatorship on Feb. 21.
   Franklin Savings was placed in conservatorship Feb. 16
after the OTS forced the institution to immediately recognize
about $119 million in losses on futures positions it held as
a hedge against losses in its $10.26 billion portfolio of
mortgage-backed securities.
   Franklin filed suit against the OTS on March 12 and won an
order from Judge Saffels, temporarily barring the OTS from
appointing a receiver. The suit also challenges Mr. Wall's
appointment and the OTS's use of new thrift accounting rules
in determining whether the institution was in need of a
conservator. Judge Saffels scheduled the trial for June 25 in
Topeka.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush's S&amp;L Nominee Faces Tough Fight
   In Senate After Admitting Past Drug Use
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- After squeaking through the Senate Banking
Committee, the Bush administration's nominee to be its top
savings-and-loan watchdog may be in for a tough fight on the
Senate floor following the disclosure of his drug use in the
early 1970s.
   The nomination of Timothy Ryan was approved 11-10 by the
committee and sent to the Senate floor Friday, the day after
committee Chairman Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) announced that
Mr. Ryan appeared to lack enough votes to win approval as the
director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Democrats and Republicans had expressed skepticism
about the nominee's lack of financial experience. If
confirmed, Mr. Ryan would take charge at a time of industry
crisis and record losses.
   The disclosure that Mr. Ryan, who was special counsel to
the Bush presidential campaign, tried marijuana and cocaine a
few times in the early 1970s, cast some new uncertainty on
the nomination. It has propelled the administration into high
gear to push for his approval in a full Senate vote, which
could occur Wednesday.
   Mr. Ryan disclosed the information to the Federal Bureau
of Investigation during its background check, and the Senate
Banking Committee had that information before voting and
before NBC News reported it Friday evening. "Prior to my
nomination, I disclosed both on my FBI forms and verbally to
the White House and Treasury and the FBI that early in the
1970s, I smoked marijuana on a few occasions and tried
cocaine once, perhaps twice," said his statement after the
NBC report. "I regret this mistake. I don't regret having
voluntarily disclosed this information."
   Treasury officials said Secretary Nicholas Brady
telephoned senators over the weekend to push for Mr. Ryan's
nomination. He had telephoned and visited many members of the
committee the morning of the panel's vote, as well. "We knew
about this issue because the nominee voluntarily disclosed
the information," Mr. Brady said. "We do not believe the
reported incident should deter the full Senate from acting
promptly and favorably on Mr. Ryan's nomination."
   Some Republicans agreed that such a long-ago and
short-lived brush with drugs shouldn't tarnish Mr. Ryan's
chances. "There's a whole generation that's coming up for
posts in this kind of circumstance," said Sen. John Warner
(R., Va.), who sponsored Mr. Ryan in the Banking Committee.
"We can't write off those persons who many years ago have
experimented with controlled substances."
   Some in the Senate said that negative votes on Mr. Ryan
would be more likely to stem from general dissatisfaction
with the rocky progress of the bailout law passed last August
than from the drug issue. Republican leaders, including
Kansas Sen. Robert Dole, have warned that the thrift crisis
could haunt the party in elections.
   Even those who supported him said it was better to have
someone in the post with little financial background than no
one at all. "He might not have been my choice," said Sen.
Phil Gramm (R., Texas). "But there's not a hell of a lot of
people lined up for this job."
   Mr. Ryan, a former Labor Department lawyer, received
unanimous endorsement Friday from the committee's
Republicans. Two Democrats, Sen. Terry Sanford of North
Carolina and Sen. Richard Shelby of Alabama, surprised the
committee by voting for Mr. Ryan.
   "I have vacillated both ways," Sen. Shelby told the
committee Friday. "If we were voting last night, I would have
voted against him." Sen. Sanford wasn't present for the vote
Friday, and cast his ballot by proxy. An aide said the
senator always had intended to support Mr. Ryan.
   He won the nomination despite protests from Sen. Howard
Metzenbaum (D., Ohio), who said that Mr. Ryan skirted ethics
requirements in several instances, such as when he served on
an advisory council to the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act at the same time he represented a business group
with interests in the issue. Mr. Ryan subsequently resigned
from the council, at the request of the Labor Department.
   The committee vote Friday was a blow to Sen. Riegle, in
the wake of his forecast. "That can happen in a situation
like this," he said after the vote. "I won't make a
prediction for the full Senate." He said he wouldn't comment
on the drug issue.
   A pending court case could affect the confirmation
proceedings. An appeals court decision, due April 11, could
throw into question the standing that the Office of Thrift
Supervision's current director has to seize insolvent savings
and loans and to do other work of the S&amp;L bailout. That
possibility more than anything else may make Mr. Ryan's
nomination likely to succeed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Will Cut Auto Tariffs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- The Taiwanese Finance Ministry said it will
lower the tariff on small passager cars to 30% from 40%.
   During the annual tariff reduction meeting, ministry
officials said the cut for imported autos is in line with the
six-year Auto Industry Development Plan that expires in 1991.
The plan is aimed at gradually opening the local market to
foreign cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Steel Exports
   In February Declined
   20%, Sustaining Trend
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Continuing a sustained trend, Japan's steel
exports in February declined 20% from a year earlier to 1.359
million metric tons, the Japan Iron and Steel Federation
said.
   In November 1988, steel exports showed a year-to-year gain
for the first time since August 1986, but they have fallen
steadily again since then. A metric ton is equal to about
2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest data followed drops of 22% in January and 24%
in December.
   Federation officials reiterated that Japanese steelmakers
have been preoccupied with efforts to meet strong domestic
demand that has been fueling sustained economic expansion.
Recent surveys have shown that demand for steel from major
domestic users such as auto makers, shipbuilders and
construction companies remains strong.
   "Demand in overseas markets . . . appears to be
diminishing," an official said. "Other countries are also
trying to diversify their sources of supply."
   Reversing a long string of declines, exports to the U.S.
rose 16% from a year earlier to 260,000 metric tons.
Officials said shipments of seamless pipe, often used for oil
drilling because of its strong resistance against pressure
and corrosion, were especially strong. These more than
doubled from the year-earlier levels. This may be an
indication, the officials said, that oil drilling has been
accelerating in the U.S.
   The officials also pointed out, though, that exports in
the year-earlier month, at about 225,000 metric tons, were
particularly small as a result of brisk demand in the
domestic market. This comparison made the pace of growth in
February 1990 look good, they said. In January 1989, for
example, steel exports to the U.S. were more than twice as
large as in February 1989, or about 560,000 tons.
   Steel exports to communist countries continued a
persistent, sharp fall. Shipments to the Soviet Union plunged
52% to 47,000 metric tons, while those to China tumbled 62%
to 134,000 tons. Officials said that China and the Soviet
Union have been hurt by foreign currency shortages, and that
this apparently is responsible for the relentless downturn.
Economic conditions in the two countries haven't generated
strong demand for steel, either, they said.
   Exports to South Korea and Taiwain also slumped, off 44%
to 89,000 metric tons and 34% to 114,000 tons, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Thrift Holder
   Agrees to Guilty Plea
   On Criminal Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A former shareholder of the defunct Southwest
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Abilene, Texas, agreed to plead
guilty to artificially inflating the thrift's net worth to
raise its lending limits.
   Raymond Foy Phillips, 54 years old, was a prime
beneficiary of the increase in Southwest's lending limits,
according to documents filed Friday in connection with his
plea agreement in Dallas federal court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The defunct Abilene thrift, which is unrelated to
Southwest Savings Association of Dallas, had $162.5 million
in assets and negative regulatory capital of $202.7 million
in August 1988. Two months later, Southwest was sold with 10
other thrifts to the Adam Group, an owner of cable television
stations based in Bryan, Texas. The thrifts are now part of
Olney Savings Association.
   Mr. Phillips, who acquired a significant block of
Southwest stock in 1983, used several different company names
to borrow funds from the thrift for the purchase of 292 acres
of land in Houston, according to court documents.
   When Southwest reached its legal lending limits, based on
its net worth, Mr. Phillips agreed to purchase certain assets
of the thrift at inflated prices, allowing it to book false
profits and boost its net worth. In one instance, Southwest
lent Mr. Phillips $2.4 million to enable him to purchase its
own assets, according to court documents.
   Mr. Phillips, who is charged with conspiring to pump up
Southwest's net worth, is the first person to face criminal
charges in connection with the thrift's failure. He is
cooperating in further investigations by U.S. Justice
Department's Dallas Bank Fraud Task Force.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Development Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GDV
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT Corp. (Miami) -- James I. Wyer, 66
years old, was named a director of this community developer,
increasing board membership to nine. Mr. Wyer, former vice
president and general counsel of American Cyanamid Co., is an
attorney with Robinson, Wayne &amp; LaSala in Newark, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM, Chrysler Rebate Programs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   GM C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp.'s Cadillac division will
offer rebates on certain 1990 models, and Chrysler Corp.
extended its guaranteed rebate program.
   GM is offering rebates of $1,500 on the DeVille, Fleetwood
and Brougham models, and $2,000 on Eldorado and Seville
models through May 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler's rebate program, which had been scheduled to end
last Saturday, was extended through May 31 for 1990-model
cars and trucks, except minivans and LeBaron convertibles.
Chrysler guarantees that if it offers a higher rebate through
Sept. 30, it will make up the difference to a buyer who got a
lower rebate. It also increased the rebate on its 1989-model
LeBaron coupe to $2,000 from $1,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weaver Arms Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALABASAS, Calif. -- Weaver Arms Inc., which is being
reorganized under Chapter 11 federal bankruptcy protection,
said it has entered into an agreement to acquire Video USA, a
New York-based chain of video rental stores.
   Video USA, which consists of 68 stores, is owned by a
group of limited partnerships. Daniel Lezak, president of
Weaver Arms, said the 300 limited partners of Video USA will
receive 20 million units of Weaver, or 60% of the company, in
exchange for Video USA. Mr. Lezak said the units will consist
of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Valeo Sees a Period
   Of Consolidation
   In Wake of Expansion
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   F.VAL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French auto parts maker Valeo S.A. is heading
into a period of consolidation after adding production
facilities and purchasing several companies in the U.S. and
Europe during 1989, Noel Goutard, chairman, said.
   "We invested the equivalent of 9.3% of revenue in 1989 --
about 1.8 billion francs ($315 million) -- on modernization,
new products and increasing capacity," he said, adding that
the company now has to work on improving productivity and
profitability of new operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Goutard was presenting the company's full results for
1989 to French financial analysts, following the release of
revenue and profit figures to the press Tuesday.
   Valeo, the No. 2 auto parts manufacturer in Europe after
West Germany's Robert Bosch G.m.b.H., recorded a 15% net
earnings rise last year to 936 million francs on revenue of
19.5 billion francs, up about 18% from 1988.
   Analysts said they were disappointed with the results,
concluding that net profit below one billion francs during a
relatively good year for the auto industry portended hard
times for Valeo in 1990, during which the global car market
is expected to shrink.
   Mr. Goutard said acquisitions and inflationary pressures
weighed on the balance sheet in 1989. New purchases included
engine cooling systems maker Delanair Ltd. of the U.K. and
Blackstone Corp. of the U.S., as well as auto electronics
concern G. Cartier Systemes S.A. of France.
   Mr. Goutard said the companies acquired haven't yet
contributed positively to Valeo's balance sheet. The
companies generally had poor results on their own, and it's
Valeo's task this year, through rationalization, to turn
these new units into strong performers.
   Regarding the inflation effect, which cut into sales, the
Valeo executive said, "We weren't able to raise prices at the
same pace as inflation" in most markets, reflecting sharp
stiff competition from foreign auto parts makers.
   He added that as part of the company's rationalization
plan, 15 factories will be closed in 1990, leading to a
decline of about 10% in Valeo's work force. The number of
employees reached 34,200 last year, with 19,200 located in
France and 15,000 abroad.
   Mr. Goutard said the plant closings primarily will involve
factories that don't fit in with the company's product focus.
As an example, he cited a plastic injection plant run by
Cartier Systemes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   A Pillar of Apartheid Begins to Crumble
   ---
   Calls to End South Africa's
   Homeland Policy Grow
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   HALUVHIMBI, South Africa -- "No one is free when others
are oppressed," says a sticker welcoming visitors to the tiny
house on the mango forest's edge. Behind the slogan lives the
Rev. Zwo Nevhutalu, tall and rail-thin, a build suited to a
life on the run from the autocratic authorities here in the
black homeland of Venda.
   "We live like rabbits," he says. Two weeks earlier he was
scurrying through the thick bush, avoiding a roundup of the
leaders of a mass rally celebrating the release of black
nationalist Nelson Mandela from 27 years in prison. That was
followed by a weeklong strike of Venda teachers, magistrates
and civil servants and a surprising protest over working
conditions by the police in this homeland tucked away in the
remote northeast corner of South Africa. Now that his voice
of dissent against the repressive homeland government is part
of a bigger chorus, the Lutheran pastor feels safe to return
to his parish.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Even those people who have been hiding behind benches and
under beds are now coming out saying enough is enough," he
says.
   Since the government in Pretoria suddenly unbanned 60
opposition groups in February, including Mr. Mandela's
African National Congress, the peasants of Venda have poured
out of their mud huts with one basic demand: an immediate end
to the homeland system. That system is the grossest
manifestation of South Africa's zealous effort -- known as
grand apartheid -- to separate white from black.
   South Africa's political analysts call it a "revolution of
raised expectations." The political reforms, coming after
years of repression, have prompted black demands for an
overnight cleansing of the poisons of apartheid. Every day
brings new protests across the country. Teachers demonstrate
against the inferior black education system, township
residents march against high rents and community squalor,
prison warders strike over poor treatment and segregation in
the prison administration.
   The result has been a wave of unrest that threatens the
white government's efforts to begin power-sharing
negotiations with the black majority. Last week, police
opened fire on black protesters in the township of Sebokeng,
south of Johannesburg, killing nine and injuring more than
400. A few days later, the ANC indefinitely postponed the
opening round of talks with the government scheduled for
April 11.
   The unrest has been particularly acute in the 10 black
homelands. In KwaZulu, more than 200 people have died in
recent weeks during fighting between supporters of Chief
Mangosuthu Buthelezi's homeland government and ANC-allied
groups opposed to the homeland system. And in the four
homelands granted independence by South Africa (while
Pretoria treats them as sovereign states, the rest of the
world refuses to recognize them), the impoverished residents
are pushing to reincorporate the territories into South
Africa.
   In Ciskei, on the Indian Ocean coast, disgruntled
soldiers, favoring reincorporation, led a successful coup,
prompting several days of celebration and looting that left
dozens dead and injured. In Bophuthatswana, homeland police
opened fire on residents who angrily took to the streets
after the president said reincorporation would never happen
"in 100 years." In Venda, the recent wave of strikes and
protests has led President Frank Ravele to say he favors
negotiations on reincorporation. But his opponents say there
is nothing to negotiate; they want Mr. Ravele and his entire
government to resign.
   "If Ravele doesn't make an announcement soon, there will
be protests until he does," says Phanuel Mphaphuli, the local
representative of the South African Council of Churches,
which opposes homelands. Last week, Venda was rocked by three
bomb blasts. Though no one was hurt, one damaged the
Parliament building.
   The homelands pose a dilemma for Pretoria. President F.W.
de Klerk has taken bold steps toward ending apartheid, but as
long as the homelands remain, apartheid will be alive and
well. The monster, in effect, has turned on its creator.
While the government acknowledges that artificial geographic
segregation has failed, it is battling to control the tempo
of change and doesn't want to yield to street protest by
unceremoniously dumping its loyal homeland leaders. In future
black-white negotiations, Pretoria would like to have them on
its side.
   The idea of the homelands, conceived in the 1950s, was to
rid South Africa of black citizens. In a madly ambitious
scheme of social engineering, Pretoria divided the black
population into 10 tribal groups and then herded them into
separate "bantustans," each with its own government. A steady
stream of money from white South African taxpayers would make
sure they stayed put.
   But the plan failed miserably in practice. Many blacks,
despite forced removals, continued to flock to the urban
areas, where the white-run economy depends on their labor.
The homeland governments were derided as Pretoria's puppets.
The huge South African subsidies fostered rampant corruption.
Despite attractive tax schemes, most businessmen stayed away,
except for casino moguls and Taiwanese shoemakers. Instead of
viable states, the territories became cesspools of poverty
and shameful examples of the huge gap between white and black
living standards in South Africa.
   Heading east on Route 524, there is no sign alerting
travelers that they are leaving "white" South Africa and
entering Venda. But it is soon obvious. The mango trees, once
in neat groves, now grow wild; brick farmhouses are now mud
huts; the feeder roads are now dirt instead of concrete; the
roadside fruit stands are now auto repair shops.
   Cut off from the wealth of South Africa, most of the
500,000 Vendans rely on subsistence agriculture. The
government is a cabal of village chiefs, many of whom are
ill-educated. A couple of cabinet ministers have been
implicated in ritual murders. One allegedly buried a woman's
head in front of his house, hoping to derive some mystical
power. Repression of political opposition -- in particular
the outspoken Lutheran Church -- has been brutal.
   When Venda took its leave from South Africa in 1979,
following a dubious election in which the new government
received scant support, Tshenuwani Farisani, the dean of the
Lutheran Church in Venda, agreed to preach at the
independence festivities provided he could choose his own
sermon. He focused on the parable of the foolish man who
built his house on sand. Early the next morning his home was
raided, beginning several years of repeated detention and
torture.
   Today, Rev. Farisani is in the U.S., having left Venda in
1987 to seek medical treatment. But since then, his lonely
cry of protest has been rippling through the mango forests.
Now, hardly a day goes by when some section of the population
isn't protesting, be it against witchcraft or low salaries.
People move around proudly wearing ANC T-shirts. Even the
police salute protesters with clenched fists.
   "We must give thanks for what is happening now even before
we reach the day of freedom," says Rev. Nevhutalu. "Our
people aren't allowing themselves to be taken for granted
anymore."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Becton, Dickinson &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BDX
</CO>
<LP>
   BECTON DICKINSON &amp; Co. (Franklin Lakes, N.J.) -- Raymond
P. Ohlmuller, 50 years old, assistant general counsel of this
supplier of medical devices and diagnostic systems, was
elected to the additional posts of vice president and
secretary. He succeeds Robert G. Butler, 59, who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   On Lithuania, Bush Must Juggle Support
   For Both Gorbachev, Self-Determination
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For six months, George Bush has collected
victories in the Cold War without having to do much to earn
them. Communist regimes were toppled across Eastern Europe
without much help from the U.S.
   But now that Lithuania is seeking to carry the East bloc
self-determination movement inside the borders of the Soviet
Union, the president's job isn't so easy any more. Mr. Bush
has to struggle to sustain his two major foreign-policy
themes: support for the democratic surge in territories ruled
by Moscow, and cheerleading for Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev, whose recent decrees appear aimed at preventing
the uprising from penetrating his borders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Mr. Bush meets Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze at the White House in a few days, he has to find
a way to reconcile those two roles without appearing to sell
out little Lithuania.
   Last week, when a reporter tried to force the president's
hand by asking him how the U.S. would respond to a crackdown,
Mr. Bush reacted sharply. "Too hypothetical; stop right
there," the president barked. "I am not going to make an
answer to a hypothetical question of that nature. What
possible good could come from the president of the United
States, standing halfway around the world, speculating on
something that he doesn't want to see happen? I mean, I could
inadvertently cause something bad to happen."
   Eager to preserve warm relations with Mr. Gorbachev, the
U.S. administration has declined to recognize Lithuania's
declaration of independence, despite urgent requests from
Vilnius and a 40-year U.S. policy of refusing to recognize
the Soviet annexation of Lithuania and the other Baltic
republics. After a few days last week of expressing concern
about Soviet intimidation, the U.S. toned down its public
comments for fear of provoking trouble.
   And, even in private communications between Secretary of
State James Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze -- a face-to-face
meeting in Africa and a cable last week -- the U.S. has taken
great care to avoid spelling out what a crackdown in
Lithuania would cost Mr. Gorbachev in terms of relations with
the U.S.
   The president's own letter to Mr. Gorbachev late last week
appears to have been similarly careful. "The president's
message to President Gorbachev simply reaffirmed our position
as stated many times," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
said. He added that it "clearly stated {the president's}
support and the American support for the aspirations of the
Lithuanian people for self-determination" -- a statement that
clearly isn't the same as backing the immediate independence
the Lithuanians have declared.
   Mr. Bush himself said the letter was sent because "I want
to be sure that the Soviets understand our position and
understand that we are not trying to make things difficult
for Lithuania or for the Soviet Union or anybody else."
   There are three major reasons for this caution. First,
administration officials are convinced Mr. Gorbachev will let
Lithuania go peacefully, so long as it can be done gradually,
on Moscow's terms. Second, they argue privately that the
politically inexperienced Lithuanian leaders erred by quickly
declaring independence, rather than entering talks with
Moscow under Soviet law.
   The president himself said recently: "There are certain
realities in life, the Lithuanians are well aware of them,
and they should talk, as they are, with the Soviet
officials."
   Finally, and most importantly, Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker
privately admire Mikhail Gorbachev and are convinced they are
within a few months of concluding important business with him
-- a vast scaling down of Soviet military power, an agreement
to unite Germany on Western terms, and an opportunity to open
the U.S.S.R. to market-based investment.
   "We are so close to so much," says one very senior
official. "That's why we want to try to get this Lithuania
thing behind us."
   This is by far the touchiest moment for foreign policy in
the Bush presidency. If the conflict in Lithuania settles
down into negotiations without an armed crackdown, the
Bush-Baker approach will look brilliant. If not, the
president will be accused of selling out a small, budding
democracy to further big-power goals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Recent Progress Against the Spread of AIDS
   Is Threatened by Relapse in Safe-Sex Practices
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   After years of observing safe-sex practices that
dramatically reduced the spread of AIDS and other sexually
transmitted diseases, the gay community is experiencing a
relapse in its ranks, threatening recent health gains.
   Cases of venereal disease are rebounding at gay clinics in
Los Angeles, Seattle and Denver. More alarming, the rate of
new AIDS virus infections in Chicago has risen for the first
time in five years. While still below the 7.5% annual growth
rate of 1984, new infections within a study group doubled in
the year ended June 1989 to 2% from 1% a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No one knows if the upturn will prove to be a temporary
blip or a new wave of the epidemic. Nor is it certain other
cities will follow Chicago. However, a rise in venereal
diseases like gonorrhea could presage an increase in acquired
immune deficiency syndrome infection, which takes months
longer to show up as a positive antibody test.
   "We've been able to change sexual behavior in the past
five years and drop the rate of {AIDS} infection fivefold,"
says Lawrence Kingsley, a University of Pittsburgh scientist
who heads the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, or MACS, which
is tracking the AIDS virus in 5,000 men in Baltimore,
Chicago, Los Angeles and Pittsburgh. "But still we're left
with annual increases of 1% to 2%. This is unacceptable from
a public health point of view."
   Given a conservative estimate of five million to 10
million gay men in the U.S., Dr. Kingsley worries that even a
1% to 2% growth rate means 50,000 to 200,000 new infections
every year. "To me," he says, "that's staggering." The
Chicago increase, detected in a group of 1,100 men, is
especially disturbing because all MACS volunteers get
intensive AIDS education, he says. He fears other men at risk
"may be experiencing a higher rate of infection than our
men."
   George Lemp, an epidemiologist with the San Francisco
Department of Public Health, found a disturbing rate of
relapse in a telephone survey of 400 gay households there.
Almost one in five men (18%) said they had had intercourse
without a condom in the past year. Even among those men who
had made a commitment never again to engage in unprotected
sex, 16% said they had slipped in the past year, 12% of them
with casual partners.
   Scientists and activists say they are alarmed but not
surprised by some erosion in safe sex. Activist groups in
several major cities have met quietly to discuss educational
strategies to deal with relapse. One group, the Gay Men's
Health Crisis of New York City, called relapse "a specter
haunting the gay community."
   Many activists explain the phenomenon is similar to the
experience of people who try to quit smoking, drinking or
overeating. A slip now and then is inevitable. But "falling
off the wagon once won't kill you," says San Francisco
activist Pierre Ludington. "Falling off the safe-sex wagon
{can}."
   Risky encounters carry an especially heavy price in the
hardest-hit cities like San Francisco, where half of the
city's estimated 60,000 gay men are believed to carry the
virus. Still, given human nature, the denial of risk dies
hard.
   One avowed practitioner of safe sex recently acknowledged
the tragic aftermath of a single lapse in a letter to Pat
Christen, executive director of the San Francisco AIDS
Foundation. In a recent speech on the problem of relapse, Ms.
Christen read excerpts from his letter:
   "I am one of the people you are talking about," the
unidentified man wrote. "I practiced only safe activities
since 1987. I was not infected, and made a strong
{commitment} to stay uninfected. Unfortunately, several
months ago, I slipped once. . . . I have never done it since,
and I slipped just once, but I just found out that I am now
infected with the AIDS virus." He added, "I hope you can get
to others so it's not too late for them."
   Michael DeMayo of the Gay Men's Health Crisis of New York
City attributes such slippage to denial, low self-esteem and
alcohol or drug use. Also, he says that after years of
decline in bathhouse attendance, "there are now a couple
{underground clubs} in New York where you can go and have
unsafe sex." Other cities also report resurgence of sex
clubs, although some are said to enforce condom use.
   The Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Community Services Center
reports a rise in sexually transmitted diseases among its
clinic clients. Psychologist Scott Brooks of the Edmund
Edelman Health Center clinic says: "About 30% of our people
are being diagnosed with some form of gonorrhea." Though
that's lower than rates of the early 1980's, Mr. Brooks says,
"It's most definitely higher than we'd like to see."
   In Seattle, Hunter Handsfield, director of sexually
transmitted disease control for the Seattle-King County
Health Department, says that city's gonorrhea incidence
plunged to 33 cases in 1988 from 1,300 cases in 1982. But
there was a resurgence in 1989, when cases more than tripled
to 102.
   "We've seen similar rises in every STD -- syphilis,
herpes, genital warts and chlamydia -- all in gay men," he
adds. "We have no other rational explanation than that
there's been a behavior change," that is, a retreat from safe
sex.
   In Denver, which had seen an 80% drop in venereal
diseases, there's also "a small increase in gonorrhea in gay
men," says Gary Sky of the Colorado AIDS project. "Gays who
have been practicing safe sex for years are getting tired of
it."
   To combat relapse, the Colorado project has published a
pamphlet on how to "negotiate" for safe sex. It urges people
to tell their partners: "No condom, no sex." It also reminds
those already infected that unsafe sex places both their
partner and themselves at risk because any additional assault
on a weakened immune system can accelerate the course of
AIDS.
   Older gays, veterans of the epidemic, are "war weary,"
explains epidemiologist Ron Stall of the University of
California, San Francisco. Having succeeded in a massive
behavior modification, some gay men found it as hard to
maintain as any health regimen. Men in committed
relationships sometimes abandon safeguards in the interests
of intimacy, he adds.
   On the other hand, younger gay men in their early 20s --
who were boys when the epidemic struck a decade ago -- shun
condoms because they see AIDS as a problem of the older
"leather-bar" generation, Mr. Stall says, which is a fatal
illusion. He says if something isn't done, "I'm afraid we're
going to lose the next generation."
   Gabe Kruks of the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Community
Services Center says recent strides in AIDS therapy may have
given lapsers a false sense of security. "The epidemic isn't
over," he says. "It's not yet a chronic manageable illness."
   Samuel Broder, National Cancer Institute director and
developer of such drugs as AZT, DDC and DDI, cautions: "No
drug in existence, or even on the drawing boards, is better
than prevention."
   Advocacy groups suggest that education programs have been
hurt by their own success. AIDS control worked so well among
white gay professionals that it masked a lack of similar
success among minorities and young men in their teens and
20s. Funds need to be renewed, programs retargeted, they say.
   Education programs should stress continuation of safe sex,
promote role models of healthy intimacy and "eroticize safe
sex," they say, to make healthy practices desirable, not
merely antiseptic.
   Of course, sexual risk-taking isn't confined to gay men.
In a recent letter to the New England Journal of Medicine
headlined "Sex, Lies and HIV," two Southern California
scientists said a survey found Los Angeles area college
students admitted lying regularly about their intimate
histories to obtain sex. And the Rev. George Exoo, a gay
Episcopal priest in Charleston, S.C., says bisexual married
men frequent highway rest stops near his parish for
clandestine encounters. Activists urge that safe-sex messages
be written to reach everyone, not simply urban gays.
   Programs for young people should break through their sense
of immunity and immortality, activists add. "We have to
rethink our prevention efforts," Mr. Stall says. "Declaring
victory and abandoning the field is a recipe for disaster."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Therapeutics Plea
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOHEMIA, N.Y. -- American Therapeutics Inc. said it
pleaded guilty in connection with the delivery of a gratuity
to a Food and Drug Administration official.
   "We deeply regret any impropriety taken under American
Therapeutics' name," John D. Meloy, a company director, said
in a statement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month, American Therapeutics said it would plead
guilty to one count of use of interstate facilities in aid of
racketeering. It also pledged to cooperate in the continuing
investigation by the U.S. attorney's office in Baltimore.
   Sentencing is set for July 23. The company faces a maximum
fine of $500,000.
   Also last month, a former consultant to the generic drug
maker, Mohammed Azeem, pleaded guilty to two criminal counts
related to providing illegal gratuities to FDA employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bridgestone Corp.,
   Sumitomo Each Post
   Profit Gains for '89
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8A
</SO>
<CO>
   J.BDT J.SMR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Bridgestone Corp. and Sumitomo Rubber Industries
Ltd., two of Japan's major makers of tire and other rubber
products, reported strong gains in consolidated pretax
earnings for 1989.
   Bridgestone, the No. 1 tire producer, said its pretax
profit climbed 15% to 110.33 billion yen ($705.5 million)
from 95.56 billion yen in 1988. But net income plunged 76% to
9.644 billion yen, or 12.60 yen a share, from 39.96 billion
yen, or 55.73 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A company official attributed the sharp fall to foreign
exchange losses amounting to 20.67 billion yen. While pretax
profits are measured at an exchange rate prevailing when each
overseas sale is made, the official explained, net is gauged
with the same currency rate at year end, thus often leading
to a sharp difference in pretax and after-tax earnings.
   Also dragging down net were large losses stemming from
rising corporate and resident taxes, and a sluggish
performance by Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., a U.S. subsidiary
that the official said was saddled with heavy interest
burdens and increasing equipment investment.
   In the U.S., Bridgestone's sales fell conspicuously in the
fourth quarter, as the U.S. economy slowed down, the official
said. Unstable economic conditions in Latin America and
fierce sales competition in Europe hurt
Bridgestone/Firestone's international tire operations.
   But Bridgestone's overseas sales, accounting for 59% of
overall sales, surged 82% to 999.9 billion yen from 549.7
billion yen in 1988. In the domestic market, sales rose 7% to
689.1 billion yen from 641.6 billion yen, owing to the robust
domestic demand-led economic expansion.
   Sumitomo Rubber, Japan's third-largest tire maker,
reported a 15% rise in pretax profit to 12.69 billion yen
from 11.04 billion yen in 1988. Net rose 30% to 6.69 billion
yen, or 46.83 yen a share, from 5.16 billion yen, or 37.91
yen a share.
   Sales rose 8.1% to 478.61 billion yen from 442.8 billion
yen.
   A Sumitomo official said the favorable performance
resulted from robust domestic demand.
   Sales of tires totaled 376.24 billion yen, up 8.2% from
347.73 billion yen. Sporting goods sales rose 3.3% to 69.75
billion yen from 67.49 billion yen.
   Sumitomo's overseas performance, including Dunlop Tire
Corp. of the U.S., Dunlop France S.A., SP Tyres UK Ltd. and
SP Reifenwerke G.m.b.H. of West Germany, was relatively
sluggish, compared with that in Japan, where demand for new
and replacement tires was strong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lomas Financial
   To Sell Lease Unit
   To GE Subsidiary
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LFC GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Lomas Financial Corp. said it agreed to sell its
commercial leasing subsidiary to General Electric Co.'s
General Electric Capital Corp. for about $161 million.
   The price, which was far below the book value Lomas
assigned to the subsidiary as of June 30, 1989, or $324.2
million, underscored the erosion of Lomas's net worth since
it filed for federal bankruptcy-court protection last
September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Lomas officials hailed the development, saying that it
would allow the financial-services company to shed the
leasing unit's $1 billion of debt and $30.6 million of
preferred stock. "Although in terms of the recoupment of
equity it was not as high a price as we might have hoped, our
focus has remained on the fundamental objective" of slashing
debt, Chairman Jess Hay said in an interview.
   Mr. Hay said the sale will fulfill the company's goal,
formulated last April, of cutting its then $5.8 billion debt
load by 60% to 65% and focusing its operations on its core
mortgage operations. Debt will be reduced to about $2.3
billion if the sale is completed, he added.
   The low sale price wasn't unexpected. In its second
quarter ended Dec. 31, Lomas took a $125 million charge
against earnings to cover net losses it expected to incur by
selling its leasing unit, known as Ellco Leasing Corp., and
its life-insurance segment. Lomas said Ellco's book value is
now $164 million, reflecting a write-down of the unit's
intangible assets.
   Frank Anderson, an analyst with Stephens Inc., Little
Rock, Ark., had previously estimated that the unit would
bring between $150 million and $200 million. "Once you enter
bankruptcy, especially if you're a financial-services
company, individual units as a general rule tend to
deteriorate," he said.
   Lomas paid about $263.3 million in cash and stock to
acquire Ellco from Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
U.S. in 1987. The unit, based in San Diego, employs about 300
people and leases computer equipment and other
high-technology office gear to large corporations throughout
the U.S.
   General Electric Capital Corp., a financial services unit
of Fairfield, Conn.-based GE, couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Sale of the Lomas unit would require approval from a
federal bankruptcy court in New York. Under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, a company receives court protection
from creditors while it works out a plan to repay its debts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater: Maggie Smith's Tour de Force
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- At the beginning of "Lettice and Lovage," the
comedy that opened recently at the Ethel Barrymore Theater,
Maggie Smith takes the stage with a flair and an authority
that few actresses of our time can match. Repeating the role
of Lettice Douffet, which she created in London, Ms. Smith is
a comedienne at the top of her form.
   When "Lettice and Lovage" opens we are in the Grand Hall
of Fustian House, a stately English home in Wiltshire
operated by the Preservation Trust. The guide who meets the
eager tourists as they arrive is Lettice Douffet; the only
problem, as Lettice is well aware, is that Fustian House is
the dullest house in England, with a 400-year history during
which absolutely nothing has happened. Initially Lettice
gives the unvarnished history of the staircase in the Grand
Hall, but it is rather tedious. And so the next time around
she begins to embellish. Queen Elizabeth I, when visiting the
house, had made an entrance at the top of the stairs and
slipped, but was saved by the owner, John Fustian.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With each successive lecture, the story gets wilder and
wilder. Eventually Queen Elizabeth trips because her train is
encrusted with hundreds of pearls, and John Fustian, in a
single bound from the foot of the stairs, catches her in his
arms. As a reward, she knights him on the spot; not only
that, she tears five pearls from her train to be embedded in
the handle of the sword she presents to him. Ms. Smith, an
exceptionally talented performer, also can be an
exasperatingly flamboyant one. Here, however, her impeccable
comic timing, her varied vocal deliveries -- from mock
surprise, to deep-throated declarations, to nasal ennui --
and her sweeping hand gestures are perfect for the character.
   At the end of one of Lettice's more extravagant lectures
on Fustian House, a singularly plain woman steps forth to
question the veracity of the narrative. This turns out to be
Lotte Schoen, a supervisor with the Preservation Trust who
has had numerous complaints about the excesses of Lettice's
performance. Practical, literal-minded Lotte is the ideal
foil for Lettice, especially as performed by Margaret Tyzack.
One of Britain's most accomplished actresses, with a range
that extends from inspired classical interpretations with the
National Theater and the Royal Shakespeare Company to
memorable film and television roles, Ms. Tyzack proves her
mettle as a comic performer here.
   Scene two of "Lettice and Lovage" takes place in Lotte's
London office, where Lettice has been called to show cause
why she should not be fired. Rather than apologizing for her
actions, Lettice defends them. Appearing in an Elizabethan
long cloak and wearing a hat with a flowing plume, she says
that she has enormous respect for history. Her mother was a
Shakespearean actress who could not find work in England and
so led a troupe of women in France, performing Shakespeare in
French, but always the history plays. Thus, Lettice has a
double heritage: history and the theater. When history turns
out not to be dramatic, however, she feels it her duty to
enliven and enhance it.
   Lotte remains unconvinced and Lettice is fired, whereupon
Ms. Smith magisterially rises from her chair and proceeds to
reenact the role of Mary Queen of Scots facing her
executioner. Journalistic ethics prohibit revealing the exact
nature of her reenactment; suffice it to say that Ms. Smith's
final moments afford an unforgettable climax to the act.
   "Lettice and Lovage" is by playwright Peter Shaffer, whose
recent plays, "Equus" and "Amadeus," have been serious, but
who returns here to the farce form he employed earlier in his
career. As with his serious work, the theme of "Lettice and
Lovage" is the contrast between the artistic, imaginative
free spirit, personified by Lettice, and the rational,
earthbound Type. A personality exemplified by Lotte. As
always, the latter finds the liberating qualities of the
former irresistible.
   Having fired Lettice at the end of act one, the
guilt-ridden Lotte comes to visit her in act two at her
apartment. Lettice induces Lotte to try her Renaissance
liqueur -- a concoction that includes, along with generous
portions of alcohol, an aromatic herb called lovage. Not
surprisingly, Lotte loosens up, and under the influence of
Lettice and her lovage reveals her own long-dead aspirations.
She had once wanted to be an architect, one whose mission
included subversive acts against the monstrosities of modern
architecture she saw rising around her. When given a chance,
however, to sabotage one of these temples of mediocrity, she
had a failure of nerve and ended up in her bureaucratic job
at the Preservation Trust.
   Mr. Shaffer, having maintained a firm grip on the comic
spirit through act one and most of act two, lets it slip away
from him rather seriously in act three, when the actions of
the two women become silly. He develops an involved,
far-fetched plot that has his heroines engaged in mock
historical executions, one of which lands Lettice in court
with Lotte scheduled to serve as a witness against her.
   Fortunately, the comic momentum of the production carries
us through this lapse and we come away remembering the
exhilaration of the earlier scenes and the artistry of Ms.
Smith and Ms. Tyzack. Added to this are excellent supporting
performances by Bette Henritze as a mousy secretary and
Paxton Whitehead as a pompous, befuddled lawyer, all adroitly
directed by Michael Blakemore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   U.K. Study Finds
   Protein Linked
   With Alzheimer's
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- A British study found a defective blood protein
that may help develop the first diagnostic test for
Alzheimer's disease, an incurable, mind-destroying ailment
common among the elderly.
   The research also signifies the first time scientists have
uncovered a possible explanation for why aluminum builds up
in brain cells of Alzheimer's patients. Aluminum long has
been suspected to play a role in the debilitating
neurological disorder, which afflicts about 2.5 million
Americans and kills 100,000 a year. In Britain, about 750,000
people suffer from the disease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At present, doctors lack a clear-cut way to diagnose the
illness in a patient, except by eliminating other possible
causes for mental deterioration.
   The small-scale study suggests aluminum may accumulate in
brains of Alzheimer's patients because they have defective
transferrin, a blood protein to which aluminium normally
binds in the blood stream.
   "People without this defect would be protected from the
neurotoxic effects of aluminum," concludes the report in this
week's issue of Lancet, a U.K. medical journal. "The presence
of the defect could be used as a diagnostic test for
Alzheimer's disease," adds the report, written by nine
British and French researchers.
   Paul Altmann, a nephrologist at London Hospital and one of
the study's authors, said the research "is quite an important
step forward" in understanding Alzheimer's disease. If
scientists can use the research to craft a simple diagnostic
blood test, he added, "it opens the door to developing the
therapeutic maneuvers in the future. But these are things
that will take some time to develop."
   Other Alzheimer's experts were even more cautious. The
finding "sounds promising. But a great deal more work has to
be done to test this hypothesis," said Nora Graham, chairman
of Britain's Alzheimer's Disease Society and a London
neuro-geriatrician.
   John Candy, a neuro-scientist at England's Newcastle
General Hospital, criticized the research's methodology as
flawed. "I remain skeptical," he said.
   In the Lancet study, the scientists analyzed blood samples
from 62 individuals divided into five groups: a control
group, plus patients undergoing kidney dialysis and patients
with Alzheimer's, stroke-related dementia or a form of mental
retardation called Down's syndrome. The investigators used
gallium, a metal similar to aluminum, to measure whether
aluminum's binding to transferrin was impaired.
   Significant impairment showed up in both Alzheimer's and
Down's syndrome patients. For these patients, "the amount of
binding to transferrin is less than half the normal amount,"
said Dr. Altmann. Transferrin "doesn't detoxify the metal"
and so more aluminum apparently slips into the patients'
brain cells. "This whole story strengthens the evidence for
aluminum playing a role" in Alzheimer's disease, he added.
   Previous research has found aluminum deposits in brain
cells damaged by Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome.
Down's syndrome patients also tend to develop Alzheimer's
later in life. In January 1989, a British government study
concluded that adults who consume water with high
concentrations of aluminum run a 50% greater risk of
developing Alzheimer's disease than people whose water
contains virtually no aluminum.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West German Plan
   On Mark Exchange
   Stirs Ire in East
   ----
   By Terence Roth and Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Bundesbank's proposal for a 2-to-1 conversion rate for
East German marks into West German marks triggered an uproar
in East Germany.
   The recommendation by Bundesbank President Karl-Otto Poehl
at a meeting of European Community finance ministers and
central bank governors in Galway, Ireland, marked a retreat
from pledges made by West German leaders during recent East
German elections. Mr. Poehl said a 1-to-1 conversion rate
should be limited to a maximum 2,000 marks per East German
citizen. The rest of East German savings, debt and wages
would be converted at the rate of two East marks for one West
German mark. A West German mark has a value of 59 U.S. cents
at current exchange rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Furious East Berlin officials warned that anything less
than a broadly implemented 1-for-1 rate would impoverish most
East German wage earners and even hinder the unification of
the two Germanys. Leaders of the major East German parties
joined together over the weekend to reject the plan, and East
German Premier Hans Modrow said in a newspaper interview the
proposal has already stirred widespread unrest in the East
German population. He insisted that West German Chancellor
Helmut Kohl and other Bonn officials had promised East German
savers a 1-for-1 rate in the run-up to East Germany's March
18 election, which resulted in a landside victory for
Bonn-supported conservatives.
   "The election result was the result of these promises, and
nothing else," Mr. Modrow declared. The head of the caretaker
government insisted that East Germans had interpreted the
promises as having a broad application, including wages.
   Mr. Modrow warned that Bonn would be held responsible for
any strikes or demonstrations that might result from the
apparent policy shift. Officials for the East German
Christian Democrats reported that their East Berlin
headquarters was flooded with calls from angry citizens.
   Rainer Eppelmann, head of the Democratic Awakening party,
one of the three East German parties making up the CDU-led
conservative alliance, predicted a fresh wave of emigration
to West Germany.
   The proposal unsettled Mr. Kohl's allies back in Bonn.
Otto Lambsdorff, head of the Free Democratic Party, the
junior partner in the Bonn government coalition, told a
newspaper the proposal could be seen as "a breach of faith."
   East Germans can now buy West German marks at a subsidized
rate of one for each three East marks. Monetary officials
calculate the East mark's true purchasing power suggests a
rate of 4.4 to one. Even a 2-to-1 rate would be a vast
improvement for East German workers, they say.
   While the West German government hasn't accepted the
2-for-1 proposal, Finance Minister Theo Waigel said it was
"economically and financially well founded" and that it
couldn't be ignored, while Economics Minister Helmut
Haussmann called the recommendation an "important decision"
that wouldn't inflict economic harm on East Germans.
   While unpopular among the populace, a 2-for-1 rate would
be a boon to highly indebted East German state companies,
which wouldn't have to use as much hard currency to pay off
debts, and would make East German companies more competitive
with Western ones. Such a rate would also be less
inflationary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   At New York News
   Threat of Strike
   Is Looming Larger
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7G
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TRB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The threat of a strike at the troubled New
York Daily News looms larger than ever following the
expiration on Friday of a contract covering the 10 unions at
the country's largest metropolitan daily newspaper.
   Both Daily News management and union leaders remain at the
bargaining table. However, after months of bitter verbal
attacks by both sides, there's no sign of a truce. Observers
of the negotiations say the Daily News, which is owned by
Chicago-based Tribune Co., could face a walkout by union
members within a month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry's most acrimonious newspaper labor battle in
years comes at a bad time for the Daily News, which has
posted losses for most of the last decade. It faces increased
competition from another tabloid, Times Mirror Co.'s New York
Newsday, at a time when the New York advertising market is
the softest in years.
   Almost every scenario the Daily News faces is a dire one,
at least for the near future. Management has demanded major
cost and work concessions from the unions and says it is
prepared to publish and distribute the paper in the event of
a strike. Even so, the Daily News stands to lose significant
advertising and circulation.
   Union leaders say they hope to avoid a strike, yet several
of the unions have voted strike authorizations. Many workers
face the loss of their jobs permanently if they do walk off
their jobs. If there is a strike, the unions threaten to lead
a boycott of the paper by readers and advertisers.
   The 1980s nearly ruined the Daily News and strained
Tribune Co.'s commitment to publishing in New York. The Daily
News had revenue of $420 million in 1989, yet the paper was
only marginally profitable. Over the past decade, the paper
has lost $115 million on $4 billion in revenue. Average daily
paid circulation has fallen by 400,000 copies since 1979; as
of Sept. 30, 1989, the paper's circulation was 1.2 million,
down 7% from 1988.
   The union is charging mismanagement, and claims the
Tribune intends to win concessions, then sell off the
newspaper. James Hoge, publisher of the Daily News, is "a
sociable guy, but as a publisher he's a 4 on a scale of 1 to
10," said George McDonald, president of the Allied Printing
Trades Council. "The News has bum management."
   Daily News executives blame the heavy financial burden of
a bloated union work force. About 50% of the paper's revenue
goes to cover employee compensation, compared with 25% to 30%
at most other major metropolitan papers.
   As for selling the paper, media analysts doubt it will
take place. "New York is the biggest media market in the U.S.
The Tribune won't give that up," said Peter Appert, analyst
at C.J. Lawrence. "If they can get even a mediocre profit
from that huge base of revenues, it's worth pursuing."
   The troubling situation is a familiar one for Tribune Co.
In 1985, at the company's flagship Chicago Tribune, the
pressmen and printers unions were broken in a prolonged and
violent strike. The Tribune management won control of hiring
and eliminated costly labor abuses. The Daily News is looking
for the same and Mr. Hoge claims that with concessions in
hand, the Tribune will invest $500 million in new presses
able to print color pages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Calcium Supplement in Some P&amp;G Juices
   Strengthens Children's Bones, Study Says
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   A patented calcium supplement found in some Procter &amp;
Gamble Co. juices builds bone density in children, according
to a study funded by P&amp;G and the National Institutes of
Health.
   Researchers at Indiana University's School of Medicine
said the first two years of a three-year study on the calcium
supplement show that adding it to children's diets could help
them avoid bone fractures and diseases later in life.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results, to be released today, confirm what many
scientists and consumers already knew: calcium builds bones.
But this research shows a link between childhood diets and
bone mass.
   Marketers are skeptical, however, that the results will
help the consumer products giant's Citrus Hill brand juices,
which trail in third place in market share behind Minute Maid
and Tropicana.
   "This won't set the world on fire," said Michael Bellas,
president of Beverage Marketing Corp. Added Tom Pirko,
president of Bevmark Inc., a management consulting firm:
"They may be able to make more claims about their juice, but
it's not like they're rediscovering oat bran."
   Besides, P&amp;G launched its calcium-enriched juices three
years ago and it hasn't made a big difference in P&amp;G's share
of the juice market. "People aren't enthralled," Mr. Pirko
said.
   The study, funded by P&amp;G and the National Institutes of
Health, was conducted on 50 sets of identical twins, from
five to 14 years old. Testing twins eliminates genetic
differences and helps control other factors, like environment
and diet.
   Each twin ate a daily diet containing about 900 milligrams
of calcium. One twin also received a 1,000 milligram tablet
of the calcium supplement each day. The preliminary results
show substantial improvements in bone density in the forearm
of the twin receiving the supplement. Precise measures of the
improvement weren't available because the tests will continue
for another year, researchers said.
   The only place this supplement is found is in P&amp;G's Citrus
Hill Plus Calcium juices. To get the same dose, consumers
would have to drink three, six-ounce servings a day.
   Previous research had already indicated that the
supplement is more fully absorbed than calcium carbonate, a
common calcium supplement, said Judy Z. Miller, associate
professor of medicine at Indiana University.
   "Calcium is calcium," she said. "But this supplement makes
more calcium available to the body."
   Others were skeptical of the supplement's impact on
disease, such as osteoporosis, a brittle bone disease that
affects about 20 million people in the U.S. "Children that
get supplemental calcium or a high-calcium diet, regardless
of the source, will end up with denser bones," said James
Simon, a reproductive endocrinologist at Georgetown
University. "Any extrapolation on the risks of osteoporosis
{later in life} is unwarranted."
   P&amp;G officials said they don't have immediate plans to
launch new promotions of the Citrus Hill products or to
introduce new products containing the supplement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Everything Looks in Place
   For Sellers of Neatness Aids
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WSGC LVC
</CO>
<IN>
RETAILING (RET)
</IN>
<LP>
   You've shopped till you dropped. But where do you put it
all when you get it home?
   The solution is to shop a little more, according to a
growing group of retailers who specialize in so-called
organization materials, items designed to tidy every inch of
the home and office.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Organizing stores are sprouting in upscale shopping areas
in California and along the East Coast, and some retailers
have expanded nationwide via direct-mail catalogs. Most
target affluent consumers by emphasizing efficiency and time
management, as well as home and hearth.
   The businesses feed off demographic and cultural shifts
that are likely to shape the 1990s. Women who cleaned up
after the family a generation ago are out working. The number
of households is increasing as average household size
shrinks, meaning more but smaller residences. And as a
society, Americans are probably the most acquisitive people
in history.
   "We're in an accumulation mode that knows no bounds," says
Stephanie Culp, an organizing consultant and a founding
member of the National Association of Professional
Organizers. "So people find themselves in a terrible space
crunch."
   Hold Everything, a retail and catalog seller of organizing
goods, plans an ambitious national expansion this year. Kent
C. Larson, president of Williams-Sonoma Inc., the San
Francisco kitchenware merchant that owns the business,
attributes the boom in part to soaring real estate prices and
a tendency for people to entertain and relax at home. Hold
Everything, which started as a small catalog in 1982, plans
to open stores in New York, Washington and other Eastern
cities to complement its expanding chain in the West.
   The nascent organizing business is also taking advantage
of a retailing shift. Much of what they stock is designed to
complement personal computers, electronic entertainment
components and other modern inventions. But other goods are
low-tech housekeeping staples from the 1940s and 1950s, such
as coated wire cupboard shelves and sweater drying racks --
items once found in department store notions sections, dry
goods stores and five-and-dime stores, which have virtually
died out in many areas of the country.
   Maynard Hale Lyndon and Lu Wendel Lyndon, architectural
design specialists, say much has changed since they founded
the Placewares chain in Boston in 1977. Consumers are more
interested in recycling and efficient use of resources, Mr.
Lyndon says, and American manufacturers are finally producing
quality products once exclusively designed in Europe.
Placewares, which just opened it seventh New England store,
also sells via catalog and is planning further growth.
   Lillian Vernon Corp., the specialty catalog concern,
reports that some of its longtime storage and organization
items such as newspaper racks and recycling aids have
suddenly surged in popularity.
   Although the organizing business doesn't have any firm
statistics of its own, the National Housewares Manufacturers
Association says the general categories of bath, laundry,
closet and storage wares in 1988 accounted for about 4.6% of
the $35.2 billion of housewares sales, or a total of about
$1.62 billion.
   An organizing store's inventory generally includes
kitchen, utility room, bathroom, garage and home office
items, and occasionally furniture and tableware as well. But
some, such as Organizer's Paradise in Los Angeles, take an
even broader approach, pitching their stores as stylish
outlets where shoppers can buy anything from modular cupboard
organizers to a $4,000 electric blue ultrasuede swing settee.
"There was a real void in the market for upscale products,"
says Sandy Chism, who along with her daughter, Christi, runs
three stores in the fashionable Westwood, Beverly Hills and
West Hollywood areas.
   Merchants who haven't organized their own business plans
in the new field may find a closet full of problems --
pricing being a big one. Many organization stores offer such
sticker-shock inducers as $25 plastic sock storage boxes and
$8 assortments of decorative paper clips.
   Home-improvement stores, hardware stores and discount
stores are beginning to stock more organizing items, often at
prices that specialty stores can't match. The specialty
stores figure they can overcome the price gap by offering
higher quality and better selection and focusing on smaller
organizing niches.
   As with any new retailing concept, experts note, targeting
the right customers can be crucial to success.
   "A retailer is going to have higher sales and faster
{merchandise turnover} if the focus is on one area," says
Marcia Aaron, a specialty retail analyst with Montgomery
Securities in San Francisco. By moving too far into other
areas such as furniture or other housewares, retailers can
dilute their customer base.
   Ms. Aaron says the organizing and storage market has been
underserved up to now. "But there are a lot of people trying
to get in," she says. "And eventually, some will have to pull
out because it's just too competitive."
   Retailers say it can be a challenge to make people see a
need for organization wares. "Most people just don't go
around thinking, `I really need a laundry-room organizer,'"
says a sales clerk at a Los Angeles-area store. "But once you
get them in here, you can't get them out."
   Many shoppers agree. "You get caught up," says Mara
Slutsky of Boston, a customer at Placewares. She bought a
shower organizer and colored hooks for the bathroom, and says
she had to restrain herself from buying "everything
imaginable."
   Ms. Slutsky's only criticism of the merchandise is a
common one among several firms' customers: "After a while,
everything looks alike," she says of the sleek,
modern-looking wares. Nonetheless, she says, she plans
another shopping spree when she moves to a new apartment.
   Lori Lavin, a West Los Angeles resident, gushes over the
merchandise in a new 13,000-square-foot Organizer's Paradise
store as she wheels a wire shopping cart piled with
contemporary black desktop items and colorful kitchen
gadgets. In two visits, she says, she's plunked down more
than $130 to update her closets, kitchen and desk. "I don't
have the time to dig through a lot of junk," she says of her
cleanup efforts.
   That, retailers say, is an important selling point. "Most
people who are space-conscious are time-sensitive as well,"
says Carol Fraser, director of the Hold Everything catalog.
The stores tap into the same mentality that has made
enormous, multisectioned diary planners such a hit.
   Some say that the merchandise appeals to customers because
it allows them to attribute their sloppiness to a technical,
rather than a personal, flaw. "You're not buying a crutch for
your character," says Dr. Jerald Jellison, a psychology
professor at the University of Southern California. "You just
don't have the right equipment" to be neat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   PepsiCo Plans Extensive Ad Campaign
   To Contest Coke's Overseas Dominance
   ---
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP KO FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- After toiling for decades in the shadow of
Coca-Cola Co.'s world-wide soft-drink dominance, PepsiCo Inc.
is planning its most concerted and aggressive catch-up
campaign ever.
   Gathering bottlers here from all parts of the globe for
its first ever international convention, Pepsi announced
plans to spend more than $1 billion over the next five years
to upgrade plants, improve distribution and bolster marketing
programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also outlined a strategy to target certain
fast-growing market segments -- including diet soft drinks,
and fountain and vending machines -- that are still in such
an infant stage abroad that even Coke has no commanding
advantage yet.
   Pepsi estimated that such moves will more than double its
overseas soft-drink volume by 1995 to five billion cases from
about two billion currently.
   "Pepsi can close the gap against Coke internationally just
as we did here in the U.S.," Christopher A. Sinclair, the
newly appointed president of Pepsi's international business,
said.
   Pepsi's optimism, however, was met with some skepticism by
industry observers. With Coke's more than 2-to-1 market-share
lead in the international arena, analysts said it's unlikely
that Pepsi can significantly close the gap abroad overnight.
   Moreover, although Pepsi said its $1 billion budget is
"substantially" more than it has invested in the past,
industry observers said Pepsi will probably have to spend
substantially more if it ever hopes to catch Coke.
   In 1989, Coke had about $4.8 billion in revenue from
overseas, while Pepsi had $1 billion. Coke estimates its
international market share is 47% while Pepsi's is less than
half that.
   "I think they're going to have a tough time catching Coke
really soon," said Gary Hemphill, editor of Beverage Industry
magazine. "At the same time, there's so much growth
internationally that there's room for both of them out
there."
   While U.S. soft-drink volume has slowed to about a 3%
annual growth rate recently from 4% to 5% in the 1980s, the
international market is expected to grow in 8% to 10% leaps
annually for years to come.
   "This meeting acknowledges where the soft-drink industry
is really headed: offshore," said Jesse Meyers, publisher of
Beverage Digest, a trade newsletter. "While Coke has a
substantial lead, there are still unplayed cards in Southeast
Asia, Russia, and now Eastern Europe."
   A Coca-Cola spokesman dismissed Pepsi's plans to match
Coke overseas as "dreaming."
   The Pepsi convention seemed like an orchestrated attempt
to rally overseas bottlers and to convince them once and for
all that Pepsi is committed to the soda business abroad.
Under the crush of Coke's global strength, some Pepsi
international bottlers have felt neglected, particularly as
PepsiCo has plunged hundreds of millions of dollars into
building its snack and restaurant businesses abroad.
   The company even flew out D. Wayne Calloway, PepsiCo's
chairman and chief executive officer, to address the troops.
Saying the bottlers' efforts were critical to PepsiCo's
success, Mr. Calloway promised to send each a share of the
company's stock to mark their relationship.
   Pepsi also gave its international partners some new signs
of hope. In May, Pepsi expects to open its first plants in
India, a giant market of 800 million consumers where Coke was
recently denied approval to sell soft drinks. And in the
Soviet Union, where Pepsi currently outsells Coke, Mr.
Sinclair said he expects to soon announce "an agreement that
will be the largest consumer products venture ever" in that
country.
   Mr. Sinclair conceded that Pepsi still needs to clean its
international house. Taste quality of its soft drinks varies
from country to country, packaging graphics are inconsistent
world-wide, and production inefficiencies have resulted in
partially filled bottles ending up on store shelves abroad.
   To help put an end to such basic problems, Pepsi will be
issuing a "Look Book," a manual on how to acquire and use the
best graphics available. The company plans to centralize
advertising-copy approval under its top creative executive in
the U.S., and it is launching the Pepsi Cola International
Management Institute to teach overseas managers the best
techniques in sales, finance and plant operations, among
other things.
   All of this comes on the heels of a corporate
reorganization late last year in which Pepsi reversed its
centralized approach, creating six geographic operations
world-wide with broad local autonomy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Idles Assembly Plants
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. said it is
temporarily halting production at four production facilities
this week because of sluggish sales.
   The No. 3 auto maker is idling assembly plants in
Belvidere, Ill., Newark, Del., Toledo, Ohio, and Sterling
Heights, Mich. The facilities are scheduled to resume
production April 9. A total of about 12,700 workers will be
affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Great Lakes Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   GLBC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- Great Lakes Bancorp said it received
final approval for its acquisition of Dollar Federal Savings
Bank of Hamilton, Ohio, from the Office of Thrift
Supervision.
   Dollar Federal's shareholders will receive $37.50 a share,
making the total purchase price $12.4 million. Dollar Federal
has $152 million in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Jump in Orders
   For Cars Boosts
   Factory Totals
   ---
   Bookings in February Rose
   1.8% After 5.5% Plunge
   In Revised January Data
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Increased bookings for cars helped produce a
modest rebound in factory orders in February, the Commerce
Department said.
   New orders increased 1.8%, the department said, after a
revised 5.5% plunge in January. That was the largest decline
since 1974 and stemmed from a record 10.5% drop in orders for
durable goods, or products that are expected to last at least
three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In February, durable-goods orders climbed 2.6%, compared
with the 3.3% figure the department gave in a preliminary
report.
   Behind the growth in durable goods was principally a 10.4%
jump in transportation equipment -- mostly cars -- which came
despite a 23.1% plunge in orders for aircraft and parts.
   The February rebound in the auto industry wasn't a
surprise, because production was low in January.
   And analysts weren't concerned about the decline in
aircraft. Although orders and production tend to be
synonymous in the auto industry, aircraft orders don't
reflect current sales. "We know the aircraft industry is one
of the healthiest in the economy," said Gregory Fager, chief
economist at First City Bancorp. of Texas, Houston.
   Many economists agreed that the report reflects continued
sluggishness in the manufacturing sector, however. "The rate
of decline seems to have eased, but we're not in the midst of
recovery," Mr. Fager said. He said the manufacturing sector
"is more or less holding its own."
   Joan Schnieder, money market economist at Continental Bank
of Chicago, said the report provided confirmation of "the
sense of stagnation we've had about the manufacturing sector
over the past year."
   Orders for nondurable goods rose 0.9% in February after
rising a revised 0.6% in January.
   Manufacturers' inventories fell 0.1% in February after
rising 0.9% in January. Durable-goods inventories dropped
0.3%, while stocks of nondurable goods were up 0.2%.
   February shipments increased 3.3% after a decline of 1.8%
in January. Shipments of durable goods jumped 5.5% after
slipping 4.3% in January. Shipments of nondurables rose 0.9%,
the same as they did in January.
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for
manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                  Feb.      Jan.       %
                                  1990      1990     Chg.
                                                                                                       

   All industries ............. 231.64    227.59    + 1.8
     Durable goods ............ 120.93    117.88    + 2.6
     Nondurable goods ......... 110.72    109.71    + 0.9
                                                                                                       

   Capital goods industries ...  43.93     44.82    - 2.0
     Nondefense ...............  36.03     38.33    - 6.0
     Defense ..................   7.90      6.49    +21.7
                                                                                                       

   Total shipments ............ 234.17    226.75    + 3.3
                                                                                                       

   Inventories ................ 373.91    374.44    - 0.1
                                                                                                       

   Backlog of orders .......... 512.81    515.34    - 0.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Torchmark Duo Shows Opposites Attract
   ---
   Conservative Chairman,
   Aggressive President Gel
   ----
   By Rick Christie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TMK AGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   One counts paper clips. The other counts takeover targets.
Together, they are trying to make one of the biggest
acquisitions in the history of the life-insurance industry.
   Torchmark Corp.'s cost-conscious chairman and chief
executive, Ronald K. Richey, and its aggressive president,
Jon W. Rotenstreich, may be just the combination needed to
pull off the company's $6.3 billion bid for rival American
General Corp., analysts say. The merger would create the
largest publicly held insurance company in the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That American General, the nation's fourth-largest
publicly held insurer, dwarfs Torchmark in size seems to make
little difference. Torchmark, as Messrs. Richey and
Rotenstreich note, has posted an impressive record in the
four years that the two have been at the helm of the
Birmingham, Ala., company. Torchmark's expenses are half of
the industry average; it has amassed enough cash in recent
years to have bought back one-third of its stock; and, within
its Southeast market, it's one of the dominant players in all
its insurance lines -- life, health and property-casualty.
   "I think the beauty of this thing is the difference of
perspective that we have," says Mr. Richey. The chairman, who
is regarded as one of the industry's top executives, handles
the day-to-day operations, all the while scouring Torchmark
for possible cost-savings. Mr. Rotenstreich, in the meantime,
manages investments and targets new acquisitions.
   Houston-based American General responded cooly to
Torchmark's initial proposal of $50-a-share in cash and
securities. American General's chairman, Harold S. Hook, said
last week that mergers are "something that {Torchmark
doesn't} know very much about."
   Torchmark, meanwhile, is pressing ahead. The company is
apparently preparing for a proxy fight to oust directors of
American General at the latter's May 2 annual meeting. Also
last week, Torchmark went to court to force American General
to hand over a list of its shareholders. American General
complied but has countersued, arguing that Torchmark has
missed the deadline to nominate a slate for American
General's board.
   Torchmark said Friday that it will review the shareholder
list and plans to announce today what its next steps will be.
   "In terms of what these guys have accomplished, it's hard
to bet against them -- even on this," says Joan Zief, an
analyst at Merrill Lynch Research/U.S. Adds Herbert E.
Goodfriend, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.:
"These aren't the typical backslapping, sales-force
motivators you find running most life-insurance companies, in
that maximizing {shareholder} return is {their} first
{priority}. That's refreshing."
   Mr. Richey joined Torchmark in 1980 when the company, then
known as Liberty National Life Insurance Co., acquired Globe
Life &amp; Accident Insurance Co. of Oklahoma City. Mr. Richey
had been chairman and chief executive of Globe Life. Flush
with cash, Liberty National was seeking to diversify by
acquiring other insurers, expanding into mutual funds, and
even starting an oil and gas investment unit.
   To Mr. Richey fell the task of sewing the company together
and maintaining its traditionally strong earnings growth.
That he did. Between 1980 and 1985, he produced a 20% average
annual growth in earnings per share and a 34% average annual
increase in Torchmark's stock price. To get those returns --
and the in-house nickname "Mr. Efficiency Himself" -- he took
an axe to the company, consolidating sales territories,
automating the company's back shop and chopping out layers of
management.
   By 1986, when he was named chairman, the company again was
awash in cash, and Mr. Richey began a search for a president
with investment expertise, primarily because tax reform had
made all-cash acquisitions less attractive. Enter Mr.
Rotenstreich, who was already serving as a Torchmark
director. The two men had originally met as adversaries when
Mr. Rotenstreich, as an investment banker at Salomon Brothers
Inc., had represented Liberty National in its pursuit of
Globe. Say Mr. Richey: "I never thought they paid enough for
Globe, and he was the primary reason."
   Mr. Rotenstreich, though a Birmingham native, prefers Wall
Street to the South. From an antique-decorated office
overlooking Central Park, he manages a $3 billion investment
portfolio with just eight people.
   Together, analysts say, there is not a better top
management duo in the insurance industry. Torchmark's return
on equity has been above 20% for the past four years, about
double its peer-group average. Primarily through Mr.
Rotenstreich's efforts -- including the repurchase of about
23 million Torchmark shares -- the company's stock price more
than doubled between 1987 and 1989. Like most insurers,
however, Torchmark's profit growth has been squeezed recently
by smaller growth in premiums.
   To remedy the problem, Messrs. Richey and Rotenstreich
decided in November 1988 to launch a $318 million hostile
tender offer for Kansas City Life Insurance Co. to build on
Torchmark's insurance franchise. "One of our major units is
based in Kansas, so we thought it was a nice geographic fit,"
says Mr. Richey. "There was also an opportunity to realize
some {cost} efficiencies in their operation."
   But Kansas City Life, which is controlled by the Bixby
family, rejected the offer less than a month later. Mr.
Rotenstreich says Torchmark simply took the cash and
repurchased an additional 1.6 million of its shares at an
average price of $34.35. "It obviously didn't hurt us any,"
he says. "Our per-share profits were up again over 20% last
year."
   The team now has its sights set on much bigger game. The
pair believes it can squeeze the same cost-efficiencies out
of American General that it did with Torchmark. Says Mr.
Richey: "You can see that a lot can be done with an even
larger organization in our business."
   "With consolidation becoming a growing trend in this
industry," Mr. Richey says, "we're talking about creating a
large, public company with a substantial {market} penetration
and cash-flow position."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Middle-Price Brands Come Under Siege
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GME MO JCP S MHS J.HAT PDQ
</CO>
<IN>
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
RETAILING (RET)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   To be mainstream used to be a blessing for products. Now,
it's becoming the curse of the mundane.
   Solid, middle-of-the-road names such as Sears, Holiday Inn
and Smirnoff, are struggling against a slew of new
competitors that strike from two sides -- above and below.
Encircled by rivals offering either more luxurious goods or
just plain cheaper ones, midpriced products are finding their
market shares dwindling and looking for ways to break away
from the image of being "just average."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Getting stuck in the middle is a terrible fate," says
Laurel Cutler, vice chairman of New York advertising agency
FCB/Leber Katz Partners. "It's the phenomenon of being a mass
brand as the market splinters."
   To wit: Swanky stores such as Neiman-Marcus and budget
outlets such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are prospering, while
the bread-and-butter Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. flounders. Haagen
Dazs, Ben &amp; Jerry's and other "super premium" ice creams are
thriving -- as are grocers' own bargain labels -- while basic
brands such as Kraft General Foods Corp.'s Sealtest are
struggling to hold their ground. Travelers want either cheap
lodging at chains such as Day's Inn or to sleep in the lap of
luxury, leaving adequate but unexciting hoteliers such as
Ramada Inn and Holiday Inn in the lurch.
   "The mainstream brands of old are increasingly under
pressure from both ends of the spectrum," says John Quelch, a
professor at Harvard Business School who specializes in
consumer marketing.
   Adds Ms. Cutler, "There's no future for products everyone
likes a little."
   The murky-middle problem has some roots in demographics.
The population growth of the 1940s through 1960s that
established mass-market brands has slowed. And while markets
have stopped growing, competition has exploded: The number of
items stocked at grocery stores has soared from a few
thousand 30 years ago to over 40,000 at large supermarkets
today.
   But the problem goes beyond just population and
competition. Since the early 1970s, families have hardly
managed to boost incomes. For baby boomers starting out,
that's made upward mobility more difficult -- hence the need
for bargains.
   At the same time, it's also made them insecure, argues
Frank Levy, an economist with the University of Maryland's
School of Public Affairs. Feeling their economic status is
precarious, middle-class consumers have become loath to
identify with middle-road products, often wrapping themselves
in prestige brands. "Status anxiety makes niche marketing
very attractive," Mr. Levy says.
   This emphasis on image -- not to mention a foreign
invasion -- has put Smirnoff vodka on the defensive. The
domestic brand, a product of Grand Metropolitan PLC's
Heublein Inc., sells for a moderate $6 to $9 a bottle and
faces growing competition from a horde of imported, heavily
advertised rivals, led by Carillon Importers Ltd.'s Absolut.
Last year, U.S. sales of all high-priced imported vodkas,
including Stolichnaya, Finlandia, Icy and Tanqueray Sterling,
rose more than 20%.
   Smirnoff remains the nation's best-selling vodka, but unit
sales barely grew at all last year, according to Al Sanchez,
manager of research and statistics for Jobson Publishing
Corp.'s alcoholic beverage unit. To keep from slipping,
Smirnoff has been attempting to strengthen its image of
quality by raising prices and running ads with a more upscale
look. The company is also pursuing a counterattack, pressing
for more sales overseas.
   If a middle-price product can't sell on prestige, it has
to compete on value. To make Sealtest stand out from
store-brand ice creams, Paul Litwack, marketing director for
frozen desserts at Kraft, has borrowed some tactics from
fancier brands. It recently added a layer of cellophane
inside the carton -- like the one found in Breyers, a sister
brand -- to slow formation of ice crystals. Kraft, a unit of
Philip Morris Cos., also made the package's graphics cleaner
and more modern. The idea is to keep the price the same,
about $2.99 a half gallon, but come across to consumers as a
better value. Still, the product remains in that not-cheap,
not-expensive limbo. Says Mr. Litwack: "It's a very tough
category."
   An average image also haunts retailers J.C. Penney Co. and
Sears, both of which have seen their middle-income customers
defect to discount outlets or trendier specialty stores. Both
chains are scrambling to revitalize sales by trying to
project an image that's a step up from vanilla. They are
stocking more national-brand goods and running slicker, more
stylish ads to herald the change.
   Sears maintains its program has been successful in
strengthening its image with consumers. Unfortunately,
perceptions die hard. Despite its much-ballyhooed name-brand
strategy, Sears's profits are flagging. "Sears doesn't stand
for anything customers aspire to," says John Lister,
executive vice president at Lister Butler Inc., a New York
image consultant.
   Technology has worked against some middle marketers by
giving a boost to cheap rivals. Seiko Corp. of America, a
unit of Hattori Seiko Co., introduced quartz technology in
1969. In no time, Seiko was faced with threatening,
low-priced competition from Timex Corp., Swatch Watch Corp.
and other companies that could use highly precise quartz
technology in timepieces selling for under $50. "There's no
reason to spend more than $100 on a watch unless you're
looking for diamonds and gold," says C. Michael Jacobi, vice
president of marketing and sales at Timex.
   Then, with the advent of the yuppie mentality,
status-oozing Rolex and PatekPhilippe watches took a bite
from the top.
   Seiko has responded by expanding its lines beyond the
middle. It now sells the pricey Lassale and the inexpensive
Lorus. It's also trying to blend fashion with its traditional
claim of superior technology. A snappy $325 analog model, for
example, shows the time in 21 different cities.
   Although Seiko maintains it has hung on to about half of
the midpriced segment, the business "has been no bed of
roses," says Joe Whall, a Seiko spokesman.
   "It's hard for middle-segment watches to compete either on
elegance or on price," says Robert Schmidt, chairman of
Levine, Huntley, Schmidt &amp; Beaver Inc., the agency that, in
1987, created some stylish ads for midpriced Citizen Watch
Co. set to the music of Louis Armstrong and Al Jolson. "We
used style to make people feel good about wearing them." He
says sales of the brand, virtually unknown at the time,
soared to two million units annually, from a scant 200,000.
   Despite the success of the ads, Citizen discontinued them
last year and switched agencies. Now, the brand seems to have
lost its momentum. Executives at Citizen couldn't be reached
for comment.
   For some, it finally gets to the point where the middle
market just isn't worth it. Marriott Corp. tried to string
its Bob's Big Boy, Allie's and Wag's coffee shops into a
single, national chain of casual restaurants. It was a
nebulous niche that few consumers wanted: The restaurants
weren't as cheap or as appealing to children as fast food.
Nor could they please adults with a nice dining-out
atmosphere. Last December, the hotel chain announced plans to
quit the restaurant business.
   "We were sandwiched in the middle," a Marriott spokesman
says. "It would have been too costly to establish a new
national brand."
   In the hotel industry, where chains have spread rapidly,
companies are trying to extend their reach both into cheaper
accommodations and higher-priced ones. Holiday Corp.'s
Holiday Inns, which no longer has the casual family traveler
all to itself, has added a more upscale entry called Holiday
Inns Crowne Plaza. Ramada Inn now operates a low-frills
property called Rodeway Inns and a posher chain called
Renaissance.
   Prime Motor Inns Corp., which operates Ramada's U.S.
franchise system and owns or franchises such chains as Howard
Johnson, maintains there is still opportunity to serve
middle-market customers. The trick, it says, is to
distinguish itself from midrange competitors. So Prime has
begun building suite hotels, called AmeriSuites and
Plaza-Suite Hotels. Chris Browne, senior vice president of
marketing and reservations for Prime's franchise systems
division, says the company scrimped on common areas and nixed
room service in order to offer rooms with amenities such as
two phones, a microwave and a refrigerator, all at the same
price as Holiday Inns.
   Prime predicts an industry shakeout, and expects to
survive. Until then, he says, "If you sit still and do
nothing, you'll be devoured."
   The middle isn't nearly as amorphous for many
packaged-goods makers, where there is often less opportunity
to develop prestige brands. But few marketers would dispute
that their business is more complex and more competitive than
ever. Concludes Joel Weiner, a former senior vice president
at Kraft General Foods: "It's a combat zone, and even strong
brands are employing battle tactics to hold their share."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varco International Buys Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VRC CBE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORANGE, Calif. -- Varco International Inc., petroleum
industry tools and equipment maker, said it agreed to acquire
for $30 million all the assets of the MartinDecker unit of
Cooper Industries Inc., a Houston-based maker of electrical,
automotive, petroleum and industrial products.
   Varco had 1989 sales of about $87 million. Martin-Decker,
with sales of about $25 million and 200 employees, makes
instruments and equipment for oil-related and other
industrial applications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Astra AB Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   S.AST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Astra AB said it's buying Spanish
pharmaceutical company Laboratorio Ifesa S.A.
   The Swedish pharmaceutical group said it bought the total
stock of Ifesa, which produces and markets drugs used against
respiratory diseases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Astra, which declined to disclose the price of the
transaction, said Ifesa's total sales are expected to be 120
million kronor ($19.6 million) this year.
   The group said the purchase was part of its aim to
increase its influence over the marketing of its products in
Spain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machine Tools
   Slump Expected
   To Continue
   ---
   Weak Orders, Thin Profits
   Forecast for 1st Quarter
   Amid Price Competition
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7E
</SO>
<CO>
   CMZ CTCO HURC BNS GIDL
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   The nation's machine tool builders have earned sparse
profits during the current economic expansion, and so far
1990 doesn't signal any improvement.
   Earnings in the March 31 quarter will reflect weaker
orders in recent months, continued tough price competition
and restructuring costs at two large producers. Builders hope
for a stronger second half, but that's contingent on improved
orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Machine tools are complex, parts-making machines such as
metal-cutting lathes and metal-forming presses. They shape
metal parts as diverse as refrigerator doors and industrial
bearings.
   Since mid-1989, uncertainty about the economic outlook has
caused many durable-goods makers to hold back on buying
machine tools. Auto and truck companies, auto-parts producers
and defense contractors, all major machine tool users, have
slashed orders, as have some small machine shops. There are
exceptions, such as producers of commercial aircraft, who are
ordering briskly.
   However, in the eight months ended Feb. 28, orders placed
with U.S. machine-tool plants dropped 25% from the
year-earlier period, according to NMTBA-Association for
Manufacturing Technology, a McLean, Va., trade group.
   Shipments held up well through the end of last year, but
the backlog of unshipped orders is dwindling, forcing
production cutbacks.
   Based on current production schedules, Cincinnati Milacron
Inc., the nation's largest machine-tool producer, expects
much lower profits for the first quarter. The second quarter
will be better than the first, the company says, but probably
will be below a year earlier. Besides the lower orders,
Milacron's first quarter will reflect some continued costs of
a restructuring of production.
   Milacron had profit from operations of 23 cents a share in
the 1989 first quarter and 16 cents a share in the second.
Tax credits brought net income for the first quarter to $10
million, or 41 cents a share, and for the second quarter to
$5.2 million, or 21 cents a share.
   Ronald Petrie, machinery analyst with McDonald &amp; Co.,
Cleveland, expects relatively weak machine-tool profits for
the first and second quarters. However, he's forecasting an
upturn in manufacturing by midyear that will spark
machine-tool sales and result in higher profits for the
second half.
   Mr. Petrie figures Milacron will earn $1 a share for the
year, in spite of a slow start. A Milacron spokesman
indicates that may be a bit optimistic, but the company also
is expecting an improved second half. For 1989, profit from
continuing operations was $18.4 million, or 75 cents a share,
and net income, after tax credits and losses on a
discontinued business, was $17.4 million, or 70 cents a
share.
   Mr. Petrie expects Cross &amp; Trecker Corp., Bloomfield
Hills, Mich., to break even for the year ending Sept. 30,
compared with a fiscal 1989 loss from operations of $15.3
million and a net loss of $46.5 million, or $3.76 a share,
including restructuring charges. Company officials have
forecast a return to profitability during the year, but
declined to say whether profits late in the year will balance
off losses in early months.
   However, intense import competition also is curbing
profits for U.S. machine-tool builders. Machine-tool imports
last year rose 17% to a record $2.4 billion, NMTBA said.
Imports supplied about half the new machine tools purchased
by U.S. factories last year. And transplant factories owned
by Japanese concerns are a growing part of U.S. production.
   Exports are a bright spot for U.S. machine-tool builders.
U.S. machine-tool exports in 1989 totaled $949.8 million, up
24% from a year earlier, NMTBA said. However, even those
markets are threatened. The declining value of the Japanese
yen against the dollar makes Japanese machine tools even
tougher competitors in Canada, Mexico, Europe and the Pacific
Rim, all areas where U.S. machine-tool exports have been
growing.
   U.S. machine-tool builders say Eastern Europe and the
Soviet Union are promising long-term markets, as those
countries attempt to modernize inefficient factories.
However, 1990 sales in that region aren't likely to be large
enough to affect the bottom line.
   Nonetheless, some of the specialized machine-tool
companies, especially those that do a large business in
Western Europe, are likely to report higher profits for the
first quarter and full year. European companies have been
investing heavily in new equipment in recent months.
   Hurco Cos., Indianapolis, reported net for the first
quarter ended Jan. 31 of $2.2 million, or 38 cents a share,
on revenue of $22.7 million, up from year-earlier net of $1.3
million, or 28 cents a share, on revenue of $18.4 million.
   Hurco specializes in small milling machines and machining
centers equipped with electronic controls. About half of this
year's sales will be overseas, says Michael K. Campbell, vice
president, finance and chief financial officer.
   Mr. Campbell says Hurco's earnings for the fiscal second
quarter will exceed the year-earlier's 40 cents a share, and
he has no quarrel with an estimate by McDonald &amp; Co.'s Mr.
Petrie that net for the year ending Oct. 31 will rise to
$2.10 a share from $1.70 a share in fiscal 1989.
   Some analysts also forecast higher profits for Brown &amp;
Sharpe Manufacturing Co., North Kingstown, R.I., which makes
measuring machines used with automated-manufacturing
equipment.
   Giddings &amp; Lewis Inc., Fond du Lac, Wis., specialist in
computer-directed manufacturing cells and systems, is likely
to report higher profits for the first quarter and year, says
F. John Mirek, machinery analyst for Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi,
Milwaukee. "They started the year with a strong backlog of
orders that are priced higher than the backlog of a year
ago," says Mr. Mirek. He's estimating first quarter net at 40
cents a share, up from 31 cents a year earlier, and profit
for the year of $1.80 a share, compared with 1989 net of
$17.1 million, or $1.65 a share. Giddings &amp; Lewis declines to
comment on the earnings estimates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   U.S. Judge Stays
   Injunction on Sale
   Of Motorola Chips
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MOT HIT
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In an order that eased worries among computer makers that
a vital chip supply might be cut off, a U.S. District Court
judge stayed an injunction ordering Motorola Inc. to stop
selling its flagship chip in the U.S.
   U.S. District Court Judge Lucius Bunton in Austin, Texas,
granted the stay Friday, a day after he ordered Motorola to
stop selling its 68030 microprocessor chip, which he found to
infringe on a Hitachi Ltd. patent. Sharply chiding the
companies for not settling out of court, the judge also found
Hitachi in violation of certain Motorola patents and ordered
Hitachi to stop selling the offending chips.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Friday's stay brought reassurance to computer makers who
use the 68030 chip, who worried that their supplies might be
cut off. "It certainly brings a sigh of relief," said a
spokesman for Stratus Computer Inc., a Marlboro, Mass.,
company that uses the chip in some computers and plans to
unveil new 68030 machines today.
   The stay allows Motorola to keep selling the 68030 chip,
which is used by big computer makers such as Apple Computer
Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and NCR Corp. The chip, along with
related semiconductors that often sell with it, brought
Motorola about $450 million in revenue last year, estimated
analyst David Angel of Dataquest Inc., a market-research
firm.
   The stay also lets Hitachi continue selling its chips,
which Mr. Angel estimates brought Hitachi about $30 million
in revenue last year. The stay is in effect for both
companies pending an appeal of the judge's decision, which
also calls for the companies to pay each other damages.
   Neither company was saying what it plans to do next. A
Motorola spokesman said that "it's reasonable to expect that
we might" appeal the judge's ruling, which also calls for the
Schaumburg, Ill., company to pay Hitachi $500,000 in damages.
Another option, he said, was a settlement with Hitachi. "At
this time we've not entered into any negotiations" with
Hitachi, he said. But "it's reasonable to assume that it may
take place." A Hitachi spokesman said the Tokyo-based company
was studying the ruling and wouldn't have a comment on the
company's next move until early this week.
   Industry analysts suggested that a rapproachment --
providing for cross-licensing, say, or licensing payments --
is a likely option for the sparring chip makers, especially
given the judge's strong words in Thursday's ruling.
   Calling the yearlong case a "travesty of justice" that
unnecessarily tied up the court with complex issues and
motions "replete with bickering and petty insults," Judge
Bunton said in his ruling: "The parties would have saved
time, money, feelings and relations had they curbed their
emotions and sat down to settle their difference out of
court. In short, this suit is not the sort of thing federal
courts should spend time and energy upon."
   "It's very clear from the ruling," said Dataquest's Mr.
Angel, "that the judge wants the parties to go off and solve
the thing themselves."
   The Austin judge's injunction Thursday touched off 24
hours of scrambling by computer makers for information on
supplies of the chip. Stratus, for example, stepped up
security around its inventory of 68030 chips, which it said
is enough to last until June. The chip, the spokesman said,
would have become "a hot commodity" should the judge's
injunction have stuck.
   Motorola's stock closed Friday at $65, down $2.50, in
heavy composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Gaming Casino
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UGAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- United Gaming Inc., a gambling machine
operator, said it received approval from state gambling
authorities to take over the operations of the Plantation
Casino in Sparks, Nev.
   United Gaming purchased the casino for $9.5 million six
months ago, and had been awaiting approval from the Nevada
Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission to
operate it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Gaming also said it has agreed to sell the Trolley
Stop, a downtown Las Vegas slot machine parlor, which is
being constructed. The company will retain a participation in
the Trolley Stop's revenue, it said. It declined to provide
details on the price or to identify the purchaser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Maximum Hypocrisy II
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   We recently noted that while millions of small businesses
have to endure the paper work of the revised minimum-wage
law, Rep. Frank Annunzio of Illinois, chairman of the House
Administration Committee, wants to kill an extension of the
law to cover the House's own 10,000 employees. Rep. Annunzio,
a liberal Democrat, says that, after all, the Senate exempts
itself from the law and the record-keeping would tie up the
House in knots. He told ABC News recently, "We talk about
eliminating bureaucracies. We're building another bureaucracy
that is not necessary, not needed; it's too expensive, and we
ought to say so, and we ought to cut it out." Hmmm. He better
not repeat that too often. Voters might think he is referring
to Congress itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hoechst Unit Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA J.MKA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The West German chemical group
Hoechst AG said it agreed to merge its latex paints business
with that of Mitsubishi Kasei Corp. of Japan. Financial terms
weren't disclosed.
   Hoechst said the companies' respective paint operations
will be placed into an existing 50-50 joint venture company,
Kasei Hoechst Co. Ltd., which for the past 23 years has
produced and marketed reactive dyes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement for the new business cooperation still needs
the approval of "relevant authorities," Hoechst said, adding
that the merger is planned to take effect July 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gulf Resources Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   GRE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Gulf Resources &amp; Chemical Corp. said it
completed a transaction swapping its 25 commercial New
Zealand properties for 230 million shares, or 62%, of City
Realties Ltd., a New Zealand company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Molson Cos. Sets
   Spending Plans,
   Sale of Operations
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MOL.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Molson Cos. said it plans to spend 90 million
Canadian dollars (US$76.8 million) over three years on its
chemicals unit and intends to sell some retailing operations
as part of a strategy to focus on industries with high-growth
potential.
   The company, Canada's largest brewing concern, said it
expects a one-time, after-tax charge of C$45 million in the
year ended Saturday as a result.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Molson said C$30 million of the charge is attributable to
moves to streamline the product line and upgrade the
manufacturing processes of its Diversey Corp. unit, a
specialty chemical maker.
   Molson said the remaining C$15 million is linked to the
sale of part of its retailing operations, which had a loss of
about C$3 million in the fiscal year.
   Company officials declined to comment on the prices they
expect to receive for the retailing operations. The stores to
be sold include chains of kitchenware, lighting, hardware and
kitchen appliance stores. Molson said it plans to retain its
lumber and do-it-yourself chain, Beaver Lumber, as well as a
chain of home decorating stores, B.B. Bargoon's. A spokesman
for the company said those two chains account for about 90%
of Molson's revenue from its retailing division.
   The spokesman said the company is "very close" to
concluding the sales of some of the retailing chains.
   The company didn't estimate fiscal 1990 income. In fiscal
1989, Molson had net income of C$87.1 million, or C$2.65 a
share, on revenue of C$2.6 billion. And in the latest nine
months, the company had net of C$157.6 million, or C$4.79 a
share, including a one-time gain of C$62 million, on revenue
of C$2 billion.
   Molson said the C$90 million in capital spending planned
for Diversey will go toward converting manufacturing
facilities to state-of-the art processes. The company said
that about C$65 million will be internally funded, by
reducing working capital and redirecting spending priorities.
Molson didn't give further details.
   Diversey, which makes cleaning and sanitation products,
has 51 operating facilities in 37 countries. It accounted for
about 28% of Molson's revenue in fiscal 1989, and about 31%
of operating profit.
   Some analysts weren't surprised by Molson's move to divest
itself of most of the retailing chains, which are vulnerable
to an expected downturn in the business cycle. The analysts
said they have been expecting such a move since Molson's
president and chief executive officer, Marshall Cohen, who
has a reputation as a deal maker, joined the company in
November 1988.
   In addition to Diversey and the retailing operations,
Molson has holdings in a malting company and an investment
concern. Molson also owns the Montreal Canadiens hockey team
and other sports and entertainment assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, March 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                             Stock   N.A.    Stock     %
   Fund Name                 Exch.   Value   Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express             NYSE   17.83   15 5/8  - 12.37
   Baker Fentress            NYSE   23.78   20 1/4  - 14.84
   Blue Chip Value           NYSE    7.38    6 3/4  -  8.54
   Clemente Global Gro       NYSE  b11.42    9 3/8  - 17.91
   Gemini II Capital         NYSE   15.86   13 3/4  - 13.30
   Gemini II Income          NYSE    9.53   12 7/8  + 35.10
   General Amer Invest       NYSE   21.50   18 3/8  - 14.53
   Growth Stock Outlook      NYSE   10.09    9 3/8  -  7.09
   Lehman Corp.              NYSE   15.01   12 1/2  - 16.72
   Liberty All-Star Eqty     NYSE    9.14    7 7/8  - 13.84
   Niagara Share Corp.       NYSE   16.94   14 3/8  - 15.14
   Nicholas-Applegate        NYSE   11.04    9 7/8  - 10.55
   Quest For Value Cap       NYSE   17.00   13 1/2  - 20.59
   Quest For Value Inco      NYSE   11.72   13      + 10.92
   Royce Value Trust         NYSE   10.26    9 1/4  -  9.84
   Schafer Value Trust       NYSE   10.56   10 1/4  -  2.94
   Source Capital            NYSE   40.29   40      -  0.72
   Tri-Continental Corp.     NYSE   26.80   22 3/4  - 15.11
   Worldwide Value           NYSE   17.99   16 3/4  -  6.89
   Zweig Fund                NYSE   10.82   11 3/4  +  8.60
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs       AMEX   a6.82    5 5/8  - 17.52
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr      NYSE   b8.12    9 1/8  + 12.38
   Franklin Universal Tr     NYSE   b7.85    7 3/8  -  6.05
   Municipal High Inco       NYSE    9.45    9 3/8  -  0.79
   Zenix Income Fund         NYSE    6.30    5 7/8  -  6.75
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn       OTC     5.78    4 1/2  - 22.15
   Franklin M-M Inco         NYSE   b8.60    8 1/2  -  1.16
   Zweig Total Return Fd     NYSE    9.16    9 3/8  +  2.35
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   American Capital Conv     NYSE   21.95   19 3/8  - 11.73
   ASA Ltd                   NYSE bc70.20   52 7/8  - 24.68
   Asia Pacific              NYSE   15.69   13 7/8  - 11.57
   Austria Fund              NYSE   16.03   14 1/2  -  9.54
   Bancroft Convertible      AMEX   20.54   18      - 12.37
   Bergstrom Capital         AMEX   58.63   58 1/4  -  0.65
   BGR Precious Metals       TOR  be11.58   10 1/2  -  9.33
   CNV Holdings Capital      NYSE    9.48    5 1/8  - 45.94
   CNV Holdings Income       NYSE    9.65   11 3/8  + 17.88
   Castle Convertible        AMEX   21.41   18 3/8  - 14.18
   Central Fund Canada       AMEX   b4.96    5 1/4  +  5.85
   Central Securities        AMEX   11.45    9 1/2  - 17.03
   Chile Fund                NYSE   17.18   19 1/8  + 11.32
   Couns Tandem Secs         NYSE   11.90   10 5/8  - 10.71
   Cypress Fund              AMEX    9.65    9 1/4  -  4.15
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils   NYSE    8.26    8 1/8  -  1.63
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc       AMEX    8.34    7 1/4  - 13.07
   Engex                     AMEX   11.66    9      - 22.81
   1st Australia             AMEX    9.49    8 5/8  -  9.11
   First Financial Fund      NYSE    7.15    6 3/4  -  5.59
   First Iberian             AMEX    9.61   10      +  4.06
   First Philippine Fund     NYSE   11.20   10 1/8  -  9.60
   Future Germany Fund       NYSE   17.65   15 7/8  - 10.06
   Gabelli Equity Trust      NYSE   11.96   12      +  0.33
   Germany Fund              NYSE   13.79   15 7/8  + 15.12
   Global Utilities Fund     NYSE   10.80    9 3/4  -  9.72
   G.T. Greater Europe Fund  NYSE   14.04   15 1/8  +  7.73
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv        NYSE   10.88    9 1/2  - 12.68
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap      AMEX  b11.61    9 7/8  - 14.94
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref     AMEX  b49.66   48      -  3.34
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)       NYSE   12.65   12 1/2  -  1.19
   Indonesia Fund            NYSE   13.86   16 1/2  + 19.05
   Inefficient Market Fund   AMEX   11.10   11 5/8  +  4.73
   Italy Fund                NYSE  b13.40   12 3/8  -  7.65
   Japan OTC Equity Fund     NYSE  b11.08   12 3/8  + 11.69
   Korea Fund                NYSE   17.36   22 7/8  + 31.77
   Malaysia Fund             NYSE   14.03   15 1/4  +  8.70
   Meeschaert G &amp; C          MWSE    8.53    8 1/4  -  3.28
   Mexico Fund               NYSE  b13.03   13 1/8  +  0.73
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap       NYSE   10.87    9 7/8  -  9.15
   New Germany Fund          NYSE   14.88   15      +  0.81
   Patriot Prem Div Fd       NYSE    9.08   10 3/8  + 14.26
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II    NYSE   10.44   10 7/8  +  4.17
   Petrol &amp; Resources        NYSE   30.33   27 5/8  -  8.92
   Pilgrim Regional          NYSE    9.41    8 3/4  -  7.01
   Putnam Dividend Inco      NYSE   10.68   11      +  3.00
   Portugal Fund             NYSE   13.11   12 1/2  -  4.65
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd     AMEX    7.15    6 1/4  - 12.59
   Regional Fin Shrs Inv     NYSE    8.63    8 3/8  -  2.95

   Scudder New Asia          NYSE   16.30   13 3/4  - 15.64
   Scudder New Europe        NYSE   11.52   10      - 13.19
   SE Savings Inst Fd        OTC    b8.62    7 3/4  - 10.09
   Spain Fund                NYSE   12.58   18 1/2  + 47.06
   Taiwan Fund               NYSE  f24.33   26      +  6.86
   TCW Convertible Secs      NYSE   b7.97    8 1/4  +  3.51
   Templeton Em Mkts         AMEX  b14.15   13 7/8  -  1.94
   Templeton Value Fund      NYSE   b9.43    8 3/4  -  7.21
   Thai Fund                 NYSE   18.07   20      + 10.68
   Turkish Inv Fund          NYSE   14.63   11 1/2  - 21.39
   United Kingdom Fund       NYSE   10.36    8 3/4  - 15.54
   Z-Seven                   OTC    13.07   13 5/8  +  4.25
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lexis Seeks to Have the Last Word,
   Even If It Will Take an Infinity
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MEA TOYOY NSANY
</CO>
<LP>
   Anyone who thinks that a court decision is the final word
in American justice should check with one of the nation's
largest legal-information networks.
   Last year, Mead Data Central's legal-research service,
named Lexis, sued Toyota Motor Corp. for coming a little too
close with the Lexus name that the Japanese auto maker chose
for its new brand of luxury cars. The case went all the way
to a federal court of appeals before Toyota won the right to
use the Lexus name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Problem is, Toyota didn't win the war. The Mead Corp. unit
is coming back with a contest for its 400,000 regular
customers. The contest's name: "Win an Infiniti from Lexis."
Infiniti, of course, is the new luxury car line just
introduced by Toyota's archrival, Nissan Motor Co.
   The sweepstakes contest will run from this month until
June. The lucky person who logs on a Lexis computer-research
terminal at just the right moment will win a shiny new
$38,000 Infiniti Q45 sedan. The winner also gets a Lexis
workstation for the office and can designate a professional
school, most likely a college of law, to receive another
Lexis system.
   It's the first time that Mead Data Central, which is based
in Dayton, Ohio, has run such a contest. To make sure enough
people know about it, the company is running advertisements
coast to coast in major legal publications such as the
National Law Journal, the ABA Journal, Texas Lawyer and
California Lawyer. The ads feature a picture of the Infiniti.
That's something that Infiniti itself didn't do in its own
ads until recently.
   Is Lexis trying to get revenge on Lexus? No way, contends
spokesman Michael A. Winter. "This isn't an overt attempt to
take a shot at the Lexus cars."
   So why give away an Infiniti car instead of a BMW or
Cadillac -- or even a Lexus? "We thought the Infiniti was one
of the most talked about cars in the market right now, and we
wanted to offer a car that is uppermost in people's minds,"
Mr. Winter says. "Besides, we think the cars have a lot of
intrigue." He acknowledges Lexis doesn't exactly have warm
feelings toward Lexus. "We had our day in court and we have
to abide by that decision. That doesn't mean we're happy
about it."
   Toyota isn't taking the bait. Last year it vigorously
defended the Lexus name in court, but now mum's the word.
Says spokesman Arthur Garner: "We really don't have anything
to say on this."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Reuter Shareholder
   Set to Solicit Proxies
   For Board Candidates
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   REUT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   An investor has decided to solicit proxies to nominate and
elect James H. McGuire, Charles J. Mitchell Jr. and Edward E.
Strickland to Reuter Inc.'s board.
   Richard P. Davisson, a New York broker and holder of 12.5%
of Reuter common stock, asked Messrs. McGuire, Mitchell and
Strickland to be a part of a slate that he hopes is elected
at the annual meeting. Mr. Strickland is a director but his
seat is up for re-election this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Mr.
Davisson said he contacted Reuter of Hopkins, Minn., earlier
in the month to ask that the board include a majority of
independent directors. He said the maker of computer parts
and plastic-refuse containers hasn't responded.
   In October, Mr. Davisson agreed that until March 15, he
wouldn't solicit proxies in opposition to Reuter's board.
That agreement resulted in an expansion of Reuter's board to
nine members and the appointment of James W. Taylor, whose
election Mr. Davisson had sought.
   Mr. McGuire is chairman of Intercim Corp., a Minneapolis
factory-automation concern. Mr. Mitchell is president of
Hayden/Wegman Inc., a New York environmental-engineering
firm. Mr. Strickland is a Wyzetta, Minn., financial
consultant.
   Officials for Reuter weren't available for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forest Products
   Makers to Post
   Lower Earnings
   ---
   Analysts Say Price Discounts
   Threaten to Cut Profits
   At U.S., Canadian Firms
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8C
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA WY FBO GP IP TIN WMTT PCH KMB T.NF RPAPF T.CFP T.PFP
FCC.A A.FLC ABY DTC DHC.B T.CAS
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Price discounting spread in the North American forest
products industry in the first quarter, and some analysts
warn that investors are in for nasty earnings surprises over
the next few weeks.
   "I think first-quarter earnings will be very, very
disappointing," said Salomon Brothers analyst Sherman Chao.
"The year-over-year declines are going to be fairly
alarming," he said, adding that he wouldn't be surprised by
drops of 40% to 50% in some cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Canada, the world's largest exporter of pulp and paper,
the outlook isn't any brighter. "There will be more earnings
disappointments than the Street expects," said Brian F. Topp,
an analyst with Capital Group Securities in Toronto. "I think
things will get progressively worse this year," Mr. Topp
said. He said he expects Canadian producers as a group to
report lower earnings in all four quarters of 1990, compared
with year-earlier levels, and expects earnings for the year
to be down 50%.
   The biggest change for North American producers in the
first quarter was the spreading of price discounting to the
premium grade of market pulp, known as Northern bleached
softwood kraft pulp. For the first time in three years,
discounts from list prices were readily available, analysts
and industry sources said.
   Prices began slipping in January as producers' shipments
dropped to a five-year low and inventories shot up. Although
the current discounts of $15-$30 a metric ton from the list
price of $830 a metric ton aren't yet painful, they are
believed to presage much bigger discounts. A metric ton is
2,204.6 pounds. Market pulp is wood pulp sold on the open
market to makers of paper and sanitary and other products.
   Prices for lower-quality grades of market pulp began
sliding last year, and discounting accelerated in the first
quarter. Prices for the lower grades took "a very significant
drop" of about $50 a metric ton in the first quarter, one
producer said, and are now about $100 a metric ton, or 12% to
14%, below list prices.
   Analysts expect pulp prices to fall further this year and
again next year because several producers will be starting
new mills. Mr. Topp said that in a worst-case scenario the
price of Northern bleached softwood pulp could bottom out at
about $550 a metric ton, or more than 30% below current
levels, by the end of this year or the beginning of 1991.
   Analysts said Weyerhaeuser Co., Federal Paper Board Co.,
Georgia-Pacific Corp. and International Paper Co. are among
the U.S. producers with a major exposure to market pulp and
are expected to report lower earnings. Major Canadian
producers of market pulp include Noranda Forest Inc., Repap
Enterprises Inc., Canfor Corp., Canadian Pacific Forest
Products Ltd. and Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd., a
subsidiary of Fletcher Challenge Ltd. of New Zealand.
   Newsprint makers were hit early and hard by price
discounting, and after a two-year slide, producers are trying
to nudge prices back up. Led by Abitibi-Price Inc., most
major newsprint producers announced they will raise the U.S.
East Coast list price by $35 a metric ton to $685 a metric
ton, effective June 1. The pricing structure is slightly
different in the West, where newsprint makers are seeking a
comparable increase.
   But producers don't expect customers to actually pay $685
a metric ton for newsprint. Instead they are trying to lift
the discounted or transaction price from about $525 to $540 a
metric ton to around $560 to $575.
   Newspaper publishers are somewhat sympathetic to the
newsprint makers' pleas for relief -- Abitibi said in
announcing the price increase that it runs a loss on every
ton of newsprint it sells.
   But with newsprint in abundant supply, publishers and many
analysts doubt the increase will stick. "If the suppliers
stick together," said James Correu, director of operations at
the Dallas Morning News, the list price increase might go
through. But, he said, "we've already had overtures from some
suppliers about special discounting" that would leave
transaction prices unchanged.
   The one wild card for newsprint and pulp suppliers and
buyers is the prospect of a strike in Eastern Canada.
Contracts at most mills in the region expire April 30, and
the Canadian Paperworkers Union is seeking substantial wage
gains. "If a prolonged strike takes hold, then transaction
prices will increase," Mr. Topp of Capital Group said.
   Markets for other major forest commodities also softened
in the first quarter, but prices for a few products remained
firm.
   In packaging grades, bleached board prices showed
strength, analysts said. Transaction prices for linerboard
dropped to $380 a short ton from a list price of $410 a short
ton, but "nobody seems to be expecting that prices are going
to continue slipping from there," one analyst said.
   Prices for photocopy paper, business forms and other
uncoated white papers are about 10% to 15% below list prices,
but a 5% price increase that went into effect at the start of
this month is expected to halt the discounting.
   In coated papers, prices for the fanciest grades are
holding up well. List prices for coated magazine paper are
being discounted about 5%, analysts said, with little
prospect of a price increase.
   One bright spot is building products. The lumber market is
"pretty healthy," a Weyerhaeuser spokesman said. Weyerhaeuser
is also a major producer of other products such as pulp and
has interests in financial services and real estate.
   "Overall, the year will be down somewhat from 1989," the
spokesman said, but first-quarter earnings will "probably be
pretty close" to analysts' estimates of 50 to 55 cents a
share, compared with 70 cents a share a year earlier.
   That decline is in line with the 19% year-on-year drop in
first-quarter earnings that Shearson Lehman Hutton analyst
Mark Diverio expects forest product companies to report as a
group. Mr. Diverio said he expects the industry to continue
reporting quarterly earnings declines through mid-1991 as
capacity increases outrun demand for several forest
commodities. Mr. Chao at Salomon Brothers expects just four
U.S. forest products concerns to report earnings gains for
the first quarter: Temple-Inland Inc., Willamette Industries
Inc., Potlatch Corp. and Kimberly-Clark Corp.
   J.A. Parsons, chief financial officer at Willamette, said,
"I think certainly the building products side will be up. The
question mark is the paper side." He declined to make an
earnings forecast.
   Analysts expect almost every Canadian forest products
concern to report a drop in first-quarter profit, and some
expect one or two Canadian companies to report losses.
Several Canadian companies, including Abitibi-Price, Canadian
Pacific Forest Products, Domtar Inc. and Donohue Inc., have
already warned shareholders that 1990 will be a difficult
year. "We're living in difficult times," said Alain Lemaire
at Quebec-based Cascades Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pentagon Relaxes
   Its Curbs on Gear
   Sold to East Bloc
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon said it no longer intends to
review exports to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe of
certain mainframe computers, telecommunications gear and
medical equipment.
   This latest effort to ease trade restrictions against the
changing Eastern bloc will give the Commerce Department sole
authority to license such exports. That is bound to make it
easier and faster for some U.S. companies to market
technology in those areas that is already available from
other sources. Pentagon officials said that the decision
won't affect shipments of more sophisticated, powerful or
high-tech equipment, which will continue to be reviewed by
both agencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the move highlights the erosion of Defense Department
involvement and influence in trade matters.
   Since last summer, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has
fought and lost a series of internal administration tussles
with Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher over restricting
computer sales and other U.S. exports to the Soviets and East
bloc customers. The Commerce Department has prevailed in
advocating less stringent rules, and even top Pentagon
officials now concede that the Western alliance's
longstanding system of export controls is in danger of
collapsing under the weight of the rapid changes in East-West
relations.
   Regardless of what the U.S. does, Secretary Cheney has
told reporters, "the Soviets will find it easier over the
next few years to acquire Western technology." He and others
in the Pentagon have argued that export controls should be
relaxed on a country-by-country basis, as freely elected
Eastern European governments come into power and sever ties
to Soviet intelligence.
   But such a two-tier control system, Mr. Cheney has
acknowledged, is likely to be full of loopholes. The latest
announcement, for instance, didn't make any distinctions
between Soviet or Eastern European shipments.
   In the face of pressure from U.S. industry and European
allies, the Bush administration less than two months ago
agreed to work with 16 other industrialized nations to ease
controls covering shipments of a range of machine tools,
telecommunications equipment and smaller computers to the
East bloc. But after that meeting, Secretary Cheney continued
to advocate a go-slow approach. "I worry about the situation
in which 10 years from now the Soviet Union is governed by
someone" more belligerent toward the U.S., he told a business
group recently.
   Reducing Pentagon review of export licenses is expected to
provide a boost to companies eager to tap into the lucrative
market for certain widely used mainframes, desktop computers
and standard switching equipment for telephone systems. In
the past, Pentagon officials maintained that even certain
kinds of personal computers could provide the Soviet's
industry and military with powerful new tools.
   Industry and Commerce Department officials have argued
that lengthy U.S. reviews often caused American companies to
lose sales to Western European and Japanese competitors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Financial Vietnam
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. is already waist deep in the big muddy of the
Savings and Loan crisis, and both legislators and regulators
are slogging deeper. With Senators insisting on a thrift
supervisor who will carry their political water, and with
regulators incredibly suggesting that the U.S. government may
default on obligations it has assumed, the morass is growing
more expensive for taxpayers and threatening to the general
economy. It is becoming a financial Vietnam.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Same Old Stand
                                                                                                       

   One would have thought that some residual sense of
self-awareness and human decency would have restrained
members of the Senate Banking Committee in the confirmation
hearings on Timothy Ryan's nomination as director of the
Office of Thrift Supervision. After all, the nomination was
intended to fix a problem they had caused in trying to
install M. Danny Wall in the post. A federal court ruled that
Mr. Wall had been appointed unconstitutionally, and that the
work of the OTS is therefore null and void. While this ruling
has been temporarily stayed, the only sure fix is a new
nominee properly nominated and approved.
   Then too, five Senators, including Banking Committee
Chairman Don Riegle, are in political hot water for leaning
on regulators to go easy on Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan. In
addition to hanging uninsured paper on widows, Lincoln's
Charles Keating had showered PAC contributions on Senators.
He showed up at the hearings to oppose Mr. Ryan as lacking
experience in the ways of the thrift world. For that matter,
the Senators and their House colleagues pretty much caused
the thrift crisis with legislation, notably the expansion of
deposit insurance to $100,000 an account, designed to reward
their thrift contributors and their allies, real-estate
magnates in every Congressional District.
   But no, it seems that some members of The World's Greatest
Deliberative Body are immune to the least flicker of shame.
The likes of Chairman Riegel and Senator Alan Cranston
assaulted Mr. Ryan for lack of experience and for some
remotely imagined conflict of interest (as best we can make
out, hiring the same person in private life he'd earlier
hired in government). When the committee took its vote on Mr.
Ryan Friday, two Democrats joined the panel's nine
Republicans to squeak the nominee through, 11 to 10. Within
hours, someone leaked to NBC the fact that Mr. Ryan, 44, had
included in his FBI report an admission of some drug use when
he was in law school, and some pious Democratic Senators were
quick to start discussing an end to the nomination. Well,
it's spring and the traditional Beltway slime is oozing
again.
   We ourselves have little idea what Mr. Ryan may do in the
office, but we're willing to take our chances with anyone of
some independence. The objecting Senators' real problem is
precisely Mr. Ryan's independence, in particular his
statement that he had no opinion on whether the thrift
industry ought to be preserved; acting director Salvatore
Martoche has no more experience in thrifts, but was warmly
received in Congress after taking the pledge to make sure a
thrift industry survives.
   In fact, in the current financial environment there is no
public-policy justification whatever for a separate and
distinct Savings and Loan industry. The good thrifts should
become banks, or perhaps in some cases financial firms
without deposit insurance. The rest should be put out of
their misery with the least damage to anyone else. It is
precisely because the thrifts' protectors in Congress know
this to be true that they make an issue of the point. In
short, Congress got us into this mess by showering
preferences on a narrow industry with deep pockets for
contributions. In their reception of Mr. Ryan, many of the
same Senators are back at the same old stand.
                                                                                                       

   Franklin and Other Blunders
                                                                                                       

   Officials of the Resolution Trust Corp., another head of
the hydra that runs the thrift bailout, meet today with Wall
Street types over the turmoil in the mortgage-backed bond
market caused by the seizure of Franklin Savings &amp; Loan of
Ottawa, Kansas. No one had doubted that Franklin could meet
its interest payments on bonds it had issued, but the
government seized it anyway and is now threatening to default
on its interest payments. This is how regulators stabilize
our financial system.
   While there's no reason to question the integrity or
sophistication of Franklin's management, we can understand
why regulators might look cross-eyed. Recognizing that making
real-estate loans was not a particularly good use of thrift
resources, Franklin's Ernest Fleischer decided instead to
invest in mortgage-backed bonds, then to hedge against
interest-rate movements. This left an apparently guaranteed
return, and allowed him to garner enough insured deposits to
balloon the prairie thrift into an $11 billion institution.
But by second-guessing the concern's auditors on when hedge
losses need to be recognized, regulators toppled the empire,
even though it had assets to meet its liabilities.
   The Franklin hedge operation is best understood as a way
to distill out the financial essence of the insurance on
thrift deposits. Deposit insurance lowered the cost of
liabilities without affecting the return on assets; with
securities instead of real estate, and with interest rates
hedged, nothing was left but the spread (and, we learn, an
unhedgeable regulatory risk). Very neat, but what public
purpose does it serve to deserve the potential taxpayer
liability implicit in insurance?
   In defense of Mr. Fleischer, he didn't make up the rules.
And investing insured deposits in a diversified portfolio of
mortgage-backed bonds serves at least as much public purpose
as investing them in unneeded shopping centers or office
buildings. Ultimately the question Franklin raises is whether
we need any subsidized thrift industry, but its structure
also boiled this issue down into its purest essence. This is
presumably why regulators were uncomfortable.
   Franklin was a solvent institution, not likely to go
belly-up soon, at least on the basis of anything public so
far. The problem is simply that there's no reason for
taxpayers to subsidize a hedging operation. The textbook
solution would be to phase down deposit insurance, and
therefore Franklin's spreads. The old-time solution would be
for regulators to take Mr. Fleischer for a walk in the wheat
fields, and tell him to unwind his positions and retire to
Palm Springs. After all, he is the single most qualified
person to undo the positions with minimum disruption.
   Instead, the regulators decided to tank Franklin and its
$11 billion in assets. Then they started making noises about
provisions in Congress's bailout masterpiece that might be
interpreted to say that after a thrift is seized, the
government can suspend interest payments on liabilities even
if they are backed with the collateral of firm assets.
Standard and Poor's noticed and reviewed the rating of the
bonds. The markets reacted in shock, and the regulators
retired to scratch their heads. Pending lawsuits, they may
for better or worse destroy the hedge operation, but they
have chosen the course of maximum disruption, maximum cost to
the taxpayer, and maximum risk to the financial system.
   Franklin is a dramatic example, but unhappily does not
seem to be an isolated one. Regulators, for example, are
tearing up contracts with people who bought sick thrifts at
their urging the last time around. Aside from the legal
problems this raises and the attendant financial
uncertainties, there is the simple business point. The
regulators' chief task is to dispose of the portfolios they
are seizing; if they welch on their last agreements, who will
deal with them now? They are already coming back to taxpayers
for more money to carry assets they have been unwilling or
unable to sell.
                                                                                                       

   Minding the Store
                                                                                                       

   If we are not to keep sinking deeper in the mire, someone
is going to have to take charge. It's a bit hard to say who
that should be, given that Congress has designed a regulatory
structure ideal for buck-passing. But the best hope is that
Treasury Secretary Nick Brady drops the gentlemanly role and
starts knocking some heads. He should tell Senate Democrats
that if they reject Mr. Ryan they'll get Attila the Hun. He
should tell the regulators twice a day that their job is not
to punish miscreants but to stabilize the financial system.
And he should put his troops at Treasury at work on a plan to
pare back the underlying problem of deposit insurance, so at
the very least the Bush administration can make clear who
wants to solve the S&amp;L mess and who does not.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark, MGF Oil
   Complete Stock Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. and MGF Oil Corp., a Midland,
Texas, energy firm, said they completed their agreements to
sell all MGF common stock held by Southmark and MGF's
minority shareholders to closely held Kaiser-Francis Oil Co.,
a Tulsa, Okla., energy concern.
   Southmark had owned 94.1% of MGF's common shares
outstanding, and the remaining 5.9% had been publicly held.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, MGF sold its assets to Kaiser-Francis
for $26 million. Following the asset sale, Southmark acquired
the 5.9% of MGF's 353.3 million shares outstanding for 7.4
cents a share, then sold its stock to a new company related
to Kaiser-Francis for about 7.4 cents a share.
   Southmark, a real estate and financial services concern
that is operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection
from creditors, said its proceeds from the sale were
approximately $23.5 million in cash and a long-term
nonrecourse note with a balance of about $1.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VIAG's Kloeckner Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VIA U.MYE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- The West German trading concern Kloeckner &amp; Co., a
unit of the conglomerate VIAG AG, said it sold its building
materials trading division to London-based Meyer
International PLC. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Kloeckner said the division has annual sales of about 300
million marks ($176.8 million) and was a "peripheral part" of
its operations. Shedding the unit is in line with Kloeckner's
strategy of concentrating more on international activities.
The construction materials trading units only operate within
West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dillon Read Loses
   Money Manager
   Timothy G. Dalton
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TIC
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dillon, Read &amp; Co. lost its top money manager,
as Timothy G. Dalton Jr. left along with the securities
firm's entire U.S. money-management unit to start their own
company.
   Mr. Dalton, 51 years old, formed Dalton, Greiner, Hartman,
Maher &amp; Co. along with what he said would be about 20
co-workers from Dillon Read. The new company hopes to assume
the $3 billion in assets that Dillon, Read Capital Inc., the
unit that he headed, currently manages for 70 corporate
pension funds and other institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Dalton resigned as Dillon Read Capital's president and
as a Dillon Read director.
   Mr. Dalton's departure is one of a string of personnel
changes at Dillon Read recently. The heads of risk arbitrage
and private placements and the co-head of the corporate bond
group have left, in what Dillon Read said are unrelated
moves.
   Dillon Read, a unit of Travelers Corp., said it will help
Mr. Dalton transfer all its U.S. accounts to his new company,
but that Dillon Read's international money-management units
will remain part of Dillon Read. The company said it would
have a "significant financial interest" in the Dalton Greiner
company, but no direct equity interest or control over it.
   "Dillon Read has been a great place to have been," said
Mr. Dalton, who joined the company in 1982 when it set up
Dillon Read Capital. The unit's clients include the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund and the pension funds of Inland
Steel Industries Inc. and Hughes Aircraft. Mr. Dalton said,
"We're in the process of talking with everybody" about
transferring their business to the new company.
   Mr. Dalton has done well compared with other money
managers. His stock accounts rose 10% in 1987, the year of
the stock-market crash, and significantly outperformed the
market with a 20% rise in 1988. But Mr. Dalton probably
stayed bearish too long in 1989, when he managed only a 24%
gain, compared with the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index's
31.7% gain with dividends reinvested.
   Smaller stocks are the place to be these days, says Mr.
Dalton, who says the market is in a "significant correction,"
rather than a bear market. But he is keeping 30% of his
accounts' assets in cash to prepare for the stock-market
declines ahead. Why small stocks? "The big ones haven't
really corrected, and the small ones {already} have," he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Meridian Agrees
   To Buy 65% Interest
   In American National
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMR ANPC IRON
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Texas Meridian Resources Ltd. said that it
agreed to acquire a 65% interest in American National
Petroleum Co. for $4.50 a share, or about $18.4 million, and
that it intends to merge the two companies' businesses.
   Texas Meridian, an oil and gas master limited partnership,
will buy its largest block, nearly 3.5 million shares, from
San Francisco-based Ironstone Group Inc. for $15.6 million.
Ironstone owns a total of about 4.2 million shares, or about
63% of American National. Ironstone said it expects to
realize a pretax gain of about $6.3 million on the sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The balance of Texas Meridian's purchase of nearly 4.1
million shares will be from certain shareholders
contractually related to Ironstone. As part of the
transaction, American National will also sell to Ironstone
some energy-related investments not part of its primary oil
and gas exploration and production business.
   Texas Meridian's purchases depend on the signing of a
definitive agreement for the combination of the two
companies' businesses into a Texas Meridian subsidiary, plus
certain other conditions.
   Details of that business combination haven't been
completed, said Michael J. Mayell, Texas Meridian president.
But he said holders of the two companies would share in the
resulting operation according to the value of each firm's the
oil and gas properties. A combination would need approval by
American National and Texas Meridian directors and
stockholders or unitholders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Angio-Medical Names
   Hymes to Added Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ANME WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Angio-Medical Corp. said W. Frederick Hymes,
president and chief operating officer, was elected to the
additional posts of chairman and chief executive officer.
   Dr. Hymes, 51 years old, succeeds Robert S. Sinn, 59, the
company's founder, who resigned as chairman, chief executive
officer and a director to pursue other business interests.
John D. Douros Jr., a consultant to pharmaceutical companies,
was elected to Mr. Sinn's board seat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Angio-Medical, which develops and markets pharmaceutical
and cosmetic products, has reported losses recently. The
company has initiated a series of cost-saving measures and
has raised financing to fund working capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Development Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV
</CO>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- General Development Corp. said it delayed its
annual stockholders' meeting in Miami from May 4 until June
1. The community developer said the change was because of a
delay in the preparation of audited financial statements.
   The new record date for stockholders eligible to vote at
the meeting is next Monday, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Survey of Farmers Sees Plantings
   Of Corn Up by 4%, Soybeans Down 2%
   ----
   By Scott McMurray and Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Corn Belt will expand a notch this year to a four-year
high of 74.8 million acres, up 4% from 1989, according to the
Agriculture Department's spring planting report.
   The planned increase in corn acreage will more than offset
an expected 1.2 million-acre, or 2%, shrinkage in soybean
planting. Farmers said they intend to plant 59.4 million
acres in soybeans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report, based on a survey of 75,000 farmers in early
March, is the first indication provided by the government of
the size of these crops. As such, it is eagerly awaited by
agricultural export and commodity industry analysts as a
harbinger of crop price trends for the year.
   The corn planting figure was about what analysts expected.
But the soybean acreage, while down from a year ago, still
exceeded most expectations.
   "The soybean figure is a bit of a surprise," said Conrad
Leslie, futures analyst and founder of Leslie Analytical in
Chicago. He said that based on prices offered by grain
elevators and others after the figures were released Friday
afternoon, soybean futures for November delivery could open
for trading about five cents a bushel lower this morning on
the Chicago Board of Trade.
   On Friday, November soybean futures closed 7.25 cents
higher, at $6.22 a bushel. The planting figures were released
after the close of trading.
   Corn futures for December delivery gained 0.75 cent a
bushel to close at $2.5425 on the Board of Trade.
   While no change is foreseen for corn acreage in Iowa and
Illinois, the largest corn growing states, corn growers are
expected this spring to plant an additional 2.5 million acres
elsewhere, including 300,000 acres in Nebraska, 200,000 acres
in Minnesota and 450,000 in Ohio.
   In a separate report on grain stocks, the Agriculture
Department said corn stockpiles as of March 1 had declined 8%
from a year ago to 4.81 billion bushels, and soybean
stockpiles grew 19% to 1.06 billion bushels. Wheat stockpiles
dropped 23% to 944 million bushels during the period.
   The current inclination to favor corn over soybeans this
spring reflects, among other things, a recent softening in
soybean futures prices as farmers and traders wait to see how
aggressively Brazilian farmers will market their newly
harvested soybean crop, analysts said. If a recent currency
devaluation and other radical economic reforms force them to
be aggressive sellers, the resulting sag in U.S. soybean
prices could impel American farmers to plant more corn at
soybeans' expense.
   "There are no soybeans planted yet," says David Asbridge,
an American Soybean Association economist. "Things could
still change."
   The survey of planting intentions also shows that the
higher target price for corn under the government's
commodity-subsidy program continues to make corn more
attractive than other less-subsidized feed grains.
   Barley acreage is expected to fall 3% from last year to
8.89 million acres, sorghum acreage is expected to fall 9% to
11.5 million acres and oat acreage is expected to fall 9% to
11 million acres. Of that, oat growers are expected to
harvest 6.35 million acres, down 8% from last year, and leave
the remainder as a cover crop.
   The department estimates winter wheat acreage -- planted
last fall for harvest by early this summer -- at 57.2 million
acres, up 4% from the previous year. Winter wheat accounts
for three-fourths of the U.S. harvest. A 4% increase would
more than offset the expected 12% drop in durum wheat
planting and a 4% drop in other spring wheat planting.
   The decreases foreseen for sorghum and spring wheat
acreage this year may be exaggerated, department analysts
cautioned. Many winter wheat farmers replanted their fields
with spring wheat in Washington state and Idaho, and with
sorghum in Kansas, after cold weather killed their emergent
crop of winter wheat. This inflated the acreage figures for
both crops, they said.
   Of all major crops, cotton is expected to show the
greatest expansion -- 17% to 12.4 million acres, which is
slightly more than industry analysts had projected.
   Because of a large cotton surplus last year, the
department required cotton farmers to set aside 25% of their
acreage. The requirement was lowered to 12.5% this year as
strong export demand cut cotton stockpiles in half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economics Applies to Child Care Too
   ----
   By Victor R. Fuchs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   With one out of every two new mothers returning to paid
employment before her baby's first birthday, the call for
high quality affordable child care is being heard with
increasing frequency and urgency. Many employed parents
complain that licensed child care is too expensive and that
they have to make do with informal arrangements of uncertain
quality and dependability. Some mothers say that the high
cost of child care discourages them from seeking employment,
while other women remain childless or limit their fertility
for the same reason.
   On Thursday, the House of Representatives voted almost 2
to 1 to expand federal support of day care at an estimated
cost of $27 billion over the next five years. The House bill
is the product of a compromise between those who emphasize
putting more money into the hands of parents, and those who
prefer direct subsidies to daycare providers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House vote follows a new -- and not yet
released-report of the National Academy of Sciences that
urges additional government support for child care and
recommends a tightening of the standards regulating the
number of children served by each day-care worker. This
recommendation may be justified, but should be evaluated in
light of the fundamentals of child care economics.
   Discussions of child care need to consider two
contradictory issues: the high cost of child care and the low
pay of childcare workers, whose hourly earnings are the
lowest of any major occupation. They earn 30% to 60% less per
hour than women who serve children as kindergarten or
elementary school teachers. Even more startling, when
child-care workers are compared with other women workers at
the same levels of education, the differential in hourly
earnings is more than 40%.
   Why do child-care workers earn so little? Their wages,
like everyone else's, are determined by the interplay of many
factors which can be analyzed under the familiar categories
of demand and supply. How much are those who buy the services
of child-care workers willing and able to pay? What
considerations lead workers to accept the low wages of child
care rather than seek higher paying jobs?
   The wages that a child-care center can offer its workers
depend entirely on three factors: the gross revenue per
child, the number of children served by each worker and the
overhead expenses. The latter include the costs of
management, rent, equipment and supplies, insurance, payroll
taxes and interest or return on investment. In well run
centers that meet health and safety standards, only about
half of gross revenue is available for the wages of the
child-care workers. For example, if the revenue per child is
$5,000 per year, the child/worker ratio is five and the
overhead is 50%, the annual wage for a full-time, year-round
worker will be $12,500. This is less than half the average
wage of nurses or teachers.
   Who are the child-care workers and why do they accept such
low wages? Current research by Mary Lydon and me throws light
on both these questions. When compared with women workers in
general, or specifically with women who are elementary school
teachers, we find that child-care workers are more likely to
be married, more likely to have children and much more likely
to have three or more children.
   Probably because of their greater family responsibilities,
child-care workers stay close to home. Their average commute
time is much less than that of teachers or other women
workers. They also seem to prefer part-time work. Many of
them do paid work for fewer than 20 hours per week, and most
of the others work less than full time. Generally,
occupations that are located in residential areas and afford
significant part-time opportunities pay lower wages.
   Although their average age is the same as other women
workers, child-care workers are less likely than other women
to have been at work five years previously, which also helps
explain their lower wages. According to the National Academy
report, 40% leave their jobs each year.
   Two other differences between childcare workers and
elementary school teachers (but not other women workers) are
important. First, teachers have on average about four more
years of schooling. But this difference in education explains
only about two-fifths of the wage differential. Second,
teachers -- at least those in the public schools -- are
highly unionized; child-care workers are not. But again, this
is only a partial explanation, as evidenced by the fact that
even non-union teachers in private elementary schools make
20% to 25% more than child-care workers (after controlling
for education, experience and many other variables).
   One striking difference between teachers and child-care
workers is the reward (or lack of reward) for additional
schooling. The wages of teachers rise appreciably with each
additional year of education. By contrast, child-care workers
who are college graduates earn only slightly more than those
whose education ended in high school. The parents who buy
child-care are apparently unwilling or unable to pay more for
workers with additional schooling. Or, from another
perspective, they are unwilling to see the child/worker ratio
rise in exchange for having workers with more education. This
is precisely the trade-off that is made in France. The French
system of care for pre-schoolers is often hailed as a model
for the United States, partly because the child-care workers
are as well educated and as well paid as elementary school
teachers. The child/worker ratio, however, is double that of
American nursery schools and day-care centers.
   Higher wages for child-care workers can be achieved in
only three ways. A reduction in overhead expenses would free
funds for workers' pay, but many of these expenses are
determined by laws and regulations and there is little chance
that this burden will be lifted. A rise in revenue per child
would help, but how high can fees go? An annual charge of
$10,000 per child would probably put child care beyond the
reach of most families. Government subsidies could supplement
private payments, but public aid is most appropriately used
to improve services for poor children, most of whom do not
currently receive even the average standard of care.
   The third possibility, an increase in the child/worker
ratio, offers the most scope for change. Failing such a
change, wages are likely to stay at their extremely low
levels. What is the right way to go? That choice should be
made by parents and child-care experts, not economists. Those
decisions, however, cannot evade or avoid the ABCs of
child-care economics. To want simultaneously to hold down the
cost of care, reduce the child/worker ratio and increase the
pay and qualifications of child-care workers is to wish for a
world that never was and never will be.
   ---
   Mr. Fuchs is a professor of economics at Stanford
University and a research associate with the National Bureau
of Economic Research.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New York Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank of New York Co. purchased a 19.9%
interest in Inter-Maritime Bank Geneva for a sum believed to
be less than $15 million.
   Inter-Maritime's principal owner is Bruce Rappoport, a
Swiss financier who is also one of Bank of New York's largest
shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Bank of New York spokesman said the purchase reflects
the bank's interest in international trade finance.
   In 1988, Bank of New York reported that Mr. Rappoport held
about two million of the company's shares. The bank's latest
filings, which reflect the additional shares issued to
acquire Irving Bank Corp. at the end of 1988, don't mention
Mr. Rappoport's stake, suggesting that it has fallen below
5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Offer
   $9.75 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $675 million in
new cash Thursday by selling about $9.75 billion in 52-week
bills and redeeming $9.08 billion in maturing bills.
   The bills will be dated April 12 and will mature on April
11, 1991. They will be available in minimum denominations of
$10,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills must be received by 1 p.m. EDT
Thursday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or
branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First World Cheese Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FWCH
</CO>
<LP>
   MAPLEWOOD, N.J. -- First World Cheese Inc. said it
completed a $12 million, two-year revolving credit agreement
with Bank of Tokyo Trust Co.
   The financing, which is secured by the company's available
assets, replaces the company's prior short-term credit
arrangements with another bank, National State Bank of
Elizabeth, N.J. As of last Thursday, First World's borrowings
under the prior arrangements were about $5.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credit agreement won't include any potential equity
interest for Bank of Tokyo Trust, First World said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Finds McKinzie,
   Thrift Business Aide,
   Guilty on 22 Counts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7G
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Janet Faye McKinzie, business manager
and executive consultant for the late president of the
now-insolvent North America Savings &amp; Loan Association, was
found guilty by a federal jury of stealing $15.5 million from
the thrift.
   The jury found Ms. McKinzie guilty of 22 counts of
racketeering, conspiracy, wire and bank fraud, and interstate
transportation of stolen property. Under the various counts,
she could be sentenced to a total of 175 years in prison. A
sentencing date hasn't yet been set.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thrift regulators said the collapse of Santa Ana-based
North America Savings is one of the worst examples of insider
corruption ever found at an S&amp;L. The thrift's demise
eventually cost taxpayers $120 million, regulators said.
   The jury of six men and six women took eight days to
return its verdict, after a trial that lasted eight weeks.
   Ms. McKinzie had pleaded innocent by reason of insanity.
Her attorneys had argued that her judgment was impaired by
prescription drugs she was taking. She couldn't be reached
for comment.
   Duayne D. Christensen, a Westminster, Calif., dentist,
invested $6.4 million to open North American Savings in 1983.
Ms. McKinzie was a consultant to Dr. Christensen in operating
the thrift. In 1986, the thrift lost $8.9 million in the
first 11 months. Government prosecutors charged that the two
lived a lavish life style, using thrift funds to buy Rolls
Royce autos, a $125,000 gold eagle statue and an $18,500 gold
letter opener.
   In 1987, a week before federal regulators declared the
thrift insolvent, Dr. Christensen, 57 years old, died when
his Jaguar crashed into a freeway overpass. The Orange county
coroner classified the cause of his death as undetermined,
failing to rule whether it was an accident or suicide.
   The jury will decide in a second trial in April whether
Ms. McKinzie will forfeit benefits from a $10 million life
insurance policy left her by Dr. Christensen. Government
prosecutors contend that Dr. Christensen purchased the policy
with proceeds from the theft of North America's assets. The
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. also is trying to seize the
insurance proceeds in a case pending in Los Angeles federal
court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Battle Mountain Holding
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BMG WSTW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Battle Mountain Gold Co. said it will pay $15.8
million and 150,000 common shares to increase its stake in
Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A. of Bolivia to 51% from 33.3%.
   The mining concern said it will exercise its option to buy
half the shares, or an 8.8% Inti Raymi stake, from Westworld
Resources Inc. for $7.9 million and 75,000 shares of Battle
Mountain common. It said it will buy the other half, for the
same price, from Zeland Mines S.A., a Panamanian company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the transaction is closed, Battle Mountain said it
will have paid a total of $38.8 million and 550,000 common
shares for its share of the Bolivian concern. The transaction
will reduce Westworld's stake in Inti Raymi to 24.5%,
Westworld said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase Manhattan Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB CCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Chase Manhattan Corp. said that it has agreed
to buy nine upstate New York branches of Citicorp. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The nine branches, with a total of $380 million in
deposits, are located in Syracuse, Camillus, Cicero, Dewitt,
Liverpool, Manilius, Skaneateles, Utica and New Hartford.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale signals a push by Chase's Rochester-based bank,
Chase Lincoln First Bank, into the state's center.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Finevest Foods Inc.
   Suspends Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FVF
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Finevest Foods Inc. said it suspended
its quarterly dividend of three cents a common share because
of a deficit resulting from its 1989 operating loss.
   Finevest, a dairy processor and wholesale distributor of
frozen foods and dairy products in the Southeast, said it
will save about $1.3 million annually from the payout
suspension. The company's 1989 net loss was $19 million on
sales of $700.8 million. The loss included a third-quarter
charge of $10.7 million from restructuring the company's
dairy operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With improved operating efficiencies from the
restructuring and with declining raw-milk costs this spring,
Finevest said it expects its dairy operation to return to
profitability this year.
   Finevest shares fell 50 cents, to close at $7.50, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Who Will Pay the Price for Russia's Decline?
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Russia's money needs are becoming more desperate, and
therein lies a tricky problem for the West. So long as the
Soviets need -- and are able to get -- Western financing,
they are more apt to show forbearance in dealing with
sensitive political problems, such as Lithuanian secession.
They will be reluctant to endanger their ties with the West.
But if their Western financing dries up, their behavior
becomes more problematic.
   On the other hand, if the West continues to finance the
Soviet economy, its needs could become a serious drain on
world capital markets. Pouring money into non-productive
enterprises is bad banking, and the Soviet command economy is
sinking ever lower from an already low level of production.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the Soviets are unable to pay their debts to Western
banks they will add to an already sizable pile of troubled
debt -- that run up by less developed countries and the U.S.
savings and loan industry, for example. Bad debt is economic
waste, and thus a drag on the world economy. Such waste feeds
inflation and inhibits economic growth. Use of tax money by
Western governments to finance the Soviets also makes little
sense. By raising tax burdens, that too would slow productive
growth.
   In short, the Soviets, always a military threat, now are
becoming an economic threat as well. A nation stretching
around nearly half of the northern part of the globe is
sinking into an economic abyss. Its 280 million people are
not producing enough to provide themselves with adequate
necessities, let alone contribute anything to the world's
supply of capital and wealth. Rising discontent further
diminishes productivity.
   Soviet Deputy Prime Minister Leonid Abalkin said last week
that there is no sign of an easing of the decline in energy
and industrial output caused by strikes and political
turmoil. In the first two months of this year, oil production
was off 4% from a year earlier and coal production off 6%.
Earlier it had been reported that man-days lost to strikes
and conflicts rose to 9.1 in the first two months from 7.3 a
year before. It is not entirely clear what that statistic
means but it seems to indicate that the U.S.S.R. lost some
20% to 25% of its labor capacity, obviously a serious matter.
   The Soviets have had a continuing debate over whether they
should borrow more in the West to finance purchases of
consumer goods. As Keith Bush of Radio Liberty wrote on these
pages recently, Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov last year
appeared to exaggerate the size of the Soviet external debt,
perhaps to discourage further borrowing to fill store
shelves. But he now appears to have lost the debate.
   Nikolai Petrakov, Mikhail Gorbachev's chief economic
advisor and the lead designer of yet another planned economic
reform, dropped a hint about foreign borrowing in a recent
interview with Interfax, a semi-official Soviet news agency.
He stressed how important it will be for President Gorbachev
and his new cabinet to "retain the confidence of the
population" as the new reform inflicts economic pain. He was
presumably referring to layoffs and maybe higher prices.
   "It would be good, of course, if to achieve this we could
make use of foreign credits offered to us on easy terms,"
said Mr. Petrakov, adding that the Soviet Union "ought to
enter all the international economic organizations." In other
words, the Soviets would like to get into any organization
that has money to lend.
   That hint is being confirmed by other reliable sources in
Western Europe. They say the Soviets are gearing up for a
borrowing offensive. The question will be whether to finance
or not finance their consumption needs.
   At least one Westerner of some note may already have made
up his mind on that question. U.S. Treasury Under Secretary
David Mulford told a Senate hearing a few days ago that the
U.S. would not join the proposed European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) if the Soviets are
given full borrowing access. Western private banks also are
taking a more jaundiced view of Soviet credits, mainly
because of mounting Soviet debt payment arrears, which are
said to be approaching $1 billion. A 500 Deutsche mark ($300
million) Soviet bond issue met with a cool reception on the
London market in January. Keith Bush quoted a West German
banker as saying that the Soviet credit rating had
deteriorated more in a few weeks than it had in the previous
20 years.
   The Soviets insist that their credit problem is simply
caused by too many Soviet enterprises and banks having been
turned loose to borrow in the West. Many did so without
adequate means to service their debts. The cure, according to
this argument, is a recentralization of Soviet borrowing. But
that doesn't sound much like economic reform. Central
management is the primary source of Soviet problems.
   Mr. Mulford obviously has a good point. If the EBRD is to
be set up primarily to finance redevelopment of the newly
liberated countries of Eastern Europe, why on earth should it
finance Soviet consumption? Development financing presumes
that there will be a return on the investment. But the
connection between putting goods on Soviet shelves and
achieving economic reform in that country is a tenuous one at
best.
   Some use humanitarian arguments for feeding the Soviets.
Undernourishment clearly has become serious at the lowest
income levels of Soviet society. It worsens as shortages and
inflation grow. At the first meeting of his new cabinet,
President Gorbachev stressed that the food situation was the
biggest problem facing his government.
   But why should the West shed tears for a regime that still
is spending huge amounts of money to build weapons and to run
a world-wide empire? Merely cutting off Fidel Castro from the
Soviet dole or closing down the huge Soviet base at Cam Ranh
Bay, Vietnam, or scrapping one of the aircraft carriers under
construction, could feed a lot of Russians.
   Soviet militarism is part of the equation. If the Soviets
no longer have anything to lose in the way of Western
financing, will they become more aggressive toward the West?
That argument suggests, however, that the West should simply
bribe the Soviets to become good guys, a doubtful enterprise
even if it had a chance of succeeding. What in fact will
probably happen is that markets will make the decision. As
the Soviets begin to look more like bad risks, they will get
less financing. From that, maybe their badly underdeveloped
knowledge of how markets work will be improved.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   The Global View column on this page Monday, "Who Will Pay
the Bill for Russia's Decline?" used some inaccurately
transmitted statistics regarding man-days lost in the Soviet
Union. The correct numbers are 9.1 million man-days lost in
the first two months this year, compared with 7.3 million for
the full year 1989.
   (WSJ April 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Copperweld to Plan Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COS
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Copperweld Corp. said it delayed preparation
of its annual report and proxy statement until the company
selects a date for a special shareholders meeting to vote on
a merger offer.
   The company previously announced that a special committee
of directors is evaluating a merger proposal from Imetal
S.A., a French metals company that is Copperweld's largest
shareholder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Copperweld, a producer of wire, cable, rods and tubing,
said it expects to mail its proxy statement to shareholders
by May 15.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Old Kent Financial Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   OKEN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -- Old Kent Financial Corp., a bank
holding company, said it completed its buy-back program,
having purchased 1,874,821 of its common shares for about $50
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Current Account
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- South Korea's current-account deficit widened to
$329 million in February, the second consecutive monthly
setback, because of a slowdown in exports, central bank
officials said.
   Tallies by the Bank of Korea listed the two-month deficit
as $646 million, compared with a surplus of $888 million in
the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank officials said the deficit in February alone was the
largest since February 1986, when an economic boom began.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Current Account Data
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan posted a $4.91 billion current account
surplus in February, narrowing 32% from a $7.26 billion
surplus a year earlier,the Finance Ministry said.
   But the results also marked a return to overall surplus in
the current account, after a $636 million deficit in January,
Japan's first such gap in six years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan's trade surplus in February was $5.49 billion, a 36%
shrinkage from the $8.52 billion surplus posted a year
earlier, but up strongly from January's $1.08 billion
surplus, which shrank because of seasonal and special
factors.
   Exports declined 2.2% to $21.5 billion from $22 billion a
year earlier. Imports climbed 19% to $16.1 billion from $13.5
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pop-Open Packages
   For a Hurried Populace
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   DESPITE requirements for tamper-resistance and
child-proofing, Americans are demanding and getting quicker
access to packaged food and other products.
   "There's an explosion of convenience packaging in the
marketplace," says Mel Druin, vice president at Campbell
Soup.
   Yielding to complaints from young and old, Campbell has
replaced the peel-off adhesive tab on its 12-ounce V-8 juice
can with an "easy-open stay-on tab."
   A Richard Simmons salad dressing now comes in a bottle
with a pump top. And popcorn for microwave ovens is sold in
bags that can be pulled open easily by grasping opposite
ends.
   New York inventor Sanford Redmond has developed a
"portion" package for condiments and other products that
opens with one hand. Mr. Redmond's "dispenSRpak" consists of
two soft miniature sacks resting on a stiff layer of plastic,
which has a "fault line" across it. Squeezed in one hand, the
package breaks open at the fault, and out squirts mustard,
shampoo or whatever.
   Mr. Redmond, who worked on the atom bomb, says his package
will replace those ketchup pouches that require "two hands, a
scissor or your teeth to open."
   John Stanton, professor of food marketing at St. Joseph's
University in Philadelphia, says one-handed packaging could
prove popular, noting that 20% of commuters eat breakfast
behind the wheel. "People want to steer a car and deal with
other things, like eating food," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Computers Play Artist,
   Selecting Palettes
                                                                                                       

   LIKE EVERYTHING else, color is becoming computerized.
Designers can create just about any color they want, while
makers of ink, textiles, plastics and other products can
match the designer's conception, quickly and cheaply.
   Colorcurve Systems Inc. of Minneapolis makes software that
allows designers to review the spectrum, assign numbers to
the color they want and communicate their selection
numerically to manufacturers. Applied Color Systems Inc. of
Princeton, N.J., makes the hardware.
   In arriving at the perfect color, a designer may make many
proofs, a task complicated by the fact that ordinary computer
screens don't provide an accurate picture of what color will
look like in real life. So Barco Inc. of Smyrna, Ga., makes
computer monitors that automatically correct themselves when
their color deviates from true.
   Someday it may be possible to think a colorful thought,
tap a few keys and bring up just the right color to match the
thought. Kuan Kuo, a graduate student at the Illinois
Institute of Technology's Institute of Design, has developed
software that will produce a palette of colors when prompted
by words such as "warm" or "cool," "hard" or "soft,"
"conservative" or "liberal."
   Computers certainly have their drawbacks. Ariel Peeri, a
New York graphic designer, says that because his computers
allow him to go directly from idea to finished proof, they
eliminate much of the "back and forth" he used to have with
clients. Computers save time and money, Mr. Peeri says, but
leave some clients feeling "thwarted."
                                                                                                       

   With Two Dials, Clock
   Gives Kids Helping Hand
                                                                                                       

   IN CALIFORNIA, a psychologist thinks he's got a better way
to teach children -- and maybe adults -- to tell time.
   Dominic Massaro, professor of psychology at the University
of California, Santa Cruz, says traditional clocks are "a
legacy of history, not the result of good design principles."
Thus, children often confuse minutes with hours.
   Mr. Massaro's new clock has a separate dial of minutes
outside the hour dial. This isn't entirely a new idea.
Judy/Instructo, a Minneapolis company, has long been selling
a double-dialed clock for classroom instruction. But Mr.
Massaro has added other cues of color and size. His hour hand
is small and red and points to small red hours; his minute
hand is large and green and points to large green minutes.
   The Judy clock is just a demonstrator. Mr. Massaro says he
plans to make both demonstrators and real, working clocks and
watches -- for both children and grown-ups. Adults, he says,
could get "a quicker picture of time."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   KRIEGER WATCH Corp. of Miami Beach, Fla., produces a
moon-movement chronometer, indicating the best times to hunt
and fish. . . . A plastic device, shaped like a seahorse,
helps long-fingernailed women open car doors and beverage
cans, release seat belts and dial the phone. The designer,
Laura Penwarden of Santa Ana, Calif., calls it "Gentleman's
Hand."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   General Computer Posts Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GCCC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TWINSBURG, Ohio -- General Computer Corp., which develops
computer systems for pharmacies and medical offices, posted a
deficit for its fiscal third quarter and said it will receive
$775,000 in interim financing from its chairman, Sidney
Dworkin, to meet capital requirements to fund continuing
operations.
   The company said its loss narrowed to $376,000, or 24
cents a share, for the quarter ended Feb. 28, from $875,000,
or 55 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 15% to $3
million from $3.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first nine months, the loss narrowed to $1.8
million, or $1.13 a share, from $2 million, or $1.27 a share,
a year earlier. Revenue rose 3.5% to $8.9 million from $8.6
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Storage Technology Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STORAGE TECHNOLOGY Corp., Louisville, Colo., said it will
redeem on May 14 $34.1 million principal amount of its 13.5%
senior debentures, due 1996, as part of a plan to use the
proceeds of a recent $119 million equity offering to retire
debt. The maker of data storage equipment said the redemption
price is $106.78 for each bond, including accrued and unpaid
interest and a 2% premium. April 9 is the record date for
selection by lot of the bonds to be redeemed. Storage
Technology has $285 million in senior debentures outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Molson Cos.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MOL.A
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOLSON Cos., a Toronto-based brewing, retailing and
consumer products concern, said it plans to redeem June 26
its 18.25% debentures, due Nov. 1, 1991, and April 16, 1995.
Redemption prices will be 100% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest for the 1991 debentures, and 101.45% of the
principal amount plus accrued interest for the 1995
debentures. Molson said the total principal amount of the
debentures to be redeemed is 36.7 million Canadian dollars
(US$31.4 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   MCA Executive
   Gets $7.8 Million
   In Stock Options
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- Taking note of dizzying
increases in compensation for movie executives, MCA Inc. did
the right thing by its film chief Thomas Pollock, breaking
with tradition and giving Mr. Pollock stock options that had
a value of $7.8 million at the time MCA directors approved
them.
   According to proxy materials mailed to shareholders
Friday, MCA will ask holders to approve the company's first
stock-option plan in a generation, a plan that calls for the
issue of five million new shares. The only beneficiary of the
plan so far is Mr. Pollock, who would receive options to buy
600,000 shares at an exercise price of $55 a share, which
were valued at $68 a share at the time they were awarded last
August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the shares closed at $51 a share Friday, so they
wouldn't be worth anything today. Mr. Pollock may exercise
the options in 20% yearly increments beginning in July.
   In addition, Mr. Pollock receives a salary increase to
$850,000 a year, from $636,692, as part of a new five-year
contract signed last year. He also receives 95,000 shares of
stock worth $5.7 million, and will receive 150,000 more
shares during the next two years. Company Chairman Lew
Wasserman receives a salary increase to $900,000 a year, from
$559,000, while President Sidney Sheinberg, goes to $900,000
a year from $729,000.
   Mr. Sheinberg also received stock valued at $7.3 million.
   MCA, with Hollywood's most long-serving management team by
far, has always been relatively conservative about executive
compensation. A stock option plan was adopted by shareholders
in 1968, but never exercised, and though an incentive stock
plan for executives has existed since 1975, the new "stock
awards plan" breaks new ground.
   Proxy materials argue that the plan is for "attracting and
retaining executive personnel, motivating executive personnel
by means of growth-related incentives {and} providing
incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive
with those of other major corporations."
   These other corporations include Walt Disney Co., whose
chairman Michael Eisner's salary, bonus and options totaled
about $40 million in fiscal 1988. Disney President Frank
Wells realized $72.4 million from the sale of stock bought
through options in 1989, and former Chief Financial Officer
Gary L. Wilson exercised options valued at $47.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   WD-40 Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WDFC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WD-40 Co., a San Diego maker of lubricants and rust
preventatives, declared an extra dividend of 30 cents a share
and a quarterly of 43 cents a share, payable April 30 to
stock of record April 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chase Manhattan Hires Merrill's Lerner
   For Japanese Corporate Finance Unit
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MER CMB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the latest attempt by a U.S. commercial bank to invade
investment bankers' turf, Chase Manhattan Bank is hiring Mark
J. Lerner from Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. to lead a newly
established Japanese corporate finance group.
   The new Chase unit will specialize in advising U.S. and
Japanese companies on mergers and acquisitions, private
placements and joint ventures in each other's countries. It
will also put together financing packages for such
transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently, Mr. Lerner headed the Japan group in
Merrill's investment banking division. There, he worked on
financings and acquisitions for Japanese blue-chip companies
such as Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co., Mitsubishi Corp.
and Sony Corp.
   In September 1988, he helped structure a $200 million bond
issue by Toyota's American subsidiary in the U.S. market, the
first by a Japanese-controlled company. Early this year, he
was also involved in Kyocera Corp.'s more than $500 million
takeover of AVX Corp., the only time a Japanese company
acquired a U.S. corporation with stock rather than cash.
   At Chase, Mr. Lerner, 37 years old and a graduate of both
Vassar College and the Wharton School of Business at the
University of Pennsylvania, will be a managing director. His
appointment is effective today.
   Until now, advising Japanese and U.S. companies on
cross-border takeovers has pretty much been an investment
banking preserve. U.S. commercial banks were advisers on none
of the 10 largest Japanese acquisitions in the U.S. last
year, and a Japanese commercial bank advised on only one,
according to Ulmer Brothers Inc., a New York merchant bank
specializing in Japanese-U.S. business.
   In 1989, Chase advised on 34 merger deals world-wide,
second among commercial banks after J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.,
according to Euromoney magazine, a trade publication. Still,
investment banks were way ahead, led by CS First Boston Inc.,
which advised on 172 transactions. Merrill advised on 118
deals, according to Euromoney.
   Investment bankers and takeover specialists contend that
big banks muscle their way into the merger business through
their power to finance deals, not through their ability to
assemble them.
   "Investment bankers understand pricing, structure and
valuation. The commercial banks, for all their prowess and
expertise still allocate credit; they don't make markets,"
says Daniel M. Schwartz, managing director at Ulmer Brothers.
"The Chases and J.P. Morgans and Bankers Trusts of the world
certainly have some talent and resources to bring to the
table, but ultimately they lack a market driven personality
to be successful in the merger business."
   Nonetheless, he adds: "I give Chase credit for hiring
someone with the right kind of experience."
   Mr. Lerner believes that U.S. banks can make more use of
their larger capital base and more extensive international
networks to capture additional merger business. And he adds:
"As commercial banks receive more and more powers to get into
the public securities business, they will be able to compete
more successfully for business with multinational clients."
   Until then, he plans to capitalize on Japanese companies'
penchant for private deals, ones that involve a minority
investment, the takeover of a private company or the
acquisition of the division of a public corporation.
   "Most Japanese business in the U.S. involves private debt
financings and private investments," says Mr. Lerner. "And
the overwhelming majority of merger and acquisition
transactions haven't been in the public market, except for a
few big, well publicized ones like Bridgestone {Corp.'s $2.6
billion purchase of Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co. in 1988}."
   Chase says that the new unit will open an office in Los
Angeles and probably in Europe as well. The bank will also
expand its merchant banking activities, investing in deals to
the extent that the law permits. "It should give Japanese
investors a good degree of comfort to have a major U.S. bank
put its own money on the line alongside them," says Mr.
Lerner.
   Chase has been active in Japan since 1945 and, along with
a handful of other major U.S. banks, played a big role in
financing the rebirth of Japanese industry after World War
II. Chase also handles a huge portion of the U.S. dollar
clearing for banks, institutional investors and corporations
in Japan, according to the bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BGE PBI SCE
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baltimore Gas &amp; Electric Co., proposed offering of two
million common shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Leveraged Municipal Income Fund Inc., initial offering of
five million common shares, via Shearson Lehman.
                                                                                                       

   Pitney Bowes Inc., shelf offering of up to $250 million of
debt securities and warrants.
                                                                                                       

   Southern California Edison Co., a unit of SCEcorp., shelf
offering of up to $600 million of first and refunding
mortgage bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Spain Strategic Growth &amp; Income Fund Inc., initial
offering of five million common shares, via Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Your Best Defense? Advice From the Plaintiff Bar
   ----
   By Laurence Bodine
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Last year, our publication came out with its annual list
of the largest jury awards in personal-injury cases. The
leader was a more than $152 million verdict in a case
involving lung disease. A Baltimore jury awarded more than
$76 million each to two workers who had been exposed to
asbestos in factory and shipyard jobs.
   The defendant was Celotex Corp., a building products
manufacturer based in Tampa, Fla. Celotex made litigation
history with this mistake: It had offered only $2,500 to
settle one of the cases, and only $150 in the other. Celotex
lawyers had used a chart, which listed an asbestos victim's
disease in one column and the settlement offer in the next.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This failure to make a meaningful offer in a lawsuit
involving serious injury is one of the common, yet easily
avoidable, mistakes that result in multimillion-dollar jury
awards.
   Experienced plaintiff lawyers see the same mistakes again
and again, and profit from them. One such lawyer is Richard
Grand of Tucson, Ariz., who has won 60 jury verdicts or
settlements of $1 million or more in 31 years of law
practice. He hasn't lost a jury trial since 1962. The total
amount insurance companies have paid in his cases is about
$200 million. According to Mr. Grand, corporate managers and
insurance companies can avoid the unnecessary mistakes that
lead to these electrifying verdicts by handling litigation
more carefully.
   -- Make a meaningful offer. The seven- and eight-figure
verdicts typically involve a victim who suffered burns,
paralysis, brain injury, death or a birth injury. Insurance
companies have statistics on what these cases settle for. The
defense should write appropriate offers to settle these
lawsuits -- even if there is no settlement demand (and even
though this goes against the common insurance-industry
practice).
   Preceding every million-dollar verdict Mr. Grand has
obtained, he never has had an offer greater than 25% of the
amount the jury awarded. Most of the offers were zero
dollars. For example, in a 1985 case a five-year-old girl was
severely burned when a camp stove spurted a stream of flaming
fuel onto her. She sued Coleman Co., the camp-stove
manufacturer, and Coleman made no offer to settle. At trial
Mr. Grand proved that Coleman had known about the blowhole
fuel defect for 20 years, and the jury awarded $7.86 million.
   Coleman refused to make a settlement offer after the trial
or during the appeal. After the state Supreme Court affirmed
the verdict, Coleman paid $8.54 million, including interest.
   -- Look at the courtroom record of the plaintiff lawyer.
Insurance companies pay based not only on the injury but also
on their fear of the plaintiff lawyer. According to Mr.
Grand, insurance companies are "grossly overpaying" to settle
cases where the plaintiff lawyer has never won a jury verdict
of $1 million or more. Any lawyer can make a demand for seven
figures, but only a limited number of lawyers can
consistently persuade a jury to make such an award.
   For example, the defense should determine if the opposing
lawyer is a member of the Inner Circle of Advocates. Members
of this organization have tried at least 50 cases to a
verdict, including at least one with a jury award of $1
million or more. The average age is 60, and these are
seasoned plaintiff lawyers who consistently obtain large
settlements. Other "trial" associations and academies include
lawyers who have never tried a case.
   -- Start settlement negotiations early. It is true that
90% of all lawsuits settle, but most high-stakes injury cases
are settled on the courthouse steps before the trial. Late in
the proceedings, both parties will be hardened in their
positions, and will have spent great sums on experts and
depositions. An insurance carrier will spend $500,000 to $2
million to defend a big case. Late settlements are costly
settlements.
   But early on, a plaintiff lawyer will have incurred few
costs and may agree to limit his contingency fee to settle
the case.
   -- Retain a plaintiff lawyer as a defense consultant. In
negotiations, you should speak the language of the other
side. Insurance companies, however, rarely heed this advice.
A highly seasoned plaintiff lawyer retained by the defense
will be an effective negotiator in settlement talks.
   Unfortunately, lawyers in America tend to line up along
the plaintiff or defense side and stay there, as has Mr.
Grand, but it doesn't have to be this way. "Most great
lawyers really would like to do what barristers do in
England, which is handle either side of a case," Mr. Grand
says.
   Plaintiff lawyers routinely engage settlement consultants
and negotiators. These are skilled specialists who advertise
their availability for wrongful death and injury cases. The
defense should not go it alone either, especially when the
case may end with a seven-figure verdict. Just as investment
bankers are brought in to assist with corporate mergers, the
defense should retain a plaintiff lawyer in a major injury
case.
   -- Get the case into arbitration. It's not just for labor
disputes any more. The goal from the plaintiff's side is to
get money into the victim's hands. The goal from the
defense's side is to end the case. Arbitration is a quick and
less formal way to resolve an injury case.
   Many lawyers are reluctant to try arbitration. Alternative
dispute resolution isn't familiar, and lawyers are taught
little about it in law school. But the ADR movement is
growing, and a record 55,520 cases were filed in arbitration
in 1989 to settle $2.4 billion in claims, according to the
American Arbitration Association. Many were insurance and
accident claims.
   In a case where a seven-figure verdict is possible,
litigation will almost certainly take years, and appeals will
add more time. Mr. Grand represented a policeman who was
paralyzed from a gunshot wound in 1978. He won a $3.6 million
jury award that was upheld in 1982. The judgment was finally
paid in 1984, but only after the defense spent hundreds of
thousands of dollars vainly fighting the case, and filed for
bankruptcy-law protection because of the verdict.
   -- Is the defense lawyer in a feud? Most plaintiff lawyers
do not have a good relationship with defense counsel. Defense
lawyers have emotions too, and can make their careers by
defeating a famous trial lawyer. A blood feud, however, can
lead to a seven-figure verdict.
   Corporate managers should interview their lawyers, just as
they would a new job applicant, and inquire at length how
they feel about the plaintiff lawyer.
   ---
   Mr. Bodine, an attorney, is the publisher of Lawyers
Alert, a Boston-based national legal-news magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Confers With Unions
   On Acquisition Proposal
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Advisers to United Airlines labor unions and directors
conferred during the weekend in an effort to reach agreement
on an employee acquisition of UAL Corp. before a board
meeting today.
   Both sides were seeking an accord before the outbreak of
hostilities in a proxy fight by UAL's largest shareholder,
Coniston Partners, which supports the employee bid and is
seeking to oust UAL directors at the annual meeting April 26.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The biggest outstanding issue between the unions and
directors is price. The labor group has offered roughly $185
a share, or about $4 billion, for a 75% stake, and the board
is seeking about $220 a share, or $4.8 billion. Other open
questions include financing and the composition of
management.
   Today's board meeting is scheduled to be conducted by
telephone. If no agreement is reached but the two sides are
making progress, some people familiar with UAL said the talks
might continue. But both Coniston and the board are ready to
unleash attacks on each other that could make a peaceful
agreement more difficult to reach.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Impact of Profit Drop
   May Have Lessened
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the economy's
ability to keep expanding despite so many well-publicized
problems involves profits, which are supposed to be
capitalism's lifeblood. It's true, as Edward Yardeni,
economics director for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
observes, that "corporate profits have been in a recession
since the second quarter of last year." Yet, as the second
quarter of 1990 begins, the general level of business
activity appears still to be rising, and most forecasters
share Mr. Yardeni's view that "the economy will grow all
year." How, with profits sagging, is such an economic
performance possible?
   The explanation, according to Lacy H. Hunt, chief
economist of the investment firm of Carroll McEntree &amp;
McGinley Inc., is that profits occupy a sharply diminished
role in today's economy. He reckons, accordingly, that to
drag the economy into a new recession profits would have to
decline far longer and more steeply than they have done so
far. He doubts this will happen and endorses the consensus
forecast that the economy will continue to expand, at the
least, through 1990.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shrinking role of profits is evident, as Mr. Hunt
says, in comparisons of profits and the gross national
product, the broadest measure of overall economic activity.
In the 1960s, amid the longest economic expansion in the
history of the U.S. business cycle, corporate profits,
adjusted for inventory gains or losses and for depreciation,
reached 11.7% of GNP. This percentage fell to a low of 6.9%
near the trough of the subsequent 1969-70 recession. Since
then, as the chart below shows, the pattern has been for the
percentages to be lower at both expansionary high points and
recessionary low points.
                                                                                                       

   The latest reading, for last year's fourth quarter, is
5.3%. This is appreciably below the high for this expansion
of 7.3%, set in the second quarter of 1984, but it remains
well above the low for the 1981-82 recession of 4.5%. It also
is substantially higher than where Mr. Hunt, given the
pattern of progressively falling levels of both the high and
low readings, places the new "recessionary range." For him to
become concerned about profits dragging the economy into a
recession in coming months, he says, they would have to fall
to about 3% of GNP.
   Mr. Hunt shares the view of most forecasters that such a
decline will not occur. The consensus is that economic growth
will slowly accelerate as the year goes along, and in the
process profits will increase. For instance, 51 forecasters
polled by Blue Chip Economic Indicators of Sedona, Ariz.,
estimate on average that the economy will grow 2.3% annually
in the year's last half and profits will rise as well.
   In the last three months of 1989, pretax profits continued
a decline that began early last year. But the rate of decline
slowed markedly to 0.5% from 7.1% in the previous quarter.
And, on an after-tax basis, profits edged up in the quarter,
reversing a yearlong slide.
   Profits, it should be noted, tend to lead the economy's
ups and downs. The government, in fact, continues to classify
them as a leading economic indicator, normally rising or
falling several months before such broader gauges as
employment and industrial production follow suit. Mr. Hunt
agrees that profits still tend to lead the economy, but he
adds that nowadays "the economy clearly can manage to keep
expanding through the sort of profit decline that once would
have signaled a recession."
   One reason, he says, is that service businesses, which
tend to operate on slimmer profit margins, now play a larger
economic role. More importantly, the huge increase in
corporate indebtedness in recent years has served to reduce
profits. Corporations' net interest costs -- interest expense
less interest income -- reached a record 52% of profits in
last year's fourth quarter, up from less than 2% a
quarter-century ago.
                                                                                                       

   The interest that corporations pay on their bonds and
other borrowings, of course, may be deducted from their
profits, reducing taxes. The upshot is that many firms that
have undergone leveraged restructuring now show weak profits
or lose money, and yet remain in operation, providing jobs
that help sustain overall economic activity.
                                                                                                       

   The economy, to be sure, cannot continue indefinitely to
expand if profits keep dropping. Many analysts, in fact,
attribute much of the economy's recent sluggishness to the
profit decline of the past year and its impact on corporate
hiring and spending. And some forecasters remain convinced
the profit decline signals a recession is near.
   Perhaps so. But with a reduced role for profits, that
possibility may prove less likely than in the past.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Medicare Pays Billions for Health Claims
   Covered by Private Plans, Report Finds
   ----
   By Walt Bogdanich
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal health officials need to plug holes
more aggressively in the Medicare program or risk losing
several billion dollars through unnecessary payments on
medical claims, a new report concludes.
   The Medicare program for the elderly has been losing as
much as $1 billion a year because it paid claims for which
private health plans were liable, according to the report
issued by Richard P. Kusserow, inspector general for the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HHS's Health Care Financing Administration had proposed
new legislation that would have provided data it needed to
identify and stop the unnecessary payments, but the Office of
Management and Budget objected, and HHS consequently backed
off. That decision, said Mr. Kusserow, could cost the
Medicare program $2.7 billion in unnecessary payments over
the next five years. The dollar figure "is too large to
ignore," he said. While HCFA has taken some administrative
steps to identify the overpayments, he added, "none has
proven completely effective."
   HHS has known of these unnecessary payments for years, but
until recently did little to stop them, investigators found.
Nine insurance companies, including some of the nation's
largest, are now being investigated by federal authorities
for failing to pay claims.
   Mr. Kusserow, in a separate report, asked the HCFA to
pressure private health plans into reimbursing Medicare for
billions of dollars that should have been paid previously.
Under the inspector general's plan, insurers would have one
year to voluntarily make restitution, or be subject to treble
damages, plus costs, for each claim uncovered by the
government.
   The federal financing agency called Mr. Kusserow's
suggestion appealing, but thus far has failed to back it
fully. "We believe that the magnitude of the program losses .
. . compels us to take creative approaches, such as the
voluntary disclosure proposal," Mr. Kusserow said.
   Gail R. Wilensky, recently appointed director of HCFA,
said she wants to study the issues before deciding what to
do.
   In 1982, Congress tried to contain rising Medicare costs
by making Medicare a "secondary insurer" for the so-called
working aged. That made the employer-sponsored health plan
the "primary insurer" for any claimant whose employer
provided medical benefits.
   Federal health officials, however, made little effort to
identify those individuals who should have had their claims
paid by private health plans. One reason was because the
government turned over administration of the program to some
of the very insurance companies that stood to benefit from
erroneous payments. Some insurance companies looked the other
way when they discovered Medicare overpayments that benefited
their own companies, according to government investigators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Simpler Tax Rules Sought
   For Large Partnerships
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury recommended drastically
simplifying the system for calculating the income tax of
widely held partnerships.
   In a report to the tax-writing Senate Finance and House
Ways and Means committees, the Treasury and the Internal
Revenue Service concluded that the requirements for reporting
income of large partnerships "are overly complex and
inefficient."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A simplified reporting system would ease the burden and
cost of compliance on partnerships and make it easier for the
IRS to administer that area of tax law, the two agencies
said.
   In general, the agencies are recommending radically
reducing the number of items that must be reported separately
to partners. Instead "all income and expense, including
capital gains and losses, would be netted at the partnership
level," the report said.
   "The goal of these proposed changes is not to increase or
decrease the overall tax due partnerships," the report said.
But it added, "We recognize that the total income tax
attributable to a partnership subject to the simplified
reporting system would almost certainly vary to some degree
from the total income tax under the current rules."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McCaw Cellular Files
   With SEC for Sale
   Of 2.4 Million Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   MCAWA AFP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KIRKLAND, Wash. -- McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the
sale of 2.4 million Class A shares. The shares are held by a
trust controlled by William Taylor, chairman of Affiliated
Publications Inc., and two of Affiliated's directors.
   The proposed offering is contingent on an offering by the
trust of 2.8 million Affiliated Publications Class A common
shares. The trust owns 12.8% of McCaw's Cellular's Class A
common, or 7.8% of the company's total common stock
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the filing, McCaw said investment in the shares
involves a high degree of risk because the company expects
its net losses to increase significantly for the foreseeable
future and "may exceed $1 billion in some years." However, a
spokesman said a substantial part of the loss would be in
non-cash categories related to depreciation and amortization.
   McCaw officials weren't available for comment. A spokesman
said he didn't know for many years the company expected to
post a loss.
   In 1989, McCaw had a net loss of $288.5 million on revenue
of $504 million. The company has never posted a profit, as
its heavy marketing costs, debt and other expenses have been
a drag on earnings.
   However, in the fledgling cellular industry, cash flow and
subscriber growth are closely watched as the best indicators
of a company's progress. McCaw showed rapid growth in number
of subscribers and its cash flow increased in its most recent
quarter.
   In the filing, McCaw also said it has a large amount of
debt related to its recent acquisition of a controlling
interest in LIN Broadcasting Corp. McCaw said it has
long-term debt of about $3.1 billion, including about $1.4
billion under a credit agreement with a group of banks.
   McCaw said it doesn't expect its operations to generate
sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt for the next
several years. However, the company said it believes it will
be able to make the required interest payment primarily from
cash generated by operations and borrowings from its bank
credit facility.
   McCaw said it believes it and LIN have sufficient
internally generated funds to repay its debt at maturity.
Alternatively, the company said it believes it will be able
to make necessary repayments and repurchases through the
refinancing of the debt obligations, sales of equity or sales
of assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   EC Finance Ministers
   Agree on Monetary Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   GALWAY, Ireland -- European Community finance ministers
agreed on the "overall design" of a plan for economic and
monetary union.
   In their first detailed discussion of the plan, 11 of the
12 ministers said they reached a consensus on the broad lines
of a system that would include an independent, federal
central banking system. British Chancellor of the Exchequer
John Major, who doesn't support a central bank, refused to
endorse the joint conclusions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most ministers said the meeting of minds would give
impetus to technical work that needs to be done before treaty
negotiations on the plan begin at the end of the year. "All
delegations indicated a large measure of agreement on the
ultimate objective," said Irish Finance Minister Albert
Reynolds.
   The 11 ministers agreed they would create an "independent
and federally structured central banking institution" similar
to the "EuroFed" proposed late last month by the EC
Commission. But they failed to back the European Currency
Unit as a future single EC currency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   All in the Family:
   Closest Marcos Crony
   Is Favorite to Succeed
   Aquino in Philippines
   ---
   `Danding' Cojuangco Returns
   From Exile and Disgrace
   To Spook Cousin Cory
   ---
   Coconuts vs. `People Power'
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- Nobody was closer to Ferdinand
Marcos than Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco Jr.
   Given monopoly control of the nation's biggest industry,
coconuts, he built a patronage base for his boss that
permeated every level of Philippine society. Mr. Marcos named
Danding the godfather of his son, "Bong Bong." Danding named
his own boy "Marcos."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, nobody is closer to becoming this nation's next chief
of state than Danding Cojuangco. Even the strenuous
opposition of President Corazon Aquino seems unlikely to
derail his attempt to succeed her.
   The comeback of this crony king, a feared hatchet man who
has been charged by the Aquino government with stealing
control of more than $1.5 billion of corporate assets, casts
a dark cloud over democracy in the Philippines. In three
decades of public service, Mr. Cojuangco has never shown any
desire to share power with anyone but Mr. Marcos. And he's
dead.
   "There's no way Danding could lead within a pluralistic
system that held him accountable," says Stephen Bosworth,
U.S. ambassador to the Philippines from 1984 to 1987. "He
operates best in the netherworld."
   Two currents are pushing a back-slide in the Philippines:
Mr. Cojuangco's own enduring power and the chronic weakness
of his first cousin and political enemy, Cory Aquino. With
shortages of rice, water, electricity, transportation and
other necessities growing, a drumbeat is building here for an
autocrat to take charge again. Mr. Cojuangco, who adroitly
built his own political base to weather Mr. Marcos's
downfall, is emerging as the leading candidate for the job.
Even if Mrs. Aquino survives the military discontent that has
bred six coup attempts in her four years of power, she or a
chosen successor will have difficulty beating a Cojuangco-led
ticket in elections set for 1992.
   "Danding is more ruthless, more cunning than the rest" of
Mrs. Aquino's opponents, says Bren Guiao, governor of
Pampanga province and a close Aquino ally. "He has better
political acumen, but more importantly, he has more
resources."
   Other likely presidential candidates include Vice
President Salvador Laurel and Sen. Juan Ponce Enrile. Both
are better known abroad than Danding, but neither enjoys his
stature in the Philippines.
   Though well aware that Washington loathes him, Danding and
his supporters insist that as president he would make every
attempt to maintain strong relations with the U.S. Danding
himself hasn't taken a public position on the U.S. military
bases in the Philippines -- a perennial source of controversy
between the two countries. But some of his supporters sound
as if they are bending over backwards to accommodate the
Americans. "If we have our way, they can have the bases
without any rent," says Eliodoro Castro, one of Danding's
oldest allies in his home province of Tarlac.
   The rehabilitation of "Boss" Danding could only happen in
one of the most peculiar political cultures in the world.
While U.S. officials exult over the restoration of democracy
under Mrs. Aquino, Philippine politics remains much the same
today as during Mr. Marcos's 20-year rule and prior regimes.
It is a system rooted in the ancient ways of clan warfare,
molded by four centuries of Spanish feudalism, and coated
with a thin gloss of U.S.-style democracy.
   Issues and ideology mean little. Political parties and
platforms are window dressing for patronage and personality
cults. What counts is who can deliver the favors, who can buy
the votes, who can arm the goons.
   In these black arts, the 54-year-old Mr. Cojuangco is
without equal, say friends and foes alike. Danding, who was
interviewed for this story but wouldn't allow direct
quotations, says his reputation is exaggerated.
   During the Marcos era, he amassed a security force of
thousands, drilled by Israeli mercenaries. But as one friend
put it, Danding preferred to "kill with kindness"; he
personally handed out Christmas bonuses to employees of the
many companies he controlled, pretending the money came from
his own pocket, workers say. His underlings continue to
arrange surgery for peasants, loans for teachers and
vote-buying funds for ward captains.
   Despite his bitter conflicts with the Aquinos, Danding
helped pay for the Boston home in which they lived during
exile. And while in exile himself a few years ago, Mr.
Cojuangco phoned an ally on the island of Negros -- 28 years
to the day after the two warlords first hooked up.
   "How can you turn your back on a guy like that?" remarks
Alfonso Lacson, the recipient of the call. "I couldn't do
anything but cry."
   Mrs. Aquino, however, despises Danding. While she doesn't
believe her cousin actually plotted the 1983 murder of her
late husband, Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Jr., she is convinced he
knew about the plans, confidants say. Danding vehemently
denies any knowledge of the plot to kill Ninoy.
   "Danding is capable of taking lives," says his lawyer,
Gabriel Villareal. "But he didn't do that."
   Mrs. Aquino, unimpressed by such denials, canceled the
passports of Danding and his family just after a U.S. jet
evacuated the Cojuangcos and Marcoses to Hawaii in 1986. Of
the nearly $4 billion of corporate assets allegedly stolen by
cronies of Mr. Marcos and now sequestered by the Aquino
government, Danding controlled roughly half.
   Until last fall, Danding lived quietly in exile in
Riverside, Calif. But on Nov. 26 -- a few days before the
bloodiest coup attempt against the Aquino government -- he
slipped back into the Philippines with a passport obtained in
Los Angeles through some consular officials, who have since
been recalled. Danding announced he had returned to
"vindicate my honor and that of my family."
   In a rambling conversation at lunch in his mother's
suburban Manila home, Mr. Cojuangco fumes over his treatment
by the government. He quips that the next president will be
less vindictive than Mrs. Aquino, as a coterie of his
brother, his lawyer, his public-relations man and several
maids chuckle nervously. The elegant fish and rice dishes
come in waves over a long afternoon. Danding smokes heavily
but avoids fatty foods on doctor's orders.
   His homecoming has thrown Philippine politics into
disarray. Most of the same 80 or so powerful clans that
supported Mr. Marcos, and presidents before him, still
control the provinces for Mrs. Aquino. But many members of
this political elite resent her advocacy of land reform and
fear her inability to control the military and provide basic
services. Moreover, Mrs. Aquino's promise to step down in
1992 has sent politicians scurrying for new patrons. Many are
lining up behind Danding.
   "Those who rode on Cory's popularity are facing a serious
decision," says Rafael Coscolluela, vice governor of the
province of Negros Occidental and an Aquino ally, though now
edging toward the Cojuangco camp. "Danding is the only
obvious opposition candidate who has a chance of winning. But
he could be bad for the country in one sense: He'll bring the
polarization to a head."
   He already has. The sharpest reaction to Danding's return
has come from cousin Cory. A few days after Danding arrived,
she ordered Solicitor General Francisco Chavez, a slick,
machine-gun-toting prosecutor who likens himself to Eliot
Ness, to take personal charge of the government's legal cases
against Mr. Cojuangco. And she publicly suggested that her
cousin might have been involved in a December putsch that
left more than 100 people dead, though she presented no
evidence. Danding says he had no knowledge that a coup was in
preparation.
   He insists he is the victim of political persecution. He
defends his management of the coconut business and others,
convinced that his creation of cartels helped Filipinos
extract higher commodity prices from multinational
corporations. And he says he doesn't understand why his
family is forbidden to come home.
   "They've taken his passport, his assets and now his
family," says Selen Saguyod, a judge and Danding disciple.
   The Cojuangco feud dates back decades. The oldest son of a
half-American mother and a father who died when the boy was
16, Danding became a maverick within the wealthy Cojuangco
clan at an early age. While his more-genteel cousins such as
Cory earned degrees in the U.S., Danding dropped out of an
agricultural college in California and returned home to run
his family's businesses.
   He soon angered relatives by leading a strike against one
of their sugar mills by planters demanding more money. Some
years later, Danding was ousted from a family-run bank and
forced to sell his shares.
   In 1965, he ran for Congress against Mrs. Aquino's younger
brother, Jose "Peping" Cojuangco Jr., under the banner of a
new patron, a presidential challenger named Ferdinand Marcos.
In an election marked by violence and record vote-buying,
Peping retained his seat, but Danding helped the new
president carry Tarlac province, northwest of Manila.
   Two years later, Danding was elected provincial governor
when Benigno Aquino, a Marcos enemy, didn't run for
re-election. As governor, Danding armed vigilante groups to
fight local Communist insurgents with whom Mr. Aquino had
been on relatively good terms. The cousins tried to make
peace for a time, but in 1969, the mayors and ward captains
of Tarlac again had to choose sides when Danding challenged
Peping for Congress. After some early campaign skirmishes,
Peping bowed out and Danding won.
   It was during Marcos martial law, 1972 to 1980, that
Danding reached the apex of crony capitalism. In 1975, he
gained control of a Cojuangco bank, First United, when Mrs.
Aquino's family was forced to sell it because of new capital
requirements. Danding arranged for the Philippine Coconut
Producers Federation to buy the Aquino shares at a 100%
premium -- a family favor since forgotten, friends grouse. He
took a 10% stake in the bank himself as a commission, and a
contract to manage it.
   The United Coconut Planters Bank, as it was renamed, grew
into one of the most powerful financial institutions in
Southeast Asia, thanks to a series of generous presidential
decrees. In one, Mr. Marcos extended a levy on the sale of
coconut products and mandated that the money be deposited
interest-free in the industry's new bank. The levy's
ostensible purpose was to back development projects for the
coconut industry. The fund gave Danding control of $500
million, which he managed like a personal fortune.
   According to government documents, he ingratiated himself
with Imelda Marcos, the dictator's wife, by doling out
coconut funds to her pet cultural projects and the Miss
Universe Pageant (she was once chosen Miss Manila). With levy
money, Danding took a controlling stake in San Miguel Corp.,
the Philippines' giant food and beverage conglomerate, and
then bankrolled a new chemical company.
   Above all, though, Danding used the levy funds to buy up
coconut-oil mills and create a national milling and trading
cartel that he controlled. His rationale was simple. Although
the Philippines supplied 80% of the world's coconut trade,
multinational traders bought the coconut meat -- called copra
-- from Filipino farmers, waited for prices to rise, and then
sold for hefty profits to oil millers overseas.
   Under the system Danding created, farmers were forced to
sell all copra to his new cartel, which became the sole
authorized exporter of coconut oil. The monopoly increased
hard-currency earnings for millers -- most of whom were
partners or associates of Danding -- but at the expense of
small coconut farmers.
   "Danding monopolized the whole thing," says Emmanuel
Pelaez, then a coconut farmer and now Philippine ambassador
to the U.S. In 1982, Mr. Pelaez was severely wounded in an
ambush after helping some farmers sell their copra directly
to foreign buyers.
   Danding didn't stop with coconuts. Once the bank was up
and running, he made loans to partners and friends in a
variety of businesses. He grew particularly enamored of
monopolies. He tried creating cartels in rice, sugar, flour,
groceries and soft drinks, but ran out of time when "people
power" -- as the popular uprising was called -- overthrew Mr.
Marcos in 1986.
   The entire coco-fund empire, including the bank, the oil
mills and the San Miguel shares, are now under sequestration
by Mrs. Aquino's special anti-crony commission. The
government has asked the courts to declare the coconut levy a
"public fund," which would help clear the way for regulators
to confiscate the assets. Danding's lawyers counter that the
funds came from "private" contributions by oil millers, and
were invested properly on behalf of the coconut industry.
They say the assets belong to farmers, who entrusted them
with Danding to manage.
   The Philippine Supreme Court, in ruling on a motion
several months ago, signaled agreement with the government's
position. But it may take years for the nation's plodding
judiciary to determine the fate of the coco-fund empire. In
the meantime, officials responsible for the sequestered
assets say there is little to prevent Danding from siphoning
funds from the properties to help finance his run for the
presidency. His executives still manage most of the
companies, under loose supervision from low-paid government
auditors who have more to gain from helping him than foiling
him.
   A Cojuangco reconciliation still isn't out of the
question. Though Mrs. Aquino isn't likely to make peace with
Danding, her brother, Peping, a congressman and leader of the
ruling party, may. The two cousins, who are about the same
age, were playmates growing up, and have remained on speaking
terms over the years despite their political run-ins.
   People close to both Cojuangco camps say the male cousins
may have already agreed to cooperate if Mrs. Aquino doesn't
run for re-election. Danding won't comment on such an
alliance, but he acknowledges that even while he was in
California exile, Peping flew there to meet with him. Peping
declined to be interviewed.
   Danding's supporters aren't waiting to find out if the
alliance is fact or fiction. Throughout the Philippines, his
henchmen are holding local neighborhood meetings. They are
drumming up sympathy, much as followers of Ninoy Aquino did a
decade ago, for their "persecuted" patron. And they are
circulating petitions demanding that the boss run for
president.
   Support is building within the Manila business class as
well. In the Makati financial district, many Filipino
executives speak of Danding as the one Marcos crony who
reinvested his money in the Philippines, and whose businesses
expanded. He is particularly admired for his staunch
nationalism: the perception that he tried to throw off the
yoke of foreign exploitation in the coconut industry.
   Mrs. Aquino's strategy for clipping her cousin's wings
rests on the courts. But Danding's people also worry about
another force of political suasion: the U.S.
   In Washington, where congressional support for Mrs. Aquino
and her "people power" revolution has been almost unanimous,
Danding's resurgence is being met with incredulity.
   "Given Danding Cojuangco's intimate involvement in the
Marcos kleptocracy," says Rep. Stephen Solarz, the democrat
who chairs a key House subcommittee on Asian affairs, "it's
hard to believe the Filipino people would willingly turn the
reins of government over to him."
   An officer at the U.S. embassy here warns that the
re-emergence of Marcos cronies would strain relations between
the two countries. But Mr. Bosworth, the former ambassador,
says that at least initially the U.S. would have to deal with
Danding "on a normal and legitimate basis" if he were
constitutionally elected. "The tone and nature of the
relationship would obviously depend on how he governed," he
adds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   ANE FRG GNV IRL EPT NFC FUND ELMF HOSS SYNL TKOS ULAB VFIC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange added four new
stock listings, the American Stock Exchange three and the
National Market System of the over-the-counter market seven.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alliance New Europe Fund Inc. joined the Big Board with
the symbol ANE as an initial public offering. The New York
closed-end investment company invests primarily in equity
securities of European firms.
                                                                                                       

   Emerging Germany Fund Inc. began trading as an initial
public offering with the symbol FRG. The New York closed-end
investment company invests mainly in securities of small and
mid-sized West German companies.
                                                                                                       

   Geneva Steel, a Vineyard, Utah steel products company,
also began trading as an initial public offering, under the
symbol GNV.
                                                                                                       

   Irish Investment Fund Inc. was listed as an initial public
offering with the symbol IRL. The Chicago closed-end
investment company invests primarily in equity securities of
Irish companies. On the American Stock Exchange, Epitope
Inc., a Beaverton, Ore., biotechnology, research and
development company began trading under EPT. The company
previously traded on the over-the-counter market.
                                                                                                       

   Santa Monica Bank, Santa Monica, Calif., will begin
trading capital shares Wednesday under the symbol SMO and
voting trust certificates under the symbol SMV. The company
previously traded over the counter and operates banks in the
metropolitan Los Angeles area.
                                                                                                       

   NFC PLC a Bedford, England, international transport,
logistics, property and services company will begin trading
ADR's Friday under the symbol NFC. The company, whose U.S.
interests include Allied Van Lines Inc., also trades on the
London International Stock Exchange. On the over-the-counter
market, America's All Season Fund Inc., a Winter Park, Fla.,
closed-end investment company will begin trading tomorrow
under the symbol FUND.
                                                                                                       

   Elm Financial Services Inc., an Elmhurst, Ill., bank
holding company for Elmhurst Federal Savings Bank, began
trading under the symbol ELMF.
                                                                                                       

   Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc., a Galveston, Texas,
operator of offshore oil and gas vessels, will start trading
tomorrow under the symbol HOSS.
                                                                                                       

   Syntellect Inc. started trading under the symbol SYNL. The
Phoenix, Ariz., company makes interactive voice response
systems that allow individuals to access computer information
through a touch-tone phone.
                                                                                                       

   Tokos Medical Corp., began trading under the symbol TKOS.
The Santa Ana, Calif., company provides specialized home
health care for pregnant women.
                                                                                                       

   Unilab Corp., a New York medical services and products
holding company that provides laboratory testing services,
will begin trading tomorrow under the symbol ULAB.
                                                                                                       

   VeriFone Inc. will start trading under VFIC. The Redwood
City, Calif., company makes point-of-sale terminals that
automate credit-card payment transactions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NFL's Raiders to Return
   To Oakland in New Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- The Los Angeles Raiders agreed to move
back to Oakland with a less lucrative revenue guarantee than
in an earlier accord.
   Last month, Raiders' owner Al Davis tentatively agreed to
the team's return to its previous home in exchange for the
city's guaranteeing $602 million in ticket revenue over 15
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The deal brought a public outcry because it essentially
obligated the city to ensure that every game be sold out. In
the new deal, the amount of guaranteed revenue was reduced to
$428 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Presidio Oil Begins Stock Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRSB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Presidio Oil Co. said it began an offer to
exchange 1.35 shares of its Class A common for each share
outstanding of its 9.5% cumulative convertible preferred
stock.
   The oil and gas company said the exchange is intended to
improve the company's earnings and strengthen its balance
sheet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   CBS Sports Isn't Renewing
   Brent Musburger's Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CBS Sports said it isn't renewing the contract
of its lead anchor, Brent Musburger, whose four-year
contract, worth $2 million annually, expires in June.
   Mr. Musburger, who has been with the CBS Inc. sports unit
for 15 years, will have his final CBS broadcast tonight with
the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball
championship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A CBS official said Mr. Musburger and the network couldn't
come to terms on a new agreement. The Associated Press
reported that Ted Shaker, executive producer of CBS Sports,
said network officials believed Mr. Musburger's workload was
too heavy, but the broadcaster resisted attempts by CBS in
contract talks to have him cut down.
   Mr. Musburger, in a statement, said he was "surprised" by
CBS's announcement, but it has been "a great run." He said he
plans to take an extended vacation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mexico Reopens Program
   To Swap Foreign Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- Mexico reopened its debt-for-equity swap
program, which had been suspended since November 1987.
   Under the revamped program, $3.5 billion dollars in
Mexican foreign debt is to be swapped during the next 3 1/2
years for ownership interests in infrastructure projects and
state-owned companies undergoing public offerings. The
minimum discount the government said it would accept is 35
cents on the dollar of debt being swapped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new swap program is more limited in scope than the
original, in which banks traded debt outstanding for local
currency that was then used to buy into local companies. By
restricting the program to swaps of debt for infrastructure
or state-owned enterprises the government won't have to print
new money or issue more domestic debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rep. Bill Frenzel Says
   He Won't Seek Re-Election
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Minnesota Rep. Bill Frenzel, the ranking GOP
member of the House Budget Committee, said he won't run for
re-election.
   "Every member of Congress knows when the time has come not
to run again," said Mr. Frenzel, who is 61 years old, at a
St. Paul, Minn., news conference. "For me, it is now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rep. Frenzel, known for his quick wit and curmudgeonly
demeanor, has long fought for lower federal spending and
resisted raising taxes to reduce the budget deficit. A senior
member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Frenzel
also is a leading GOP voice on trade issues. He is currently
serving his 10th House term.
   The ranking GOP member on the budget committee is selected
by a vote of all House Republicans. Ohio Rep. Willis Gradison
is a leading contender to replace Mr. Frenzel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Lines Refuses
   To Bargain After Violence
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRANSPORTATION, TRUCK AND SHIP LINES, RAILROADS (TRA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- After another outbreak of strike violence, GLI
Holding Co.'s Greyhound Lines Inc. said it would not take
part in a renewed round of bargaining with the Amalgamated
Transit Union, which represents 9,300 Greyhound employees who
have been on strike since March 2.
   The two sides had been set to resume negotiations in
Tucson, Ariz., today, but within hours after the resumption
of bargaining was announced last Thursday, two more Greyhound
buses had been hit by sniper fire and a bomb threat was
phoned into the company's Chicago terminal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We cannot resume negotiations while the violence
continues," Greyhound chief labor negotiator P. Anthony
Lannie said in a letter sent Friday to Edward Strait,
president of the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local
Unions, the ATU's bargaining unit.
   The company said that if there is no further violence, it
would be willing to meet with the union on April 9.
   Mr. Strait responded angrily to the company's action,
calling it a "smokescreen."
   "This union has repeatedly and publicly condemned
violence," Mr. Strait said. "But these isolated incidents
have no bearing on Greyhound management's legal and moral
obligation to negotiate in good faith, a fair and equitable
contract for Greyhound employees."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FRE SLM N.AMR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Associates Corp. of North America -- $250 million of notes
due April 1, 2000, priced at par for an initial yield of 9
1/8%. The notes, which will be reoffered at various prices,
may be put back to the company on April 1, 1994. Rated
double-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities offered in 11 classes by Salomon Brothers
Inc. The offering, Series 163, is backed by Freddie Mac 10
1/2% securities with a weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.3 years. Price information wasn't immediately
available. Planned yield spreads on classes for which details
were known ranged from 60 basis points above two-year
Treasurys for Class A, with an expected average life of 1.2
years, to 160 basis points above 10-year Treasurys for Class
I, with an expected average life of 11.2 years.
                                                                                                       

                           OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $300 million of
9.05% notes due April 13, 1994, priced at par for
variableprice reoffering. The notes, which are non-callable
for two years, will be sold through underwriters led by
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. The notes were priced at a spread of 37
basis points above the Treasury's when-issued four-year note.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Republic of Italy (sovereign) -- one billion European
currency units of 10 3/4% Eurobonds due April 18, 2000, at a
fixed reoffer price of 100.15 to yield 10.72%, via Paribas
Capital Markets. Fees 0.325.
   Amro Australia Ltd. (Dutch parent) -- 60 million
Australian dollars of 14 3/4% Eurobonds due May 15, 1995,
priced at 101.85 to yield 14.79% annually less full fees, via
Amro Bank. Guaranteed by Amro Bank. Fees 2.
   Rautaruukki Oy (Finland) -- 50 million marks of 9 1/4%
private placement bonds due April 26, 1995, priced at par,
via J.P. Morgan G.m.b.H. Fees undisclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Tops Exporters in '89
   With $364 Billion in Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The U.S. regained its spot as the
world's leading exporter last year after losing it to West
Germany, according to the International Monetary Fund.
   The IMF said U.S. foreign sales were valued at $364
billion for 1989, compared with $341.4 billion for West
Germany. Japan was third with $273.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   West Germany, which toppled the U.S. from the No. 1 trade
spot in 1986, and Japan both had trade surpluses, while the
U.S. still had a deficit of $128.9 billion, down from $137.1
billion, according to the IMF's trade calculations.
   The deficit is because of the fact that the U.S. is also
the world's greatest importer. Its imports also grew rapidly,
to $492.9 billion from $459.5 billion.
   The West German surplus, currently the world's largest,
amounted to $71.4 billion, and Japan's was $63.9 billion, the
IMF reported.
   The Commerce Department, using different means of
calculating the trade imbalance, has put the 1989 merchandise
trade deficit at $109 billion.
   Of six major countries, the U.S. had the largest increase
in foreign sales, 12.5%, the IMF said. West German exports
also rose, by 5.6% to $341 billion. Since East Germany also
is an important trader, a reunified Germany may take over the
world's first place as exporter once again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan to Unveil Economic Reform Plan;
   Telecommunications Market Will Open
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN ALD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
RETAILING (RET)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Japanese trade negotiators will unveil in Washington today
a package of proposed domestic economic reforms that took
extraordinary political wrangling to produce, but which will
likely disappoint their U.S. counterparts.
   Separately, the U.S. and Japan have agreed to steps to
further open the Japanese market to foreign
telecommunications goods and services, and are close to
another market-opening accord on trade in satellites, trade
officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of Japan's most significant reform proposals, say
Japanese officials, will likely be an overhaul of the
large-scale retail-store law, which protects politically
influential mom-and-pop storeowners but blocks many big
stores from opening.
   Toshio Yamaguchi, the head of the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party committee drafting Japan's strategy for the
bilateral structural talks, said in a Japanese television
interview Sunday that government leaders were considering
endorsing repeal of the law in large cities.
   The U.S. says the law is unfair because new Japanese
stores can open branches in America almost immediately, but
new stores in Japan can be forced to wait as long as 10
years. U.S. negotiators also say large stores, even
Japanese-owned, are more likely to carry imported goods.
   Mr. Yamaguchi also said Japan would probably respond to
U.S. demands for increased public spending by publicizing how
much it is planning to spend on various projects already
budgeted, such as sewerage systems and public parks. The U.S.
wants Japan to spend more, because macroeconomic theory
suggests Japan's unusually high savings rate contributes to
its huge trade surplus, and increased public spending would
reduce national savings.
   Other Japanese government officials said a third major
government proposal would be to revise the anti-monopoly law
by, among other things, increasing the monetary penalty for
violations. The U.S. has argued that lax antitrust
enforcement has damped foreign competition.
   U.S. and Japanese officials are expected to work out,
perhaps as soon as tomorrow, an interim report on the
year-long Structural Impediments Initiative discussions aimed
at clearing away some of the underlying causes of the $49
billion bilateral trade imbalance. A final report is
scheduled for completion by July.
   Although most of the attention has focused on Japan, the
U.S. is also supposed to propose changes in its economic
structure, including measures to encourage increased savings
and investment.
   Japan was the main subject of the National Trade Estimates
report released Friday by the White House trade
representative's office. The report will be the basis for the
Bush administration's decision -- expected at the end of
April -- on which countries to target under the tough Super
301 provision of its 1988 trade act. The Super 301 provision
requires the administration to identify and try to resolve
particularly egregious trade barriers, with the threat of
trade retaliation if those talks are unsuccessful.
   The U.S. is particularly anxious to ensure that its
hi-technology industries aren't hurt by foreign trade
practices. Thus, last year, Japan's satellite and
supercomputer trade practices were targeted under Super 301.
This year, the National Trade Estimates adds amorphous metals
to its list of complaints against Japan, alleging that the
U.S. patent holder, Allied-Signal Inc., has been unable to
license production in Japan "despite years of effort."
   Late Friday, the two countries agreed on a
telecommunications accord, just before a Saturday deadline
that could have been the signal for U.S. trade retaliation.
The accord involves network channel terminating equipment.
   Network channel terminating equipment are modem-like
devices used to connect computers to digital communications
networks. The Japanese market for these products is estimated
at $1 billion during the next five years, according to
industry estimates. Foreign companies have argued that
certification procedures are used to discriminate against
them in the Japanese telecommunications market.
   The Japanese also agreed to resolve the problems for
foreign companies that arise out of the distinction that
Japan makes in its telecommunications certification
procedures, a senior U.S. official said.
   The countries agreed to implement the liberalization
measures within the next 120 days. Continuing bilateral talks
on opening the Japanese satellite market have made "progress"
and are set to resume next week, a U.S. trade official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Natural Gas Futures Contract, to Be Launched
   Tomorrow, Remains a Focus of Industry Debate
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   This week for the first time, futures trading opens in an
"invisible" commodity that many use but none ever see --
natural gas.
   The new futures contract, under study for several years,
begins trading at 9:20 a.m. EDT tomorrow on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contract unit will be 10 billion British thermal units
-- about 10 million cubic feet. Prices will be in dollars per
million BTUs, or about 1,000 cubic feet. The delivery point
will be Louisiana's Henry Hub gas interchange operated by
Texaco Inc.'s Sabine Pipe Line subsidiary. Dedication
ceremonies tomorrow at the interchange near Erath, La., will
coincide with the opening of trading.
   The New York Merc already offers futures trading in crude
oil, heating oil, gasoline, propane and residual fuel. But on
the eve of the gas futures' debut, there still are some who
object to it. These include some smaller producers worried
about the impact on pricing of actions by speculators and
other outsiders not familiar with the industry's risks.
   But similar objections were voiced before the start of
trading in petroleum futures, which have since reshaped world
oil markets. Proponents of the new fuel contract predict a
similar restructuring of the ways natural gas is bought and
sold.
   "It will have a snowball effect on the business," says
John E. Olson, a leading proponent of gas futures trading.
   Mr. Olson, a Houston-based natural gas analyst for First
Boston Corp., calls the contract an idea whose time is
overdue. "This will provide a transparent pricing mechanism
for gas and will allow arbitrage against residual fuel," he
said.
   Gas's main competitor, residual fuel, has drawn little
interest on the Nymex. But total trading in the crude oil
contract, which has made West Texas Intermediate something of
a household term in much of the country, routinely exceeds
the volume of all the oil the world actually produces.
   Few are willing to make predictions of trading volume in
the untried gas futures market. Some oil futures traders
suggest it could eventually match that of crude oil on a BTU
or dollar basis. They see a big potential for gas because
around 80% of the 18.8 trillion cubic feet used last year in
the U.S. was sold on the spot market or through short-term
contracts, leaving only 20% for long-term contracts.
   "The gas market is huge, there is increased emphasis on
gas because of the Clean Air Act and environmental concerns,
and the number of players is larger than for oil," says Lance
Schneier, chairman of Access Energy Corp., a leading gas
marketer.
   Gas prices -- currently around $1.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
at the well-head in Texas -- have been relatively flat for
the past three years even as oil prices bounced back from
their 1986 collapse. But demand for gas has been growing, and
the renewed interest in the clean-burning fuel already may
have eliminated the surplus that has plagued the industry for
several years.
   Still, there are tests for gas to pass before its position
in futures markets can be assured. Not the least is the
industry's "ability to fulfill a contract with the physical
delivery of the commodity at a specified location at a
specified price" at all times, says Nicholas Bush, president
of the Natural Gas Supply Association.
   Contracts will be traded for 12 consecutive months, and
delivery is to be made over the course of the delivery month.
But some others also question sellers' abilities to deliver
during periods such as last December's cold wave, when
pipelines were operating at maximum.
   If oil futures are any guide, actual deliveries of gas are
likely to be minimal. A Nymex spokeswoman says less than 1%
of the oil traded is actually delivered. Nevertheless, such
operational considerations will remain a concern until gas's
futures system is thoroughly tested.
   "Gas is not like soybeans or corn," says Alan Anderson,
president of Energy Planning Inc., a gas market research
firm. "We are waiting to see how well it will work
physically."
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

                          Copper
                                                                                                       

   The copper market usually slows down in April as demand
tapers off, but it should start this month roaring.
   On Friday, the May futures contract rose to a fresh
life-of-contract high of $1.227 a pound before easing
slightly to end at $1.224, up 4.50 cents.
   Driving prices higher were a wildcat walkout by workers at
the Highland Valley copper mine in British Columbia, which
was out for 3 1/2 months last year in a similar dispute over
using outside workers, and a second mine strike in Peru.
Highland Valley annually produces 160,000 tons of
concentrates containing about 30% copper.
   An injunction was expected to end the Highland Valley
walkout, but workers at the Tintaya mine in Peru went out on
an indefinite strike over wages Friday, analysts said.
   Tintaya produces just over 11% of Peru's copper. Southern
Peru Copper Corp., whose miners and smelter workers have been
on strike since March 12, produces about 64% of that
country's copper, meaning slightly more than 75% of Peru's
copper capacity is currently shut down. Peru is the world's
sixth largest copper producer.
   There were reports that workers at the Ok Tedi mine in
Papua New Guinea had gone out on strike, but they couldn't be
confirmed, analysts said. The mine produces 230,000 tons of
concentrates. Papua New Guinea is also the site of the
Bougainville copper mine, with a capacity of about 600,000
tons of concentrates annually, which has been idled since
last May because of attacks by native landowners.
   Supplies may shrink even further. London Metal Exchange
copper inventory data today are expected to show a drop of
several thousand tons.
   Copper's resurgence has nothing to do with the world
economy but is being caused by factors within the industry,
one analyst said.
   "That means if the current problems are solved and demand
slumps because of slower economic conditions, prices could
still turn lower later in the year, in line with most
predictions," he said.
                                                                                                       

                          Cotton
                                                                                                       

   While greater export sales and shipments of cotton buoyed
prices late last week, a plantings report released Friday may
temper the bullish trend.
   The May contract Friday ended with a gain of 0.58 cent to
72.70 cents a pound.
   The U.S. Department of Agriculture said after trading
ended Friday that about 12.4 million acres will be planted
with cotton in the U.S. for harvest in the season beginning
Aug. 1, up from 10.6 million in the current season.
   Based on average yields, this acreage could produce 14.5
million to 15.7 million bales of cotton, compared with 12.2
million bales this season.
   However, an analyst said the report might not affect
futures much, because the increase had been expected. He also
said contracts for later months that would be directly
affected by the size of the next season's acreage are already
priced at significant discounts to the earlier contracts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IMF Threatens to Expel
   Liberia Over Late Payments
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund warned
Liberia that it is facing expulsion from the 152-nation
organization because of its $395.3 million in loan arrears.
   The IMF executive board on Friday approved a "declaration
of non-cooperation" that could lead to the removal of Liberia
from the IMF by Aug. 30, unless it "resumes active
cooperation" with the IMF in resolving its overdue
obligations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   IMF officials said this was the first time the IMF has
adopted such a policy declaration involving a member country
with overdue loan payments. The IMF soon may issue a similar
warning to the Sudan, which is about $1.2 billion in arrears
on its IMF loans.
   The IMF said Liberia has "persisted in its failure to
fulfill it obligations" to the IMF, although it has made
payments to other creditors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WPO
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Newsweek Inc., a unit of the Washington Post
Co., named Walter Buchleitner, 47 years old, a vice
president, associate publisher and advertising director of
the magazine's U.S. edition. He was vice president and
director of ad sales for U.S. News &amp; World Report. He
succeeds Arthur Karlan, who recently retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panel Urges Labeling AZT
   With Childen's Dosages
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Food and Drug Administration advisory
committee recommended that labels for the anti-AIDS drug AZT
carry information about proper dosage for children under 13.
   AZT has been approved for adults since 1987. Last October,
the FDA extended the drug's availability to children through
an experimental distribution program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the program, the drug is provided free of charge by
the manufacturer, Burroughs-Wellcome Co., the U.S. subsidiary
of Wellcome PLC of London. The company distributes a
strawberry-flavored syrup version of the drug, instead of the
capsule form it markets to adults.
   Dr. Ellen Cooper, director of the FDA's division of
anti-viral products, called the advisory committee's labeling
recommendation "an official statement from the government"
that AZT is "safe and effective" for children with AIDS. Some
insurance companies have been reluctant to reimburse
physicians who prescribe the drug to children because of
uncertainties about dosage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Booz Allen Names Stasior
   President, Operations Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Booz, Allen &amp; Hamilton said William F. Stasior
was named president and chief operating officer.
   The management and technology consulting firm also said
Cyrus F. Freidheim Jr., managing director, U.S. management
consulting, was appointed to the additional position of vice
chairman. In the new post, Mr. Freidheim, 54 years old, is
responsible for leading the firm's efforts toward
globalization of management and technology services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As president, Mr. Stasior, 49, formerly president of Booz
Allen's Information Technology Center, will be responsible
for the firm's day-to-day operations. A Booz Allen spokesman
said the president's post hasn't been filled since 1984, when
R. Michael McCullough, 51, took over as chairman.
   John Rhodes has retired from Booz Allen as vice chairman,
but the spokesman said Mr. Freidheim isn't succeeding Mr.
Rhodes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Robert Horne Group PLC:
   Buehrmann-Tetterode Offers
   $251.9 Million for Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.HNR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Dutch paper and packaging manufacturing group
Buehrmann-Tetterode N.V. offered a bid of #154 million
($251.9 million) for the U.K. paper distributor Robert Horne
Group PLC.
   The takeover bid has been widely anticipated since
Buehrmann-Tetterode announced in mid-January that it was
conducting talks with Robert Horne.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Buehrmann-Tetterode said that it was prepared to offer for
each ordinary voting share 490 pence ($8.01) while it would
pay 452 pence ($7.39) for each ordinary nonvoting share.
   Shareholders of Robert Horne would have the option of
receiving payment in cash, or as much as 30% of the value of
the offer in Buehrmann-Tetterode bearer depositary receipts.
Also, shareholders will be offered loan notes from
Buehrmann-Tetterode or any combination of cash, depositary
receipts or loan notes.
   Although the takeover is friendly, with both sides
agreeing to the terms, it is also conditional on
Buehrmann-Tetterode's acquiring 90% of the ordinary voting
and nonvoting shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Poison Pills:
   In the Takeover Game,
   Hidden Waste Dumps
   Haunt Buyer and Seller
   ---
   A Firm's Pollution, Costly
   To Clean Up, May Leave
   Even Its Bankers Liable
   ---
   Getting Leverage From PCBs
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CGP ENE PEL
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   GLADEVILLE, Tenn. -- To most people, toxic waste like that
dumped in a shallow pit near Texas Eastern Corp.'s gas
pipeline here is the stuff of corporate nightmares. But to a
takeover artist, it can be mighty handy.
   When Coastal Corp. launched a hostile bid for Texas
Eastern last year, it loudly warned of "serious PCB
problems," in Gladeville and at locations all along the 1,500
miles of Texas Eastern's pipelines. The specter of an
estimated $400 million cleanup, Coastal figured, would spook
other potential buyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For a while it did, too. "We didn't bid because of the
PCBs," concedes Richard D. Kinder, vice chairman of Enron
Corp. Another possible buyer says it backed off because it
didn't have enough time to examine the extent of
contamination, much of which occurred 30 years ago. In the
end, Coastal lost anyway to a friendly $3.22 billion offer
from Panhandle Eastern Corp. But by then even Panhandle was
wary.
   "You can bet your boots they {the PCBs} were factored into
our overall examination," says Robert Hunsucker, Panhandle's
chairman. His edgy lenders demanded an outside liability
estimate before they would finance the bid.
   Unknown or uncertain environmental liabilities are
increasingly shaping acquisitions and takeovers, from
multibillion-dollar leveraged buy-outs to the sale of tiny
strip malls. They are killing some deals outright, sharply
raising the price tags of others, and causing still others to
crash later on.
   "I'm getting a call a month asking me to talk to senior
executives on how to avoid environmental pitfalls in the
'90s. That never happened before," says George Pilko,
president of Pilko &amp; Associates Inc., an environmental
consultant.
   Buyers are fearful of hidden cleanup costs, which can
easily run to $25 million or more. Assuming the new Clean Air
bill before Congress passes, many companies will soon be
paying more to contain their own pollution. So the last thing
they want is to get saddled with additional costs from an
inherited toxic dump.
   They are realizing that this kind of liability can be
lurking virtually anywhere. In a one-mile circle of downtown
San Diego, Environmental Information Systems Inc., a
consultant on liabilities, identified more than 400
environmentally risky addresses simply by culling public
records. Included are a soap company, a police station, a
photography studio, a jeweler, a bank and a university.
"Downtown San Diego is fairly representative of large cities
in the U.S.," says Ronald Miller, the firm's president.
   Moreover, surprises abound. One recent review of old
aerial photographs -- a standard practice in an environmental
audit -- turned up a 1920s auto race track about a
quarter-mile from the famed Beverly Hills Hotel.
Multimillion-dollar houses now stand where fuel tanks, grease
and solvents from the track might once have contaminated the
ground, according to Mr. Miller's firm.
   Dodging the arm of environmental law after the fact is
increasingly difficult. A buyer can be held liable even if he
didn't own or operate the property at the time of
contamination and, needless to say, former owners can be sued
even if they unloaded the property long ago. To help
investors avoid getting blindsided, the Securities and
Exchange Commission recently told companies to be more
forthcoming about environmental liabilities, and the EPA is
handing over data on hazardous sites to help the commission
cross-check disclosures.
   "Negotiations over environmental issues take more time
than any other single point," says Gordon Cain, chairman of
the Houston-based leveraged buy-out firm Sterling Group. "All
the sellers want to get rid of as much of the liability as
they can and no buyer wants to take it."
   Mr. Cain ought to know. He took part two years ago in what
has become something of a landmark deal in the area of
environmental risk. Sterling agreed to buy a former Koppers
Co. chemical business from Beazer PLC of Britain for $660
million. Beazer pledged to pay for any existing environmental
problems, a vital issue because of possible creosote
contamination at two dozen Koppers wood-treatment sites.
Sterling estimated the worst-case liability at $600 million.
   "We would have lived with that if we had been convinced
they {Beazer} were financially able to meet their
obligation," recalls Mr. Cain. But the day before a
definitive agreement was to be signed, Sterling pulled out.
"We found that Beazer structured its financing so that the
indemnity to us came after a lot of other obligations," he
says.
   Similarly, big asbestos claims pushed Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co.'s $2.4 billion leveraged buy-out of Jim Walter
Corp. into bankruptcy court. KKR had known that a Jim Walter
unit, Celotex Corp., once made asbestos products, but figured
that because Celotex was a separate subsidiary, claims could
be confined to it. Anyway, Celotex was sold three months
after the Jim Walter buy-out was completed.
   "They didn't do their homework properly," asserts attorney
Stephen D. Susman, who on behalf of 80,000 asbestos victims
is suing KKR and Hillsborough Holdings Corp., the KKR company
that took Jim Walter private. The suit estimates claims of
over $3 billion. Though KKR and Hillsborough insist the suit
is without merit, its mere filing so unsettled bond investors
and potential asset buyers that Hillsborough sought
bankruptcy court protection in December.
   On the other hand, knowledge of environmental hazards can
give one party an edge in negotiations. "We see investment
opportunities where the perceived risk may be greater than
the actual risk," says Mark Whiting, chief operating officer
of the Shidler Group, a San Francisco-based real estate
company. When Shidler found asbestos in a Los Angeles office
building it had offered to buy for $6 million, it cut the bid
by $1 million. The worried seller, a financial institution,
grabbed it. Shidler had privately estimated the cost of
removal at only $500,000.
   Often Mr. Whiting carves a high-risk property out of a
deal. Not long ago, after Shidler offered $34 million for 11
industrial sites, an environmental consultant reported danger
signs at one Danvers, Mass., plant where chlorinated solvents
had been used. The consultant found groundwater contamination
extending beyond the site. "We kicked the property out of the
deal," Mr. Whiting says. "We dodged a bullet."
   As a result of the new risks, more and more bankers are
requiring so-called environmental audits before financing
acquisitions. Some predict such studies will become as
routine in takeovers as termite inspections in house sales.
What is different is that environmental liabilities can't
always be quantified. Sometimes they can't even be found.
"The problem is that you're guessing," says Susan Lintott, a
managing director of Chase Manhattan Bank in New York.
   A suit against State Street Bank of Boston related to a
New England waste site particularly worries bankers who fear
it could set a precedent. Plaintiffs argue the bank is liable
because it in effect became a co-operator of the site while
attempting to recover a loan from the site's owner. The
actual operator had filed for bankruptcy protection in 1977.
State Street doesn't even own the unit that made the loans
anymore; that was sold in 1983.
   The notion that a lender may be held liable if it had
anything to do with a contaminated property even has some
banks avoiding foreclosure on overdue debts.
   Robert G. Wallace and Jack B. Hensley bought the 3.5-acre
Jenson Drive Scrap Yard in Houston a few years ago from
Charter National Bank for $250,000, financing the deal
through Charter. Six months later, after they couldn't make a
go of the business, they tried to sell it, but a prospective
buyer's environmental audit revealed widespread PCB
contamination. The Environmental Protection Agency condemned
the lot and said contact with the soil could be dangerous.
The place needed a $10 million cleanup.
   The men stopped payment on their loan and sued, alleging
the bank had known the site was polluted and never told them.
"The bank never took any steps to try to recover the note,"
says John Millard, the owners' attorney. "It's kind of a hot
potato." A lawyer for the bank won't discuss the case except
to deny the claims against the bank.
   Many companies carrying environmental liabilities know
they have them. Texas Eastern, for example, routinely and
openly dumped PCB-laden lubricants into a pit at its pipeline
compressor station here. "That was just the way of doing
things," recalls Dallas Plumlee, a 20-year veteran employee
of the company.
   Pipeline companies first added polychlorinated biphenyls,
or PCBs, to lubricating oils as a safety measure to prevent
flash fires in extremely hot compressors. Unfortunately, the
exceptional stability that makes PCBs a fire retardant also
means they don't break down in the environment. At Texas
Eastern, PCBs leaked through motor seals and down the
pipeline, ultimately contaminating at least 49 sites. By the
1970s, the potentially adverse health effects of exposure to
PCBs had become an issue. The EPA banned their manufacture in
1979.
   Today, there is little visible evidence of any huge
liability here amid the pastoral, rolling hills about 20
miles from Nashville. The former murky oil-dumping pit is now
capped by a grassy knoll, and the company has installed a
series of cylindrical storage vats, at $700,000 a set, to
catch new waste from the compressor operation.
   But the oil -- and the PCBs -- must still be removed from
the old pit. To that end, Texas Eastern plans to drill half a
dozen ground-water monitoring wells at $20,000 each to help
determine the extent of the contamination; it expects many
more wells will be needed to fully map the location of the
PCBs.
   Then there's the matter of removing the contaminated soil.
Special trucks will be needed to cart it to the nearest
hazardous-waste dump, more than 100 miles away. That can cost
$500 per cubic yard, and the Gladeville pit may contain 500
cubic yards of soil by one estimate.
   No wonder, then, that the broader, systemwide cleanup will
take time, money -- and more money. Already, Texas Eastern
has 29 people working on the project full-time, and 200
mapping wells have been dug at contaminated sites along its
pipeline. The company still estimates that it will take $400
million to clean up all the PCBs. And the job won't be
completed anytime soon: Texas Eastern says it will be 10
years before all the contaminated soil is located and carted
away.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Charges McHaffie
   With Falsifying Test Data
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- McHaffie Inc., a Sylmar, Calif., defense
contractor, was charged by the U.S. Justice Department with
falsification of test data on bolts the company made for use
in various military jet aircraft engines.
   In a criminal information filed in federal court in Los
Angeles, the government alleged that McHaffie failed to test
the bolts and submitted fraudulent certifications to the
government over an eight-year period beginning in 1979. The
certifications indicated that the bolts had been tested and
met all manufacturing standards and other specifications, the
government charged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The information named as defendants the company; its
56-year-old owner and president, Norman McHaffie, and two
employees, James Hicks, 45, and William Whitham, 37.
   Attorneys for Mr. McHaffie and Mr. Hicks said they hadn't
seen the information and couldn't comment. Neither Mr.
Whitham nor his attorney could be reached.
   The company faces a maximum fine of $1.5 million, the
government said. Mr. McHaffie faces a maximum sentence of 15
years in prison and a $750,000 fine. Messrs. Hicks and
Whitham, who cooperated with the government in its
investigation, each face a maximum sentence of 10 years in
prison and a $500,000 fine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- J.P. Industries Inc.:
   T&amp;N PLC of Britain Begins
   $190 Million Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TN JPI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   T&amp;N PLC of Britain said it began its $190 million, or
$17.30-a-share, tender offer for J.P. Industries Inc. The
offer also includes the assumption of $185 million of J.P.
Industries's debt.
   The offer expires midnight April 26 unless extended; it is
conditioned on T&amp;N's ability to attract at least a majority
of J.P. Industries's stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   T&amp;N, based in Manchester, England, said it plans to merge
its U.S. auto parts operations into J.P. Industries and make
the Ann Arbor, Mich.-based car, truck and locomotive
engine-parts manufacturer a T&amp;N subsidiary.
   Under terms of the definitive merger agreement reached
last week, T&amp;N will receive $12 million if J.P. Industries is
acquired by another party.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Minneapolis Fed to Search
   For Larger Headquarters
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7H
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- For sale: The Federal Reserve Bank of
Minneapolis building.
   After months of study, bank officials decided the
structure not only is too small but also that removing
hazardous asbestos insulation would be too costly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Built in 1972, the structure is an award-winning example
of suspension-bridge architecture. Its 10-story
reflective-glass office tower seems to hang between two
pillars on a block-sized downtown plaza. The bank's vault is
underground.
   Initially, the bank's staff recommended temporarily
relocating while asbestos was removed and other renovations
and repairs were made. But officials abandoned that plan
after determining that the 550,000-square-foot structure
couldn't be easily expanded to meet growing space
requirements.
   Bank officials now are seeking to build, buy or lease a
larger facility. A spokesman said the current building could
be sold, leased or perhaps traded. "We're open to all
options," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Will the Next Manager of Magellan
   Fund Be a Home Run Hitter?
   ----
   By Christoper J. Chipello and Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MXTR NIKE SNU.A PROSZ
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- As a youngster in Brooklyn, Morris Smith would
study the stock tables in the newspaper -- just for the fun
of it.
   Not exactly everyone's idea of a good time. But, "I'm kind
of a numbers fiend, to a large degree," Mr. Smith explains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At age 32, the former public accountant suddenly finds
himself manager-in-waiting of Fidelity Investments' giant
Magellan Fund. And before taking over from the legendary
Peter Lynch, who retires May 31 at age 46 after running
Magellan for 13 years, Mr. Smith will have plenty of numbers
to ponder.
   Magellan, the nation's largest stock mutual fund, has $13
billion in assets, one million account holders and upwards of
1,400 stocks. From May 31, 1977, to Feb. 28, 1990, Mr. Lynch
guided the fund to a total return of 2,475%, compared with
508% for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index, according to
Fidelity. During the 1980s, the fund's average annual return,
including reinvested dividends, was 28% -- far outstripping
that of any other fund.
   So imposing is Mr. Lynch's record that it's been likened
to Babe Ruth's career home run total. And Mr. Smith, whose
passion for statistics has made him something of a sports
trivia buff, must recognize that Mr. Lynch is hanging up his
uniform at a time when the outfield fences are more distant
than ever: Magellan's phenomenal growth, since it was opened
to outside investors in 1981 with just $100 million in
assets, has made it much harder for the fund to beat the
market averages by any significant margin.
   "I've been in the spotlight before," Mr. Smith says
philosophically, recalling the brouhaha when a rising
Fidelity star named Paul Stuka left the Fidelity OTC fund in
1986 to start his own firm, and Mr. Smith took over the fund,
which now has $700 million in assets. Mr. Smith says he plans
to handle his new challenge the way he does his current job:
"I try the best I can every day."
   How good is Mr. Smith's best? At Fidelity OTC, Mr. Smith's
efforts have produced respectable results during a period
when small stocks generally languished. From June 30, 1986,
when he took over Fidelity OTC, through March 22 of this year
the fund ranks as the fifth best of 46 small-company funds,
beaten only by Hartwell Emerging Growth, Janus Venture, Acorn
and Kaufmann, according to New York's Lipper Analytical
Services. (Fidelity's advertisements tout Fidelity OTC as the
"No. 1 Small Company Growth Fund For 5-Year Performance," but
that includes the fund's big 1985 gain under Mr. Stuka.)
   Mr. Smith, whose fund must ordinarily keep at least 65% of
its assets in over-the-counter stocks, has tended to hold
relatively large-capitalization issues. A study done in
October 1989 by Chicago's Morningstar Inc. found that
Fidelity OTC's median stock holding was a company with a
market value of $878 million. Morningstar, which looked at 63
small-company funds, found only three funds with a higher
median market value.
   With larger-company stocks outperforming smaller companies
over the past few years, Mr. Smith's attraction to larger
companies -- something he describes as the result of
individual picks, not a broad strategy -- has clearly paid
off.
   Since taking over the fund in mid-1986, Mr. Smith has
managed a return of 36% through last Feb. 28, well ahead of
the 10% return for the Russell 2000, a small-company stock
index.
   But while Fidelity OTC has done well for a small-company
fund, the poor performance by smaller stocks means Mr.
Smith's record doesn't look so hot when stacked up against
the big-company stocks that comprise the S&amp;P 500, which
returned 50% during the same period. And with small-company
stocks out of fashion, continuous outflows since the 1987
stock market crash have reduced the fund to roughly half its
peak size.
   At Magellan, Mr. Smith will be competing against the S&amp;P
500 -- a benchmark Mr. Lynch managed to beat every year
except 1984 and 1987.
   Fidelity officials note similarities between Mr. Smith and
Mr. Lynch. Both rise early, work prodigious hours and seem
devoted to their families and religions. Both keep hundreds
of stocks in their portfolios -- Mr. Smith has 350 in the
Fidelity OTC fund -- and talk to dozens of companies in a
typical week. Mr. Smith is roughly the age Mr. Lynch was when
he took over Magellan.
   But there are also differences between the two. Mr. Lynch,
a master of the wry one-liner and quotable anecdote, plays
the media almost as deftly as the stock market. He
co-authored last year an investing book and closely monitored
its progress on the best-seller charts, according to
colleagues. Mr. Lynch's modest office in Fidelity's
Devonshire Street headquarters in downtown Boston is normally
a chaotic sea of documents and newspapers.
   On Friday afternoon, after two days of interviews, Mr.
Smith confesses to being weary of talking about himself. He
speaks in rapid-fire, run-together sentences and looks mainly
at his desktop when he's not checking his two computer
screens. Toward the end of an hourlong interview, he busily
sorts through a stack of analyst reports that will provide
Saturday night and Sunday homework, leaving his desk as neat
as a pin.
   Mr. Smith describes his investment approach as similar to
Mr. Lynch's, and he says it's too early to tell what changes
he might make in the fund. He notes that Fidelity OTC's
portfolio contains several of Magellan's largest positions,
including Federal National Mortgage Association, General
Electric Co., Entergy Corp., Kemper Corp., Primerica Corp.
and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. That overlap will help
ease his transition, he says -- as will the availability, at
least initially, of two or three assistants. Like Mr. Lynch,
Mr. Smith says many of his investment ideas come from
Fidelity's 30 analysts and its other fund managers.
   Among the Fidelity OTC holdings that Mr. Smith believes
continue to present attractive buying opportunities are
Maxtor Corp., a disc-drive supplier whose technology is
"cutting edge" and whose "earnings could explode on the
upside"; Nike Inc., a company that "everyone is saying has
maxed out" but that Mr. Smith sees as having potential for
strong international growth; SNC Group Inc., a
Montreal-listed engineering and defense company that Mr.
Smith considers a "terrific turnaround"; and Prospect Group
Inc., a leveraged buyout firm. Mr. Smith says Prospect has
announced plans to liquidate, and he estimates the value of
its assets at the "low- to mid-$20s" a share, while the stock
trades at around $15.
   Mr. Smith, whose father was a fashion designer in New
York's garment district, earned an accounting degree at City
University of New York's Queens College and first dabbled in
stocks while working as a certified public accountant. His
master's degree in business administration from the
University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School landed him a job
as a securities analyst at Fidelity in 1982. Two years later,
he became manager of Fidelity Select Leisure Portfolio.
   As an analyst, "The first stock I recommended was Golden
Nugget," and though "not a difficult company" to analyze, "it
took me two weeks," Mr. Smith recalls. By contrast, Mr. Smith
says, he talked or met with precisely 40 companies in the
week before his Magellan appointment disrupted his routine.
"In effect, I analyzed 40 companies," he says, in what he
refers to as "one of those great, efficient weeks."
   Mr. Smith counts Rogers Communications Inc., a
Toronto-based cable television and broadcasting company,
among his best all-time picks. He says he recommended it to
other Fidelity managers after visiting the company in 1985,
at a time when many people thought it was headed for
bankruptcy. Instead, the stock went from around $7 a share to
$80 or $90 -- although Mr. Smith admits he bailed out after
he had tripled his money.
   Among his worst picks: convertible securities of Crazy
Eddie Inc., which he bought for more than $30 and sold at
around $13, as they headed to zero. "I used to shop at the
first Crazy Eddie" near his New York home, Mr. Smith says. "I
still believe in the concept. I just don't believe in the
company."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Got Whipped in Quarter by Rising Rates
   But Junk Issues Start Staggering to Their Feet
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market was an awful place to be in
the first quarter, although junk bonds finally began showing
a glimmer of strength.
   Across the board, bond investors found their fixed-income
portfolios clobbered by rising interest rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the four major bond-market categories -- long-term
Treasurys, mortgages, municipals and corporates -- not one
produced a positive return, according to data from Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets.
   Investors who bought long-term Treasury bonds at the start
of the year had posted a miserable total return of negative
4.02% by the end of the first quarter. Total return measures
price changes and interest income. That dead performance
reflects a sharp rise in interest rates. The yield on 30-year
Treasury bonds, for example, rose to 8.62% last week from
7.99% at the end of December.
   Last year, when interest rates were falling, long-term
Treasury bonds were the best performing sector of the bond
market, which goes to show how volatile the bond market has
become lately.
   The first-quarter bond market report held some encouraging
news for the long-suffering junk market. Although junk bonds
produced a negative 2.11% total return in the quarter, they
put in a respectable performance in March.
   First Boston Corp., which tracks the performance of 343
junk bonds, said that total return of junk bonds rose nearly
3% in March following two sharp declines in January and
February.
   The junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. fueled the advance amid
intensifying rumors that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. would
buy back as much as $2 billion of the company's reset
pay-in-kind debentures. On Friday, some RJR bonds advanced as
much as 2 1/8 points -- about $21.25 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount -- as a Business Week article said RJR was
leaning toward a buy-back. People close to KKR disputed the
report, saying no such decision has been made.
   RJR's junk bonds aren't the only gainers these days. First
Boston said that three junk bonds advanced last month for
each junk bond that declined. The advance-decline ratio
"shows that the rebound is broad based," said Robert Long, a
First Boston managing director.
   Mr. Long said junk bonds are being supported in part by
corporate buy-backs. "Some companies have been buying $10
million to $20 million of their bonds back. That's been
putting more cash in the hands of (junk bond) portfolio
managers, and we're starting to see that cash go to work,"
said Mr. Long. "Our trading desk is running 2% to 3% higher
volume."
   Still, most investors would have been better off by
avoiding bonds altogether and putting their money into cash
and cash equivalents such as short-term Treasury bills.
Merrill Lynch said that three-month Treasury bills produced a
total first-quarter return of 1.96% while six-month bills
produced a 1.89% return. Cash levels help to protect
portfolios during down markets.
   Despite the first quarter's dismal performance, some money
managers remain optimistic about the remainder of the year.
   "Our view is that this is a correction in a bull market"
for bonds, said Roger Early, a portfolio manager at Federated
Investors Corp. Mr. Early says that the economy is growing
very slowly, corporate profits have been poor and corporate
borrowing is dwindling. Such indicators, he said, typically
indicate that interest rates will be heading lower, a trend
that boosts prices for existing bonds.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds were pummeled after the release of a
stronger-than-expected March survey of purchasing agents in
the Chicago area.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond end 3/8 point lower,
or about $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount. The issue's
yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price,
rose to 8.62% from 8.58%.
   The bond market started the session on solid ground after
prices got a modest boost from buying in Europe. But the
market quickly switched directions, with 30-year bond prices
falling a full point immediately after news that the
Purchasing Management Association of Chicago had seen its
index of area business activity rise to 55.1% on an
unadjusted basis in March from an unrevised 51.0% in
February.
   The increase in the Chicago index was greater than had
been expected. It raised concerns that the March survey of
purchasing agents nationwide, due out today, would show a
similar acceleration in business activity.
   In the corporate market, the high-yield junk bonds of RJR
Nabisco continued to surge. The bonds were up all week on
rumors that KKR would buy back a portion of the reset notes.
Officials at RJR have consistently declined to comment on the
rumors.
   RJR's 13.71% convertible pay-in-kind debentures maturing
in 2009 gained 2 1/8 to finish at 74 3/4 in moderate volume
on the New York Stock Exchange. The other widely held RJR
issue, the 13.71% pay-in-kind exchangeable debentures due in
2007, advanced 1 3/8 points to end at 67 1/8. Pay-in-kind
debt pays interest in the form of additional securities.
   Most other junk bonds, which are speculative-grade
securities with low credit ratings or none at all, fell
between 1/8 point to 1/4 point.
   Municipal bonds ended mostly unchanged, with some issues
down 1/8 to 1/4 point.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Walt Disney Co.:
   First `Mickey's Kitchen' Set
   To Open at Store in April
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RETAILING (RET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Walt Disney Co. said it would open its first "Mickey's
Kitchen" restaurant adjacent to a Disney retail store later
this month.
   A Disney spokesman confirmed a United Press International
report that the restaurant was under construction in
Montclair, Calif., saying it was a "prototype" and that no
others were being built. "We'll study it," he said, before
rolling out more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Disney, based in Burbank, Calif., has been operating
restaurants in its theme parks and hotels for years, but this
would be the first tied to its fast-expanding retail-store
business. The company has about 45 stores open nationwide
selling Disney paraphernalia. Currently, it is opening about
three a month, with a goal of more than 100 by 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Rejects Buffer Plan
   In Clean-Air Legislation
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted to eliminate a clean-air
provision that would have allowed factories whose fumes pose
cancer risks to buy out adjoining neighborhoods to create a
buffer zone.
   On a voice vote Friday, the Senate adopted an amendment by
Sen. Albert Gore (D., Tenn.) rejecting the creation of what
environmentalists had branded "dead zones" around polluting
plants. The provision had been written into a clean-air
agreement between the White House and Senate leaders to help
plants avoid mandatory shutdowns if they can't eliminate most
of the cancer risks posed by their emissions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Environmentalists had loudly criticized the provision for
proposing to permit factories to move people out of their
homes rather than reduce toxic-air emissions to unthreatening
levels. While industry still is worried that the Senate's
toxic-air requirements could shut some plants down, industry
spokesmen said the buffer-zone provision wasn't crucial for
them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Torchmark Offers Its Slate
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AGC TMK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- American General Corp. said it was notified by
a Torchmark Corp. unit of its intent to nominate a slate for
American General's board.
   The notice, contained in a letter from Torchmark's Liberty
National Life Insurance Co., appears to confirm rumors that
the Birmingham, Ala., insurer intends to press its hostile
bid for American General in a proxy fight, American General
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But American General said it plans to inform Liberty
National that it missed the deadline to nominate a slate.
American General last week filed a lawsuit in federal court
here asking a judge to uphold a company bylaw that requires
shareholders to notify the company at least 60 days before a
shareholders meeting if they plan to nominate directors.
   An American General spokesman said he didn't know if the
letter, which was received Saturday evening, contained the
names of specific Torchmark nominees. But he said the letter
indicated Torchmark intends to nominate five people for the
six seats that come up for election at the annual meeting May
2.
   Last week, Torchmark made a surprise offer to acquire
American General for $50 a share in cash and stock, or more
than $6 billion. American General said its board plans to
consider the offer at its regular meeting after the
shareholders meeting.
   Torchmark couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conrail Sets Consolidation
   Of Headquarters Operation
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7C
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Consolidated Rail Corp. said it plans to
consolidate its headquarters here.
   The railroad, which operates in the Northeast and Midwest,
said it will lease 750,000 square feet of office space in a
tower to be built at Commerce Square, 20th and Market
streets. Conrail won't have an ownership interest in the
41-story, 950,000-square-foot structure, which it said it
expects to begin occupying in early 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conrail said the move will allow the company to
consolidate its four central Philadelphia offices, with more
than 3,000 total employees, in one location, "increasing our
efficiency and productivity." The company didn't disclose
rental costs or say whether the new space will result in net
savings.
   The building is being developed by a joint venture of
Maguire Thomas Partners, Los Angeles, and International
Business Machines Corp., Armonk, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highway Agency Keeps
   Fuel Standard at 20.2 MPG
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration said it will keep the fuel economy standard
for 1992-model light trucks and vans at 20.2 miles per
gallon.
   In January, the agency had said it would set the standard
no lower than 20.2 mpg but might increase it to as high as
21. NHTSA administrator Jerry Ralph Curry said the agency
decided to leave the standard unchanged from 1991 models
after considering auto makers' "fuel economy capabilities,
current projections, underlying product plans and possible
technological improvements."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. praised the
decision to keep the standard at 20.2 mpg. "We had strongly
urged that they set the standard at the low end of the
proposed range and that's what they did," said David L. Kulp,
Ford's manager of fuel economy planning and compliance.
   Mr. Kulp said the "the market has been moving in the
direction of full-sized trucks," making it difficult for Ford
to raise its average fuel economy, currently at 20.2 mpg.
   Under federal law, the agency must establish fuel economy
standards for light trucks each year. Manufacturers failing
to meet the standards are subject to civil penalties. The
standard for 1990 models is 20 mpg.
   The new standard applies to pickup trucks, vans and
utility vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of as much as
8,500 pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Domtar Inc.:
   Canadian, Some U.S. Assets
   Of Salt Division Are Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Domtar Inc. said it sold all Canadian and some U.S. assets
of its Sifto Salt division to North American Salt Co.,
Mission, Kan. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The sale largely completes the disposal of Domtar's
chemical and energy interests, which the Montreal forest and
building-products concern began last year. A small specialty
chemicals concern, Clough Chemicals Inc., remains to be sold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domtar said the salt assets sold include a rock salt mine
in Goderich, Ontario, evaporated salt plants in Goderich,
Amherst, Nova Scotia and Unity, Saskatchewan, Nickell Salt
Co. in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, and related distribution
facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pearson PLC:
   British Publishing Concern's
   '89 Pretax Profit Rose 26%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PSO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pearson PLC, a British publishing conglomerate that owns
the Financial Times, reported 1989 pretax profit rose 26% to
#250.5 million ($409.7 million) from #198.9 million a year
earlier, helped by gains in all divisions except
entertainment.
   Profit after taxes and minority interests increased 35% to
#171.8 million from #126.9 million. Per-share earnings gained
20% to 67 pence from 55.7 pence. Sales jumped 22% to #1.45
billion from #1.19 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company recommended a final dividend of 12.5 pence a
share, which would boost the total payout for the year 19% to
21.5 pence from 18 pence.
   Pearson said the results represented "the best-ever
profits for the group," with record earnings for its
publications, the Financial Times, the Economist and Les
Echos, the publishers Addison-Wesley and Longman, financial
services interests and Royal Doulton china unit.
   Profit attributable to shareholders was boosted by an
extraordinary profit of #104.4 million, mostly from shedding
assets. Net income rose 57% to #276.2 million from the
year-earlier #175.7 million, which included an extraordinary
gain of #48.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Survey of Underwriting:
   Wall Street's Underwriting Fees
   Likely to Go From Bad to Worse
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER SB Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wall Street's profits from underwriting stocks
and bonds teetered near six-year lows in the first quarter.
And the battered junk-bond market promises even leaner times
ahead.
   Fees that firms earned from underwriting new securities
for the first quarter were an anemic $592 million, barely
above the $564 million of a year earlier -- levels not seen
since 1984, according to Securities Data Co. From 1986
through 1988, quarterly fees often topped $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The worst may yet lie ahead. That's because the recent
collapse of the junk-bond market makes it all but impossible
that junk underwriting fees will surge after the first
quarter. Fees earned on new issues of these high-yield,
high-risk bonds in the first quarter typically account for
just 15% of the annual total; from 1984 through 1989,
junk-bond fees jumped an average of 50% in the second
quarter, Securities Data says.
   These fees until recently were one of Wall Street's big
profit engines; the average junk deal earned a securities
firm $5 million. But the junk market's woe means Wall Street
doesn't have much to look forward to in the next few months.
   "Come the end of the next quarter and investment bankers
are really going to feel the pinch," says Francine Wissak, an
analyst for Securities Data. Although some parts of the
underwriting business will rebound, says Edson Mitchell, a
managing director for Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., "the loss of junk
will be very difficult to offset."
   Underwriting fees are more important than ever on Wall
Street. That's because with the leveraging binge of the past
decade over, and merger activity down 60% from year-earlier
levels, investment bankers are scratching for ways to make
money. And while quarterly numbers have to be taken with a
grain of salt, first-quarter rankings generally have been
indicative of where securities firms stack up at the end of
the year.
   There were a few bright spots. Fees from common-stock
offerings surged 71% to $406 million. And underwriting
profits from initial public stock offerings, bolstered by a
flurry of recent deals, rose 37% to $280 million. Publicly
traded funds continue to dominate IPOs, accounting for 60% of
total volume. The current fad is closed-end funds that invest
in a single foreign country; in past years, the hottest IPOs
were closed-end bond funds.
   Still, even with the recent increased activity, fees from
IPOs pale in comparison with the fees of only a few years
ago; in 1986's fourth quarter, for example, they stood at
$541 million -- almost equal to underwriting fees from all
sources during this quarter. So far this year, fees on IPOs
account for nearly half of all money earned from
underwritings in the U.S. market -- up from 36% a year
earlier.
   "The types of financing that have driven profitability in
the past have declined notably," says Mark Seigel, a managing
director at Morgan, Stanley &amp; Co. "The outlook for the near
to medium term is mediocre at best."
   Not surprisingly, the big losers were underwriters of junk
bonds. Disclosed fees from junk-bond underwritings plummeted
to a paltry $10.8 million from a total of just three new
issues. A year earlier, 26 new junk issues earned Wall Street
$151 million in fees.
   Of course, February's collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., which virtually created and then dominated the junk
market for much of the 1980s, added to the woes. But few
other firms picked up the slack: In the first quarter, the
only new junk offerings were underwritten by Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co. (Kroger Co.), Merrill Lynch (Sullivan Graphics) and Dain
Bosworth Inc. (TCF Banking &amp; Savings).
   Goldman was the leader in fee income, with $99 million. Of
the 32 issues it underwrote, Goldman's junk offering of
Kroger ($6.3 million in fees) and its IPOs for Readers Digest
Association ($21 million), Teppco Partners L.P. ($17.6
million) and Santa Fe Energy Resources ($9.8 million)
catapulted the firm to the top of the fee heap. Still, it's
been more than four years since the top underwriter based on
disclosed fees earned less than $100 million, Securities Data
said.
   Merrill Lynch underwrote more issues than Goldman, but
still ended up with less in fee income, earning $86.8
million. Salomon Brothers Inc. jumped to No. 3 from the
eighth spot a year earlier, earning $63.2 million.
   But First Boston Corp. slumped badly. The firm, beset by
junk-related troubles and holding some irksome temporary
"bridge" loans, fell to seventh place from No. 3, earning
just $35.4 million on 17 issues. A year earlier, First Boston
underwrote 29 issues, earning $77.7 million in fees.
   The last few weeks of the quarter salvaged what could have
been a disastrous period. More than $19 billion of corporate
new issues were sold in the last two weeks of March alone,
hiking 1990 financing volume to $77.7 billion from $73.3
billion in the year-earlier period. Fees from these new
issues in the past two weeks totaled $179.3 million -- or
30.3% of the quarter's total fees.
   Mortgage and asset-backed securities continued to
flourish, but they didn't amount to much in disclosed fees
for Wall Street. Such fees totaled just $39.9 million for
securities firms. A year earlier, disclosed fees were $65.3
million.
   Issues of other fixed-income debt were more scarce.
Concerned about the specter of higher interest rates,
corporate treasurers in the quarter issued only $25.6 billion
worth of debt securities, including junk bonds, 33% less than
a year earlier and the lowest level since the fall of 1985.
Fees from corporate debt issues slumped to $103.4 million,
from $238.6 million in 1989's first period.
   Some industry executives and analysts expect a pattern of
increased common-stock offerings and slower issuance of new
debt to continue over the next several years. After the debt
binge of the '80s, says Alison Deans of Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., many companies will be reducing leverage by raising more
equity capital and borrowing less.
   Meanwhile, the recent heavy layoffs on Wall Street will
help mitigate the impact of currently stunted underwriting
growth, some analysts say. Since the October 1987
stock-market crash, nearly 45,000 securities-industry
employees have been laid off nationwide. Says Michael
Blumstein, an analyst for First Boston Corp.: "At least there
are fewer mouths to feed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hoax Is Suspected in Fire
   Reported at Libyan Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. now suspects that an apparent fire
March 14 at a Libyan plant allegedly used for making chemical
weapons may not have damaged the facility extensively and may
have been a hoax.
   Satellite photos taken in the days after the announcement
of a fire appeared to show the building at Rabta blackened,
though intact. Other information from unspecified sources led
the U.S. to conclude that the equipment in the building had
been badly damaged and the plant wasn't able to operate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Libyan government blamed the West, especially West
Germany, for the blaze, and reported casualties and arrests
in the incident, while maintaining its posture that the Rabta
facility makes pharmaceuticals, not chemical weapons.
   But as intelligence officials analyzed more evidence, the
circumstances of the incident have become vaguer instead of
clearer, Bush administration officials said, raising
suspicions that the plant may not have suffered much or any
damage.
   Asked whether the fire might have been a Libyan hoax to
trip up a U.S. campaign to get the plant dismantled, State
Department spokesman Richard Boucher said, "I can't rule that
out." One U.S. official said the administration was actively
considering the possibility that the whole event was staged.
He said intelligence analysts are studying a claim made by a
Libyan exile group that the fire was set using old tires and
other debris as fuel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- HAL Inc.:
   Net Loss for 1989 Widened;
   Decrease in Traffic Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAL Inc., citing a significant decrease in passenger
traffic at its Hawaiian Airlines unit, reported a wider net
loss for 1989 on reduced revenue.
   The company reported a 1989 net loss of $46.9 million, or
$24 a share, compared with a net loss of $8.8 million, or
$4.48 a share, in 1988. HAL's 1989 revenue fell to $348.9
million from $354 million in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Extended periods of aircraft downtime during the fourth
quarter racked up higher losses than in the first three
quarters of 1989, HAL said. Inter-island passenger traffic
fell significantly during the fourth quarter because of
reduced capacity, the company added.
   Operating expenses for the year rose to $392.5 million in
1989 from $358.1 million in 1988, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Groups Blast
   Bell Companies'
   Gloomy Assessment
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7F
</SO>
<CO>
   AIT BEL BLS NYN PAC SBC USW JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Consumer Federation of America and a
group of big telecommunications users blasted the Bell
companies' assertion that the U.S. is fast becoming a
second-rate telecommunications power.
   A study prepared for the two groups by Economics and
Technology Inc. of Boston concluded that the Bells' claim "is
little more than a transparent fiction" and that the U.S. is
still far ahead of such competitors as France, West Germany,
Japan and the United Kingdom. Moreover, it said, the U.S.
phone companies are upgrading their networks at a realistic,
rapid pace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, the study said, the seven regional Bell
companies have engaged in a disinformation campaign, stirring
up concerns about slippage in global competitiveness, to
convince Congress to lift restrictions that bar them from
long-distance and information services, and from
manufacturing telecommunications equipment.
   The study could play an important role in the
congressional debate over whether the Bell companies should
be freed of some restrictions in the consent decree that
broke up the Bell system.
   The Bell companies countered that the Consumer Federation
and the International Communications Association, a group of
big corporate telecommunications users, were misguided. A.
Gray Collins, senior vice president for external affairs at
Bell Atlantic Corp. called the review a "fairy tale."
   The study, Mr. Collins said, "focuses on the state of
plain old telephone service instead of our country's need for
major network improvements to make information services
available to all." Japan, France and others, he said, "are
leapfrogging us." A spokesman for Denver-based U S West Inc.
said the Bells "aren't alarmists. We're realists."
   Major measures of telephone service quality prove U.S.
network superiority, the study found. For instance, fewer
than 1% of the calls placed on the Bell networks are blocked,
compared with 2.5% in France, 2.2% in the U.K., and 1.2% in
Germany. In the U.S., the vast majority of phone customers
can get Touch Tone service. In France, 50% of the access
lines have tone signaling, and even fewer in Japan.
Furthermore, it said, most other countries have yet to
develop 800 service.
   The study took particular issue with Bell company data
showing that Japan, Singapore, Western European countries and
Canada are spending more per access line than the Bell
companies to upgrade their networks. Once adjusted to reflect
outlays for customers' phone equipment, long-distance
communications and other investments the Bell companies don't
make because the U.S. industry is structured differently, the
rate of Bells' capital spending exceeded that of most
countries, Economics &amp; Technology found. Only Singapore,
which has embarked on a major network modernization program,
spent more.
   "The regional Bell companies and other local exchange
carriers are rapidly modernizing their networks today," the
study concluded. While some might believe they are spending
too much, the study said, "there is no basis for assuming
that the companies are spending too little."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Colorado-Ute Electric Association:
   Electric Power Firm Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Colorado-Ute Electric Association said it filed a
voluntary petition for protection under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code to resolve its financial
difficulties.
   The Montrose, Colo., wholesale electric-power producer
said the filing follows the suspension of merger negotiations
with TriState Generation and Transmission Association. The
negotiations were suspended because of a tentative decision
by the Colorado Public Utilities Commission on March 8 to
reduce Colorado-Ute's wholesale rates to its 14-member
distribution systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Colorado-Ute said the bankruptcy-law filing won't affect
its normal operations. About 200,000 customers receive
electricity from its systems.
   The utility said that Tri-State has withheld advances of
funds under the revolving loan agreement and that
Colorado-Ute "can no longer operate without protection under
the federal Bankruptcy Code."
   Colorado-Ute said its situation has been further "confused
by conflicting orders" from regulators concerning the
wholesale rate it should charge its member-owners. It said
its directors will discuss the matter at the company's next
regularly scheduled board meeting in April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOEING Co. (Seattle) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it
raised its rating on this aerospace concern's senior debt to
double-A from double-A-minus. The rating concern said about
$500 million in long-term debt is affected. S&amp;P cited
favorable prospects for commercial aircraft sales that
outweigh weak performance in Boeing's defense business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   KKR's Offering Plan to Take Safeway Public
   Doesn't Check Out With Potential Investors
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
RESTAURANTS, SUPERMARKETS AND DRUGSTORES (RFD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- You remember Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. In
1986, the investment firm borrowed $4.6 billion to finance
the takeover of Safeway. Soon, perhaps this week, KKR will
take Safeway public with an offering of 10 million shares, or
about 10% of the common.
   It is a sign of the times that Henry Kravis may find it
harder to sell $145 million of stock in today's market than
it once was for him to borrow billions. Oakland, Calif.-based
Safeway was taken private during the salad days of leveraged
buy-outs. But KKR, as well as Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley, the underwriters, are well aware that times have
changed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Over the summer, Safeway envisioned a much bigger
offering, priced at perhaps $20 a share. That was last year.
The underwriters now predict a price of $13 to $16.
   But even at the midpoint of $14.50, Safeway could be a
tough sell. Its interest bill is about $400 million a year,
through thick times and thin. In addition, it plans to plow
$2.5 billion of cash into much-needed capital spending over
the next five years. The interest and capital outlays
together will soak up slightly more cash than Safeway expects
to generate from operations. Its debt is $3.1 billion, and
unless KKR can persuade the public to buy more stock at some
future point, its debt at the end of five years won't be a
penny less.
   "Wall Street doesn't like debt, and this company is going
to have a lot of it for quite some time," Mark Mandel of
Continental Asset Management says.
   Mr. Mandel's lack of enthusiasm has nothing to do with the
considerable progress that Safeway has made since Mr. Kravis
donned a grocer's apron. Since the buy-out by KKR, Safeway
has sold inefficient supermarkets and other operations and
remodeled or built from scratch more than 100 stores. Labor
costs have been cut, and warehouse and buying practices
computerized. Nearly half of Safeway's 1,100 outlets are
so-called superstores, the prospectus says, with 45,000 items
ranging from fresh lobster to cored pineapples. Profit
margins on specialty items, some of them prepared in what
Safeway describes as its very own "Chinese kitchens," are far
higher than margins on standard fare. Safeway's operating
profit, as a percentage of sales, climbed to 3.2% in 1989
from 2.3% in 1986. Operations are so improved, the prospectus
notes, that "operating profit for 1989 was higher on a $14
billion sales base than in 1986 on a $20 billion sales base."
   But the operating profit hasn't produced much at the
bottom line. Net income for this year is forecast at 40 cents
a share; for 1991, the estimate is 85 cents. Based on the
1990 estimate, the stock is apt to make its debut at a price
equal to about 36 times earnings.
   Safeway's strategy is to spend its way to higher profit.
It aims, every year, to remodel no fewer than 120
supermarkets and to build or rebuild 35 more. In the familiar
KKR scenario, profits will pour through an ever-widening
spigot. Sales from new stores will add 3% to total sales
annually. Higher sales from existing stores will bump total
sales growth to 8% or so a year. Safeway's operating profit
margin -- $3.20 on every $100 of sales -- will grow to $4.20
by 1994. Higher margins on higher sales will produce a 12%
annual gain in cash flow. By 1994, Safeway forecasts net
income of at least $2.25 a share.
   Wearing the cap of a junk bond salesman, KKR once told
investors that cash flow would grow enough to service
interest. Newly outfitted as a stock salesman, KKR projects
that Safeway's earnings will justify -- down the road -- the
purchase of shares today. Safeway has grown handily so far.
But investors are buying the future, not the past.
   "I have concerns," says Dana Telsey, an analyst at Baron
Asset Fund. One concern is that Safeway is telling investors
it expects to reap a 25% to 30% return on capital spending.
"Those are high numbers," she says. Another concern she cites
is "the lack of earnings."
   Safeway's underwriters, in effect, are urging investors to
ignore earnings. Concentrate instead, they say, on Safeway's
cash flow before paying interest, taxes and capital outlays.
This stance may be fine for a bondholder, but, as James
Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, notes:
"That's not what you're talking about as an owner. You're
talking about the earnings left after you put in ice-cream
freezers and pay the government."
   While Safeway is a good business, investors haven't
forgotten that bonds in certain other good businesses owned
by KKR have tanked. "There is a strong feeling that we don't
want to be KKR's patsy," says a portfolio manager at a big
mutual fund company who plans to forgo buying the issue. KKR
is aware of such sentiment. This is one reason KKR isn't
selling its own Safeway shares. But KKR's own investors are
eager to cash in, and the most likely way of doing so is by
selling shares to the public. Down the road, if the offering
succeeds, KKR will be back.
   ---
              KKR's Supermarket Safeway Inc.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                         1989           1988           1987
                                                                                                       

 Sales              $14,324.6      $13,612.4      $18,301.3
 Operating profits      462.4          325.6          416.8
 Interest expense       382.8          401.2          576.4
 Net income (loss)        2.5           31.2         (487.7)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Confusing Clue:
   Volume Ebbs
   On Big Board
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Is the stock market running out of gas?
   Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange has been
ebbing this year. In January, an average 172.5 million shares
changed hands each day, more than the 165.5 million shares
that traded on the average day in 1989. But in February
average daily volume fell to 155.9 million, and last month
daily trading averaged 152.6 million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prices haven't followed the volume pattern. From a high in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average of 2810.15 on Jan. 2, prices
slipped 9.5% in January. They regained some of that lost
ground in February and reclaimed even more in March to end
3.7% lower than the record.
   To investors already nervous about high interest rates,
rising inflation and an uncertain economic outlook, however,
the increasingly sluggish trading activity is one more reason
to be wary of the stock market.
   But some analysts argue that with few exceptions, volume
isn't a very good indicator of where prices are headed. In a
1988 study that tracked volume and price moves as far back as
1915, Laszlo Birinyi, president of Birinyi Associates, a
stock market strategy firm, found that "volume is not a lead
indicator of any sort of reliability."
   Mr. Birinyi says his study showed that there were links
between prices and increases and decreases in trading volume,
but that the links were coincident, not predictive. For
instance, in bull markets he found that either volume peaked
long before prices or else volume fluctuated widely during
the course of a rally. In short, he says, "any relationships
between price and activity are random."
   Bear markets show similar patterns. In the 1977 market
decline, for example, volume fluctuated while prices fell.
"We doubt that investors could have relied on current volume
trend as a way to avoid losses in this period," Mr. Birinyi
says.
   The only exception -- and it is a dangerous one -- is if
volume expands rapidly in a falling market. "If you do have a
pickup in volume in a declining market, then you have to
worry," he says. "The most dangerous patterns seem to be
trading increases of nearly 100% during a bear pattern. In
these times, price declines are especially severe."
   But predicting major moves based on volume is futile, Mr.
Birinyi asserts. In the three months before the 1982 bull
market began, for instance, the volume of trading in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average stocks declined. "The relationship
between volume and prices or rallies just doesn't exist," he
says.
   Nonsense, counters Mark Leibovit, author of the Volume
Reversal Survey, a Sedona, Ariz., newsletter that relies
heavily on trading volume to predict what's ahead for stock
prices.
   "There's an old adage that says volume precedes price,"
says Mr. Leibovit. "I've been doing this for 20 years and
I've never found a better indicator."
   He contends that volume signals overall demand for stocks.
When a big move up is beginning, he says, high volume cleans
out many of the investors or traders who wanted to sell,
leaving the remaining demand to drive prices higher. "Like a
balloon, prices begin rising because there's no resistance,"
he says.
   Similarly, at the beginning of a big down move a big surge
in trading volume satisfies the waning demand for stocks and
further selling drives prices lower. "That's when prices go
down like a lead balloon," he says.
   March's price gains have been welcome, says Mr. Leibovit,
but the sluggish volume in recent days likely means the rally
is about exhausted. "I'm not ready to throw in the towel
yet," he says, "but my basic view is that if we're not at the
top already, we're only about 50 points away."
   After that, he says, the longer-term trend down will
reassert itself. He saw that trend beginning in January when,
for three consecutive weeks, prices fell on expanding volume.
"That, to me, was pretty negative," he says. He expects
prices to eventually work their way back down to the January
closing low of 2543.24 or even lower. "I paint myself more in
the bear camp long term," he said.
   Kenneth Spence, a technical analyst at Salomon Brothers,
also finds trading volume useful in assessing stock market
performance, although he cautions that investors shouldn't
rely too heavily on volume alone. Breadth, or the number of
stocks rising compared to the number falling, is also
important, he says.
   "What technicians get concerned about is rising prices on
narrow breadth and light volume," says Mr. Spence. "That's
indicative of selective strength, not broadbased strength.
The broader the base, the more sustainable the health of the
market."
   Narrow breadth and light volume is confronting investors
right now in the stock market, he says. And while he doesn't
predict an imminent decline in stock prices, Mr. Spence urges
caution. "The volume and breadth don't tell us anything about
how far prices could fall, but they are flashing a big yellow
light."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Pilot, Fired
   For Buying Crack,
   Had Failed Drug Test
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   An Eastern Airlines pilot fired in March after he
allegedly bought crack cocaine from an undercover police
officer had tested positive for cocaine use seven months
earlier.
   Dain Schneemilch, a 36-year-old flight engineer at
Eastern, was arrested Feb. 23 and charged with buying one $20
rock of crack from a police officer in Key Largo, Fla.
According to the police records, the transaction was recorded
and videotaped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the letter notifying Mr. Schneemilch of his dismissal,
Eastern said the pilot tested positive for cocaine use July
19 during a routine back-to-work physical examination. Mr.
Schneemilch struck the carrier in March 1989 along with most
members of the Air Line Pilots Association, but crossed the
picket line to return to work.
   Although he failed the drug test, Mr. Schneemilch flew as
a second officer, or flight engineer, on Eastern's Boeing 727
jets. He was promoted to first officer in October, and was in
training when he was arrested. Mr. Schneemilch couldn't be
reached for comment.
   A spokesman for Eastern said Mr. Schneemilch's positive
drug test went unnoticed because of "an oversight." The
airline last summer hired 1,000 pilots to replace pilots
still striking the carrier, "and somehow his results went
into the file with all the negative results," the spokesman
said. Mr. Schneemilch "never touched the controls. There was
not a thing in his performance to indicate he had a problem."
   Eastern has since examined all the drug tests of all
pilots hired or re-hired since last year to be certain no
other results were similarly misfiled. "The pilot records are
clean," the spokesman said.
   Separately, Eastern said the possibility of a liquidation
at the financially ailing carrier was "exceedingly remote"
and not in the interest of unsecured creditors.
   The company was responding to reports last week that its
unsecured creditors threatened to look into liquidating the
carrier if Eastern's parent, Texas Air Corp. of Houston,
doesn't agree to play a bigger role in the reorganization.
The creditors took that position after Eastern told them it
must withdraw from an agreement to pay them 50 cents for
every dollar owed.
   In a statement issued Friday, Eastern said it was
confident that when negotiations with its creditors committee
continue that "reason will prevail and the outcome will be
one that allows Eastern to successfully emerge from
bankruptcy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCA's Indicated Revenue
   From Park Was $85 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- The National Park Service here released
figures indicating MCA Inc. posted revenue of about $85
million in Yosemite National Park last year.
   The Park Service said MCA paid the government a franchise
fee of $635,772 to do business in Yosemite in 1989. Under
terms of its contract, MCA pays the government three-fourths
of 1% of annual revenue from Yosemite.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988, MCA paid a franchise fee of about $590,000,
indicating revenue of about $78 million. Neither the
government nor MCA will disclose how much the company earns
from Yosemite.
   MCA, a diversified entertainment concern that owns
Universal Studios, is the concessionaire for Yosemite,
providing lodging, meals, souvenirs, tours and recreational
activities. As reported, monopolistic concessionaire
contracts in national parks have been criticized by those who
believe the agreements are too favorable to private
companies.
   After visiting Yosemite, Secretary of the Interior Manuel
Lujan called for a review of concessions policy nationwide.
Results of that review are expected in about a month. Renewal
of all concession contracts is on hold until the department
determines whether the policy should be changed.
   MCA pays one of the lowest franchise fees among the more
than 500 concessionaires at national parks around the nation.
Though MCA's contract calls for the fee to be renegotiated
every five years, the amount hasn't been raised since the
contract was written in 1963. MCA purchased the concession
rights in 1973.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Survey of Underwriting:
   New Corporate Debt Issues
   Fell Steeply in First Quarter
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   MER MS BSC SB Z.CSU GE SLH AXP PA BAC PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate treasurers' skittishness over
interest rates -- and fallout from the collapse of Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., the big junk-bond underwriter --
combined to batter the market for corporate debt offerings
during the first quarter.
   Corporations issued just $25.6 billion worth of new bonds
in the period. That's 33% less than a year ago and the lowest
level in more than four years, Securities Data Co. says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bankruptcy-law filing by Drexel's parent company,
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc., dragged down an already
reeling junk-bond market. Just three new issues of these
high-risk, high-yield bonds were launched in the quarter,
raising $10.8 million. That was down sharply from 26 issues
totaling $151 million a year earlier. Junk-bond traders and
analysts don't expect a rebound any time soon.
   But the collapse of the $200 billion market for publicly
traded junk bonds bolstered issuers of mortgage and
asset-backed bonds. One reason: Investors nervous about
taking on risks amid the turbulence in the junk market felt
more comfortable turning to higher quality mortgage bonds
backed by the U.S. government, analysts say.
   The volume of mortgage and asset-backed bonds surged 46.6%
from a year earlier, raising $43.3 billion for the quarter --
the first time this debt tallied more than half of the total
new-issue volume. For Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co., mortgage and asset-backed securities accounted for
about 40% of their total underwriting volume.
   Issuers keen on getting assets such as credit-card loans
off their books found a ready market. The volume of
asset-backed bonds surged 77% to $9.4 billion, Securities
Data says. Merrill Lynch emerged as the leader in
asset-backed securities for the quarter, with a market share
of 24%, managing $2.3 billion. Merrill's strength stemmed
from its ability to underwrite securities using revolving
credit lines as collateral.
   Among mortgage-backed managers, Bear Stearns Cos. stood
out, raising $5.5 billion; Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
managed $3.9 billion.
   But here's the hitch: Much mortgage and asset-backed debt
typically doesn't generate fat fees. While the deals foster
relationships, securities firms "aren't making a penny on
it," says Securities Data's Francine Wissak.
   There, in a nutshell, is Wall Street's big problem: Few
tidal waves of cash these days. After the 1987 stock-market
crash, at least merger activity and junk bonds thrived,
picking up the slack from retreating individual investors.
But not much, it seems, is booming now.
   "The big-ticket items have slowed to a standstill," says
Perrin Long Jr., senior analyst at Lipper Analytical
Securities Corp. "The only thing putting any money into
(securities firms') pockets are the day-to-day commodity type
businesses," he says. And they don't make much cash.
   New-issue volume in the municipal, or tax-exempt, bond
market edged up 3% from the year-earlier quarter to $23.4
billion. Merrill Lynch, with a 12% market share, led Goldman
Sachs and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. in the municipals
marathon. Securities Data's volume and firm rankings are
based on the principal amount of municipal securities with
final stated maturities of 13 months and longer; private
placements and remarketed issues are excluded.
   Here are how last year's new issues stacked up: Mortgage
debt accounted for 43.2%; investment-grade corporate debt,
32.4%; asset-backed debt, 12.5%; initial public offerings,
5.5%; secondary common stock, 3.6%; preferred stock, 1.5%;
junk bonds, 0.5%; taxable municipal bonds, 0.4%; and
convertible bonds, 0.3%.
   ---
                 Top U.S. Debt Underwriters
                     (Three Months 1990)
                                                                                                       

                                         AMOUNT     MARKET
   MANAGER                           (In billions)  SHARE
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch                        $11.31      16.3%
   Goldman Sachs                         10.22      14.8
   Morgan Stanley                        10.00      14.4
   Bear Stearns                           5.94       8.6
   Salomon Brothers                       5.67       8.2
   First Boston                           4.48       6.5
   Prudential-Bache                       4.17       6.0
   Kidder Peabody                         3.60       5.2
   Shearson Lehman                        3.47       5.0
   Donaldson Lufkin                       2.22       3.2
   SUBTOTALS                            $61.09      88.2%
   INDUSTRY TOTALS                      $69.30     100.0%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
   ---
                Top Municipal Underwriters
                                                                                                       

                             THREE MONTHS 1990

                             AMOUNT       MKT.     NO. OF
   MANAGER               (In billions)   SHARE     ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch             $2.8        12.0%       52
   Goldman Sachs              2.3         9.9        37
   Smith Barney               2.0         8.5        26
   Shearson Lehman            1.8         7.6        71
   Bear Stearns               1.3         5.5        17
   Morgan Stanley             1.1         4.5        12
   Bank of America             .9         3.9         5
   First Boston                .9         3.9        17
   PaineWebber Inc             .5         1.9        26
   Prudential-Bache            .4         1.9        45
   SUBTOTALS                $14.0        59.6%      308
   INDUSTRY TOTALS          $23.4       100.0%     1375
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
   ---
                  Some Changing New Issues
                                                                                                       

   Percentage change in new issues, first quarter 1990 vs
year-average 1989
                                                                                                       

                                          1990     1989
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage debt ........................ 43.2%    35.8%
   Corporate debt (investment grade) .... 32.4%    35.3%
   Asset-backed debt .................... 12.5%     8.0%
   IPOs .................................  5.5%     4.5%
   Secondary common stock ...............  3.6%     3.0%
   Preferred stock ......................  1.5%     2.6%
   High-yield debt ......................  0.5%     8.2%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Survey of Underwriting:
   Merrill Hangs On to Top Underwriting Spot
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   MER MS SB Z.CSU J.NOM BSC SLH AXP G.DBK GE PA PWJ ABSB
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. is still tops among global
underwriters of all stocks and bonds, but its grip slipped in
the first quarter as world-wide financing volume eased.
   Merrill, the nation's largest securities firm, saw its
underwriting lead in the U.S. cut in half from a year
earlier. Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. is hot on Merrill's heels in
both the U.S. and global underwriting races. And Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. and Bear Stearns Cos. made headway at the
expense of First Boston Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Merrill does well when the run-of-the-mill company is
seeking additional funds," says Perrin Long Jr., senior
securities analyst for Lipper Analytical Securities Corp.
"When it becomes quality-type companies, the top-tier
investment bankers -- Morgan Stanley and Goldman -- do well."
   Merrill was hard hit by the pullback of financial
institutions from issuing new securities. These firms,
including commercial banks and savings and loans, raised just
$13.5 billion in the first quarter, down nearly 50% from
year-earlier levels. This helped pull down the volume of
conventional debt offerings underwritten by Merrill to $6.5
billion from $9.8 billion a year ago.
   Merrill officials say many corporate issuers are sitting
tight, waiting for clues to the direction of interest rates.
And Merrill contends that it's difficult to draw conclusions
from just one quarter.
   "It's a little bit like talking to the coach at the end of
the first quarter in a basketball game," says Edson Mitchell,
a Merrill managing director.
   Despite its slip, Merrill continues to lead in most
sectors of the debt market. It's still the leading manager of
domestic new issues, raising $12.4 billion, and tops in
global new issues, raising $12.8 billion in the first
quarter, according to Securities Data Co.
   And Mr. Mitchell expects Merrill to continue its dominance
because of what he says are a strong capital markets
operation and trading and distribution outlets.
   Overall, a burst of new issues in the past two weeks
propped first-quarter stock and bond offerings in the U.S. to
$77.7 billion, up from $73.3 billion a year earlier. But
political and economic uncertainty hammered overseas
activity, particularly the Japanese market; the volume of
global stock and bond issues slipped 10% from 1989's first
period.
   The collapse of the junk-bond market, meanwhile, helped
trigger a pickup in mortgage and asset-backed debt.
Investors, skittish about junk, turned to high-quality
mortgage paper backed by the U.S. government, analysts said.
For the first time, mortgage and asset-backed securities
accounted for more than 50% of total new-issue volume of
stock and debt securities.
   But the traditional leaders of this sector -- Salomon
Brothers Inc., First Boston and Goldman -- were toppled. Bear
Stearns took the crown for the period, underwriting $5.9
billion of mortgage-backed bonds for a market share of 13.7%.
   Goldman's overall strong performance stemmed from common
stock offerings; it raised $1.4 billion for a market share of
19.1%. (Overall, issuers of common stock raised more than $7
billion in the first quarter, an 82% increase from a year
earlier.) Goldman also topped the list of initial public
offerings, underwriting $926.6 million in the period.
   Morgan Stanley led the pack in underwriting conventional
debt securities, raising $7.6 billion, a market share of
nearly 30%. The bulk of Morgan Stanley's success in the
quarter stems from $1.7 billion raised for employee stock
ownership trusts and the firm's strong relationship with
federal credit agencies, especially the Student Loan
Marketing Association, or Sallie Mae.
   Sallie Mae, 1990's largest issuer of corporate debt,
called on Morgan Stanley to underwrite 49% of the $3.9
billion it issued so far this year.
   ---
         Top Global Underwriters of Debt and Equity
                                                                                                       

             THREE MONTHS 1990       THREE MONTHS 1989
             -----------------     ----------------------
             AMOUNT     MARKET     AMOUNT   RANK   MARKET
        (In millions)   SHARE   (In millions)      SHARE
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch
          $12,778.4     10.3%   $15,864.0     1    11.5%
                                                                                                       

   Goldman Sachs
           12,680.8     10.2     12,236.5     3     8.9
                                                                                                       

   Morgan Stanley
           11,302.3      9.1      6,987.3     6     5.1
                                                                                                       

   Salomon Brothers
            8,992.2      7.3      7,082.6     5     5.1
                                                                                                       

   CS First Boston
            7,694.3      6.2     13,625.2     2     9.9
                                                                                                       

   Nomura Securities
            6,408.6      5.2     10,955.3     4     8.0
                                                                                                       

   Bear Stearns
            5,937.9      4.8      3,885.4    10     2.8
                                                                                                       

   Shearson Lehman
            4,461.1      3.6      5,564.6     7     4.0
                                                                                                       

   Prudential-Bache
            4,449.7      3.6      2,806.2    16     2.0
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Bank
            4,155.6      3.4      2,828.3    15     2.1
                                                                                                       

   SUBTOTALS
          $78,860.8     63.7%   $81,835.5          59.4%
                                                                                                       

   INDUSTRY TOTALS
         $123,723.9    100.0%  $137,658.5         100.0%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
   ---
          Top Underwriters of U.S. Debt and Equity
                                                                                                       

             THREE MONTHS 1990       THREE MONTHS 1989
             -----------------     ----------------------
             AMOUNT     MARKET     AMOUNT   RANK   MARKET
        (In millions)   SHARE   (In millions)      SHARE
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch
          $12,437.1     16.0%   $13,886.9     1    18.9%
                                                                                                       

   Goldman Sachs
           11,581.7     14.9     10,829.0     2    14.8
                                                                                                       

   Morgan Stanley
           10,182.5     13.1      5,270.8     5     7.2
                                                                                                       

   Salomon Brothers
            6,694.1      8.6      6,327.6     4     8.6
                                                                                                       

   Bear Stearns
            5,937.9      7.6      3,885.4     7     5.3
                                                                                                       

   First Boston
            5,073.3      6.5     10,582.5     3    14.4
                                                                                                       

   Prudential-Bache
            4,377.7      5.6      2,721.2     9     3.7
                                                                                                       

   Shearson Lehman
            4,120.1      5.3      5,219.1     6     7.1
                                                                                                       

   Kidder Peabody
            3,817.9      4.9      2,362.5    10     3.2
                                                                                                       

   Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
            2,215.3      2.9        435.0    18      .6
                                                                                                       

   SUBTOTALS
          $66,437.6     85.5%   $61,519.9          83.9%
                                                                                                       

   INDUSTRY TOTALS
          $77,709.7    100.0%   $73,342.2         100.0%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
   ---
         Disclosed Fees From New Issue Underwriting
                                                                                                       

         THREE MONTHS 1990            THREE MONTHS 1989
     ------------------------    --------------------------
     AMOUNT   % OF    NUMBER    AMOUNT  RANK  % OF  NUMBER
  (millions)  MKT.  OF ISSUES (millions)      MKT. OF ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Goldman Sachs
    $99.0    16.7      32      $122.9    1    21.8    36
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch
     86.8    14.6      49       102.3    2    18.1    66
                                                                                                       

   Salomon Brothers
     63.2    10.7      23        19.2    8     3.4    26
                                                                                                       

   PaineWebber
     58.9     9.9      73         8.0    5     6.7     6
                                                                                                       

   Alex. Brown
     46.6     7.9       7         6.4   15     1.1     5
                                                                                                       

   Morgan Stanley
     38.9     6.6      21         8.5   12     1.5     9
                                                                                                       

   First Boston
     35.4     6.01     77         7.7    3    13.8    29
                                                                                                       

   Shearson Lehman
     33.9     5.7      14        15.5    9     2.8    23
                                                                                                       

   Smith Barney
     30.1     5.1      10        25.6    7     4.5     8
                                                                                                       

   Prudential-Bache
     14.8     2.5      34         7.5    4     8.4    10
                                                                                                       

   SUBTOTALS
   $507.5    85.5%    183      $463.6         82.2%  218
                                                                                                       

   INDUSTRY TOTALS
   $592.6   100.0%    262      $564.1        100.0%  324
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Legal and Political Skirmishes Preceded
   High Court Decision to Rule on Flag Law
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court's announcement that it
will rule this spring on the new federal flag-burning law
followed some unusual legal and political maneuvering.
   The justices announced on Friday that they will hold a
special, hour-long argument on May 14, two weeks after the
scheduled end of oral arguments for the term, to consider the
constitutionality of the flag law passed last year by
Congress. A decision in the case is expected in late June or
early July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A recent vote in the House demonstrates the strong
passions the case has stirred. By a 309-101 vote, the House
withdrew a brief filed in the Supreme Court by House counsel
Steven Ross. The brief urged the court to hear the case and
uphold the law. But the hot point of contention was the
timing of Supreme Court review.
   When it passed the law, Congress included a provision
calling for expedited review by the high court. Based on that
provision, after federal judges in Seattle and the District
of Columbia declared the law unconstitutional, the Bush
administration on March 14 urged the high court to put the
appeal on a fast track for argument this month -- even though
the usual deadline for April hearings had passed.
   In contrast, the House brief had said Congress simply
meant that the court should "give the case priority when it
devises its argument calendar for October."
   House Republican leaders provoked the vote to withdraw the
brief, complaining that they weren't consulted on it, and
focusing on the brief's suggestion that there was no need for
the high court to rush to hear the case this spring.
   The vote came to be seen as an election-year test of
lawmakers' commitment to protecting the flag. The issue, said
Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R., Wis.), was whether the House
would "leave that flag unprotected for a longer period of
time, maybe all summer, maybe till after the election."
   After the House vote, Mr. Ross and Democratic leaders met
with the Republicans; the next day, the brief was refiled,
but the discussion of how quickly the case should be decided
was deleted.
   Democratic leaders insisted they hadn't been trying to
delay Supreme Court action until after the November election.
The suggestion in the brief for a routine schedule, rather
than a fast track, was to give the lawyers ample time to
research the case, they said.
   Rep. Craig Washington (D., Texas), said that the November
election had nothing to do with the issue, "except someone
wants to use it for political purposes."
   Ever since the high court struck down a Texas
flag-desecration law last June, the question of how to
protect the flag has been a tough one for Democrats. Most
Democratic lawmakers pushed for the new federal law in the
hope that it would be upheld by the Supreme Court and there
would be no need for a constitutional amendment favored by
many Republicans.
   If the Supreme Court now strikes down the federal law,
Democrats will find it difficult to oppose a constitutional
amendment, especially a few months before the November
congressional elections.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ivaco Plans to Buy
   Remainder of Canron,
   A Toronto Steel Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IVA.A TCL.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Ivaco Inc. and Canron Inc. said Ivaco agreed
to acquire the 21% of Canron it doesn't already own under a
proposed arrangement approved by the boards of both
companies.
   Ivaco and Canron said the arrangement is subject to
approval by regulatory authorities and Canron holders at a
meeting in May. Ivaco, a Montreal-based steel and
steel-products concern, said that under the arrangement it
will make an offer valued at about 42.6 million Canadian
dollars (US$36.3 million) for the publicly held shares of
Canron, a Toronto steel and pipe concern. Under the
arrangement, Ivaco said Canron holders would receive C$20.50
for each Class A or Class B share and C$35 for each Series B
preferred share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange Canron Class A shares last
traded Friday before a trading halt at C$11.50, unchanged. In
Toronto, Ivaco Class A shares closed at C$10.25, down 25
Canadian cents.
   Paul Ivanier, president and chief executive officer of
Ivaco, said funding for the acquisition would come from the
combined resources of Ivaco and Canron.
   Both Ivaco and Canron have been struggling lately. Each
posted a loss for 1989 after extraordinary items and losses
from discontinued operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- NCR Corp.:
   Teradata Stake Purchased
   In Computer-Venture Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   NCR TDAT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NCR Corp. and Teradata Corp., completing terms of a
venture for jointly developing their parallel-processing
computer technologies, said NCR bought 1,400,995 newly issued
Teradata shares for $26.26 each, or $36.8 million.
   The purchase gives Dayton, Ohio-based NCR, an
information-processing systems company, a 9.4% stake in
Teradata, a Los Angeles-based computer systems concern. The
price was a 15% premium over the average closing price of
Teradata shares in the 30 days before the venture was first
announced. In national over-the-counter trading Friday,
Teradata shares closed at $31.50, down 75 cents. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, NCR shares closed at
$68.625, down $1.875.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, NCR and Teradata will contribute
personnel, technology and funding to the project, with NCR
providing most of the funding initially. The two companies
will develop general business computer systems during the
three-year project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark Says
   Creditors Back
   A Revised Plan
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE, REITS, LAND DEVELOPMENT (REL)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. said it filed a new
reorganization plan drafted with the help of the unsecured
creditors' committee, leading the committee to drop its
motion to file a competing plan.
   Arthur G. Weiss, Southland's chairman, characterized the
new plan as a "complete consensual agreement" with the
creditors' committee. He added that the development could
allow the big thrift and real-estate concern to emerge from
bankruptcy-court proceedings by July, or just a year after
the company filed for protection from its creditors under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That's probably the fastest any major, complicated
bankruptcy has been ended," Mr. Weiss said.
   However, some advisers to the committee cautioned that
such talk may be be premature. "I think it's overbroad" to
say creditors have reached a consensus, said John Flowers, an
attorney for I.C.H. Corp., Louisville, Ky., a major creditor.
Lewis Kruger, counsel to the creditors' committee, said "it
looks to me like we're on the way to a transaction," but
added: "I'm not sure {July} is a realistic timetable."
   The new plan is similar to the first reorganization
proposal Southmark filed in January, and which creditors
initially threatened to oppose. Creditors would receive
anywhere from a few pennies to perhaps 33 cents on the dollar
for the company's more than $1.2 billion in total public
debt. And Southmark still would end up as little more than a
holding company for troubled San Jacinto Savings Association.
   But the new plan would give creditors more cash up front,
and also would grant them the option to halt Southmark's
current agreement with federal thrift regulators to pump an
additional $100 million in cash and notes into the ailing
Houston thrift.
   On the effective date of the new plan, Southmark would
distribute as much as $75 million to senior creditors and as
much as $1 million to holders of allowed subordinated claims.
If sufficient cash isn't available, a new board elected by
creditors could decide to abrogate the agreement to invest
more in San Jacinto, Southmark said.
   But Southmark advisers said they didn't expect that to
happen. Although some creditors had objected earlier to
Southmark's plan to reorganize around a Texas thrift -- and
to pump in more money at that -- the alternative isn't
attractive. If creditors renege, federal thrift regulators
would be free to assert claims against Southmark on behalf of
San Jacinto estimated at $1.4 billion.
   "I think {creditors} are coming to the same conclusion
that we had, that that's a very difficult, very expensive
piece of litigation," said Paul Wickes, a senior bankruptcy
attorney for Southmark. He added that the company is
"reasonably confident" the cash will be there for creditors.
   Representatives of the creditors' committee couldn't be
reached immediately for comment on the plan. Southmark said
the committee agreed to withdraw its pending motion to end
the company's exclusive right to file a plan.
   Terms of the new plan call for Southmark to issue $75
million in new secured notes to senior creditors. Those
notes, bearing annual interest of 12%, would be repaid with
proceeds from the sale of Southmark's real estate, brokerage,
health care, oil and gas and insurance assets.
   The company also would issue $100 million in new preferred
stock, of which senior creditors would receive $88 million
and subordinated creditors $12 million. Rather than being
redeemed with the proceeds of asset sales, as contemplated in
the earlier plan, the preferred stock would pay special
dividends from the proceeds to allow for more favorable tax
treatment, the company said.
   Southmark also slashed the stake current equity holders
would be given in the reorganized company. Under the new
plan, senior creditors would receive 64.7% of the company's
new common stock, while holders of senior subordinated debt
would receive 18.5%. Subordinated debt holders would receive
11.3%; preferred shareholders 3%; and holders of common
shares 2%. Previously, preferred and holders of common were
to have received a total of 11%.
   Shareholders haven't approved the new plan, company
officials said.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ARTHUR G. WEISS is chairman of Southmark Corp. His company
affiliation was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ April 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Occidental Petroleum Corp.:
   Unit Discovers Oil and Gas
   In North Sea, Off Scotland
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Occidental Petroleum (Caledonia) Ltd., a unit of Los
Angeles-based Occidental Petroleum Corp., said it discovered
oil and natural gas in the North Sea about 120 miles
northeast of Aberdeen, Scotland.
   The Occidental unit in London said an exploration well
about nine miles southeast of the North Sea's Piper field
tested at a maximum daily flow rate of 6,529 barrels of oil
and 12.5 million cubic feet of natural gas through a
48/64-inch opening. The well was drilled by a
semi-submersible rig on the Westray prospect in Block 15/17
to a total depth of 15,670 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said they couldn't determine the significance of
the discovery, partly because of its proximity to the Piper
field and its satellite Saltire field. "This at least
confirms that they have a decent-sized discovery at Saltire,"
said Bryan Jacoboski at PaineWebber Inc.
   Occidental is the well operator and holds a 36.5% interest
in it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Taiwan Ministry Plans
   Offering of Stocks
   In Three State Banks
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- The Finance Ministry of Taiwan said it
will sell 46.3 million shares valued at 25.76 billion New
Taiwan dollars (US$975.7 million) of three state-owned banks
on the Taiwan Stock Exchange to quicken the pace of its
public-offering plan.
   The ministry said it will sell 23 million shares of First
Commercial Bank, 2.2 million shares of Hua Nan Commercial
Bank and 21.1 million shares of Chang Hwa Commercial Bank.
The Bank of Communications will be underwriter. The stocks
will be sold from April 14 to 19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The underwriting price for First Commercial Bank will be
at NT$561.96 a share, NT$587.35 a share for Hua Nan
Commercial Bank and NT$545.88 a share for Chang Hwa
Commercial Bank.
   The Taiwan provincial government is also planning to sell
more than 100 million of its shares later. The government
holds stakes of 74.4% in First Commercial, 58.1% in Hua Nan
and 56.2% in Chang Hwa. The sales will leave the government
with 51% of the shares of the three banks.
   Brokers expected the news to boost the stock market.
   Taiwan launched its public-offering drive in March 1989 by
selling about 150 million shares of state-owned China Steel
Corp. The proposal to slash the government holdings in the
three banks was approved by Taiwan's cabinet in May 1989. The
government has also agreed to a public offer or partial
public offer of 15 other state-owned companies such as China
Shipbuilding Corp. and Taiwan Machinery Manufacturing Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Howard Savings Bank:
   Lifting Loan-Loss Reserves
   To Cause Quarterly Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWRD
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Howard Savings Bank, Livingston, N.J., said it plans to
add about $30 million to its loan-loss reserves for the first
quarter, causing a loss of about $17 million, or $1.16 a
share. In the 1989 first quarter, Howard earned $8.5 million,
or 59 cents a share.
   Howard also said its board suspended payment of the
quarterly dividend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leo J. Rogers Jr., president, said the additional reserves
became necessary "because of both the continuing weakness in
the region's real estate markets and a further deterioration
in loans previously identified by the bank as problem loans."
   After the addition to reserves, the bank's allowance for
loan losses will be about $112 million, compared with $84.9
million at the end of 1989. The bank anticipates that its
nonperforming loans will increase to about $410 million at
the end of the first quarter from $314.8 million at year end.
Howard said it remains in compliance with all applicable
capital standards.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Howard shares
closed at $5.125, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Parretti Sentenced
   To Prison for Role
   In Newspaper Failure
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti, who has
launched a $1.26 billion bid to buy MGM/UA Communications Co,
received a prison sentence for fraudulent bankruptcy from a
Naples court in connection with the 1981 collapse of a
newspaper in which he was a part owner.
   The sentence relates to the failure of Il Diario, a daily
newspaper published in the Naples region between 1979 and
1981 and of which Mr. Parretti was briefly a director. Mr.
Parretti was sentenced to three years and 10 months in jail
and banned him from holding public office for five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Parretti said he had already lodged an appeal and that
the court's decision would have no effect on his bid for
MGM/UA, a film and television studio. "Why should it have any
effect?" he said. "Everyone knew about this case. We made
full disclosure in the documents."
   In Los Angeles, officials at MGM/UA couldn't be reached
for comment.
   There is no prospect of Mr. Parretti being jailed in the
near future. Manlio Pennino, a lawyer representing the Diario
journalists who brought the suit against Mr. Parretti, said
an appeal hearing in Naples would be unlikely to start until
at least next year. Even if Mr. Parretti lost that case, he
would be able to request a further hearing before the Supreme
Court of Appeal in Rome.
   The court judgment said Italafin S.p.A., the company
founded by Mr. Parretti that controlled Il Diario, defaulted
on capital payments and that accounts were falsified. Six
other people have been under investigation in relation to the
newspaper's collapse; four of them have since died.
   The court decision comes at a critical time in Mr.
Parretti's bid for MGM/UA. Mr. Parretti's company, Pathe
Communications, has pledged to pay a $200 million security
deposit on the transaction in installments by June, and is
negotiating with Time Warner Inc. to sell it distribution
rights to the United Artists film library.
   Mr. Parretti declined to give details of the financing
package he is putting together for the $20-a-share MGM/UA
bid, except to confirm that banks he has contacted include
Italian ones.
   Pathe has extensive cinema and television interests in
Europe, including controlling Italian commercial television
station Odeon. Mr. Parretti also owns a Spanish real-estate
company, Renta Group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Curtice-Burns Foods Inc.:
   Rochester, N.Y., Firm Says
   Third-Period Net Fell 50%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   CBI
</CO>
<LP>
   Curtice-Burns Foods Inc. said it expects third-quarter
earnings to drop about 50% from year-earlier period on an 8%
sales rise.
   The third quarter ended Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year ago, the Rochester, N.Y., company had net income of
$3.2 million, or 39 cents a share, on sales of $204.1
million. The per-share figure reflects a 3-for-2 stock split
paid in December.
   David J. McDonald, Curtice-Burns president and chief
executive officer, said the earnings decline reflects a poor
crop year in the Northeast and high ingredient costs in the
meat snack business. Sales of the company's oat bran products
have also declined and prices on certain canned and frozen
vegetables have dropped.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Plan to Settle Maryland Asbestos Claims May Be Model
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK GAF
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A court-appointed arbitrator has devised an innovative
plan that may resolve as many as 9,000 asbestos claims in
Maryland's courts -- and could serve as a model for future
settlements elsewhere.
   The plan, which has been tentatively approved by two dozen
of the defendants in the cases and a plaintiff's lawyer for
all the claims, would settle the suits with each of the
defendants making a "blind contribution" to an overall
settlement fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This means that none of the defendant companies -- which
include GAF Corp., Armstrong World Industries Inc. and Keene
Corp.would know what any of the others has contributed, or
the total amount.
   The proposal aims to solve a thorny problem in such cases:
Since many companies manufactured the product, it is
impossible to tell which company's product caused which
injuries. Thus, manufacturers and distributors typically
disagree bitterly over how much of the total liability each
is responsible for.
   By keeping the contributions secret, the idea is to
prevent the defendants from backing out after comparing the
size of their contributions against their estimates of their
own liability. Securities laws allow publicly held companies
to disclose aggregate numbers only for all legal costs to
preserve the confidentiality of individual settlements.
   "I am increasingly optimistic that what we have here in
Maryland is going to be a model nationwide," said Kenneth R.
Feinberg, a Washington lawyer who was appointed special
master in the cases in October. Mr. Feinberg, a partner at
Kaye, Scholar, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler, was assigned to
construct an out-of-court system to compensate victims of
exposure to asbestos, a widely used fire-resistant fiber that
can cause various lung diseases, including cancer.
   Keeping the individual contributions and the aggregate
fund "blind," said Mr. Feinberg, is the glue holding the
package together: "That's the only way you can get these
parties to cooperate."
   Other states -- including New York, California, Florida
and Texas -- have been looking to Maryland for a potential
solution to backlogs of asbestos litigation. Because federal
courts and most state courts don't permit asbestos injury
suits to proceed as so-called class actions, tens of
thousands of cases nationwide must proceed individually or in
small groups, eating up already burdened court time and
resources.
   The plan, which hasn't been approved by all of the 85
defendants facing asbestos claims in Maryland, offers several
advantages for plaintiffs and defendants, said Edward Houff,
an asbestos defense lawyer in Baltimore who represents 22
defendants. It provides predictability and consistency in the
settlement amounts while avoiding delay and risk of jury
trials.
   Mr. Feinberg, who helped engineer settlements for mass
claims in litigation over the Agent Orange defoliant and the
Dalkon Shield birth-control device, said he will recommend
settlement amounts for specific illnesses from exposure to
asbestos, but that the final decision will be up to Baltimore
City Circuit Judge Marshall A. Levin, who appointed Mr.
Feinberg.
   If the plan proceeds, each defendant company will make a
contribution to Peter Angelos, the Baltimore plaintiff's
lawyer who is handling 90% of the claims. Mr. Angelos, in
turn, will administer the fund and make payments to his
clients. All clients, said Mr. Angelos, have the option of
pursuing their suits in court rather than claiming a share of
the fund.
   Mr. Feinberg said a final agreement for the plan, which
would compensate all asbestos claims filed up to Sept. 1,
1990, requires the defendants to pay the amounts they have
agreed to and the plaintiffs to accept the settlement
amounts. For future claims, an effort would be made to change
Maryland court rules to require new asbestos claimants to try
arbitration before litigating their claims. The latter point
could prove difficult.
   Said Mr. Angelos: "We will not agree to anything that
erects a barricade between a plaintiff and a courthouse."
   ---
   GAF SENTENCE includes prison time for Vice Chairman James
T. Sherwin.
   A federal judge in New York sentenced Mr. Sherwin to six
months in prison and fined the company $2 million for
convictions of criminal stock manipulation and securities
fraud.
   On Friday U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe, who
presided over the GAF trial last year, said it was her duty
to sentence the GAF executive to a prison term "as a lesson
to others who may be tempted to violate the laws that deal
with the {financial} markets." The judge also sentenced Mr.
Sherwin to one year of probation following his time behind
bars.
   Stephen E. Kaufman, one of Mr. Sherwin's lawyers, urged
the judge to sentence his client to community service
because, "This was an aberrational act, an isolated act, an
act totally out of character with anything he's done in his
life." The government didn't recommend a specific jail term
for Mr. Sherwin but said a "substantial sentence" was
warranted. Lawyers for Mr. Sherwin and GAF said they will
appeal the sentences.
   In the case, the government charged that Mr. Sherwin asked
the Los Angeles brokerage firm Jefferies &amp; Co. to purchase
shares of Union Carbide Corp. in October 1986 at a certain
price. The request, prosecutors claimed, was part of a scheme
to push up the stock price just as GAF was preparing to sell
off millions of Carbide shares. Last December jurors returned
a verdict of guilty on all counts against Mr. Sherwin and
GAF.
   After the sentencing, Mr. Sherwin, a 56-year-old lawyer
who was once the nation's third ranking chess player,
declined to comment. Looking somber, he embraced his tearful
wife and five of his children. He will remain free, pending
the appeal of the sentence.
   The sentencing of Mr. Sherwin and GAF effectively marks
the end of the cases brought to the government's door by
former brokerage chief Boyd L. Jefferies. Mr. Jefferies, who
was implicated by former arbitrageur Ivan F. Boesky, in turn
pointed the finger at Mr. Sherwin and GAF, as well as
corporate takeover specialist Paul A. Bilzerian and former
stock speculator Salim B. Lewis.
   Early in the summer, the government won a criminal
securities conviction against Mr. Bilzerian, who was later
sentenced to four years in prison. In August, Mr. Lewis
pleaded guilty to three felony counts and was sentenced to
three years' probation and $250,000 in fines.
   Last month, GAF agreed to settle a related civil suit
filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the
settlement, the firm will pay the government $1,250,000 as
well as interest in excess of $400,000.
   ---
   LISA JONES'S CONVICTION is upheld, but appeals court
orders new sentencing.
   Ms. Jones, 27, was convicted last year of five counts of
perjury and two counts of obstruction of justice for lying to
a federal grand jury in Manhattan, N.Y. The grand jury was
looking into allegations of illegal trades between Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. and Princeton/Newport Limited
Partnership. Ms. Jones, a former assistant trader at Drexel,
denied in her testimony that she knew about the transactions.
   The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected Ms.
Jones's claims that her convictions should be overturned
because of alleged conflicts of interest by her trial lawyer,
who also represented other Drexel employees. But the appeals
panel said the trial judge, Leonard Sand, improperly
increased Ms. Jones's sentence under federal sentencing
guidelines.
   At the prosecutors' request, Judge Sand boosted Ms. Jones
to a higher penalty level under the guidelines because her
perjury allegedly caused the government to spend more money
than it otherwise would have in its investigation of
Princeton/ Newport. As a result, Ms. Jones faced a sentence
of 18 to 24 months, instead of 10 to 16 months. The appeals
court said the judge should have stuck to the lower
sentencing level, and it sent the case back to Judge Sand for
resentencing. No date has been set for the new sentencing.
   "Apparently it was the view of the district court that
these instances of perjury resulted in substantial
expenditures of governmental resources," the appeals court
wrote. "No such expenditures have been demonstrated." The
court said Ms. Jones's perjury didn't deprive the government
of any information it didn't already have from other sources.
   Daniel Bookin, an attorney for Ms. Jones, declined to
comment. He said no decision has been made on whether to
appeal the conviction further.
   At the resentencing, the government could again ask for
the tougher sentence if it presented evidence that the
perjury resulted in substantial additional costs. A
spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said, "It's
inappropriate at this time to discuss what the government
will do at the time of sentencing."
   ---
   FORMER DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION CHIEF didn't have
conflict of interest in Eastern Airlines case, court rules.
   A federal appeals court rejected a pilots union claim that
James H. Burnley, former DOT secretary, violated conflict of
interest laws in Eastern's labor-management struggle.
   A three-member panel of the federal appeals court in
Washington, D.C., declined to review Mr. Burnley's December
1988 decision against conducting a broad-based investigation
of Eastern's operations. The Air Line Pilots Association
charged that Mr. Burnley ruled against the inquiry, which
would have been Eastern's second that year, as he was being
courted by a law firm that represents the carrier on other
matters.
   Mr. Burnley left his post as DOT secretary to become a
partner at the Washington law firm of Shaw, Pittman, Potts &amp;
Trowbridge in January 1989. Although Mr. Burnley was
negotiating for the partnership while deciding the Eastern
matter, a department ethics official said Mr. Burnley could
rule on the matter because Shaw Pittman wasn't representing
Eastern during that proceeding. A second review by Mr.
Burnley's successor as transportation secretary, Samuel
Skinner, also concluded Mr. Burnley had violated no laws or
regulations.
   A spokesman for the pilots' association said he wasn't
sure if the union would seek a further appeal. Mr. Burnley
couldn't be reached.
   ---
   ATTORNEY-CLIENT SECRECY is protected in fees case.
   A federal appellate court panel upheld a ruling in favor
of a Chicago lawyer who fought a grand-jury subpoena
requesting the source of his fees, on the basis that such
information represents privileged attorney-client
communications.
   U.S. District Judge Joel M. Flaum, writing the opinion for
the Seventh U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago, emphasized that
the decision isn't meant to broaden the attorney-client
privilege. But when communications are confidential, the
privilege is essential "to the proper functioning of our
adversary system," Judge Flaum said.
   The case involved David Cherney, who was subpoenaed to
testify before a federal grand jury and identify the person
who paid him the legal fees of another individual, who had
been named in a federal drug-conspiracy indictment. The
unidentified third-party fee payer also consulted Mr. Cherney
involving the fee payer's own possible involvement in the
conspiracy.
   "It is quite obvious that the government wants to learn
the identity of the feepayer so that it can bring a suspected
drug felon to justice," Judge Flaum said. "Nevertheless, the
government's interests in this instance must give way to
those served by the attorney-client privilege."
   Last week's unanimous ruling by the three-member appeals
court panel drew praise from the National Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers, which has battled what it views as
attempts by the government to erode that privilege.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Uniforce Temporary Personnel:
   Firm No Longer Considers
   Sale or Merger of Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   UNFR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Uniforce Temporary Personnel Inc., New Hyde Park, N.Y.,
said it is no longer considering a sale or merger of the
company.
   In May, Uniforce said it had retained Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets to evaluate strategies to maximize the
company's value to shareholders, including a possible sale or
restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Uniforce said it decided instead to raise the quarterly
dividend rate and to increase its borrowing facility from $5
million, to $15 million, "in connection with its intention to
expand operations through the acquisition and conversion of
existing temporary services."
   The dividend will be three cents a share, up from 2.5
cents, and payable May 4 to stock of record April 20.
   Through its Uniforce Temporary Services, the company
operates a national network of offices providing temporary
office and light-industry workers. Uniforce's 1989 net income
grew to $3.9 million, or 84 cents a share, from 1988 net of
$3.1 million, or 67 cents a share. Sales rose to $110.5
million from $101 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET UNION SENT military reinforcements to
Lithuania's capital.
   As the breakaway Baltic republic's legislature met to
consider its next moves, dozens of Soviet military vehicles
lumbered through the streets of Vilnius, and the last Western
journalists were ousted from the republic on orders from the
Soviet government. The activity prompted some Lithuanians to
express concern about an impending Kremlin military
crackdown. On Saturday, Gorbachev had urged the republic to
renounce its March 11 proclamation of independence and to
enter talks with Moscow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuania's president rejected Gorbachev's appeal, but
said the republic would send negotiators to Moscow today to
arrange talks with Soviet officials.
   ---
   THATCHER BLAMED extremists for turning a tax protest into
a riot.
   The British prime minister, as well as opposition
politicians, criticized "extreme groups who used violence"
for the "mayhem" that erupted Saturday at an anti-tax protest
in London. More than 130 people were injured and about 340
arrested in the rioting, considered the worst in decades.
Sporadic unrest flared yesterday as the unpopular tax, which
generally replaces a property tax with a levy on each adult,
took effect in England and Wales. Thatcher made clear she
won't back down over the issue.
   About 300 inmates rioted at an overcrowded prison in
Manchester, England, occupying rooftops and setting fires.
About 50 people were injured.
   ---
   East Berlin officials warned that a Bundesbank proposal
for a 2-to-1 conversion rate for East German marks into West
German marks could hinder the unification of the two
Germanys. The recommendation marked a retreat from pledges
made by Bonn's leader during recent East German elections.
   ---
   Mandela offered to meet with South Africa's President de
Klerk to discuss how to end violence, but said police conduct
would determine when the African National Congress holds
talks with the government. The black nationalist leader
indicated that there were differences within the ANC, which
canceled April 11 negotiations with Pretoria.
   ---
   Police in China barred the general public from entering
Beijing's Tiananmen Square, where dissidents had urged a
silent protest against last year's government crackdown on
student-led demonstrations. Paramilitary forces ringed most
of the huge square in the latest sign of tightened security
in the capital ahead of anniversaries marking unrest.
   ---
   Idaho Gov. Andrus vetoed what would have been the nation's
most restrictive abortion law. The legislation would have
prevented about 95% of the state's abortions. Friday's veto
by Andrus, considered an opponent of abortion, left
anti-abortion leaders searching for new opportunities to
press their efforts before the Supreme Court.
   ---
   Hundreds of civilians in Lebanon fled the country's
Christian enclave as a cease-fire ended two days of fighting
between rival Christian forces. More than 60 people were
killed and about 130 injured in the battles. The truce, the
15th in two months of fighting, was negotiated by a
three-member mediation committee backed by the Vatican.
   ---
   Cases of venereal disease are rebounding at gay clinics in
Los Angeles, Seattle and Denver, and the rate of new
AIDS-virus infections in Chicago has risen for the first time
in five years. The increases were attributed by some to a
return to unsafe-sex practices within the homosexual
community and elsewhere.
   ---
   Medical researchers reported that damage from spinal-cord
injuries, frequently the cause of paralysis, can be reduced
by a common generic drug. Such injuries afflict about 10,000
people a year. Researchers said that large doses of
methylprednisolone, an anti-inflammatory drug, given within
eight hours of injury can limit damage.
   ---
   Zimbabwe's President Mugabe vowed to press ahead with
plans to turn the nation's democracy into a one-party state
after results from last week's elections gave the country's
ruling party all but three of the 150 seats in Harare's
legislature. But the 66-year-old Mugabe indicated that
opposition parties wouldn't be immediately outlawed.
   ---
   Honduras's military pledged to search for gunmen who
attacked a bus carrying 28 U.S. airmen about six miles north
of Tegucigalpa, leaving eight wounded, at least two
seriously. A leftist rebel group, the Morazano National
Liberation Front, claimed responsibility for the assault
Saturday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Information International Inc.:
   Litigation With Publisher
   Over Software Is Settled
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8A
</SO>
<CO>
   IINT
</CO>
<LP>
   Information International Inc. said it settled certain
litigation with Morris Communications Corp. over computer
software used for newspaper publishing and commercial
printing.
   Under the settlements, which dealt with suits filed last
October in federal court in Georgia, Morris Communications
withdrew demands for restitution of the $3 million purchase
price of a software system bought from Information
International. For its part, Information International paid
royalty payments owed to Morris on separate software acquired
from Morris.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Information International, based in Culver City, Calif.,
makes computer software for the publishing business, among
others. Closely held Morris Communications, based in Augusta,
Ga., is a newspaper publishing concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Graphic Scanning Corp.:
   Telecommunications Firm
   Tries to Answer Objections
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   GSCC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Graphic Scanning Corp. moved to answer Gabelli Group
Inc.'s objections to the Englewood, N.J., telecommunications
company's proposed slate of directors to be voted at the
annual meeting.
   Gabelli, which controls the equivalent of 38.8% of Graphic
Scanning shares, had said it couldn't support the slate and
suggested the company nominate "knowledgeable industry
professionals" to the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Graphic responded by adding two more candidates to the
slate -- James L. Greenwald, president and chief executive
officer of Katz Communications Inc., and Robert Price,
president of Price Communications Corp. If both men are
elected, the board would increase to 10 members. Graphic also
postponed the meeting until April 19. Katz and Price are
based in New York.
   Mario J. Gabelli, who heads the investor group, said he
couldn't say whether the move would satisfy the group's
concerns, until he sees the new proxy material. He did say,
however, that he believed reducing the size of the board to
six would have been better than expanding it to 10.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Gillette Co.:
   Company Arranges to Sell
   Some European Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8C
</SO>
<CO>
   GS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gillette Co. said it agreed to sell its European skin care
and hair care businesses to Nobel Consumer AB, a division of
Nobel Industries of Sweden, for $107 million. Gillette also
will retain some $30 million in receivables.
   Gillette said in Boston that it expects the sale to be
completed within 60 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The European brands being sold to Nobel include Silkience
hair care products, Antica Erboristeria herbal toiletries in
Italy and La Toja toiletry products in Spain.
   Gillette isn't selling its European deodorant,
anti-perspirant and shaving preparations lines, which it will
continue to make and market.
   Gillette had said last December that it planned to sell
certain European toiletries businesses as part of a
realignment of its North Atlantic shaving and personal care
products into one operating unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hicks Acquires
   7 I.C.H. Units
   For $530 Million
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ICH GE U.WSG WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In one of the first major leveraged buy-outs
since the UAL Corp. deal fell apart in October 1989, the
Dallas investment firm Hicks, Muse &amp; Co. completed the cash
purchase of seven I.C.H. Corp. insurance companies for $530
million.
   After fees and closing costs, I.C.H. should receive about
$495 million from the deal. The Louisville, Ky.-based
insurance company said it will use about $345 million to
reduce outstanding bank debt. Analysts said the deal will
help improve I.C.H.'s financial situation. At the end of the
third quarter, the company had stockholders equity of $664
million and liabilities of about $8.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, I.C.H. reported a 1989 loss of $255.2 million,
or $5.30 a share, compared with net income of $5.8 million
for 1988. The loss included write-downs of about $262.5
million from investments in First Executive Corp. stock and
junk bonds of Southmark Corp. and Integrated Resources Inc.
   I.C.H. held about 20% of the common stock of First
Executive, a Los Angeles insurer that in turn had invested in
hundreds of millions of dollars of junk bonds. The First
Executive, Southmark and Integrated Resources investments
accounted for somewhere between 10% and 15% of I.C.H.'s
investment portfolio, according to Herbert Goodfriend,
analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   "The closing of this transaction is another step in the
process of refocusing the growth plans of I.C.H.," said
I.C.H. Chairman Robert T. Shaw. Company officials weren't
available for further comment.
   In the buy-out transaction, newly formed Life Partners
Group Inc. will buy Philadelphia Life Insurance Co.,
Massachusetts General Life Insurance Co., Wabash Life
Insurance Co. and three smaller companies from I.C.H. The
companies have total assets of $2.2 billion. The deal, which
was financed with about 20% equity and 80% debt, involved no
public debt and no junk bonds, said Thomas O. Hicks, chairman
of Hicks, Muse.
   Investors in the new company are Hicks, Muse Equity Fund,
with about 60% of the equity; Wand Investments, a joint
venture between S.G. Warburg &amp; Co. and Bruce W. Schnitzer,
with about 9%; GE Capital Corp. with about 15%; and senior
management and other institutional investors with the
remaining equity. GE also provided the senior debt and
mezzanine financing. After two years, GE could exercise
warrants that would give it a total equity position of about
30%.
   Along with the insurance operations, Life Partners will
acquire some top managers of I.C.H., including former
president John Gardiner. "These guys were the true operating
management and if left unattended at I.C.H., they would have
done a more effective job at consolidating the operations" of
the various life insurance companies, said Mr. Goodfriend,
the analyst. "Under this management, they {Life Partners}
have a good chance at making it work."
   Mr. Hicks said that although he doesn't believe his deal
signals a new wave of publicly funded highly leveraged deals,
the opportunity to do well-financed deals is increasing.
"Prices are in the process of adjusting to the new realities"
of the current financing market, he said. "We think it's a
good time to make acquisitions, if you can get good
financing."
   The only other large leveraged buy-out in the past six
months was the March Forstmann Little &amp; Co. purchase of the
Gulfstream Aerospace unit of Chrysler Corp. for $825 million.
   The leveraged buy-out of the I.C.H. companies was
possible, says Mr. Hicks, because the transaction wasn't
overpriced and didn't require public financing. "We're buying
these businesses for six times cash flow," said Mr. Hicks.
"The problem with the LBO industry has been that prices got
to the level of nine to 10 times cash flow and they were
overleveraged."
   Mr. Hicks said he avoided the leveraged buy-out business
through 1988 and 1989 because of the high prices. "We chose
not to participate in that market," he said, other than to
sell some of his investment portfolio into the high-priced
market.
   Mr. Hicks said he and his partners in Hicks, Muse Equity
Fund will probably continue to add insurance companies to
their portfolio to take advantage of the consolidation in the
life insurance industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Vigorous Data May Reflect Detour's End
   And Not a New Trend, Economists Warn
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As one quarter slides seamlessly into the
next, economists offer this advice: Don't confuse recovery
with vigor.
   The March purchasing managers' index, to be released this
morning, is believed to have gained ground -- particularly
after a strong regional report last Friday from Chicago-area
purchasers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But economists caution that a better tone to the index --
as in some other indicators lately -- may simply reflect the
end of a short detour, rather than the start of a new
economic trend. Similarly, analysts plan to take with a grain
of salt Friday's important employment report for March,
because of some odd factors that help boost job totals. The
week's other offerings include March auto sales and February
data on consumer credit, the index of leading indicators and
construction spending.
   An improved purchasers' index "is more auto-related than
anything else," Donald Fine, chief economist at Chase
Manhattan Bank, New York, said. "The auto industry virtually
shut down in January. In combination, February and March
brought back production levels to near where they were in the
fourth quarter."
   Michael P. Niemira, economist at Mitsubishi Bank, New
York, said the rebound in Chicago purchasers' data reaffirm
his view that a "mini-inventory correction" that began at the
end of last year may have run its course. Last Friday, the
Purchasing Management Association of Chicago reported its
index of area business activity rose to 55.1% on an
unadjusted basis in March from 51% in February.
   The broader report, which is to be released today by the
National Association of Purchasing Management, is expected to
inch ahead to 48.5% from 48.3% in February, according to a
survey by MMS International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc. The
purchasing data have become increasingly important to
economists and traders who are eager for data on economic
activity and the possible direction of interest rates. In
addition, the report usually provides the month's -- and the
new quarter's -- first reading on the nation's manufacturing
pulse.
   A reading above 50% indicates an expanding economy, while
a reading below 50% suggests contraction. The National
Association of Purchasing Management index has been under 50%
since May 1989.
   The MMS survey on the national purchasers' index,
conducted after Chicago's data were reported, showed a
strengthening of 1.2 percentage points from a week earlier,
when the median expectation was for a 47.3% reading on the
national gauge.
   Mitsubishi Bank's Mr. Niemira said he too raised his
estimate of the association's index to 49% from 48.5% after
the Chicago report came out. Still, he said: "The Chicago
report should be kept in perspective. It's right where it was
in the fourth quarter. Things aren't exactly booming."
   Samuel Kahan, chief economist at Fuji Securities Inc. in
Chicago, agreed that his city is "still enjoying a rebound"
that probably plumped the local purchasers' report. But he
also noted that numbers without context can be misleading.
Pointing to the recent hearty employment data, he said:
"People are taking the employment numbers at face value and
extrapolating them to what the economy is doing. The truth
is, I'm not sure you can hypothesize."
   The unemployment rate for March is expected to remain
unchanged at 5.3%. And new job growth, while a bit less
significant than that in January and February, is likely to
be fairly strong, with 175,000 nonfarm jobs created,
according to MMS. But economists noted that early-year data
were influenced by an unusual increase in construction jobs
owing to mild weather. Recent jobs data have been affected by
the ebb and flow of auto jobs. In addition, this week's
report is likely to reflect the first major addition of
specially hired census workers.
   All in all, Mr. Kahan said, "It looks to me like the
economy isn't gathering steam, but that we are continuing to
flounder at this level."
   While the unemployment rate is expected to be unchanged,
estimates on new-job creation range broadly, from 100,000 to
303,000, according to MMS. In February, 275,000 new jobs were
generated. In addition to job totals, economists are keeping
a close eye on wage levels and their possible effect on
inflation. Hourly earnings in March are believed to have
increased about 0.2%.
   February construction outlays, in a report to be released
today, are expected to have risen about 0.5%, following a
1.8% increase in January, when the weather was unseasonably
warm.
   Economists don't expect much forecasting help from
tomorrow's leading indicators index. The February index is
believed to have dropped a sharp 0.7%, largely because of a
steep drop in the number of housing permits issued. Housing
permits skyrocketed in the previous month, as developers
rushed to escape new handicapped-access rules.
   Consumer credit, another indicator tied firmly to auto
sales, is expected to have fallen in February. The credit
tally, to be issued Friday, is expected to have slowed to
about $3 billion, following January's $3.5 billion gain.
   ---
                 Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

      Statistics Released in the Week Ended March 30
                                                                                                       

                                                CHANGE
                                               (from prior
                                 TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     March 19 (in billions)      $802.2         Unch.
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     March 19 (in billions)    $3,271.0         +$1.5
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     March 19 (in billions)    $4,070.4         -$0.6
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP
   Fourth quarter, final
   annual rate (in trillions)    $4.174         +1.1%
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturer's orders
   February (in billions)       $231.64         +1.8%
                                                                                                       

   New homes sold
   February, annual rate        607,000         3.1%
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturer's shipments
   February (in billions)       $234.17         +3.3%
                                                                                                       

   Personal income
   February, annual rate
   (in trillions)                $4.636         +0.9%
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption
   February, annual rate
   (in trillions)                $3.632         +0.4%
                                                                                                       

   Savings rate
   February, change in
   percentage points               5.7%         +0.4
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended March 17          350,000         -2.8%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing agents' index (Mon.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending (Mon.)

                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index (Tues.)
   February
                                                                                                       

   New car sales (Wed.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Consumer credit (Fri.)
   February
                                                                                                       

   Employment, payroll (Fri.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate (Fri.)
   March
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Philips Industries Inc.:
   Pretax Charge for the Year
   To Total Up to $50 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   PHL MER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philips Industries Inc. said it will take a pretax charge
of $45 million to $50 million for the year ended Saturday.
   The Dayton, Ohio, maker of motorhome and housing parts
said it will take an additional pretax charge of as much as
$12 million if a merger agreement with a group formed by
Merrill Lynch Capital Partners Inc., a unit of Merrill Lynch
&amp; Co., is terminated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group has been unable to obtain financing for the
proposed offer of $700 million, or $24 a share.
   Philips also said it is providing certain information to
another party that has indicated possible interest in a
transaction with Philips. The company said neither Merrill
Lynch nor any other party has made any new proposals to
Philips.
   The company also said it will sell the following
subsidiaries: Shelby Advanced Automotive Technology Inc.,
Mid-West Conveyor Co., Dearborn Fabricating &amp; Engineering Co.
Shelby makes aluminum wheels for autos, while the other two
make heavy conveyors for the auto industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stock Prices Continue to Plunge Monday
   As Dollar Tops 160 Yen, Big Investors Sell Off
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's stock prices continued to plunge Monday, as the
dollar soared above 160 yen and institutional investors
apparently began an aggressive sell-off.
   At the close of the morning session, the Nikkei index, an
average of 225 issues, was off 1720.13 points, or 5.7%, to
28260.32. That was sharply below the previous intraday low
for the year of 28830 on March 22.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stock market was undercut by the surging dollar. The
U.S. currency met little resistance as it jumped to 160.25
yen late Monday morning, up from 158.35 yen late Friday in
New York.
   That sent the stock market tumbling. Its slide also was
greased by fears that Japanese insurance companies would
begin selling stock at the start of their new fiscal year
this morning. A report in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's
leading economic daily, suggesting that life and casualty
insurers -- among the country's biggest institutional
investors -- would reduce their Japanese stock holdings
appeared to be coming true, one stockbroker said Monday
morning. "They are selling already," she added.
   The report magnified the market's troubles on Friday, when
fast-paced sell-offs by institutions trying to raise their
cash positions by the end of the fiscal year compounded
uncertainty about the market's direction.
   On Friday, the indicator plunged 1045.71 points, or 3.4%,
to 29980.45, closing below the 30000-point level for the
second time in March. On March 22, the index dropped to
29843.34. The index lost 237.41 points Thursday.
   Tokyo stock prices plunged in moderate trading Friday
because of fast-paced selloffs by institutions that raised
cash positions on the last trading day of fiscal 1990.
Uncertainty about the market's future deepened.
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 1045.71 points to
29980.45, closing below the 30000-point level for the second
time in March.
   In London, meanwhile, stocks fell as most investors closed
existing positions on the last trading day of the first
quarter and found little inspiration to trade anew.
   Tokyo traders said volatile moves in the foreign-exchange
market and higher yields on the bond market dried up buying
interest. Meanwhile, the pace of decline in stock prices was
accelerated by index-linked program selling by foreign
brokerate houses, traders said.
   The Nikkei index, which ended the Friday morning session
with an 850.15-point loss, rebounded moderately in
midafternoon with the help of buying by some investment trust
funds. But the index tumbled again, to the intraday low of
29827, in final rounds of sell-offs, before the average
collected 150 points in the last 15 minutes of trading.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at about 500
million shares, down from 685 million shares Thursday.
   Losers outnumbered gainers 866 to 133, while 93 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section was down 59.37 points, or 2.59%, to 2227.48,
after falling 20 points Thursday.
   The second section index fell 37.45 points, or 0.97%, to
3817.90. The index gained 11.10 points Thursday. Volume was
estimated at nine million shares, down from 10 million shares
Thursday.
   The market had seen small-capital stock prices pushed up
by "window dressing" operations by some institutions, which
evaluate year-end values of their holdings according to
Friday's close. These stock prices had been expected to add
further gains Friday.
   But such expectations were shattered when the market began
the day with active selling by foreign investors. The strong
selling pressure made institutions give up strategic buying
and begin reducing their positions instead, analysts said.
   Dealers also refrained from buying Friday.
   "Every Japanese brokerage house couldn't do anything
beyond remain on the sidelines because they knew that if they
bought, they'd only be battered by heavy selling," said
Yoshihiro Ito, general manager of stock trading at Okasan
Securities.
   As the Nikkei index extended losses during Friday
afternoon, individual investors finally joined the selling
activity, as prices fell to levels that require investors to
place additional margin, the official said.
   Shin Tokoi, deputy general manager of stock trading at
County NatWest Securities, said market expectations that the
yen will weaken further and top the 160-yen level against the
dollar was strong, despite the yen's temporal recovery in the
middle of the day.
   The heavy selling by foreign investors and the continually
weakening yen led some investors to blame Japanese politics,
which are often poorly appraised by foreign nations.
   Traders predict stock prices will drift at low levels this
week.
   "The market has no strength for a strong rebound at the
moment," one analyst said, adding that the Nikkei index will
fluctuate around the 30000-point level this week.
   High-technology shares, which advanced strongly this past
week on expectations that these exporters will benefit from
the yen's weakness, were targets of active profit-taking
Friday.
   Fanuc plummeted 320 yen to 7,450 yen ($2.05 to $47.62).
Kyocera fell 210 yen to 7,560 yen. NEC dropped 50 yen to
2,120 yen and Hitachi Ltd. declined 50 yen to 1,590 yen.
   NTT rose 30,000 yen to 1,160,000 yen following the
government's announcement to freeze discussion over a breakup
of the giant telephone company for five years, until 1995.
But market sentiment was too sluggish Friday to respond to
the news widely, traders said.
   In London, shares languished within a very narrow band
much of the day, as traders said participants were waiting
for the opening of a new quarter this week.
   But an early weak start on Wall Street gave London shares
a fresh nudge lower, although traders said there wasn't much
behind the drift downward.
   Some traders said trading probably would remain sparse
until fresh earnings and indicators were disclosed later this
week.
   "We're not inclined to do anything just at the moment,"
said one dealer. "I'm afraid there's a lot of market maker
price movement but not a lot behind it."
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 share index was off
15.1 points to 2247.9, and just above its late Friday
afternoon intraday minimum of 2245.5, but lower than its
midmorning peak of 2271.
   The Financial Times 30 share index fell 12.5 points to
1768.7. Volume amounted to a sketchy 453.7 million shares,
little changed from Thursday's 435.2 million issues.
   In the extremely quiet market, dealers said there were few
overall features to discuss. Many said a large part of any
price movement among the major stocks came as a result of
market makers adjusting prices to see if they could lure some
fresh buyers to the scene.
   Among individual shares, British Steel gained 4 pence to
144 pence (6.5 cents to $2.36). Analysts said the shares
gained after the company said that because of a pension fund
surplus, results for the next few years will be better than
expected.
   Grand Metropolitan, the food and drinks giant, shed 11
pence to 585 pence in mild profit-taking after a very strong
surge in the week, thanks to bullish news emerging from
analysts' visits to the company's Burger King, Pearle Vision
and Pillsbury operations in the U.S.
   Pearson, the publishing conglomerate, climbed 4 pence to
695 pence after saying that 1989 pretax profit gained 26%,
beating market expectations. Polly Peck jumped 7 pence to 400
pence on the back of strong earnings disclosed Thursday.
   Elsewhere in Europe, prices closed higher in Brussels,
Paris, Frankfurt, Milan, and Zurich, and mixed in Amsterdam
and Stockholm. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Meanwhile, stocks ended down in Sydney, Singapore and
Wellington; and higher in Taipei and Seoul. Prices ended
little changed in Manila and Hong Kong.

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                Mar 29     Mar 28     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .......................  314.0      315.1    -  3.4
   Britain ....................  671.6      675.0    -  6.8
   Canada .....................  401.7      403.1    -  7.1
   Japan ...................... 1269.5     1280.7    - 23.3
   France .....................  543.8      541.8    -  4.1
   Germany ....................  314.2      308.4    + 10.1
   Hong Kong .................. 2219.9     2218.5    +  5.9
   Switzerland ................  206.4      204.2    -  6.5
   Australia ..................  310.9      314.0    -  6.1
   World index ................  489.5      489.0    - 13.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.ABI FREST JAPAN J.NTT AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   ITALY'S DRUNK DRIVERS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Italian politicians, shocked by a rash of road deaths
involving people driving home after all-night revels, are
preparing a campaign to curb drunken driving and limit the
use of fast cars by young people.
   A decree expected to be approved by the cabinet this month
allows police to administer tests for drunken driving. Police
are now able to arrest only those who are clearly drunk
because the Public Works Ministry hasn't established the
maximum blood-alcohol level for drivers.
   Other measures include a limit on the time nightspots can
serve alcohol, a publicity campaign on the dangers of driving
after drinking and earlier closing times for discotheques.
   A commission will also study changing the highway code so
that young people would have to wait two years after getting
their license before driving cars capable of going faster
than 80 miles an hour.
                                                                                                       

   AIRBUS REBUTS INDIA
                                                                                                       

   Airbus Industrie derided as "fantasy-like" accusations by
India's top investigating agency that Airbus directors bribed
former Indian government officials to win a $1.47 billion
contract. The European aircraft-manufacturing consortium
threatened legal action against whoever originated the
accusations made last Thursday by the Central Bureau of
Investigation in New Delhi. Airbus deplored "the systematic
campaign of denigration against {Airbus} in India."
                                                                                                       

   WORLD CRIME
                                                                                                       

   Americans are more likely to fall victim to crime than the
citizens of 12 other nations, according to a survey published
by the Dutch Justice Ministry; Japanese are the least
crime-prone. The survey found the Netherlands the most
crime-prone nation in Western Europe but noted that the Dutch
figure was mainly caused by a relatively high number of
bicycle thefts. Of U.S. residents interviewed for the report,
28.8% said they had been victimized by at least one crime
against themselves or their property in 1988. In Japan, only
9.3% of those interviewed said they had fallen victim to a
crime.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN POSTPONES NTT BREAKUP
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese government will wait five years before
deciding whether to break up Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone
Corp. A government advisory council suggested last month that
state-controlled NTT should be broken into three separate
companies offering local, long-distance and mobile-telephone
services. But the Finance Ministry, in charge of offering NTT
stock to the public, strongly opposed a breakup, claiming it
would hurt NTT shareholders.
                                                                                                       

   BURMESE HEROIN
                                                                                                       

   A U.S. narcotics official said there had been an explosion
of opium and heroin production in Burma. Melvyn Levitsky,
assistant secretary of state for narcotics issues, estimated
Burma's 1989 opium production at 2,625 tons against 1,280
tons in 1988. He said that there were no checks on poppy
production in Burma and that warlords were controlling
producing areas. He concluded: "Drug cartels in the last few
years have been winning."
                                                                                                       

   MONEY FOR ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                       

   The European Community is to grant and lend Ethiopia
$318.8 million to develop agriculture, industry, mining and
energy, the Ethiopian News Agency said. The agency said the
money would be handed out in the five years after 1991. It
said EC delegate Benno Haffner told President Mengistu Haile
Mariam at a meeting last week that 90% of the money would be
a grant. The agency said the EC had granted or loaned
Ethiopia $597.7 million between 1986 and 1990.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE'S CHAMPAGNE CRISIS
                                                                                                       

   The French champagne industry is heading for a crisis
because vine growers aren't supplying enough grapes to
champagne producers.
   Despite negotiations for new contracts, 19,000 private
vineyard owners in eastern France haven't guaranteed to
supply major champagne houses with enough grapes for this
year's production, industry officials said. Philippe Le
Tixerant, spokesman for the association of growers and
producers, said the vineyard owners had pledged 43% of the
total champagne crop to producers, the lowest amount they
have ever contracted to sell.
   Private vine growers are seeking to cash in on the rapidly
expanding market by producing and marketing their own
champagne instead of selling their grapes to the major
houses.
   The Comite Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne, the
producers' trade association, meets today to try to salvage
an agreement and prevent what major producers say could be
anarchy in the champagne market.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Addressing the opening session of the First International
Conference on Environmental Protection of the Himalayas, Sir
Edmund Hillary warned that the mountains were threatened by
deforestation and tourism. "The living standards {of the
Himalayan people} are increasing," he said, "but the
beautiful tracks and valleys have been littered and the
forests destroyed." . . . Britain's Prince Philip, head of
the World Wide Fund for Nature, said the consequences of
unimpeded population growth would be more devastating to the
world than a nuclear holocaust. He said political leaders
must "face the facts" and make serious efforts to solve the
population crisis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farley's West Point
   Unit Is in Default
   On Some Bank Debt
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WPM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   William Farley's troubles with the acquisition of West
Point-Pepperell Inc. worsened when the unit he set up to buy
the company fell into default on about $733 million in bank
debt after negotiations to restructure the loan bogged down.
   According to a Wall Street person close to the
negotiations, Mr. Farley plans as soon as today to offer the
holders of roughly $905 million in West Point-Pepperell
subordinated debt a significant equity position in the
company in exchange for delaying interest payments for as
long as three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Mr. Farley is successful in the exchange offer to bond
holders, his bankers, led by Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Bankers
Trust Co., are more likely to commit a restructuring of his
bank loan rather than forcing him into federal bankruptcy-law
proceedings.
   The bankers are known to be worried that the holders of
subordinated notes for which Mr. Farley might miss interest
payments in the next few months may force him into federal
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   The bankers, concerned about the possible costs of paying
bankruptcy-law attorneys to oversee lengthy legal
proceedings, would take it as a good sign to see approval of
the forthcoming exchange offer on the subordinated notes.
   Farley officials couldn't be reached for comment over the
weekend, but they are known to be continuing negotiations
with bankers.
   Last month Mr. Farley successfully negotiated a $1.2
billion bridge-loan extension through the end of 1994, easing
some of the pressure on the West Point acquisition. But the
bank loan that was due Saturday is an additional debt that
was used to help make the tender offer in the $1.56 billion
West Point acquisition in March 1989.
   Of the several entities under the umbrella of Mr. Farley's
investment and industrial empire, the bank-loan default
affects only West Point-Pepperell Acquisition, the holding
company that was set up last year to acquire the West Point,
Ga.-based textile concern.
   Mr. Farley has completed his tender offer on 95% of West
Point-Pepperell. But he is about $83 million short of the
cash needed to complete the transaction. Unless he completes
that deal, he can't use West Point's cash to pay interest on
the debt it produced. Thus Mr. Farley's only chance to finish
the transaction and keep control of the company is to
restructure certain of his bank and subordinated note debt.
   Mr. Farley, based in Chicago, built a collection of
manufacturing companies, largely on junk bond financing. But
his investment banker, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., has
collapsed. Farley Inc., his closely held manufacturing
concern, had a pretax loss of about $40 million in 1989,
analysts estimated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Andrus's Veto of Idaho Abortion Bill
   Fuels Controversy for November Election
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Leaders of the drive to curb abortion are searching for
new opportunities to press their efforts after suffering a
substantial setback in Idaho.
   Meanwhile, abortion-rights activists are warning that
Democratic Gov. Cecil Andrus's veto of a restrictive abortion
bill in Idaho Friday night only highlights the fragility of
the right to abortion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Andrus, long considered an opponent of abortion,
startled many of his allies when he vetoed the Idaho bill,
which would have prevented about 95% of the state's
abortions. The governor, who in the past week had become the
focus of intense national lobbying, said the legislation was
"drawn so narrowly that it would punitively and without
compassion further harm an Idaho woman who may find herself
in the horrible, unthinkable position of confronting a
pregnancy that resulted from rape or incest."
   Mr. Andrus's veto of the legislation ends the issue in
Idaho this year. The state legislature adjourned for the year
Friday and, in any case, proponents of the bill lacked the
votes to override the veto.
   The legislation was drafted to prompt a U.S. Supreme Court
decision and was crafted with an eye toward appealing to
Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, considered the high
court's swing vote on abortion issues.
   Abortion opponents, who had hoped that the Idaho bill
would spur the court to override the 1973 Roe vs. Wade
decision that established abortion rights, targeted Mr.
Andrus, who seeks re-election in November, for defeat.
   "This will go down as one of the greatest acts of
political treachery in American history," said Burke Balch,
state legislative director of the National Right to Life
Committee.
   Mr. Andrus's decision was made amid rallies and
counter-rallies at the state capitol in Boise and amid
threats, from the National Organization for Women and others,
that abortion-rights activists would boycott Idaho potatoes,
the state's largest commodity.
   The Idaho Republican Party already has signaled that it
will make abortion a major issue in the November election.
Democrats, meanwhile, indicated that they will resist efforts
from national organizations such as the National Right to
Life Committee to use what state Sen. Marti Calabretta, a
Democrat from northern Idaho, called "control and coercion."
   Kate Michelman, executive director of the National
Abortion Rights Action League, said Mr. Andrus had "refused
to rob women of their rights," but added, "We face the
reality that for every Cecil Andrus there's someone who
stands ready to limit our right to choose. It is in jeopardy
at every turn of the road."
   The anti-abortion movement still hopes to prevail in state
legislatures in Florida and Louisiana. "Idaho galvanizes the
pro-life movement," said Mr. Balch. "This isn't just a
defeat. It's a political betrayal that angers people around
the nation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   COLUMBIA S&amp;L DISCLOSED it is insolvent, likely resulting
in a costly federal takeover. The big California thrift
posted a $379.1 million loss for the 1989 fourth quarter,
reflecting huge junk bond losses. Columbia was once the
nation's most profitable thrift due to its big stake in junk
bonds, many of them bought from Drexel and Michael Milken.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wall Street's profits from underwriting stocks and bonds
teetered near six-year lows in the first quarter. And the
recent collapse of junk bonds promises even leaner times
ahead.
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch continued to be the world's biggest
underwriter of stocks and bonds in the quarter, but its lead
shrank as financing volume eased.
   ---
   Tokyo stocks plunged 5.7% by Monday morning's close as the
dollar soared above 160 yen and institutions apparently began
a sell-off.
   ---
   Japanese trade negotiators will unveil a package of
proposed market-opening measures today, but the steps are
likely to disappoint the U.S.
   ---
   Southmark filed a new reorganization plan with the help of
unsecured creditors. The company hopes the plan may let it
emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings by July.
   ---
   A Farley company set up to buy West Point-Pepperell
defaulted on a $733 million bank loan after talks to
restructure the loan bogged down.
   ---
   Chrysler is asking its top 100 executives to own stock
equal to a certain percentage of their salaries. The unusual
program is aimed at having the officials bet more of their
pay on Chrysler's long-term financial health.
   ---
   McDonnell Douglas confirmed it won a $2 billion jet order
from Japan Air Lines that includes options for a stretched
version of the MD-11 jet.
   ---
   Factory orders rebounded 1.8% in February, helped by gains
in the auto sector. The increase followed a revised 5.5%
plunge the month before, the biggest in 15 years. Also, the
February rise in durable-goods orders was revised to 2.6%
from 3.3%.
                                                                                                       

   Fed policy makers voted in February to leave credit
unchanged. But for the first time in months, some officials
talked of raising rates.
   ---
   The Dallas investment firm Hicks Muse acquired seven
I.C.H. insurance units for $530 million, one of the first
major leveraged buy-outs since the UAL deal fell apart in
October.
   ---
   The American Heart Association is ending its controversial
seal-of-approval program for low-fat foods, sources said. The
FDA strongly objected to the two-month-old program.
   ---
   Thrift nominee Timothy Ryan may face a tough confirmation
fight on the Senate floor following the disclosure of his
drug use in the early 1970s. Ryan was narrowly approved
Friday by the Senate Banking Committee.
   ---
   Motorola was allowed by a U.S. court to continue selling
its key microchip, easing worries among computer makers about
a shortage. The decision came in a patent infringement case
involving Hitachi.
   ---
   Digital Equipment plans to unveil new engineering
workstations tomorrow, but they aren't as fast as the models
IBM introduced in February.
   ---
   The U.S. parent of Campeau's department store units filed
for Chapter 11, saying it was a "procedural step" in the
units' own reorganization.
   ---
   BTR filed suit to prevent Norton from canceling its April
26 annual meeting. Norton said it needed more time to weigh
alternatives to BTR's hostile $1.64 billion takeover bid.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 139,340,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2707.21, off 20.49; transportation 1183.14, up 0.89;
utilities 214.66, up 0.31.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3308.57, off
10.05.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.44, up 0.70; spot
index 131.90, up 0.11.
   Dollar: 158.35 yen, up 2.00; 1.6940 marks, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Expected to Remain Near Current Level
   Against Yen and Rise Against Mark This Month
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The dollar should remain near its current levels against
the yen in April following efforts by Japan and the six other
major industrialized nations to support the battered Japanese
currency, analysts said.
   The dollar will likely rise against the mark this month,
however, as nervousness over a continuing lack of clear-cut
plans for reunification with East Germany weakens the West
German currency, the analysts predicted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Over the next 90 days, modest growth in the U.S. economy
and steady interest rates will prevent the dollar from losing
much ground against a more confident yen and the mark,
according to the average forecast of 10 currency analysts
surveyed by Dow Jones International News Service in Tokyo,
Frankfurt, London and New York.
   The average estimate places the dollar at 156.73 yen at
the end of April, with the U.S. unit at 155.80 yen by the end
of June. Projections for April were fairly tight compared
with a month earlier, and ranged from a high of 162 yen to a
low of 147 yen. The 90-day outlook was also spread fairly
evenly between 162 yen and 150 yen, except for one bearish
forecast of 136 yen.
   In the March survey, the dollar was seen at 148.05 yen at
the end of March, and the January survey predicted the dollar
would be at 139.63 yen on March 31. The dollar closed late
Friday in New York at 158.35 yen.
   The average of analysts' estimates pegs the dollar at
1.7150 marks by the end of April, with a fall to 1.6980 marks
by the end of June. The range of predictions for the mark's
level at the end of April was from a low of 1.65 marks to a
high of 1.75 marks.
   Forecasts for the 90-day period were more widely
scattered, reflecting different long-term inflation and
interest-rate scenarios for West Germany; the U.S. unit was
seen trading as high as 1.80 marks and as low as 1.65 marks
at the end of June. That is more varied than predictions
voiced in last month's survey.
   In March, the dollar was pegged at 1.6760 marks, and the
January outlook placed the U.S. unit at 1.6820 marks by the
end of last month. The dollar finished in New York Friday at
1.6940 marks.
   In Tokyo late Monday morning, the dollar was trading at
160.20 yen, up from 159.97 yen at the opening and up from
Friday's Tokyo close of 157.65 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S.
currency was trading at about 1.6990 marks, unchanged from
the opening quote, but up from Friday's Tokyo close of
   Over the short term, capital outflow from Japan will
continue because of interest-rate differentials with the U.S.
and Europe, keeping the yen weak, said Robert White, vice
president and manager of corporate trading at First
Interstate of California in Los Angeles.
   His view was shared by several other analysts, some of
whom emphasized that little will help the yen return to
significantly higher levels until structural changes occur in
the Japanese economy.
   "It will take more than interest-rate hikes" to sort out
the pressures the yen has recently come under, said Christa
Bleyleben, a vice president at Bank of Boston. The Japanese
discount rate stands at 5.25%, to which it was raised March
20 by the Bank of Japan.
   Analysts say the yen might get some help from this
weekend's meeting of G-7 treasury officials in Paris, where
exchange rates and world economic issues are expected to be
discussed. Besides Japan and the U.S., the G-7 consists of
West Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy.
   The meeting could produce a new accord on cooperation
among G-7 central banks to support the yen, as well as lead
to measures by the Japanese to restore foreign investors'
faith in the country.
   Lack of support by other G-7 central banks for the Bank of
Japan's policy of relentlessly intervening to prop up the yen
has been a factor in the Japanese unit's recent tumble,
bolstering the market's view that Japanese monetary officials
are isolated and confused by the recent turmoil in their
financial markets.
   Even if the Bank of Japan doesn't raise interest rates
again, money-market rates should rise enough to help the yen,
said one analyst. Another analyst, Richard Urwin, foreign
exchange economist at S.G. Warburg &amp; Co. in London, said: "A
lot of the yen's bad news is {already} in the market."
   A steadily clearer picture of how West Germany plans to
deal with German reunification should strengthen the mark
after an initial period of weakness in April, analysts said.
   "The clearer the picture becomes, the better the mark will
do," said Susan Babcock, vice president of corporate foreign
exchange at Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. in New York.
But until there are further policy announcements, the dollar
will gain against its West German counterpart, she said.
   Over the longer term, however, the mark will firm as the
fundamental strength of the West German economy and growing
confidence in the Bundesbank's ability to manage inflation
undermines mark bearishness, analysts said.
   "Fears about {West} German inflation are exaggerated . . .
the Bundesbank will handle inflation," said Earl Johnson, a
vice president at Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank in Chicago.
   Mr. Johnson and others also cited the ability of the West
German economy to attract capital as a factor in favor of a
strengthening mark. The wide gap between West German
inflation and interest rates will provide a strong stimulus
to invest there, said Dieter Manderbach, a trader at
Norddeutsche Landesbank-Girozentrale in Hanover.
   The March cost of living in West Germany rose a
preliminary 0.2%, up 2.8% from a year earlier; the current
interest rate on three-month Euro-mark deposits is 8 1/16%.
   The British pound will be helped by high interest rates
this month, the analysts said. The British currency, plagued
by Britain's economic woes and the travails of Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher, is seen slipping from its recent levels to
an average of $1.6100 in 30 days and falling further to
$1.6075 in 90 days. Last month's survey placed the pound at
$1.6940 on March 31; January's estimate saw sterling at
$1.6362.
   The pound finished at $1.6455 in New York on Friday.
   Sterling will remain a high-yield, risky investment,
analysts said, as current high interest rates are maintained
while the British economy stagnates and the problems of the
ruling Conservative Party mount.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $370.20 an ounce, down 60 cents.
Estimated volume was a heavy 4.7 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $369.75 an ounce.
   ---
   This article was prepared by Doug Appell and Christopher
Hill in Tokyo, Erik Kirschbaum in Frankfurt, Nicholas
Hastings in London, and John Bader in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   State Lawmakers Tackle Issue of Song Lyrics
   In Debate Over Rock and Role of Government
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANNAPOLIS, Md. -- State legislators around the nation are
listening to 2 Live Crew, Guns N' Roses and Ozzy Osbourne.
   Committee chambers here and in Lincoln, Neb., Topeka,
Kan., Des Moines, Iowa, and Jefferson City, Mo., aren't
ordinarily regarded as arenas for the randiest strains of
rock 'n' roll, but the lyrics of contemporary music are
competing with the details of state budgets and the small
print of insurance regulation for the attention of lawmakers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An effort to require warning labels on recordings of rock
and rap music has moved to the statehouses, and a third of
the state legislatures are deliberating the question. Partly
because of this, the record companies have agreed to come up
with a new voluntary industrywide labeling standard.
   The debate over labeling raises serious questions about
the role of government and about artistic freedom.
   Michele Davis, director of the Republican Governors
Association, says, "For the decade of the 1990s, the most
bitter, emotional debates -- the screaming, the crying, the
real tough questions -- are going to be in the state
capitols."
   Tanya Blackwood, spokeswoman for the Recording Industry
Association of America, says, "All of this stuff going on in
the state legislatures is one of the most serious issues the
record industry has faced. It's harder to fight because we're
dealing with all of these legislatures instead of just going
up to Capitol Hill and conducting one fight."
   Many of the state bills were prompted by conservative
groups -- some of them part of the Christian Right -- that
sprang up to battle school curricula, sex education, abortion
rights and child care. The groups include the Rev. Donald
Wildmon's American Family Association.
   "This is a political force in its own right," says Michael
Geer, president of the Pennsylvania Family Institute. Thomas
Jipping, director of the Washington-based Free Congress
Center for Law and Democracy, says, "It's part of the same
pro-family movement that's trying to protect traditional
values."
   The issue cuts across political party lines. The major
sponsors of record-label legislation here in Maryland and in
Pennsylvania were Democrats.
   "I'm not Jerry Falwell," says state Rep. Ronald Gamble,
whose bill to require record labeling prevailed in the
Pennsylvania House 149-51. "We're regular guys who don't
think kids should be listening to this junk. We're spending
millions fighting teen violence and suicide and then across
the street there's the recording industry glorifying and
promoting the very things we're fighting."
   The labeling movement got its start when Tipper Gore, wife
of U.S. Sen. Albert Gore, and Susan Baker, wife of Secretary
of State James Baker, expressed alarm at songs dealing with
sex and violence.
   Four years ago, their group, Parents' Music Resource
Center, and the National PTA agreed with the Recording
Industry Association of America on a voluntary labeling
system. It included a warning label ("Explicit lyrics,
parental advisory") or the printing of the lyrics on the
record jacket.
   Today, Parents' Music Resource Center opposes the bills in
state legislatures making record labeling a legal
requirement.
   "The record producers can show responsibility themselves
by creating a useful consumer tool," says Mrs. Gore. But she
also thinks the record companies haven't lived up to the
spirit of their agreement.
   The major opposition to laws on labeling comes from groups
that agree with People for the American Way that record
labeling is "the music censorship movement of the 1990s."
   "This is just another one of these attempts to legislate
morality," says Stuart Comstock-Gay, director of the Maryland
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union. "People don't
want to hear what they don't like -- messages about Satanism
or drugs or sex. But one of the bedrock ideas of our society
is that we allow all kinds of ideas, even offensive ones."
   When Maryland's House Judiciary Committee recently
considered labeling legislation, the hearing attracted Jim
Rogers, director of Mission America who says "we have to have
mainstream ideas controlling the country," and Kenneth
Stevens, a retired federal employee who says "the prudish
super-moralists persist in trying to use government to tell
the rest of us what we can read or view." The bill died in
committee.
   In some states, music industry officials worry that
legislative moves could disrupt the music distribution
system. In Arizona, for example, record-store operators say
the legislation before the state senate -- on hold while
lawmakers review the new voluntary measures -- would require
stores to invest millions to monitor and label recordings.
   "That burden would be ridiculous, so the practical effect
is that everything would get a label on it," says Michael
Braun, a Phoenix, Ariz., attorney for the Recording Industry
Association of America. "That's the only way the record
stores can protect themselves -- and it would defeat the
purpose of the legislation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Outlook for Small Stocks Is Brightening
   As Giants Get Clobbered by Weak Profits
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL TCRD PAYX WPGI PLEN CHHC COKE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The outlook for small stocks is brightening as
a lot of the giants get clobbered by weak corporate earnings.
   That's the opinion of a number of Wall Street analysts who
expect over-the-counter stocks to shrug off last year's sorry
performance and finally start pulling ahead of larger stocks
in the second quarter. The OTC market, they say, will benefit
from its concentration of "growth companies," those with
profits expanding faster than corporations generally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm fairly positive on small stocks for the entire year,"
says Claudia Mott, who follows smaller stocks for
Prudential-Bache Securities. "They're going to have another
quarter of relatively better earnings" than large companies.
Prudential-Bache expects continued stock market turbulence
and another crop of weakening profit reports in the next few
months, with OTC stocks doing better than most.
   Not everyone is convinced of small stocks' allure. Some
analysts, exasperated by small stocks' failure to climb out
of their five-year slump, warn that the market could burn
believers in OTC shares.
   Through Friday, the Nasdaq Composite Index had recovered
6% from its January closing lows but still showed about a
4.2% drop for the first quarter. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average, by contrast, has fallen only 1.7% so far this year.
   Mitch Meisler, Shearson Lehman Hutton's manager of OTC
trading, agrees that stronger earnings should help small
stocks outperform large ones. But he looks for corporate
profits to rebound in coming months, as inflation fears ebb
and interest rates become more stable.
   The battering that small stocks took in 1989 has left many
of them trading at depressed prices. While the Standard &amp;
Poor's 500 stocks are at around 13 times estimated 1990
earnings, Mr. Meisler says, the multiple for Shearson's
selected growth stock list is about 15 times, far below the
premium investors have paid for growth stocks in more bullish
times.
   But Scott Black, president of Delphi Management Inc. in
Boston, says the OTC market is riddled with statistically
cheap companies earning little or no profit. Many companies
with strong earnings, he says, are trading at high prices
compared with book value or at double-digit price/earnings
multiples.
   "You can't just make a case that small {capitalization
stocks} are better than large," he says. "When a company
trades at eight or nine times book {value} and something goes
wrong, the stock gets annihilated."
   Oracle Systems last week reinforced fears that unlisted
shares are more vulnerable to a downturn than their larger
cousins. The stock lost more than 30% of its value after the
company's spectacular earnings growth took an unexpected rest
in the fiscal third quarter ended in February. Nonetheless,
Oracle's profit is expected to rise more than 50% this fiscal
year.
   Other OTC technology stocks are sitting on recent hefty
gains and high P/E ratios. "Tech stocks are volatile and will
continue to be volatile," says Jack Laporte, president of T.
Rowe Price Associates' $1 billion New Horizons Fund. He says
Oracle's debacle is likely to cast a pall over the technology
group for a while, forcing the sector to retire from its
recent leadership position in the OTC market. But the
earnings momentum among technology shares is too compelling
to ignore, Mr. Laporte says. The New Horizons Fund has about
28% of its assets in technology shares, a level he expects to
maintain.
   Eugene E. Peroni Jr., chief technical analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott Inc. in Philadelphia, says stock prices in
general may be ready for at least a partial retracement of
their latest gains. But investors' move toward a more value
oriented, longer-term approach to stocks should protect the
many undervalued issues he sees in the OTC market, he says.
   "Just as we've begun to see a departure between Tokyo and
the New York {stock} market, I think we will begin to see
more of a departure between the secondary market" and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average, Mr. Peroni says. "The OTC averages
will begin to keep pace and then to outpace the Dow
{industrials} over the next several quarters."
   Business services is one area of the OTC market where some
analysts see good buys. Prudential-Bache's Ms. Mott believes
the group's earnings rose 27% in the first quarter, with that
momentum continuing in the second quarter. Two bright spots
cited by T. Rowe Price's Mr. Laporte are Telecredit, which
provides check-guarantee services to retailers, and Paychex,
which processes small-business payrolls.
   The capital spending sector is another favorite among some
analysts, including pollution control, machinery and
electrical equipment companies.
   Delphi Management's Mr. Black finds value in only about 30
of the OTC market's roughly 5,000 issues. His picks include
Western Publishing Group, which publishes Golden Books for
kids; Plenum Publishing, which translates foreign scientific
journals into English; C.H. Heist Corp., an industrial
cleaning and temporary employment services company; and
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, of North Carolina.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 0.12 to 435.54, while
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 0.18%. OTC
advancing stocks edged out decliners by 940 to 921.
   American depositary receipts of Japanese companies traded
sharply lower in response to the 3.37% plunge in the Tokyo
market. Ito-Yokado's ADRs closed at 89 1/2, down 5 1/2; Tokio
Marine &amp; Fire's ADRs were off 2 7/8 to 43 5/8; NEC was down 2
to 65 3/4.
   Leading the most active list, Oracle Systems added 3/8 to
18 7/8. The stock plunged more than 30% earlier last week
because of disappointing earnings.
   Apple Computer fell 7/8 to 40 1/4. Traders say the stock
is reacting to news late Thursday of a federal court ruling
in a patent dispute between Motorola and Hitachi. Motorola
was ordered to stop shipping its 68030 chip, which is used in
many of Apple's computers.
   Intel eased 1/8 to 41 3/4. The semiconductor maker told
The Wall Street Journal that it expects to report that
earnings rose about 25% in the first quarter, fueled by
healthy sales of the company's latest microprocessor chips.
   American Travellers rose 1 1/4 to 20. Investor's Daily
dubbed it "Stock of the Week," saying that the company should
benefit from the nation's growing elderly population and the
rising cost of long-term nursing home care.
   Casual Male collapsed 1 1/4 to 3/4. The company said it is
considering seeking Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection
after failing to sell itself or obtain additional capital.
   Gateway Financial lost 2 5/8 to 6. The Connecticut bank
holding company said it is taking an additional $8 million
provision for loan losses, and will report a loss for the
first quarter. The company also said it will suspend
quarterly dividend payments after the current dividend is
paid Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pernod-Ricard S.A.:
   Beverage Concern Posts Rise
   Of 95% in 1989 Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PER
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pernod-Ricard S.A. said its consolidated net profit after
payments to minority interests rose to 1.45 billion francs
($254 million) in 1989, up 95% from the year-earlier total of
745 million francs ($130 million).
   The French beverage concern told a news conference that
the jump includes a nonrecurring gain of one billion francs
from the sale of its soft-drink unit, Societe Parisienne de
Boissons Gazeuses, to Coca-Cola Co. after a legal dispute
over French distribution rights for the U.S. company's
products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated revenue climbed to 16.7 billion francs from
13.5 billion in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Urges Its 100 Top Executives
   To Bet More of Their Pay on Firm's Fate
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. is asking its top
100 executives to own stock equal to a certain percentage of
their salaries in an unusual program to focus their attention
on the auto maker's long-term future.
   The program, promoted by Chairman Lee A. Iacocca, is the
latest such measure aimed at giving Chrysler officials a
direct financial interest in the company's fate above and
beyond the usual executive stock options.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Already, most of the auto maker's top 2,000 officials have
gambled as much as 10% of their base pay on the company's
ability to cut $1 billion from its costs by Dec. 31. If the
cost-cutting drive succeeds, the officials will profit
handsomely. But they lose their money if the goal isn't met.
   "We are trying a number of unique methods to get top
management to share the risks or rewards of the next few
years," said company spokesman Steven Harris of the new
stock-ownership program.
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Chrysler common closed at $16.625, off 25 cents, on
volume of 642,200 shares. In the past 52 weeks, the stock
traded at a low of $15.875 and a high of $27.125.
   Separately, Ford Motor Co. reinstated merit-pay raises for
its 55,000 salaried employees effective yesterday. Ford had
suspended merit-pay increases in January because of sagging
financial results, but said then that it would consider
reinstating such raises at the end of the first quarter.
   In a letter to employees in the U.S. and Canada, Ford
executives said the company believes the sales downturn has
bottomed out and that the worst is behind Ford. The
No.2-ranked auto maker cautioned employees that many
uncertainties remain this year.
   Still, Ford's guarded optimism contrasts with the
austerity mode at Chrysler, which alone among the Big Three
auto makers didn't pay executive bonuses this year.
   The Chrysler stock-ownership goal for executives, which
began recently, isn't mandatory. But it does provide each
executive with guidelines on the amount of Chrysler stock
that he or she should own to have a "fair share" of the
company.
   The guidelines are based on a formula tied to the
executive's pay and seniority with the No. 3-ranked U.S. auto
maker. Shares the executives already control through stock
options, recent purchases and so-called 401K savings plans
count in the program. Chrysler declined to provide further
details.
   It's unclear how many U.S. companies have similar
stock-ownership targets, but such goals don't exist at Ford
or at No. 1-ranked General Motors Corp. Three years ago, GM
did change its management bonus payments to stock from cash.
But because the stock can be sold, that doesn't amount to a
specific stock-ownership goal for executives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed Unit Voted in February Not to Alter
   Monetary Policy; Rate Boost Discussed
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve's policy-setting
committee voted in February not to alter monetary policy, but
a newly released summary of the meeting shows that, for the
first time in months, some Fed officials talked of raising
interest rates.
   By an 8-3 vote, the Fed's open market committee decided at
its Feb. 6 and 7 meeting not to push rates up or down. The
committee didn't lean toward any change in rates in the
following weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The committee met again last week. It won't disclose last
week's decisions until mid-May, but the Fed has given no
indication of any policy change in its daily dealings in
financial markets. After gradually lowering short-term rates
for six months, the Fed paused at the end of last year.
   By early February, as Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has said
publicly, the Fed concluded that the risks of recession were
receding. Most members noted "some pickup in activity" in the
economy, the summary says. And it adds that most "saw little
prospect that significant progress . . . would be made in
reducing the underlying rate of inflation in the quarters
immediately ahead."
   Although a few Fed officials regarded that as a
prescription for higher interest rates, the majority
disagreed. "Such a policy would incur too much risk of
creating financial conditions that could lead to a weaker
economy," the summary says.
   Several policy makers -- their identities aren't disclosed
in the summary -- "observed a sense of unease and fragility
in the business and financial communities arising from such
factors as declining profit margins, heavy debt burdens and
problems in certain sectors of the financial markets that
were contributing to greater caution on the part of lenders
and a reduced availability of credit to some borrowers,"
according to the summary.
   None of the six Fed governors voted to raise rates, but
two presidents of district reserve banks did. Fed Gov. Martha
Seger dissented on the side of easier policy, as she often
does.
   Lee Hoskins, president of the Cleveland Fed, wanted an
immediate tightening of the Fed's grip on credit to counter
inflationary pressures. He advocated gradually tightening
monetary policy to wring inflation out of the economy. Robert
Boykin, president of the Dallas Fed, was prepared to accept
unaltered policy for the moment, but dissented because he
wanted to lean toward tighter policy. He cited the "risks of
delaying decisions until there was full confirmation of
inflationary pressures."
   Five of the 12 Fed bank presidents vote on monetary policy
at any one time. Mr. Hoskins and Mr. Boykin began serving as
voting members at the February meeting and will continue to
cast votes through year-end.
   Minneapolis Fed President Gary Stern cast his vote with
the majority on the direction of near-term monetary policy.
But in a separate vote setting the Fed's goals for growth in
the money supply this year, Mr. Stern joined Mr. Hoskins in
dissenting on the side of tighter credit.
   By an 8-3 vote, the open market committee decided that the
money supply, as measured by M2, should grow between 3% and
7% in 1990, the same range as last year. Mr. Stern and Mr.
Hoskins wanted to lower the acceptable range, arguing that
the Fed won't be able to reduce inflation if the money supply
grows as fast as 7% this year.
   Some other Fed policy makers shared that fear, the summary
indicates, but said they would go along with a 3% to 7% range
"if its upper limit was viewed as a firm constraint . . . and
if a clear explanation was made of the committee's commitment
to achieve price stability over time." The Fed did explain
the commitment in congressional testimony later in the month.
   Ms. Seger wanted to raise the growth targets to between 3
1/2% and 7 1/2%.
   The M2 measure of the money supply includes currency as
well as checking, savings and money market accounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   The increase in savings deposit insurance to $100,000 from
$40,000 became law in 1980. Friday's Potomac Watch column
wrongly attributed the increase to the 1982 Garn-St Germain
act. Sen. Jake Garn was the ranking Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee in 1980, not its chairman.
   (See: "Potomac Watch -- Washington Rule: It's Not a
Scandal If a Senator Did It" -- WSJ March 30, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Steelmakers
   To Report Drop
   In 1st-Period Net
   ---
   Some Producers May Post
   Losses, Analysts Warn;
   Price Erosion Continues
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8B
</SO>
<CO>
   X BS NII J.NKK AS IAD
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Major steelmakers stumbled in the first quarter as
continued price erosion nibbled away at their profits.
   Some producers may have even been unprofitable, analysts
warn. John Jacobson, who monitors steel for AUS Consultants,
believes the industry, including many mills, will actually
lose about $400 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said profits for each ton of steel shipped will
range from $15 to $25 in the first quarter. That result
compares with $26 in the fourth quarter of 1989 and $39 a ton
in last year's robust first quarter.
   Among major steelmakers, USX Corp. appears to have fared
the best in the latest period, partly reflecting the
company's labor cost advantages. Analysts predict that the
Pittsburgh steel and energy concern should earn between 55
and 60 cents a share compared with a $1.09 a year ago.
   Most major steelmakers, except for USX, had higher
first-quarter labor costs stemming from new labor pacts
negotiated last year. Bethlehem Steel Corp., the first major
steelmaker to sign a contract last year, is expected to earn
about 15 cents a share in the latest quarter compared with 78
cents last year.
   The automotive sector, which consumes about 23% of U.S.
mills' output, was weak through much of the quarter, picking
up toward the end. As a result, steelmakers, such as National
Steel Corp., that are largely dependent on auto-related
customers are expected to fare badly. Analysts expect
National Steel, a Pittsburgh joint venture owned by National
Intergroup Inc. and NKK Corp. of Japan, to earn about $12 a
ton.
   The outlook for the rest of the year is mixed. Mr.
Jacobson said he initially thought the steel industry would
suffer at least two quarterly losses in 1990. But now he
expects a quicker upturn as prices begin to climb. "I think
we're pretty much out of the woods," he said.
   Other analysts, though, expect the lackluster first
quarter to persist through 1990. "Look for anemic profits in
1990" said Peter Marcus, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc. He
cited flat shipments, higher labor costs and continuing price
weakness as reasons for the slump.
   Some analysts, such as John Tumazos of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette, believe softness in automotive and construction
markets will extend to the previously strong capital goods
market. "Historically, after the consumer segment is weak for
two to four quarters, the capital goods market begins to
ease," he said.
   Steelmakers suffered from lower prices in the first
quarter, a trend that began in the second half of 1989. Mr.
Tumazos said average first-quarter prices fell to $491 a ton
from $503 a ton in the fourth quarter. "I don't think the
public will be aware of how deep the discounts were until
they see the first-quarter results," he said.
   Price declines have been most severe for commodity-type
products such as hot rolled sheet. Mr. Marcus noted that the
base spot price for that product fell to about $310 a ton
from $325 in the fourth quarter and $400 a ton last spring.
Moreover, world spot prices for even high quality products
like cold rolled sheet recently fell an additional $40 a ton,
partly as a result of overproduction, Mr. Marcus said.
   Those steelmakers with more long-term contracts and less
exposure to the spot market, such as Armco Inc., Parsippany,
N.J., and Chicago-based Inland Steel Industries Inc., are
less vulnerable to spot price discounting.
   Also hurting first-quarter results, noted analyst
Christopher Plummer of WEFA Group, were lower operating
rates. Those rates were about 82% in the first quarter
compared with the year-earlier quarter's 90%. As a result,
fixed interest and labor costs were spread over fewer tons of
steel shipped. "It's enough of a drop to have a significant
impact on earnings," he said.
   Still, shipments held up relatively well in the quarter
despite the lackluster economy. One reason was the low level
of imports. First-quarter shipments should total about 20
million tons, slightly higher than the fourth quarter but
lower than the 1989 first quarter's 21.9 million tons. The
strength in shipments is expected to continue in the second
quarter as buyers rebuild inventories, a move that should
also relieve some pressure on pricing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Celebrity Ads: Truth or Consequences
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   In his Feb. 28 Rule of Law column "Lawsuits Against
Celebrity Ads: Where's the Beef?" L. Gordon Crovitz examines
a suit filed by our law firm on behalf of eight elderly
Chicago-area investors against endorsers Lloyd Bridges and
George Hamilton and an advertising agency. Messrs. Bridges
and Hamilton appeared in TV commercials endorsing securities
sold to our clients by A.J. Obie &amp; Associates, a defunct
securities firm that conducted a Ponzi scheme. The suit was
recently settled after a bankruptcy judge denied a motion for
summary judgment with a ruling that "endorsers for Obie had a
duty to make an independent inquiry of Obie to determine the
truthfulness of the message (they) delivered."
   Mr. Crovitz criticizes the opinions of the judge, stating,
"This ratchets liability well beyond earlier advertising
cases." We have a "beef" with this comment. On the other
hand, we have no beef with a law that requires endorsers who
ask consumers to trust them when they state facts about
products or services to inquire about the truthfulness of
such statements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This duty was imposed on endorsers because of the trust
relationship they share with consumers. When Mr. Bridges told
our clients that "A.J. Obie &amp; Associates offers secured
investments that return the same high yield year after year
after year," they believed him. They trusted him. When he
said the investment was safe and secure, they believed what
he said was true because he had checked it out.
   We also have a "beef" with Mr. Crovitz when he says the
law has been extended to the point where endorsers are now at
great risk. If an endorser makes no affirmative factual
claims about the product, which Johnny Unitas did not do in
the case cited by Mr. Crovitz, but merely introduces other
people who make the claims, then the endorser is not at risk.
Michael Jordan would not be liable for endorsing Air Jordan
sneakers, assuming he has examined the product, if he
expresses his opinion that Air Jordans are great athletic
shoes. But if endorsers state facts about products to support
their opinions, they are liable if the supporting facts are
not true.
   Bankruptcy Judge Robert Ginsberg's opinion clearly defined
the endorsers' duty when he said, "Lloyd Bridges has a duty
of an endorser of Obie not to make any representations that
would be deceptive. . . . Bridges was an endorser for Obie
and therefore, had a duty to make an independent inquiry of
Obie to determine the truthfulness of the message he
delivered on its behalf."
   Jerome S. Lamet
   Lamet, Kanwit &amp; Associates
   Chicago
   ---
   Mr. Crovitz's column illustrates the danger of writing an
article without getting all the facts:
   The case of Luella Wilson, the old lady victimized by "the
lawyer who dreamed up a new doctrine called `negligent
entrustment,'" Mr. Crovitz wrote. Actually, this
well-established doctrine has been around a long time. It
holds you responsible, for example, if you give money to a
mass murderer so he can buy a machine gun. In the Wilson
case, here's what Mr. Crovitz left out: The old lady funded
her relative's purchase of a car, knowing he had flunked a
driver's test, had no driver's license, had no insurance and
had an alcohol and drug problem. He paralyzed his passenger
when he drove the car off a bridge.
   The "railroad worker" awarded nearly $500,000 because she
was asked to take a drug test. Mr. Crovitz left out that she
was a lowly computer operator who had nothing to do with the
operation of trains. She was a six-year employee in good
standing, with no history of drug or alcohol abuse. For
refusing to take the urine test, she was fired. The company
promised her a hearing, but reneged. Though she was pregnant,
the company summarily canceled her health insurance.
   The case of Unocal paying $5.5 million in a "citizens'
suit" over pollution in San Francisco Bay. Mr. Crovitz left
out that Unocal was sued over 2,300 incidents where its Rodeo
refinery illegally discharged millions of gallons of oil,
grease and phenols into the water routinely for eight years.
   Laurence Bodine
   Publisher
   Lawyers Alert
   Wheaton, Ill.
   ---
   I greatly appreciated your article and I agree with
everything you're saying. However, I want to set the record
straight in one particular, since you mentioned me and my
horrendous battle with the FTC in the 1970s. You mentioned
that my "Cooga Mooga family business" had something to do
with an acne product, and I certainly understand why you
would have that impression, thanks to the many
misrepresentations by the press and the FTC itself. But for
future reference, the fact is my four daughters had used a
very good skin-care product called Acne Statin, produced by a
doctor here in Beverly Hills, who asked me to do a commercial
for her product.
   Since I knew it was a good product, based on the
experience of my own teenage girls, and since the woman had
no money to pay me for my commercials, we agreed to a
25-cent-per-bottle compensation. That seemed fair, because if
the commercial worked, we'd all benefit -- and if people
weren't interested, we would all have to forget about it. As
it turned out, the commercial (made with my then-unfamous
teen-age daughter Debby) was extremely successful, and the
product took off like wildfire.
   Enter the FTC, egged on by a competitor, a doctor and
others interested in the now famous Retin A. Knowing the Acne
Statin doctor had not done the required double-blind clinical
studies on her product (as a naturalized citizen she was
afraid someone would steal her unpatentable formula), the
competitors made charges to the FTC and offered to do their
own clinicals -- roughly like having Chevrolet assess the new
Ford.
   An ambitious young lawyer went for it, seeing the chance
to clamp down on celebrity endorsements and make a name for
himself. He convinced my attorney that I should sign a
consent decree, not admitting to anything (because I wasn't
really charged with anything) but not doing any further ads
for the product until the doctor's clinical studies had been
done. The lawyer guaranteed my name would be kept out of the
papers if I would cooperate. But as soon as I signed the
decree, he called a news conference and trumpeted his
accomplishment. It hit papers and wire services all over the
world and sent tremors through Madison Avenue. And though the
Acne Statin doctor did clinical studies that substantiated
every claim that had been made -- she and her product were
ruined, and I have rarely been asked to do a commercial
since.
   Though the opposing doctor and the Retin A people had some
initial success, recently a lot of questions were raised
about the efficacy of their products, and the Acne Statin
doctor has for years been trying to alert the medical
community and the public to possible cancer connections with
continued use of Retin A.
   Pat Boone
   Burbank, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chemical Banking
   Will Take a Charge
   For the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Chemical Banking Corp. said first-quarter
results will be reduced by a $52 million pretax charge for
expenses stemming from the previously announced move to cut
1,100 jobs and other cost-saving steps.
   The after-tax effect of the charge is expected to be about
$40 million, according to securities analysts. The company
didn't specify the charge after taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts had been expecting Chemical to post first-quarter
earnings of about $144 million, or $1.75 a share, including
the gain from the sale of its stake in Florida National Banks
of Florida Inc. to First Union Corp. Analysts expect the sale
will produce an after-tax gain of about $80 million for
Chemical.
   James J. McDermott, research director of Keefe, Bruyette &amp;
Woods Inc., said, "With the gain from Florida National, this
was a good time for Chemical to take the charge."
   Chemical's slimming down was prompted by two special
additions to its loan-loss reserves in last year's third
quarter: a $600 million provision for Latin American debt and
a $300 million for provision to readjust values of real
estate held by Chemical's Texas Commerce Bancshares Inc.
subsidiary.
   As a result, Chemical had a loss of $482.2 million, or
$8.29 a share, last year.
   The elimination of 1,100 jobs is a somewhat sharper cut
than the estimate the company gave in February, when it said
it planned to cut 900 jobs in the first quarter. No
explanation was given for the higher number. Chemical now has
about 29,000 employees world-wide.
   The staff reductions are expected to save Chemical about
$60 million on an annualized basis, though the bank wouldn't
estimate the net savings for this year.
   In addition to pruning its work force, Chemical said it
consolidated certain branches and by midyear will relocate
headquarters and staff of its Chemical Bank New Jersey
subisidiary from several locations in Morristown, N.J., to a
single site in East Brunswick, N.J.
   Keefe's Mr. McDermott said that "Chemical has actually
done a pretty good job of expense control. Their expenses
totaled $2.6 billion last year. Expenses have been about flat
since 1987, and since then they've acquired a New Jersey
bank."
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Chemical dropped 37.5 cents to $23.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
FINANCIAL, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   About $16 billion in three- and six-months bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   About $9.75 billion in one-year bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   GTE Florida Inc. -- $75 million of first mortgage bonds,
via competitive bidding.
   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. -- $100 million of first
mortgage bonds, via competitive bidding.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Louisiana Power &amp; Light Co. -- $100 million of first
mortgage bonds, via competitive bidding.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Barrett Resources Corp. -- 3.1 million common shares, via
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Pharmacy Management Services Inc. -- initial 2.5 million
common shares, via Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Pinkerton's Inc. -- initial two million common shares, via
Smith Barney Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Morgan Stanley Group Inc. -- seven million Nikkei put
warrants, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   RMI Titanium Co. -- initial 15 million common shares, via
First Boston Corp.
   Salomon Inc. -- three million Nikkei call warrants, via
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Sequent Computer Systems Inc. -- 2.689 million common
shares, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Tetra Technologies Inc. -- initial 2.35 million common
shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey -- $350 million of various full faith and
credit general obligation bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Alaska Housing Finance Corp. -- $104 million of general
purpose revenue bonds, via a Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. group.
   Imperial Irrigation District, Calif. -- $102.5 million of
electric system certificates of participation, via a
PaineWebber group.
   Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority -- $200 million
of general obligation bonds, via a Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets group.
   New York State Housing Finance Agency -- $555 million of
health facilities revenue refunding and special obligation
bonds, 1990 Series A, via a J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
group.
   Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority -- $160 million of
general purpose revenue bonds, Series B, via a Dillon Read &amp;
Co. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Out of His League:
   He Is No Gretzky,
   But Then Who Is?
   ---
   Our Man Plays the Left Wing
   And Gives Lords an Assist;
   A Deft Defensive Move
   ----
   By John Koten
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   EVANSTON, Ill. -- I'm whirling around an ice rink wearing
the protective padding of an armadillo.
   That's fortunate, because in the past half-hour, I've been
whacked with sticks, pummeled into the boards and conked on
the head. I have also blocked a slap shot with my rear end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the evening, I'm playing left wing for the Lords, an
amateur ice-hockey team, not to be confused with the Chicago
street gang. The Lords compete in the advanced-intermediate
level of a nationwide league called Hockey North America.
Participants spend a day a week pretending they can skate and
shoot like Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux.
   Since 1980, the HNA, based in Washington, D.C., has grown
from 100 players to more than 12,000, in 26 cities. The
league attributes its success in some measure to the
continuing national fitness craze. But hockey, with its
furious pace and bump-and-grind action, has a more basic
appeal: "This is not a yuppie sport," says Gary Poteshman,
who sells cutting tools and has played with the Lords for
five years. "When you put on all your equipment and go out on
the ice, you become a totally different person. You're a
warrior."
   Many players also are attracted to the HNA's brand of
play: no fighting or serious checking; that is, no slamming
opponents into the side of the rink. The league enforces the
rules: Each year, the HNA suspends (for from two years to
life) several dozen players because of excessive violence.
   That doesn't mean HNA games are as harmless as a
low-impact Jane Fonda workout. Even with the no-checking
rule, players collide in tussles for the puck. "It's very
physical," says Max Mintzer, a tax specialist for Northern
Trust Co. and HNA's Chicago-area coordinator. "People are
swatting at you. You get elbowed in the head. I've seen a
couple of guys break bones." Since its inception a decade
ago, the league has had two deaths, both from heart attacks.
   At the beginner level, HNA takes any man or woman brave
enough to apply. Some 10% of those who join have never
skated. When I phone the league to ask if I can play in a
game, I am grilled about my experience -- not to determine if
I can hack it, but to make sure I'm not too good. "We don't
want you to go out there and mess up a game by scoring five
goals," a league official tells me. I assure him that that
isn't likely: I'm a potato-shaped newsman who hasn't played
ice hockey since college 14 years ago. The only other thing
the league wants to know is more ominous: Do I have adequate
health- and life-insurance?
   The Lords' roster includes a supermarket manager, an IRS
attorney and a district manager for Baskin-Robbins Ice Cream
Co. The youngest player is 22; the oldest 39.
   Before playing in my first game, I attend two team
practices. During these sessions, our coach, Bill Christy,
puts us through a series of passing, skating and shooting
drills that last about an hour. At first, my biggest obstacle
is getting comfortable with the 25 pounds of hockey gear I
have to wear: elbow pads, shoulder pads, armored gloves, shin
protectors, padded pants and helmet. I figure if hockey
doesn't work out, I can always join the bomb squad. The only
parts of me that are unprotected are the backs of my legs, my
inner arms and my neck.
   I feel like the Michelin Man as I skate clumsily around
the rink. By the second session, a week later, my feet are
covered with Band-Aids, but I'm skating forward and backward
without feeling that I am about to capsize. The coach says
I'm ready for my first real game, which is to be against the
Bandits.
   Before the game -- played at 10:30 on a Tuesday night when
normal people are getting ready for bed -- I set what I think
are some reasonable goals for myself: Try not to fall down
and don't get sent to the penalty box. In general, I'll be
satisfied so long as I don't disgrace myself or get carried
off the ice on a stretcher.
   OK, I'll admit it, I also dream of skating up ice like a
National Hockey League star and blasting the puck past a
terrified goalie. I realize that is a vain hope.
   In a musty locker room before the game, Coach Christy
divides the team into offensive and defensive alignments.
Hockey -- even by HNA standards -- is so fast-paced that
players need to be rotated on and off the ice every 90
seconds or so to keep fresh legs in the game. The coach,
apparently doubting my potential, assigns me to the last of
three forward lines, each with three players. There also are
three pairs of defensemen.
   As I skate out onto the ice wearing a blue and orange
Lords jersey with a lucky 7 on the back, I see spectators
have begun assembling for the game. Only four spectators, but
in a moment of pre-game jitters, I trip and fall over my
stick.
   The action begins. Skate blades flash up and down ice,
bodies thump against the boards -- the fencing on the
perimeter of the playing area -- and sticks crackle on pads
and the darting puck. Some Lords are graceful. Then there is
Bill McDermott, a 34-year-old hospital manager playing
offense. He winds up for a big slap shot -- one of hockey's
most dramatic moments. On the downstroke, however, Bill's
stick misses the puck entirely, spinning him in a
half-circle. "Hey, Bill, I could feel the breeze," one of the
Lords, Max Mintzer, yells from the bench.
   The Lords first score comes when Aram Dakarian, who
manages a supermarket meat department, makes a nifty pass to
Gary Poteshman. This time, stick and puck connect. The black
disk floats into the net, and the Lords hoist their sticks to
celebrate the team's first goal. Players sitting on the bench
lean over the boards and bang them with their sticks.
   The goal ties the score 1-1, and it is now time for our
third line to make its first appearance. That's me.
   As I climb nervously onto the ice, the coach grabs my
jersey and tells me to "hang back and try to get a feel for
the flow of the game. See how fast you can skate. . . ." I
detect some concern in his voice.
   From the bench, an HNA game doesn't look particularly
frenetic. But on the ice, it takes all my energy to keep up.
I am soon out of breath, the puck seems always to be headed
the other way. Toward the end of my shift, I have a brief
chance to shoot. But just before I let go, two Bandits
converge and hack at me with their sticks. I feel as though I
am caught in a threshing machine. As I struggle to stay on my
feet, the puck vanishes.
   Returning to the bench, I notice steam escaping my jersey
and coming out of the holes in my socks.
   My second turn on the ice is more eventful. After a
teammate passes me the puck, I maneuver around a Bandit
defenseman, glide toward the net and shoot. For a moment it
looks like the puck might actually get through, but the
goalie blocks the shot with his glove. "I was robbed," I
mutter to my plastic face shield.
   In a flash, the Bandits are back on the attack in our
zone. I try to tie up one of them in front of our goal just
as another Bandit winds up for a slap shot. While my opponent
and I are whacking at each other, the hard rubber puck
ricochets off the seat of my pants.
   The bench explodes. "Hey, Wall Street Journal. Great
defense," someone shouts.
   Penalties become a big problem for the Lords as the game
progresses, as we are forced to play short one man for
extended periods. That inspires a lecture from our coach on
the fine points of fouling the other team without getting
caught.
   Throughout the game, both benches shout encouragement to
their fellows doing battle on the rink. During one of my
rushes, I hear the Lords loudly shouting my name. Touched, I
tip my helmet to them, only to discover that they are just
trying to get me off the ice. I have played a minute past my
line change, thus keeping one of our stars from his turn at
play.
   After several scoring opportunities go awry in the third
period, some Lords are feeling frustrated. "We can't buy a
goal," our captain yells in despair. But the 1-1 deadlock is
finally broken when Bill McDermott redeems himself for his
earlier whiff. Accepting a pass from Frank Winterer, a
banker, Bill moves in toward the net and scores. He's a hero.
   In the closing minutes, with the Lords still ahead by one
goal, Coach Christy gets excited: "Trip them, hold them, jump
on them. Just don't let them score]"
   As it happens, we actually score again ourselves, and I am
credited with an assist on the final goal in our 3-1 victory.
   After the game, Coach Christy has high praise for my
performance. "Well," he says, "you didn't embarrass yourself
too badly."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hallmark Sweetens
   Offer for Junk Bonds
   Issued by Univision
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Hallmark Cards Inc. sweetened its bid
to buy back at a discount $270 million of junk bonds issued
by its majority-owned Univision Holdings subsidiary.
   The closely held greeting-card concern also turned up the
heat on reluctant bondholders, who tendered only a small
fraction of the bonds under the earlier proposal despite
repeated extensions, by announcing that Univision will file
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection from creditors if
the modified bid isn't accepted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hallmark launched the tender offer in February, as part of
an attempt to rescue its investment in Univision. Hallmark
holds a 63.5% stake in the financially troubled operator of a
Spanish-language broadcast network.
   Hallmark's new bid calls for it to pay holders of
Univision's $165 million in senior subordinated discount
notes, due 1998, 55.3 cents on each dollar of face amount --
an increase from the earlier 45 cents. Holders of Univision's
$105 million in subordinated debentures, due 1999, are being
offered 31.5 cents on each dollar of face amount, up from the
previous 30 cents. The offers are scheduled to expire at
12:01 a.m. April 13; holders of the senior notes are being
offered accrued interest from Feb. 1, but the offer for the
subordinated notes doesn't include any such accrual.
   In New York, Wilbur Ross, senior managing director of
Rothschild Inc., who represents holders of a majority of
Univision's two debt issues, said the group views the latest
proposal "as a constructive change, made in good faith."
   He added, however, that the bondholders still have
questions about the allocation of the funds between the two
issues, and the total amount to be offered for the debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Car Sales in Europe
   Rose 2.1% in February
   From a Year Earlier
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7H
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Sales of new cars in Europe rose 2.1% in
February from a year earlier, with most motor industry
experts now bullish about continued growth in West Germany
and France throughout 1990, which could lend balance to
downturns expected elsewhere in Europe.
   Despite a seasonal slackening in sales that pushed the
February totals 8.2% below January's, most analysts regarded
the performance as healthy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm reasonably pleased with these figures," said Rob
Golding, motors analyst with Warburg Securities Ltd. in
London, echoing the sentiment of other sector watchers.
   Industry and government statistics from 12 countries that
normally account for 94% of non-Communist Europe's passenger
car sales showed new-car registrations totaled 1,040,000 in
February, falling from 1,130,000 in January and up from
1,020,000 a year earlier.
   In February, sales were off on the year in four of the
countries included in the survey: Portugal, Spain, Sweden and
the U.K. West Germany posted a modest 3.7% advance, while
France rose 10% and Italy climbed 11%.
   Britain and France contributed largely to the decline from
January, with interest rate-pressure on consumers trimming
sales in the U.K. by 19%. The residual effects of a civil
service strike in December obscured analysis of French sales
figures, which were down by 18% from January, experts said.
   Analysts' forecasts for sales in 1990 range between a 4%
decline and 4% growth. Most reckoned that a slowdown
threatening for the past several months would pull down sales
for the year and leave growth this year below the 3.4% seen
in 1989.
   However, "even two months (into 1990) is probably not
enough to give us a firm view about what is going on," said
Susanne Oliver of Britain's Hoare Govett Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   G-7 Nations to Discuss
   IMF Capital Proposal
   At Meeting in Paris
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN CANDA JAPAN LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- The Group of Seven industrialized countries
will discuss the International Monetary Fund's proposed
capital increase at a meeting in Paris on Saturday, according
to Canada's Finance Minister Michael Wilson.
   Mr. Wilson adding that he hopes for agreement on the issue
at the meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The IMF has sought to double its capital to $240 billion
from $120 billion. But the U.S. and several other powerful
members have proposed lesser amounts, and it is likely the
agency will receive a capital increase of about 50% or $60
billion.
   Mr. Wilson, who also heads the IMF's powerful
policy-setting interim committee, said he didn't think the
coordination of economic policies -- carried out through the
G-7 -- needs "revitalizing." But he said "coordination hasn't
produced results" recently. That may not be possible, he
said, because "we don't sit there with seven sets of levers
and make things happen."
   The G-7 groups the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,
Britain, Italy and Canada. Mr. Wilson will fly to Washington
today for a pre-G-7 talk with U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady.
   In recent weeks, foreign-exchange intervention by Japan,
the U.S. and big European countries has failed to stem the
weakening of the yen and the strengthening of the dollar. Mr.
Wilson declined to comment on the strained yen-dollar
relationship. But several other bankers and financial leaders
at this year's annual meeting of the Inter-American
Development Bank, held here during the weekend, said Japan
will soon have to raise interest rates to shore up the yen.
   Commenting on recent talks between the U.S. and Mexico
concerning a bilateral free-trade agreement, Mr. Wilson said
a separate bilateral accord between Canada and Mexico
wouldn't be necessary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   AHA to Drop
   Seal Endorsing
   Low-Fat Foods
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB OMCM SAA FCB WPPGY PAC U.ALL GIS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   The American Heart Association is about to close down its
controversial seal-of-approval program for low-fat foods,
just two months after the program was launched, marketing
executives say.
   The AHA is expected to announce today or tomorrow that it
is discontinuing the seal because of objections from the Food
and Drug Administration. AHA officials wouldn't confirm the
move, but Scott Ballin, vice president of public affairs,
conceded that "the FDA has problems with the seal, and with
third-party endorsements of food products by us or anyone.
The next question is, based on those facts, where do we go
from here?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AHA officials met throughout the weekend to discuss their
options. Industry executives believe the group, while doing
away with the seal itself, will refocus on other parts of the
seal program, known as HeartGuide. Among the alternatives
they are considering are education efforts and working with
the FDA either on a different labeling program or to refine
the regulatory agency's own proposed food labeling
regulations.
   The seal-of-approval concept has been troubled from the
start. The AHA developed the program to identify foods it
deemed low in cholesterol, sodium and fats. Brands that
passed muster -- and paid a fee -- could display the AHA
HeartGuide logo on their labels and in advertising. The AHA
had grand visions of making the seal the equivalent of the
Good Housekeeping seal, and encouraged products that bore it
to trumpet the fact in ads. When the seal was introduced in
early February, several brands, including Mazola and Promise
margarines and Pam non-stick spray, were planning major
marketing campaigns around it.
   But the program immediately raised the ire of the FDA,
which promptly threatened regulatory action. In a warning
letter sent in February, James S. Benson, acting commissioner
of the FDA, told the AHA that its program would "increase
consumer confusion and hamper any comprehensive solution to
the food-labeling problem." For example, the FDA was
concerned that the HeartGuide seal on margarine and oils
would lead consumers to believe that these were health foods.
Friday, the FDA repeated its objections to third-party
endorsements in another letter to the AHA.
   The FDA's complaints prompted most of the 103 brands in
the initial launch of HeartGuide to back out before the
program even started; among the defectors were Mazola, Pam,
Promise and C&amp;W Frozen Foods. But several dozen remained,
with some going through the expense of redesigning their
packaging to show off the seal. They will now have to remove
the seal, if they haven't already.
   The HeartGuide seal's demise comes as the FDA is
considering its own health-claim labeling regulations,
perhaps with input from the AHA. The FDA earlier this year
proposed tough new labeling restrictions that would crack
down on many claims, and probably would discourage many of
the labeling claims made today. But consumer activist groups
have criticized the FDA for dragging its feet on health
claims.
   "I'm concerned that the FDA won't go far enough or act
quickly enough," says Bonnie Liebman, director of nutrition
for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer
activist group. "The demise of this program means we need to
put more pressure on the FDA. It provides one more reason to
push for legislation that would force the FDA to overhaul
food labels." Two bills pending on Capitol Hill would require
the FDA to define terms like "light" and "low fat."
   The FDA declined to comment. It may have been concerned
because other health groups were considering their own stamps
of approval for foods, which could have led to consumer
confusion.
   Still, says Ms. Liebman, the demise of the HeartGuide seal
"is a shame for consumers who want simple thumbs up or thumbs
down advice on whether a food is good for their heart. This
kind of labeling is something the FDA should have been doing
a long time ago."
   ---
   Campbell Soup Accounts
                                                                                                       

   Campbell Soup announced a long-expected consolidation of
its ad agency lineup, cutting out three agencies while
spreading the bulk of its $150 million account more equally
among four others.
   In the reorganization, Campbell cuts out DDB Needham, Hal
Riney &amp; Partners and Saatchi &amp; Saatchi/London, each of which
had relatively small pieces of Campbell business. BBDO and
FCB/Leber Katz Partners are the biggest beneficiaries of the
consolidation, picking up most of that business and putting
them closer in league to Backer Spielvogel Bates, which had
been Campbell's largest agency.
   Backer Spielvogel, which had an estimated $35 million in
Campbell business, wasn't affected by the agency shake-up,
but now faces formidable competition from its fellow Campbell
agencies. BBDO's billings now rival Backer Spielvogel's.
Industry executives say FCB/Leber Katz's billings are
slightly less than that, as are those of Ogilvy &amp; Mather,
another major shop that retained all of its business except
for a small Swanson account.
   Campbell, based in Camden, N.J., said it made the shifts
because of its planned agency incentive program, in which
compensation will be tied to sales performance. Campbell said
it plans to tell its agencies details of the plan "in a few
weeks." The program is to go into effect August 1.
   BBDO, like DDB Needham an Omnicom Group agency, picks up
Swanson frozen foods, which had been handled by both Riney
and Ogilvy &amp; Mather. BBDO also won Mrs. Paul's Kitchens
frozen food, an assignment previously handled at DDB Needham.
BBDO will continue to handle Campbell's Chunky soups and
Campbell's Home Cookin' soups.
   FCB/Leber Katz, a unit of Foote, Cone &amp; Belding that
currently handles the Prego spaghetti sauce account, picks up
the Souper Combo account, which had been handled at BBDO. The
agency was also named to handle the V8 juice business, which
had been at Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, London.
   Ogilvy &amp; Mather, a unit of WPP Group, will continue to
handle a number of brands, including Le Menu dinners and
Pepperidge Farm products. Backer Spielvogel Bates, a Saatchi
&amp; Saatchi agency, will retain Campbell's condensed soups and
Campbell's Special Request line of soups.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   WELLS RICH: Jim Lawrence, the top executive on the Ford
Motor account at Wells, Rich, Greene's Detroit office, is
returning to New York to direct the shop's newly won
Continental Airlines account, industry executives said. Mr.
Lawrence, an executive vice president at Wells Rich, is
expected to continue to work on the Ford business from New
York. Mr. Lawrence, who couldn't be reached, is the stepson
of agency founder Mary Wells Lawrence.
                                                                                                       

   AMMIRATI: Ammirati &amp; Puris said it received financing
commitments from a New York bank to complete the buy-back of
its stock from Omnicom Group. The buy-back, estimated at
about $30 million, is expected to be completed by the end of
May.
                                                                                                       

   BBDO: Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell unit, San
Francisco, named BBDO, San Francisco, agency of record for
its Information Services Group account. Billings are $5
million to $10 million.
                                                                                                       

   DMB&amp;B: Allied-Lyons PLC's Hiram Walker unit awarded its
Harveys Bristol Cream ad account to D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp;
Bowles, Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Billings are $4 million to $6
million.
                                                                                                       

   FOOTE CONE: Foote, Cone &amp; Belding, Chicago, said it merged
its Melbourne, Australia, office with Thomson White &amp;
Partners, a Melbourne agency. The agency will be called
Thomson White/FCB. Foote Cone also said it acquired an equity
stake in Fancourt Holdings, the third-largest agency group in
New Zealand. Terms of the transactions weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   FALLON: General Mills, Minneapolis, named Fallon
McElligott, Minneapolis, ad agency for its Bringer's food
delivery venture. Billings weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Survey of Underwriting:
   Japan's Lead
   In Euromarket
   Appears to Ebb
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN J.NOM G.DBK Z.SBK Z.CSU J.DST SB JPM J.NKT MS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Japanese dominance of the Euromarket, the hub
of international capital raising, is showing signs of
weakening.
   In the 1960s and 1970s, British and European banks
dominated the Euromarket -- the offshore market where
corporations and governments borrow outside their home
countries. U.S. concerns led the pack during the first half
of the 1980s. Then came the Japanese.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, the stranglehold of Japan's so-called Big Four --
Nomura Securities Co., Yamaichi Securities Co., Daiwa
Securities Co. and Nikko Securities Co. -- is loosening. The
Europeans are making a comeback.
   But the volume of new issues of Eurobonds and
international equities slumped 28% in the first quarter to
$46 billion.
   Nomura -- while still ranked No. 1 with a 13.1% market
share -- had a 45% drop in its volume of Euromarket
underwritings to $6 billion for the first quarter, according
to Securities Data Co. Nikko saw its market share erode by
75%; Daiwa's share fell 55%. Yamaichi, ranked fourth a year
ago, didn't even crack the top 10.
   A major reason: The plunging yen and Tokyo stock market
have dried up demand for once-hot Euromarket warrant
securities issued by Japanese corporations. During the
quarter, Euromarket underwriting deals by the Japanese with
equity kickers have plummeted 72% to $5.5 billion amid a
recent moratorium declared by Japanese securities firms on
warrant deals.
   "The yen has had an uncertain patch, which in turn has
caused a blip in the warrant market," says a spokesman for
Nomura in London. "It's not surprising to see a slight
loosening of the grip of Japanese {investment} banks."
   West Germany's Deutsche Bank was in second place, raising
$4.1 billion, for a first-quarter market share of 9%. Union
Bank of Switzerland jumped to $3.3 billion, or a 7.1% share.
CS First Boston had a 5.7% share. Depending on the progress
of German reunification in the coming months, specialists say
it is conceivable that Deutsche Bank could eclipse Nomura
this year, particularly if the Japanese market continues to
stumble. "This might be the end of the Japanese dominance,"
says a U.S. securities executive.
   Most U.S. investment banks haven't yet been able to take
much advantage of the Japanese slip. J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. is
ranked seventh among all Euromarket underwriters, arranging
for $1.7 billion in securities for a 3.8% market share.
Salomon Inc.'s Salomon Brothers Inc. unit's share of the
Euromarket jumped to 5% from 1.2% a year ago; Salomon ranked
sixth, arranging for $2.3 billion in securities.
   ---
                 Top Euromarket Underwriters
                 (Non-U.S. debt and equity)
                                                                                                       

                                      THREE MONTHS
                                 -----------------------
                                      1990          1989
                                 ----------------   ----
                                 AMOUNT     % OF    % OF
   MANAGER                     (millions)   MKT.    MKT.
                                                                                                       

   Nomura Sec                   $6,029.2    13.1    16.9
   Deutsche Bank                 4,155.6     9.0     4.4
   Union Bank Sw                 3,258.3     7.1     1.8
   CS First Boston               2,621.0     5.7     4.7
   Daiwa Securities              2,530.7     5.5     8.6
   Salomon Bros                  2,298.1     5.0     1.2
   J.P. Morgan                   1,763.8     3.8     4.2
   Nikko Securities              1,412.6     3.1     8.6
   Morgan Stanley                1,119.7     2.4     2.7
   Goldman Sachs                 1,099.0     2.4     2.2
   SUBTOTALS                   $26,288.1    57.1%   55.4%
   INDUSTRY TOTALS             $46,066.3   100.0%  100.0%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Data Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Matsushita Subsidiary
   Unveils Erasable Disk
   For Video Recording
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MC
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s Panasonic
Communications &amp; Systems Co. unveiled what it called the
first erasable video disk recorder for a commercial market,
aiming the pricey product at broadcasters but predicting
wider uses.
   The new recorder, which uses lasers to encode up to 60
minutes of television pictures on a 12-inch, two-sided
optical disk, offers a significant advantage over current
videotape recorders: Its pictures can be recalled
instantaneously, without having to rewind through unwanted
footage. That could be a godsend for television sports
producers, for example, allowing them to replay any part of a
game on demand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The device can also erase and re-record its images at
least one million times, making its laser technology more
economical because disks can be reused. And it has a computer
hook-up, making it useful for big image databases.
   Several Japanese companies already make erasable
optical-disk drives for computers. Canon Inc. supplies such a
drive for Next Inc.'s much-publicized workstation. But these
drives store information digitally -- as ones and zeros --
making them impractical for information-intensive video
images. Panasonic's device stores the images in analog form
-- similar to traditional video tape -- rather than in
digital form.
   Ed Rothchild, a San Francisco consultant who specializes
in optical storage, said erasable video disk recorders such
as Panasonic's will eventually replace videotape recorders in
the consumer marketplace -- but only when someone figures out
a cost-effective way to fit a feature-length movie on one
side of a disk.
   Panasonic didn't announce a price for the recorder, which
will be available in the fourth quarter, but indicated it
will likely cost between $40,000 and $50,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900402-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900402-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L
   Is Insolvent
   Takeover Likely
   ---
   Thrift's Big Losses Blamed
   On Sharp Deterioration
   In Junk Bond Portfolio
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/02/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association disclosed late
yesterday that it is insolvent, making likely an expensive
government takeover of the big California thrift, one of
Michael Milken's biggest allies in revolutionizing the junk
bond market.
   Columbia, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., was once the
nation's most profitable thrift by virtue of its huge stake
in junk bonds, many bought from Mr. Milken and his securities
firm, the now-defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. But
Columbia reported huge losses yesterday from massive
deterioration in that junk bond portfolio over the last five
months, joining many other firms that have foundered as
either buyers or sellers of high-yield debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Columbia said it had a loss of $379.1 million, or $19.17 a
share, in the fourth quarter. The losses reflect junk
bond-related loss provisions and write-downs of about $470
million in the quarter. Moreover, the company said it had a
loss of nearly $200 million in the first two months of 1990
because of further junk bond trouble. As of Feb. 28, Columbia
said it had a $121 million shareholder deficit, compared with
equity of $77.6 million three months earlier.
   The worse-than-expected results leave troubled Columbia
teetering on the edge of federal receivership. The $9.25
billion-asset institution has been subject to federal
operating restrictions for several months as junk bond losses
have eroded its equity to the point that it violated certain
new federal regulations for minimum capital levels. Because
of federal regulations covering insolvent institutions, the
company will now be barred from making any new loan or
investment without prior regulatory approval, a condition
that regulators say makes it all but impossible to secure a
capital infusion from outside investors.
   If Columbia fails, the government would become the
nation's largest holder of junk bonds with a total portfolio,
including junk bonds from other thrift failures, with a face
value well in excess of $8 billion, and indicated losses of
about $2 billion. Regulators weren't available yesterday for
comment on Columbia.
   Columbia officials declined to comment beyond a written
statement. Recently, the federal Office of Thrift Supervision
has shown little mercy in handling other capital-shy thrifts'
bids to avoid federal receivership. Edward G. Harshfield,
Columbia's president and chief executive officer, said in the
statement: "Our regulators have been working with us in a
very constructive manner."
   Federal regulators have already seized three of the thrift
industry's top five holders of junk bonds in recent months.
The junk bond losses reflect a provision of the thrift
bailout bill last August that requires S&amp;Ls to carry junk
bonds on their books at market prices. The rule's impact on
the industry generally has been limited because relatively
few thrifts bought such bonds, but it has been devastating
for those that did.
   Columbia's results also augur possibly
larger-than-anticipated losses at other junk bond-investing
thrifts. In December, Columbia indicated it would take
fourth-quarter write-downs or losses on its junk bond
portfolio of at least $320 million, compared with the $470
million in losses or write-downs that it ended up actually
incurring. Because of write-downs and other factors, the
value of junk bonds and certain preferred stock on Columbia's
books sank to $3.38 billion as of Dec. 31 from $4.36 billion
as of Sept. 30, a decline of 23%.
   Columbia is pinning its hopes for avoiding federal
receivership on selling its junk bonds and concentrating on
making mortgage loans and pursuing other traditional thrift
activities. But it is doubtful that regulators will approve
the plan because of the thrift's insolvency and bleaker
prospects. Because of continuing upheaval in the junk bond
market, for instance, Columbia said "significant additional
loss reserves and other asset write-downs" were expected for
the month of March.
   Columbia has proposed that it divest itself of all its
junk bonds over five years as a way of meeting new
regulations that bar thrifts from holding such bonds.
Yesterday, Columbia disclosed it had already sold $575
million in junk bonds between last August and this past
February.
   As an alternative, the company has also proposed a
one-time divestiture of the bonds as part of a "structured
financing." It said First Boston Corp. had begun discussions
with interested parties but that the plan carried some
drawbacks.
   In the year, Columbia had a loss of $591.1 million, or
$30.11 a share, compared with profit of $65 million, or $1.49
a share, in 1988. The 1989 results reflected write-downs and
loss provisions totaling $870 million, most of which were
junk bond-related. At year's end, Columbia said it had
reserves for future junk bond losses of about $275 million,
or enough to absorb a further 7.5% reduction in the value of
its portfolio.
   Moreover, Columbia's fourth-quarter report showed that it
is having trouble in some of its hoped-for core businesses.
It reported a $43.7 million loss from real-estate operations
compared with a $22.3 million third-quarter loss and profit
of $5 million in the year-earlier fourth quarter. Its
fourth-quarter net interest income slid 47% to $31.7 million
from $60.5 million, reflecting the higher cost of funds as
well as troubled assets.
   Some analysts have questioned whether the company is
capable of successfully making the transition to being a
conventional S&amp;L, saying that it operates a relatively small
29-office branch network and has traditionally gathered a
large chunk of its deposits through Wall Street money
brokers.
                                                                                                       
</TEXT>
</DOC>
