<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   `Read Our Lips'
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Before the Budget Summiteers from the White House and
Congress get too far down the road to a national tax
increase, they might want to charter limousines up to New
Jersey to take the political pulse of a recently taxed
electorate. We realize that when Washington's politicians
start talking about raising taxes in the name of "responsible
government," it doesn't make too much difference what the
taxpayers themselves actually think. Still, someone in the
two national parties who still thinks voter sentiment counts
for something better check out the Garden State, which
appears ripe for the revival of a California-style tax
revolt.
   We'll set aside the purely partisan sentiments of the
thousands who jammed Trenton Sunday to demonstrate against an
imminent $2.8 billion package of sales and income-tax
increases. "Florio, Florio, you sold out," "Recall Florio,"
and "Flimflam Florio" refer to the New Jersey governor who
neighbor Mario Cuomo was boosting just last week for the
Democratic presidential nomination. More interesting than
this was the makeup of the crowd itself, which arrived in a
40-mile-long caravan of cars and trucks. A lot of them didn't
seem to be the "rich" who are supposed to be the target of
the Florio tax increases, but normal middle-class citizens.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   News reports quoted people identified as postal workers,
grade-school teachers, truck drivers, single working women,
carpenters, owners of small businesses. "Finally, the middle
class is saying enough," a carpenter's wife told the Newark
Star-Ledger. An angry postal worker complained to the
Associated Press, "They make promises and they don't keep
them."
   An organization named Hands Across New Jersey seems to
have taken shape. A first-grade teacher who said, "I have
never done anything like this before," now says: "We want to
tell the politicians we're not taking it anymore. Whenever
government loses touch with its people, something is wrong."
   Meanwhile in Washington, news reports say that the budget
summit is proceeding in a much more relaxed atmosphere now
that the Democrats have been liberated from the dreadful
curse of presidential opposition to new taxes. Maybe they
shouldn't relax too much. One New Jerseyan showed up at the
rally driving his tractor-trailer with a long banner tied to
the side, saying: "Read Our Lips."
   Whatever he says now, George Bush may have created the
bumper sticker for a middle-class political movement that is
taking on a life of its own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   NBD Bancorp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NBD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NBD BANCORP Inc. (Detroit) -- Louis Betanzos, 53 years
old, was named chief financial officer of this bank holding
company. He will continue to serve as the company's executive
vice president and treasurer. Mr. Betanzos replaces D. Dean
Kaylor, who retired Sunday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coastal, Arkla Units Set Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CGP ALG PEG
</CO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- The Coastal Gas Marketing Co. unit of Coastal
Corp., an energy holding company, said it signed a 12-year
contract with the Arkla Energy Marketing Co. unit of Arkla
Inc., a natural gas concern, to purchase as much as 7.3
billion cubic feet of natural gas a year. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   Coastal said the gas will be sold to a cogeneration plant
jointly held by it and the Public Service Electric &amp; Gas unit
of Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. of Newark, N.J. The
plant is at Coastal's Eagle Point refinery in New Jersey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Output
   Fell 1.8% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
decreased 1.8% last week to 1,858,000 tons from 1,893,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output was slightly higher than the 1,850,000
tons produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   he industry used 82.7% of its capability last week,
compared with 84.2% the previous week and 83.6% a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                  Net tons       Capability
                                  produced       utilization
                                                                                                       

 Week to June 30 ...............  1,858,000         82.7
 Week to June 23 ...............  1,893,000         84.2
 Year to date .................. 49,335,000         85.0
 Year earlier to date .......... 51,150,000         89.0
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Can Gaby Get Her Act Together?
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   London -- Of all the world's great sporting events, the
championships at Wimbledon (the lawn tennis championships,
that is) surely are the most sedate. In a Day-Glo era,
"predominately white" apparel is prescribed for the players,
and gray pinstripes still are favored by males in the
All-England club's member-seating sections. The balls
cooperate, emitting only a discreet "pock" when striking the
greensward.
   Cutbacks in courtside standing areas here, an incongruous
offshoot of anti-football-hooligan legislation, has not only
slimmed the crowds but quieted them below their usual,
low-decibel levels. The man from the London Times, commenting
on the "subdued gentility" of the first week's proceedings,
concluded that "Wimbledon misses its promenaders."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Happily, however, one aspect of the tournament remains
unsedatable. I speak of the ubiquitous throngs of teen-agers
who station themselves in front of the players' locker rooms.
Though well-behaved by international teen-age standards, they
nonetheless stand ready to react characteristically when
their favorites emerge to do battle.
   Thus it was at about 3 p.m. yesterday, when Gabriela
Sabatini of Argentina sallied forth to meet France's Nathalie
Tauziat in an outer-court, fourth-round singles match. The
dark-eyed, long-limbed Sabatini might be down a notch in the
rankings of late, and at just-turned-20 a smidge elderly for
an activity whose recent headliners have been teens. But
she's still near the top of the Wimbledon squeal-o-meter.
   "Gaby] Look over here]" said a young female, pointing her
camera in Sabatini's general direction. "She's so cool]" she
further shrieked.
   Sabatini endured the attention with downcast eyes,
hurrying along in the company of gray-uniformed security
guards. The fan attention, she said in a previous interview,
is "nice, because it shows that the people like me." But, she
added, "I don't like it when they get very close."
   Tennis observers have said that, perhaps, the reticent
Sabatini gets similiarly nervous when the uppermost reach of
her sport beckons, as it did last year. She denies this, but
allows that her "confidence" isn't always what she'd like it
to be. If winning can bolster that, this tourney should be a
tonic. She beat Tauziat, 6-2, 7-6, to move into the
quarterfinals, her best showing here in three years.
   The women's tennis people dearly hope that Gaby is on an
upslope again, because while teen whizzes such as Monica
Seles (third-ranked at 16) and Jennifer Capriati (No. 13 at
14) have given their form a needed boost, there's no
substitute for glamour, and Sabatini has that in abundance. I
mean, sneaker endorsements are nice, but what other tennis
player has a perfume named for her? And what other player's
used match towels have fetched 10 pounds ($17), as hers did
for enterprising ball boys here a couple years back?
   Time was that Gaby seemed ready to challenge for No. 1,
or, at least, No. 1 1/2. In the spring of 1989, she defeated
Chris Evert and top-ranked Steffi Graf in finals of
back-to-back tournaments in Florida, and a month later beat
Arantxa Sanchez to win the prestigious Italian Open.
   Alas, that was to be her year's high point, and she'd win
just one more tourney. Included in her losses was a tough
three-setter, to Graf, in the U.S. Open semis, one Sabatini
recalls with particular regret.
   Her 1990 began with an ankle injury that forced her to
withdraw from the Australian Open. She came back to win her
next outing, the Virginia Slims of Florida, but that has been
her only winner's check this year. Meantime Seles, the
grunting young Yugoslav, not only won, at Paris, the Grand
Slam glory that has eluded Sabatini, but passed her for No. 3
in the ratings, behind Graf and old-pro Martina Navratilova.
And Capriati, a very hard-hitting young lady, threatens from
behind, though she was a straight-sets loser to Graf on
Monday.
   Sabatini says she applauds the advent of the terrific
teens because "they're good for the game," but does so a bit
wistfully. "When you're that young, you have no pressure,"
says she. "You can just hit your shots, and not worry. When
you get older, it's different. People want you to do more
things."
   A tennis tourist since she left her native Buenos Aires at
13, she recalls, "I never even had to think about what I
wanted to do besides play. I never had to make a decision."
   She has made a few decisions of late, reflecting her May
16 graduation from the teens. She fired Angel Gimenez, her
coach of 3 1/2 years, in favor of Brazilian Carlos Kirmayr,
saying she was in need of a change and new motivation. Long
seen only in the company of her parents, with whom she
travels, she fraternizes with fellow players more now, and
has been seen out with Fredrick Untermayer, a young German,
although she laughs that he's "a friend, not a boyfriend."
   She has signed on a psychologist, Ted Loehr, who has told
her "that if I feel good as a person my tennis will go
better." She notes: "I do feel good, but I guess you can
always feel better."
   Perhaps more to the tennis point, she has been working on
her serve and volley, which are about as important on
Wimbledon's slick grass as rackets and tennis balls, and says
she's seen improvement. And, indeed, against Tauziat she at
times came to the net voluntarily, something she was loath to
do in the past when her topspin forehand was her best -- and
sometimes lone -- offensive weapon.
   She struggled against the smaller, 17th-ranked
Frenchwoman. Her service was broken three times in the second
set, and she muffed two match points at 6-5 before losing the
game and forcing the tiebreaker, which she won, 7-1.
   Nonetheless, she was grateful in victory, something she
says she's also learned. "It's not good to worry too much
about the wins," she notes. "I try to save the worry for when
I need it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   The Tough Task of Selecting an Executor
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Do you know someone with unquestionable ethics, who's
financially savvy, a good record-keeper and sensitive to
others' emotional needs?
   Quick, get that person to agree to be executor of your
estate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After you've spent a lifetime accumulating your fortune
through hard work and careful investing, the executor is the
one who is supposed to make sure assets are distributed in
the way that you specify in your will.
   But the qualifications of the executor you choose can make
a big difference in how much is distributed, to whom and how
fast. And it can affect family relationships for years to
come.
   Unfortunately, many people simply name their spouse or
oldest child and forget about it. "The biggest mistake
{people make} is that they don't give it enough thought,"
said David W. Belin, a Des Moines, Iowa, estate lawyer.
   The job is a lot more work than many people realize. An
executor is charged with assembling and valuing the
descendant's assets, filing income-tax and estate and
inheritance-tax returns and paying the taxes, distributing
assets to heirs and accounting for everything that's done.
There may be numerous meetings with attorneys and
accountants.
   There's also a strong emotional component. The executor
has to deal with grieving family members soon after a death;
the relationship could continue for as long as two or three
years. Personal items, such as jewelry and household effects,
have to be distributed. There may be conflicts among family
members to resolve, particularly if there's a second spouse
or if assets aren't divided equally among several children.
   It's the financial aspects of the job, however, that are
usually the most important, estate-planning professionals
agree. "It's very much of a fiduciary responsibility," said
Timothy Chase, a financial planner with Baltimore accountants
Walpert, Smullian &amp; Blumenthal.
   While the estate is open, the executor has to keep funds
invested. Some assets may need to be sold to pay taxes or for
other purposes, and the executor will have to decide which
ones and when. There may be a small business to be managed or
liquidated. It can be difficult to value stock in
family-owned or closely held companies.
   Some estate specialists suggest turning over the job to a
bank trust department or other professional, especially for a
large, complicated estate with trusts and a business to
value. Richard Langer, an estate lawyer in Madison, Wis.,
said it doesn't necessarily cost more to use a pro because
executors' fees generally are set by state law.
   Typically, executors' fees amount to between 2% and 5% of
the estate, although it's sometimes possible to negotiate
lower fees. Even children of the deceased often take the full
fee when they see the amount of work involved in settling an
estate, Mr. Langer said.
   Naming a professional executor also takes the burden off
the family and removes the potential for conflict that can
arise when the executor is also one of the beneficiaries, he
added.
   Other estate specialists say, however, that banks can be
impersonal and may not always have the time that some
families require. A solution may be co-executors, a bank
trust department and a family member. "That way you get the
expertise of a bank and the personal input of a family
member," said Tamara Telesko, a vice president in the U.S.
private banking group at New York's Chase Manhattan Bank.
   If a significant portion of the estate is going into a
trust, financial advisers say, it may be helpful for the
executor and trustee to be the same individual or entity. The
trustee then knows that the necessary paperwork has been done
for the transfer of assets and already has a relationship
with the family or other beneficiaries.
   But people who decide to name an executor who will also be
trustee should exercise great care, said Judy Walsh, national
director for executive financial planning at Deloitte &amp;
Touche. "Look at their {money} management record," she
advised. "Then sit down with the trust officer and . . . see
how the chemistry works."
   For smaller estates, a corporate executor may be
unnecessary, many financial advisers say. Indeed, bank trust
departments often won't take small estates. In such cases, a
family member or trusted friend may be a fine choice -- so
long as the individual has the qualifications and time for
the job. Certainly, if a spouse or adult child is sole
beneficiary of an estate, there's usually no reason to
deplete assets for executor fees, estate specialists say.
   If the executor is "absolutely unqualified, doesn't know
anything about finance and has non-existent bookkeeping
skills," settling the estate "is a lot more work," said Mr.
Langer, the Wisconsin attorney. The result can be a longer
process and higher attorney's fees.
   There are other things to watch out for. The executor can
be held personally liable if, for example, assets are
depleted without leaving sufficient amounts to pay taxes. If
the executor lives in another state, there's the cost of
travel and long-distance telephone calls to consider, and
some states require an out-of-state resident to be bonded or
otherwise insured.
   Some grieving spouses may be overwhelmed by the
responsibility, while others find it therapeutic to be in
control. Giving one adult sibling control over others can
cause resentment, but professionals caution against naming
several children as co-executors unless there's a mechanism
for resolving disputes written into the will. "A lot depends
on the family situation," said Mr. Chase, the Baltimore
planner. "People have to know their families."
   Worse than naming the wrong executor is naming no one at
all, said Judy Walsh of Deloitte &amp; Touche. Most estates are
closed "within nine months to two years," she said. "You can
live with a toothache for that long." If there's no executor,
often because there's no will, she said, the courts will name
one, which is usually more costly and "may not satisfy the
family at all."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ratners Offers
   To Acquire Kay
   In a Stock Swap
   ---
   U.S. Jewelry Firm's Board
   Clears Deal; However,
   Bondholders May Balk
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   RATNY KJI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   In a bid to increase its share of the U.S. jewelry market,
Ratners Group PLC, based in London, offered to acquire Kay
Jewelers Inc. in a stock swap. But the deal may be held up by
holders of Kay's junk bonds.
   Ratners offered shareholders of the Alexandria, Va.,
jewelry chain one share of new convertible preferred stock
for each of Kay's 12.4 million outstanding shares. Ratners
said the new preferred would pay an annual dividend of $1.06
a share and could be converted into three common shares for
about 326 pence, or $5.70, a common share. Ratners valued the
offer at $17 a share, or $210.8 million, although analysts
pegged it at $15 to $16 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ratners also said it intends to pay about $210 million to
assume all of Kay's outstanding debt.
   Kay said the board unanimously approved Ratners's offer.
In late trading on London's stock exchange yesterday,
Ratners's shares were at 264 pence, down 11 pence. Kay shares
soared $3.375 yesterday to $14.25 in heavy New York Stock
Exchange trading.
   Ratners said the acquisition is contingent on Ratners's
purchase of a majority of both of Kay's junk bond issues,
which have a total face value of $150 million. Ratners said
it will launch a tender offer for the bonds at 75% of face
value. As of March 23, Kay also had about $80 million in
outstanding bank debt.
   Several bondholders and bond analysts said Ratners's offer
was unfair to the bondholders, who have legally first claim
on Kay's assets. "The shareholders seem to have gotten a
pretty good deal vis-a-vis the bondholders," said Robert M.
Winer, an analyst with Johnston, Lemon &amp; Co. in Washington,
D.C. "The bondholders should be paid in full before the
shareholders get anything." About 53% of Kay's stock is owned
by management and employees.
   "It's not an attractive price," added Randy Hale, senior
portfolio manager of Cincinnati Financial Corp., which holds
about $1.5 million in Kay bonds. "We'll be inclined to hold,"
he said.
   In particular, holders of Kay's $100 million of 12 7/8
senior subordinated notes have little apparent incentive to
accept Ratners's 75% bid. Under the loan covenant, those
bondholders can force any buyer of Kay to redeem the bonds at
full face value.
   Some analysts said that bondholders can afford to wait for
a better deal, now that Kay has secured a $80 million
revolving credit line approved last week. "Kay is in no
immediate danger," says Frederick H. Taylor, a high-yield
bond analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. "It has sufficient
operating income to meet the debt repayment schedule."
   "I would not recommend a tender" based on what Ratner has
said so far, Mr. Winer said. Indeed, traders said that there
was little trading in Kay's bonds yesterday, with potential
buyers offering 75, or about $750 for every $1,000 in face
value, and sellers asking about 90. On Friday, both issues
were trading at about 60.
   "Ratners wants to buy Kay, and Kay apparently wants to be
purchased," said Deborah Peterson, an analyst with IDS
Financial Services Inc., which holds enough bonds to "make a
difference." Ms. Peterson added: "They have to deal with us,
and we haven't heard from them yet."
   Ratners officials could not be reached for comment. Kay's
general counsel, John Kosik, said he was not aware of
discontent among bondholders.
   To help finance the Kay acquisition, Ratners said it
intends to raise about #129 million from the proceeds of a
rights offering of about 60.7 million shares of common stock
at 220 pence per unit.
   Ratners said the acquisition, which will increase the
number of its U.S. stores to 967 from about 473, fits its
plan to expand its share of the highly fragmented U.S.
jewelry market to 10%. With the Kay acquisition, Ratners
would control about 5.7% of the market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Motor Vehicle Sales in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- June sales of cars, trucks and buses in Japan
increased 5.6% from a year earlier to 536,731 units, a record
for the month, the Japan Automobile Dealers' Association
said.
   Vehicle sales in Japan have posted monthly records for 16
months in a row, supported by strong domestic demand as the
nation's economy continues to expand. First-half sales
totaled a record 3.06 million units, a 13% increase from a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financial Fracas:
   S&amp;L Mess May Spark
   A Thorough Overhaul
   Of Deposit Insurance
   ---
   Administration Seeks Ways
   To Cut Federal Exposure,
   But Bank Industry Is Split
   ---
   A Fight Over Too-Big-to-Fail
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration isn't saying so
publicly, but it is looking for ways to trim the federal
insurance on deposits in banks and savings and loan
associations.
   One Treasury official privately predicts that the
department will recommend rolling back the official insurance
ceiling from $100,000 to perhaps $50,000. Says another
administration aide: "We have to find a way to limit the
costs to the taxpayer."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a switch from the past, Congress, chastened by the cost
of the savings-and-loan disaster, is receptive to some type
of deposit-insurance revision, though not necessarily along
the lines Treasury plans to propose by year end. "Nobody
wants to even remotely believe we would have to face this
again," says Sen. Alan Dixon, an Illinois Democrat who sits
on the Senate Banking Committee.
   Overhauling the system of "insuring," or guaranteeing,
deposits could be the most important aftershock of the $150
billion savings-and-loan bailout. It would be likely to
reshape U.S. financial institutions, most notably by causing
some big depositors to lose money and endangering many of the
country's 12,000 small banks and thrifts. But some say major
reforms are the last, best hope to prevent another S&amp;L-type
blowout.
   "I don't think the problems in the S&amp;Ls are attributable
to anything other than deposit insurance," says Peter
Wallison, a banking lawyer who served as the top attorney at
the Treasury and the White House during the Reagan years.
Although that ignores the widespread fraud and the Reagan
administration's policy of deregulation without adequate
supervision, it's true that the problem would have been far
smaller without insurance on big deposits. And many agree
with Mr. Wallison's conclusion that "if we don't fix the
system, it will fail again in the banking industry."
   Yet even tinkering with deposit insurance remains
politically explosive, and reforming it is far from a sure
thing.
   The issue splits the banking industry bitterly. Two of the
three most important banking trade groups favor exposing
corporate or wealthy individual depositors to a loss in bank
failures. But the third, representing small banks, is
dead-set against it. Small banks fear that they will lose
many depositors and be crippled if deposit insurance is
slashed, so they are proposing instead that the government
openly insure all deposits, no matter how large. In
preparation for the looming confrontation, rival banking
lobbyists already are working Capitol Hill door-to-door.
   "The battle for the soul of the Treasury is on," says
Kenneth Guenther, who runs the small-bank group, the
Independent Bankers Association of America.
   The Treasury Department is contemplating turning around a
train that has been roaring in the same direction since 1934.
Congress responded to the failure in the early 1930s of more
than a third of the nation's 25,000 banks by protecting
$2,500 per account. Partly to adjust for inflation, Congress
gradually jacked up that amount, with the biggest increase,
from $40,000 to $100,000, in 1980. The program now covers
everyone from children to savvy investors who scour the
nation for the highest rates on "jumbo" deposits.
   In the 1980s, $100,000 deposits flew like needles to a
magnet to get the highest yields, and thus many of them ended
up in the riskiest, most fraudulent S&amp;Ls in the country.
Thrift executives drew giant salaries from the
taxpayer-backed deposits. Then they rolled the dice and
invested the rest in thousands upon thousands of crazy
real-estate projects, junk bonds, luxury-car dealerships and
expensive artwork. If the investments paid off, they made
more money. But the dice often came up snake eyes. And now
all the losing propositions are in the hands of those who
really paid for it -- the taxpayers.
   By attracting deposits with above-market rates and a
government guarantee backing them up, "Thrifts were
essentially printing money through deposit insurance," says
William Seidman, chairman of both the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the new agency running the S&amp;L cleanup,
the Resolution Trust Corp. Richard Breeden, a key architect
of the cleanup and now chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, agrees: "The institutions that grew
2,000% or 3,000% weren't getting those funds because
investors thought they were well-run businesses. Deposit
insurance made those funds available."
   Yet there's more to the Alice-in-Wonderland quality of
deposit insurance. Most important, the $100,000 insurance
ceiling is really an apparition. Since the then-ailing
Continental Illinois National Bank &amp; Trust Co. was rescued in
1984 on the theory that its collapse might severely damage
the financial system and perhaps the whole economy, the
government -- under a policy dubbed "too-big-to-fail" -- has
covered almost all deposits by arranging sales of broke
banks. And, out of fairness to smaller banks, "too big to
fail" has been extended to protect virtually all depositors
from losing money. (In most cases, the only depositors cut
off at $100,000 are those in small banks that the government
can't sell and liquidates instead.)
   The upshot: Deposit insurance is like an auto-insurance
fund where 16-year-old drunks and Sunday drivers pay the same
premium and everybody gets fully paid off in an accident.
Some are asking why anyone other than accident-prone people
should favor that.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury's Tradeoff
                                                                                                       

   Treasury officials don't. So they are preparing a package
that would rework deposit insurance and expand the businesses
that banks can enter. Treasury is also considering a call for
further dropping the barriers to interstate banking, aiming
to give the banking system more stability by spreading risk.
Although the outcome of their deliberations could be
influenced by political pressure, their basic thinking seems
set. "An industry that can't make profits is doomed to
operate in an unsafe and unsound condition," reasons a top
official overseeing the study.
   He and other Treasury officials worry that big U.S. banks
could become shaky if they fall behind in competition with
foreign banks, many of which enjoy broad powers not permitted
U.S. banks, such as selling insurance, underwriting
securities and forging close links with commercial
businesses. "Diversifying the activities of banks can
decrease risk," he says.
   Many banking experts agree, but the trouble is that this
smacks of financial deregulation, which rattles Congress
these days. Anticipating such fears, Treasury will probably
propose stringent rules to ensure that the deposit-insurance
safety net isn't stretched to include the new business
activities. So-called firewalls, for example, would prevent
insured money from being used in the areas to be opened to
banks.
   In sum, Treasury is likely to propose to Congress a quid
pro quo: Prevent a future bailout by giving big banks broader
powers while cutting deposit insurance.
   Conspicuously absent from that equation are small banks --
possibly the fatal flaw in the Treasury's approach. Big banks
wield huge financial clout, but small banks, with offices in
every congressional district, carry more political weight on
Capitol Hill. To thousands of small banks and thrifts across
the country, the Treasury proposal will look like a tradeoff
without a payoff. They are uninterested in getting new
powers. And they fear that a cutback in deposit insurance
would send their depositors running to big banks viewed as
"too big to fail" and thus 100%-insured, no matter what the
government says.
                                                                                                       

   A `Haircut' for Depositors
                                                                                                       

   So the banking industry has cooked up a compromise: Impose
a little "depositor discipline." The American Bankers
Association, which represents both big and small banks,
proposes shaving off a percentage -- say, 10% -- on
reimbursements beyond the first $100,000, which would be
fully covered. A person with $200,000 in a failed bank, for
example, would recover $190,000. The size of the haircut
would increase as bank failures increased.
   The haircut idea appeals to a Congress fearful of
antagonizing politically potent bankers but eager to limit
the government's liability. "I feel too many people have been
made whole," says Sen. Jake Garn of Utah, the ranking
Republican on the Banking Committee.
   The sticking point here is that small bankers simply don't
believe that regulators would force depositors in a big bank
to actually take a loss. They want Congress to make the
"haircut" mandatory. "That is kind of a linchpin," says
William Brandon, president of a small bank in Helena, Ark.,
and a member of the ABA committee on deposit insurance.
   Small banks are right to be skeptical. Because of the
damage a big-bank failure might do, says Federal Reserve
Board Governor John LaWare, "I don't know how you can
altogether get rid of `too-big-to-fail.'"
                                                                                                       

   Insuring Everything
                                                                                                       

   If you liked the S&amp;L mess, you'll love the small banks'
response to it. They want the government to insure
everything.
   Actually, the idea isn't as crazy as it may seem. All it
would do is formally extend the too-big-to-fail doctrine to
all banks and thrifts. The Independent Bankers Association of
America, the small-bank group, is canvassing Capitol Hill for
full coverage, and although legislators aren't exactly lining
up to support the idea, some are sympathetic. "I think the
radical tinkering should be on the regulatory side," says
Rep. Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican. "Modest tinkering should
be considered for deposit insurance."
   If Uncle Sam is on the hook for every dollar on deposit,
how can he prevent another bailout? Big banks fear that under
100% insurance, the public will start treating banks like
utilities. And, in fact, those who propose covering all
depositors suggest a slew of accompanying regulations.
   Most important of such regulatory moves, the Fed's Mr.
LaWare says, "is effective supervision and effective
capitalization. That's better than cleaning up the mess after
the bank has failed."
   Mr. LaWare and other regulators argue that as long as
banks maintain adequate capital -- the bank owners'
investment, which in a crisis is drained off before federal
deposit insurance is tapped -- major revisions in the
insurance may be unnecessary. The S&amp;Ls, they assert, wouldn't
have risked those wild investments if the government hadn't
let them operate with little or no capital. Without much
investment at risk, thrift owners had every incentive to
gamble for high stakes. The regulators add that although
depositors now are being paid off in full, shareholders and
bondholders lose their investment, and they demand prudence
from bank managers.
   But critics of that view say regulations can be peeled
back. If the thrift mess teaches us anything, they argue, it
is that bank and thrift owners will always press the
government to ease up, imperiling the deposit-insurance fund.
"The worst ones will squawk the most," contends Bert Ely, a
financial consultant. "That's the way the political process
works." In fact, even as the thrift bailout metastasized in
recent months, banks burdened with real-estate problems asked
regulators for forbearance on capital requirements, to
stretch out the period in which the banks have to recognize
real-estate losses. So far, regulators have rebuffed those
requests.
   Wary of the entire deposit-insurance thicket, some in
Congress are looking for ways to tiptoe around it. Limiting
depositors to one insured account apiece is a popular idea on
the Hill, but no one has yet come up with a workable way to
do that.
   Another idea is to link the premiums banks pay to the
riskiness of their assets. If a bank's managers took unusual
risks, the thinking goes, premiums would rise to the point
where its stock price and dividend would fall, and
shareholders would apply pressure to lower the risk.
   But some question whether insurers can properly judge the
risk in a bank's portfolio. A decade ago, for example, many
experts were positive that the oil boom had nowhere to go but
up; but, of course, oil prices collapsed, taking down a lot
of Texas banks.
   Even so, the idea is probably the least controversial
floating around Congress. Hoping to prod the Treasury to
think seriously about risk-based premiums, Sen. Dixon soon
will introduce a plan to require the FDIC to go to a private
insurer to back up a small slice of its liabilities. The
private insurer, with its own money at risk and presumably
immune to pressure from Congress, would look over the FDIC's
shoulder in setting premiums.
   The wild card in the deposit-insurance debate is the
public, which really hasn't been heard from yet. Congress
could quickly lose its fervor for reform if depositors howled
about reduced coverage.
   "As depositors, the public has been treated handsomely,"
says Carter Golembe, chairman of the Secura Group, a bank
consulting firm. "The government made a promise to
depositors, and it kept the promise. The question is: Is the
public more angry as taxpayers than it is happy as
depositors?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Products &amp; Chemicals Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALLENTOWN, Pa. -- Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc. said it
completed the sale of its polyvinyl-chloride business to
Pacific Western Extruded Plastics Co. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The sale involves plants in Calvert City, Ky., and
Pensacola, Fla. Pacific Western Extruded Plastics, based in
Eugene, Ore., is a privately held maker of PVC pipe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Range Rover Raises Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RVR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANHAM, Mass. -- Range Rover of North America, which
imports luxury four-wheel-drive vehicles, said it had raised
the base price of the Range Rover by 2.6%, effective
yesterday.
   The lowest-priced Range Rover will cost $39,025, a $1,000
increase. Range Rover, the U.S. sales arm of the Rover Group
PLC of Great Britain, is also tacking a $1,000 price increase
on its Country model, raising its price to $41,125.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sales of New Cars in Europe
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Sales of new cars in Europe in May rose 3.8%
from a year earlier and 1.8% from April, but analysts said
the performance doesn't alter their view of underlying
sluggishness or their forecasts for continuing flat sales
this year.
   The April sales were down 4.3% from a year earlier. The
data are from industries and governments in the 12 countries
that normally account for 94% of noncommunist Europe's
passenger car sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A booming West German economy and buoyant French market
headed growth in the latest month, countered by declines in
Britain and Spain, where consumers are subject to tight
monetary regimes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Tobacco Prices Rise 4.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UST
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- U.S. Tobacco Sales &amp; Marketing Co.
announced a price increase of 4.3% on all its moist smokeless
tobacco, effectively immediately.
   The subsidiary of U.S. Tobacco Co. raised its prices 7.5%
late last year. U.S. Tobacco Sales &amp; Marketing's primary
brands in the smokeless-tobacco market are Copenhagen, Skoal,
Skoal Long Cut and Skoal Bandits. The concern also markets
pipes, imported cigars and other tobacco-related products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Credit in Britain
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- New consumer credit extended by finance houses,
building societies, other specialist credit grantors and
retailers totaled a seasonally adjusted #3.97 billion ($6.95
billion) in May, up from #3.69 billion in April and #3.58
billion in May 1989, the Central Statistical Office said.
   The amount of consumer credit outstanding in May totaled
#28.12 billion, compared with #27.79 billion in April and
#25.49 billion in May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the three months through May, new consumer credit
extended rose 3% to #11.39 billion from #11.04 billion in the
previous three months.
   Fixed-sum lending to consumers was #1.55 billion in May,
up from #1.43 billion in April and from #1.48 billion in May
1989. The amount of fixed-sum lending outstanding in May rose
#196 million to #20.22 billion, compared with April's rise of
#94 million to #20.03 billion.
   Lending through bank credit cards rose to #2.29 billion in
May from #2.19 billion in April and #2.02 billion in May
1989. The amount of credit card lending outstanding in May
rose #77 million to #7.19 billion, compared with a rise in
April of #39 million to #7.11 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Equitable Life Assurance Society
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY (New York) -- Raymond L.
Colotti was named executive vice president, a new post at
this life insurance and financial services company. Mr.
Colotti, 44 years old, was previously senior vice president
of finance. He is responsible for treasury, planning and
finance functions in Equitable's office of the chief
financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mandela's Friendship With Cuba Stems
   From Havana's Longterm Military Aid
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC LATAM MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Nelson Mandela's remarks about his affection
for Fidel Castro, which ruffled some feathers in Mr.
Mandela's recent trip to the U.S., arise from years of close
ties, including military assistance, between Cuba and the
African National Congress.
   Aides to the ANC leader gave details of the extensive but
little-known support Cuba has rendered to the anti-apartheid
struggle in South Africa. In interviews last week, the aides
also talked about the ANC's more limited relationship with
Libya's Moammar Gadhafi and with Yasser Arafat of the
Palestine Liberation Organization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mandela's positive comments about these three foreign
leaders were the only blemishes on his otherwise successful
eight-city tour of the U.S., which ended Saturday. He raised
a considerable amount in private donations for the ANC during
the visit. But some members of Congress said his favorable
comments about Mr. Castro, which upset anti-Castro Cubans,
about Mr. Arafat, which unsettled Jews, and about Mr.
Gadhafi, whose support of terrorism angers many Americans,
would make it more difficult to get the $50 million in U.S.
aid Mr. Mandela is seeking.
   Mr. Mandela explained publicly that the ANC forged ties
with Cuba in 1960, when, on a trip to the West, ANC leaders
received a promise of anti-apartheid aid from Cuba but no
such promise from the U.S. In the years that followed, Cuba's
support for the ANC was mostly educational, including medical
training. "The largest number of doctors we have was trained
in Cuba," said Thambo Mbeki, the ANC's director of
international relations.
   But after the 1976 uprising in Soweto, during which
students protesting the apartheid educational system were
shot down by South African government forces, Cuba began
military training for the ANC, said Patford Shuma, a member
of Mr. Mandela's U.S. traveling delegation.
   Mr. Castro indirectly assisted the ANC by providing troops
to help defend Angola from rebels backed by South Africa and
the U.S. After it won independence in 1975, Angola allowed
ANC training camps to operate there; continuing Cuban
military assistance helped protect the ANC camps in Angola
and facilitated ANC armed actions against South Africa, Mr.
Shuma said.
   "It was a very, very safe rear base for us," he added.
"The Cubans really helped us a lot."
   The ANC's ties with Mr. Arafat, brought to life in a
photograph of Mr. Mandela and Mr. Arafat embracing, have also
been controversial in the U.S. But unlike the ANC's ties to
Cuba, "the relationship with the PLO is purely political,"
said Thomas Nkobi, the ANC's treasurer-general. Because of
military links between South Africa and Israel, Mr. Nkobi
said, "We feel we are fighting a common enemy."
   An October 1989 study by the United Nations Center Against
Apartheid describes years of close military ties between
South Africa and Israel, including cooperation on the
development of a nuclear-capable intermediate-range ballistic
missile -- a modification of Israel's Jericho II. The report
asserts that Israel also has helped upgrade the Mirage III, a
South African fighter jet, and that it has provided refueling
aircraft that extended the range of South African spy planes
to Tanzania.
   The Israeli consul general in Chicago, Uri Bar-Ner, said
that Israel is now "in an accelerated pace of disengagement"
from military cooperation with South Africa. Israel's
collaboration was done "for survival, not for profit-making,"
he added. During his U.S. tour, Mr. Mandela placed the ANC
firmly behind Israel's right to exist, but in opposition to
its occupation of captured Arab territory.
   The ANC's relationship with Mr. Gadhafi, whom Mr. Mandela
called a "brother leader," is a new one. Indeed, Mr. Mandela
noted that Mr. Gadhafi until last February refused to let the
ANC open offices in Libya because of the involvement of South
African Jews in the anti-apartheid group. Before that, the
ANC had a distant relationship with Mr. Gadhafi, who
supported the Pan Africanist Congress, a liberation movement
that broke away from the ANC.
   In May, Mr. Mandela visited Libya and received $250,000 in
aid for the ANC from the Gadhafi government, Mr. Nkobi said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Signal Interest in Borri
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GSX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- General Signal Corp. said it acquired a
majority interest in Borri S.p.A. Elettronica Industriale, an
Italian maker of uninterruptible power supplies.
   General Signal said that Borri, which had $16 million in
sales in 1989, will operate under its present management as
an international division of General's Sola Electric
subsidiary. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cimflex Sells Robot Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMTK G.DAI WX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Cimflex Teknowledge Corp. said it sold its
Gantry and Merlin robot operations, in Detroit, to AEG
Westinghouse Industrial Automation Corp. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   Cimflex, a supplier of software products and systems for
factory automation, said the divestiture is in keeping with
its strategy to focus on its core software and systems
businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AEG Westinghouse is a joint venture of Westinghouse
Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, and AEG, the West German
electrical products concern and unit of Daimler-Benz AG.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midlantic Sells Asset
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL MHC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EDISON, N.J. -- Midlantic Corp. said it completed the sale
of its credit card business to Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
for $60 million.
   In addition, Midlantic said it sold $250 million of
securities backed by home equity loans originated by its lead
bank, Midlantic National Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both sales are part of Midlantic's efforts to reduce its
asset size and shore up its troubled commercial real estate
loan portfolio. Midlantic has indicated that it expects to
post a "modest" loss for the second quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Car Makers Gear Up to Turn Good Marks
   In Quality Poll to Marketing Advantage
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY GM HMC J.MZD NSANY G.DAI G.BMW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The highest-quality American-built car is . . . a Toyota?
   That's right, at least according to J.D. Power &amp;
Associates, whose list of the "Top 10 Trouble-Free Cars" was
released yesterday. The big winner in this closely watched
survey -- which triggers a blizzard of advertising each year
-- was Toyota Motor Corp. It had:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- The highest-ranking individual car, the 1990 Toyota
Cressida. Cressida owners reported fewer problems during
their first 90 days of ownership than owners of any other
model car.
   -- The highest-ranking brand, Lexus. The two models sold
by Toyota's new luxury nameplate averaged fewer problems than
those of any other brand. The Toyota brand itself ranked No.
3, behind only Lexus and Mercedes-Benz.
   -- The most trouble-free U.S.-built car, the compact
Toyota Camry. The Camry placed third overall, behind the
Cressida and the Mercedes-Benz E-series. Cressidas are built
in Japan and Mercedes-Benzes in Germany, but 85% of Camrys
sold in the U.S. are built in Georgetown, Ky.
   For the second straight year, the top Big Three brand was
Buick, which ranked No. 5 overall. The Buick LeSabre ranked
sixth among individual cars, higher than any other Big Three
model.
   Few Americans actually will see the details of the study
in this month's Power Report, which is a limited-circulation
newsletter. But consumers will hear a lot about it from the
car makers that fared well. The Power survey has become both
a closely watched report card on cars and nameplates, and a
powerful marketing tool.
   "I'm not aware of anyone else who has the clout Power
has," says David Danzer, corporate marketing manager for
Toyota's U.S. sales arm. And Toyota plans to use that clout.
   The Japanese auto maker will cite the Power surveys in
print advertising scheduled to make its debut next Monday.
What's more, says Mr. Danzer, Toyota will highlight its
strong showing in subsequent ads for the 1991 models due out
this fall.
   Toyota isn't alone. Buick will continue to use its status
as the sole Big Three representative in the Power survey's
Top 10 to back up its slogan: "The new symbol for quality in
America." Says Darwin E. Clark, Buick's general marketing
manager: "It's a strategic advantage in the marketplace."
   Buick should know. Last June, the LeSabre surprised the
auto industry by finishing second among individual models.
Sales of the somewhat boxy-looking sedan nearly doubled in
the next month as Buick trumpeted the LeSabre's status. Sales
of last year's top-ranked car, the Nissan Maxima, jumped 62%
last July in the wake of the Power study.
   But Buick and Nissan are finding that the auto industry is
in a quality sprint. Buick actually cut the defect rate on
the LeSabre 8% this year to 82 problems per 100 cars,
according to the Power survey. That's fewer than one per
vehicle and would have earned it first place last year. But
the LeSabre lost ground because Toyota and Mercedes improved
scores on their models by as much as 34%. Maxima defects,
meanwhile, rose about 7%, dropping the model to No. 7.
   Until this year, no car brand had averaged fewer than 100
problems per 100 cars. This year, four brands -- Lexus,
Mercedes-Benz, Toyota and Nissan Motor Corp.'s Infiniti
division -- broke that barrier.
   The year-to-year improvement surprised even the study's
proprietor, J. David Power. Mr. Power, whose firm is based in
Agoura Hills, Calif., has been tracking automotive marketing
for more than two decades. "I thought they topped out last
year," he says. "It never ceases to surprise me."
   Mr. Power's firm gets its information by asking consumers
who buy new cars early in the model year whether they
experienced any defects in the first three months of
ownership. The survey covers 12 categories, including engine
performance, rattles, leaks, finish, handling, and electrical
systems. For the 1990 survey, Power says it questioned some
26,100 people.
   A brand need not place an individual model among the top
10 to achieve a high overall ranking. Honda Motor Co., for
example, ranked sixth overall. Its top individual models (the
CRX and Accord) finished 18th and 20th, respectively, but
Honda didn't have any lemons to drag down its brand average.
   Power started with passenger cars, but now also has a
compact truck quality survey. The 1990 winner: Mazda, which
ranked No. 1 with its pickup and No. 2 with its MPV minivan.
   J.D. Power isn't alone in using surveys and statistics to
amplify word-of-mouth quality information. Consumer Reports
magazine has done so for years, as have several firms that
work for auto makers. But Consumer Reports and most of the
other consulting services don't allow car makers to use their
findings in advertising. J.D. Power does.
   That's why car makers pay so much attention to the Power
survey. Some Toyota plants in Japan actually put up banners
urging workers to strive for quality so the company could top
the J.D. Power list. Mr. Power says the response to his
quality survey "is beyond my greatest expectations. . . . We
have management's attention."
   The survey isn't perfect. All defects count the same.
Thus, an engine that burns up at 10,000 miles is given the
same weight in the survey as a squeaky dashboard. What's
more, the poll doesn't reflect problems that arise after the
first 90 days.
   Nonetheless, the survey has high credibility in the auto
industry, despite some surprising findings. It's predictable
that the top two models are a Lexus and a Mercedes-Benz, but
how did the Toyota Camry, a high-volume compact, rank No. 3?
The answer: Quality doesn't simply stem from price, or from
smart design and modern factories, auto industry officials
say. Sophisticated work-force management is a must.
   "If you've got good people, put them in an environment
where quality is encouraged, and allow them to participate
{in factory management}, the result is this," says Alex
Warren, senior vice president at Toyota's Kentucky plant.
Toyota's methods sound simple: Workers are told "not to pass
on defects" to their "customer" -- the next worker on the
assembly line. Employees inspect their own work and can stop
the line if there's a problem.
   Buick officials tell a similar story. Buick began
developing a "team approach" about a decade ago, Mr. Clark
says. Recently, that led a Buick employee to take a complaint
about a leaky LeSabre rear window straight to the engineers
and workers at the LeSabre factory. "They went to the robot
that applied the {window} sealer and within five minutes they
had it fixed," Mr. Clark says.
   Buick's management is getting equally finicky. Earlier
this year, Buick delayed the launch of the 1990 Buick Regal
sedan because it didn't like the quality of the cars coming
out of the factory. Buick finally started selling the car
this month, but decided because of the delay to call it a
1991 model.
   Mr. Power says this is how auto makers should react to the
survey. But his firm also has a business stake in the quality
survey's renown.
   This year, Power is stepping up efforts to market the
quality survey's results. For the first time, the firm is
publishing the results in a single package. In the past, the
information was dribbled out in several issues of the firm's
newsletter.
   Power also gives companies several ways to win: By being
tops among all brands, tops among all cars or trucks, or tops
in a specific market segment. The Chevrolet Lumina coupe is
the best "midsize specialty" car, though it had more defects
than the overall industry average.
   The danger is that the Power stamp of approval will become
ubiquitous, and thus carry no weight. Mr. Power and his
underlings concede that they're concerned about this
possibility, but say they have taken steps to better control
the use of their name. For the most part, though, Power likes
its growing marketing clout.
   The firm delayed the release of its latest survey until
yesterday to give car makers more time to build marketing
campaigns around the results. Power is ready to help them,
too. The company offers to make customized videos -- at $50
to $100 each -- that companies with vehicles in the Top 10
can distribute to dealers.
   Power even does something for car makers that finish at
the back of the pack: It generally won't disclose the models
or makes that have more defects than the industry average.
Though concern about offending clients is a big factor, Power
officials prefer to say that accentuating the positive is a
better way to influence auto makers.
   The survey "isn't done for consumers," Mr. Power says.
"It's done for manufacturers to help them improve."
   ---
                     Leaders of the Pack
                                                                                                       

            Top brands in J.D. Power &amp; Associates'
             Initial Quality Survey of new cars
                                                                                                       

      RANK                                     DEFECTS PER
  1990    1989    BRANDS                          100 CARS
                                                                                                       

  1         *     Lexus                                 82
  2         2     Mercedes-Benz                         84
  3         1     Toyota                                89
  4         *     Infiniti                              99
  5         7     Buick                                113
  6         5     Honda                                114
  7         4     Nissan                               123
  8         6     Acura                                129
  9 (tie)  19     BMW                                  139
  9 (tie)   8     Mazda                                139
                                                                                                       

  INDUSTRY AVERAGE FOR 1990                            142
                                                                                                       

              Top individual models in the survey
                                                                                                       

      RANK                                     DEFECTS PER
  1990    1989    MODELS                          100 CARS
                                                                                                       

  1         7     Toyota Cressida                       63
  2        17     Mercedes-Benz E-Series                71
  3         5     Toyota Camry                          72
  4         *     Lexus LS400                           74
  5         6     Mercedes-Benz S-Class                 76
  6         2     Buick LeSabre                         82
  7         1     Nissan Maxima                         89
  8         *     Infiniti Q45                          91
  9         2     Toyota Corolla                        94
 10         *     Mazda Miata                           99
                                                                                                       

 *First model year is 1990
                                                                                                       

 Source: JD Power &amp; Associates Initial Quality Survey
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Industry Group Warns Against Ad Tax
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES WPPGY OMC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   If you thought the Japanese were gaining on us now, just
wait. Should an advertising tax ever go into effect, U.S.
companies' competitiveness would really suffer. That's the
unabashedly scare-mongering conclusion of a study being
released today by the Leadership Council on Advertising
Issues.
   The study's findings aren't terribly surprising, given
that the Leadership Council, made up of advertisers and media
companies, proclaims its mission is "to preserve and enhance
the freedom to advertise." Nevertheless, the study is sure to
be devoured by advertisers attempting to fend off new ad tax
proposals that seem to be popping up as fast as old ones can
be swatted down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Introducing a tax would choke spending on brand
advertising, the study contends. And with less advertising,
U.S. companies would lose the edge they have over their
foreign competitors, it warns. Stifling advertising in the
U.S., it implies, would be like doubling South Korea's labor
costs -- it would wipe out the country's competitive
advantage.
   "It is clear to us that advertising is one of the last few
comparative advantages that American companies have in
international competition. By taxing it, you neutralize it as
a comparative advantage," says William Lilley III, president
of Policy Communications Inc. and a former CBS executive, who
co-wrote the study with Rudolph Gerhard Penner, a senior
fellow with the Urban Institute, a think tank.
   The study contends that since U.S. companies spend
proportionately more on brand advertising than do foreign
competitors, any ad tax would hurt the U.S. companies that
much more. In 1986, for instance, U.S. companies spent 1.6%
of the country's gross national product on advertising.
European companies as a whole spent just 0.9% of the
continent's gross domestic product, while Japanese companies
spent a measly 0.7%. Among the U.S. advertisers most hurt,
the study adds, would be those that spend the largest
percentage of sales on advertising, including drug firms,
cigarette makers, toy companies and household products
makers.
   For all its dire warnings, though, the study isn't likely
to carry much weight in Washington circles. Plenty of people
on Capitol Hill think U.S. companies already spend too much
on advertising -- the fluff, as they see it -- and not enough
on basic research and development. Any measure that curtails
U.S. companies' obsessive ad spending might not be such a bad
thing, in their view.
   "We aren't spending enough on research and development,
equipment and machinery, compared with our competitors
overseas. Perhaps our spending allocations are misguided,"
suggests Rob Hartwell, chief of staff for Representative Dick
Schulze (R., Pa.), who has looked at the issue of
advertising's deductibility compared with the tax treatment
of equipment and machinery. "Maybe our {advertising} spending
is out of line compared with spending on equipment and
machinery."
   But advertisers are sure to rally around the study. They
have to, considering that their industry is facing an
unprecedented attack by legislators. At least a dozen states
have considered introducing ad taxes in the past year, among
them Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Kentucky, New York, South
Dakota, Vermont, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Colorado,
Oklahoma, Missouri and Kansas. California and Florida have
considered legislation removing the deductibility of ad
spending for tobacco and alcohol. None of those initiatives
has yet been successful.
   Even more frightening is the specter of a federal ad tax,
which emerged as a possibility in light of President Bush's
decision last week that he'll have to raise taxes after all.
Some government tax officials are contemplating a plan that
would cut the tax deduction for advertising expenses to 80%
from the current 100%. And in a long book of tax options
released earlier this year, the Congressional Budget Office
also included a measure reducing advertising's deductibility.
   Mr. Lilley insists legislators simply don't understand
that advertising plays a role in international
competitiveness. By taxing ads or otherwise making it more
expensive, in turn forcing companies to cut back on it, "you
inadvertently blunt the skills of American companies versus
the skills of European and Asian competitors," who rely less
on brand ads, he says.
   Not only would U.S. companies be hurt at home with an ad
tax, they would be killed abroad, too, the study contends. It
notes that U.S. firms often use brand names developed here to
expand into foreign markets. If the firms must cut back on
U.S. ads, it suggests, their brand names won't be as strong
and won't travel nearly so well.
   Even worse, firms would divert ad dollars into short-term
promotions like coupons and sweepstakes in order to avoid the
tax, the study says. Ad industry executives have long railed
against promotions as short-sighted gimmicks that don't help
create brand images -- and in fact can undermine brands over
time.
   Certainly, foreign companies such as the Japanese and
German auto makers already advertise heavily in the U.S., and
would be hit just as hard by an ad tax as their U.S.
counterparts. But in a number of other areas, the foreigners
just don't rely on ads the way U.S. companies do.
   Black &amp; Decker power tools, for one, maintains an edge
over major Japanese and German competitors that make
similar-quality products because it spends nearly 6% of sales
on ads, while its two top foreign competitors spend 2%, the
study says. Black &amp; Decker's dominance "depends on
advertising," it says, but that dominance could well be
undermined if the company is forced to cut back on ad
spending.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   OGILVY IN BERLIN: Ogilvy &amp; Mather Worldwide, a unit of WPP
Group, opened a full service agency in East Berlin. Ogilvy
already has agencies in Budapest and Moscow.
                                                                                                       

   DDB ACQUISITION: DDB Needham acquired Baker Advertising, a
Detroit agency with billings of $18 million, and said it will
merge Baker with its Detroit office. The merged agency, which
will operate as DDB Needham Detroit, will give Omnicom
Group's DDB several additional clients, including Stanley
Works products. Currently, DDB's only paying clients in
Detroit are Volkswagen and Audi, with billings of about $140
million.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles elected James D.
Helin, managing director of DMB&amp;B/Los Angeles, to its board
of directors. . . . Glenn E. Corlett, chief financial officer
of Ayer, was named executive vice president and elected to
the board of directors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia's Bond Rating Is Reduced
   By Moody's to Below Investment Grade
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia and Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philadelphia's financial plight worsened as Moody's
Investors Service Inc. reduced the city's bond rating to
speculative grade, putting the bonds out of reach for many
potential investors.
   Moody's, a unit of Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp., reduced its
rating on Philadelphia's $1.35 billion in general obligation
bonds to Ba from Baa, one notch below investment grade. It's
the lowest of any major city in the nation. Two weeks ago,
McGraw-Hill Inc.'s Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. unit dropped its
rating on Philadelphia bonds to triple-B-minus from
triple-B-plus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rating will "exclude a substantial number of potential
buyers," including most trust departments and most municipal
bond funds, except high-risk, high-yield "junk" bond funds,
said S. E. Canaday, vice president and market strategist at
John Nuveen &amp; Co., a Chicago-based municipal securities firm.
   Moody's noted that Philadelphia's proposed $2.2 billion
budget for fiscal 1991, which began July 1, makes no
provisions for funding $32.4 million in services for children
and youths, which is a mandated expense, as well as possible
increased personnel costs which may result from labor
contracts with city unions that are currently in arbitration.
   The Philadelphia City Council did approve a 0.5% local
sales tax to fund the city's $45 million subsidy of its
regional bus and train transit system. However, the city
needs the state Legislature's approval before it can collect
the new tax. The Legislature isn't expected to take action on
this tax plan until after the gubernatorial elections in
November.
   Moody's said that, in a worst-case scenario, the city's
1991 fiscal deficit could grow to between $80 million and
$160 million before its fiscal year ends next June.
Philadelphia has run budget deficits in the past three years,
ending fiscal 1990 with a shortfall of about $60 million.
   When Moody's reviewed the city's finances last year,
analysts were encouraged by the adoption by Mayor Wilson B.
Goode's administration of a five-year plan designed to
improve the city's constrained financial position, said
Jeffrey Rizzo, a managing director of Moody's. He noted that
the city has made some progress in controlling some expenses,
but there's much uncertainty about whether the city can
develop recurring funding sources and enhance its revenue
base.
   "{A rating of} Ba is a real slap in the face. It's a major
hurdle for any issuer to overcome," said Mr. Canaday, noting
that the lower bond rating also means Philadelphia will have
to pay higher interest rates when it raises money in the
capital markets. With the lower rating, he estimated,
Philadelphia could pay some extra 50 to 100 basis points over
current rates when it borrows in the future.
   City officials said Philadelphia has no immediate plans
for selling general-obligation bonds. But it will be
arranging a temporary cash-flow borrowing for about $270
million to $290 million, which it must pay off in the current
fiscal year.
   Mayor Goode said he was disappointed by Moody's action.
But he noted that Fitch's Investors Service maintained its
triple-B rating on the city's bonds.
   Benjamin Blakney, Philadelphia's treasurer, believes the
city "has a window of opportunity" between now and year end
where it can get its financial house in order, especially if
it persuades the state to take its fair share of the children
and youth expenses as well as persuade the state Legislature
to approve the local sales tax to help fund the transit
system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GQ GD
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. received an $85.4
million Navy contract for F-18 fighters and T-45 trainers.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Dynamics Corp. got a $63.5 million Army contract
for M-1 tank support.
                                                                                                       

   Cubic Defense Systems was issued a $34.6 million Army
contract for training-center instruments.
                                                                                                       

   Grumman Corp. was awarded a $16.7 million Navy contract
for F-14 aircraft parts.
                                                                                                       

   Burle Industries Inc. received a $10.3 million Air Force
contract for television cameras.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Thrift Agency
   Temporarily Eases
   S&amp;L Bailout Law
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Office of Thrift Supervision approved a
temporary relaxation of restrictions that last year's
savings-and-loan bailout law placed on the size of S&amp;L loans
to an individual borrower.
   But the relaxation didn't satisfy industry groups that had
pushed for a broader change. Real estate, construction and
S&amp;L industry groups had argued that the new rules were
forcing thrifts to turn away viable projects and loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bailout law reduced the size of loans a thrift can
make to a single borrower to 15% of the thrift's capital, the
same limit that applies to banks. Previously, thrifts had
been allowed to loan as much as 100% of their capital to an
individual borrower. Critics said the higher level was risky
because big losses on a single loan could push a thrift
toward insolvency.
   Under the relaxation, which was expected, thrifts that
meet the bailout law's capital requirements for 1995 will
have until the end of 1991 to meet the 15% limit. Through the
end of this year, the well-capitalized thrifts can loan as
much as 60% of their capital to a single borrower. Beginning
Jan. 1, 1991, the limit drops to 30%. Loans made under the
rule must be for U.S. residential housing and must be secured
by first liens on real estate. Currently, about 1,100 thrifts
meet the 1995 capital requirements and can take advantage of
the transition rule.
   OTS Director Timothy Ryan said the rule was temporarily
relaxed because of the "potential adverse effects of such a
sudden reduction."
   But industry groups said the transition rule actually
provides little relief. "It doesn't seem like they did much
of anything," said David Danovitch, regulatory counsel with
the National Council of Savings Institutions. He said the
bailout law already included a permanent exception for
well-capitalized thrifts to lend as much as 30% of their
capital for residential housing projects. Small businesses
and non-housing borrowers won't be helped by the rule.
   "At small thrifts, one guy who's the local car dealer
might also want a loan for his house. That can approach 15%
pretty quickly," Mr. Danovitch said. "And there aren't always
other sources of credit."
   But with Congress and bank and thrift regulators wary of
granting special treatment in the wake of the S&amp;L crisis, the
OTS isn't likely to make any further moves to relax the 15%
limitation. Bank regulators have argued thrifts will have to
begin arranging syndications of loans as many banks do.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Job Loss, Commercialism Raise Fears
   As Capitalism Comes to East Germany
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAALFELD, East Germany -- The chief pastor for this
industrial region stopped short Sunday when he saw a white
trailer, labeled Walter's Fast Food, parked outside the
15th-century walls of his church.
   "By whose authority are you here?" demanded Pastor Peter
Zimmermann of the bold entrepreneur. "Monetary union doesn't
mean I have to turn over the churchyard to dealers and money
changers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the pastor's biblical allusions following last
weekend's German monetary union, capitalism is here to stay
in Saalfeld, an East German town of 35,000 near the border
with West Germany. Walter, of Walter's Fast Food, had the
proper city permit to serve bratwurst and libation to local
burghers lining up to withdraw their first West German marks
from the savings bank across Church Square. To the church's
relief, Walter moved his business to a more lucrative part of
the city once the bank rush was over.
   The Protestant pastors of this region, who helped lead the
fight to bring down the old Communist regime, now complain
that the fight for democracy has become a triumph of
commercialism. Inside St. John's Church, Pastor Ardnt
Morgenroth warned his Sabbath congregation of approaching
unemployment, bankruptcies and crass commercialism. But only
50 worshippers, half the always small turnout, were there to
hear him. The rest were collecting their West German marks.
   The church's ranks had already shrunk by 56 members who
withdrew their names in fear that they would now have to pay
West German church taxes. Now Pastor Morgenroth was urging
his remaining flock not to throw away 40 years of their hard
work to accept the ways and products of the West Germans. "Is
it really necessary to make ourselves so small?" he asked
from his pulpit. "Aren't there some things we can do better?"
   The answer from most East Germans here would be: "Not
really." The large steel and chemical companies that were the
town's major employers have not only badly polluted the area
but are tottering financially and aren't likely to survive
once West German subsidies run out.
   The fear of unemployment is widespread in East Germany.
Yesterday, the first business day after monetary unification,
as many as 15,000 East Berlin-area workers briefly put down
their tools to demand, among other things, guaranteed jobs,
union officials said.
   In Saalfeld, new businesses that have opened won't provide
sufficient jobs to take up the slack, though their presence
already has made Saalfeld's streets more colorful and shows
how quickly some East Germans are adjusting. A travel office
offers the first package tours to Greece, Egypt and Majorca.
   Two West German supermarkets provide shelves full of
Western products and bright sales signs outside. Four banks
are pushing new investment products, and taxi drivers offer
shiny silver Audis. Local pubs have signed contracts with
West German brewers who have given them brightly lit signs
that overshadow the pub names.
   Down the road from downtown Saalfeld at the Golden Lion
pub, workers from the local chemical fiber company don't seem
fazed by the doubled prices for beer and wurst. They chug the
brew and wolf the meat as they watch West Germany's national
team defeat Czechoslovakia 1-0.
   "If you are thirsty, then you pay whatever the beer
costs," says Andre Keller, a 27-year-old machinist at the
chemical factory. "I can only know how far my money will go
by spending it, so that's what I am doing." Yet the workers
here are worried. The factory already has cut Mr. Keller's
work month to 11 days, and he expects layoffs by the end of
the summer. And work is less fun. Lunch hours have been
reduced to a half hour; the twice-a-day coffee breaks have
been eliminated. "Everyone is afraid of being fired, and
taking a lunch-break that is 15 minutes too long might give
them the excuse they are looking for," he said.
   All that stands between much of this region and
unemployment are transitional industrial subsidies from the
West German government and hopes that a foreign rescuer might
yet appear. And the mood is surreal. The workers have one
foot firmly planted in the past of low wages, bad work habits
and expectations that the state will provide. But the other
foot is being forced into a new world of higher prices,
greater work demands and uncertainty.
   At the Saalfeld Savings Bank, employees say the local
citizenry is withdrawing less money than they had expected.
Unsure about prices, most Saalfelders bought several weeks
worth of groceries recently. Unsure about employment
prospects, many are simply saving their money until they
understand better precisely what it is worth.
   Bank customers say the money they are withdrawing is often
specifically dedicated to buying goods many of them couldn't
afford before: washing machines, vacuum cleaners and, of
course, cars, for which East Germans once had to wait 15
years.
   "The first five loan applications since Sunday are to buy
automobiles," says Christine Puetke, the 29-year-old credit
director. She already has extended 50 loans to local people
to either modernize or establish new businesses, but she
concedes that West German advisers help them make all
decisions. "Only they really understand what the chances are
for individual businesses," she says.
   Sadly for Saalfeld, the company that is in the greatest
danger is its biggest employer: the Max Steel Works. Town
fathers say the company, which belonged to the Flick
industrial group until it was nationalized after the war, is
in such bad shape that the Flick family, now in West Germany,
doesn't want to exercise rights it may have over the
property. Other Western companies have balked at stepping in.
   Part of the problem is that the company's directors, many
of them picked more for their Communist Party loyalty than
their business acumen, remain in place. They took few steps
to make the plant more profitable in the weeks ahead of
monetary union. New faces have been admitted at company
meetings where decisions are made about the future. But the
newcomers don't dare stand up to the directors, partly due to
fears that there is an underground of former party officials
and state security informants. And the threat of layoffs only
feeds this uncertainty.
   "Max Steel Works has to figure that half or more of its
people will be let go, so everyone is afraid to speak," says
Horst Sterzik, the mayor of the factory town where many
laborers live. "My interest is to create new workplaces --
medium-sized and small companies to replace the jobs that
will be lost at the big plants."
   But Mr. Sterzik finds that job difficult because of the
many unsettled property claims. He has many applications for
new businesses, but many of them require the purchase of
nationalized real estate whose ownership is in question. Many
previous owners are making claims and settlement could take
months.
   One of the biggest unsettled questions for this region is
what will become of the three-mile-wide band along the border
from which 50,000 to 80,000 families were relocated. East
Germany's Communist leadership forcibly moved any individuals
they didn't consider reliable. West Germany now would like
the border area to be a zone of economic growth, but a new
organization has been formed to help those who were forced
out to get reparations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Lawrence Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MLLE
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   VAN NUYS, Calif. -- Martin Lawrence Limited Editions Inc.
said it bought back 500,000 common shares between April 30
and Friday at $4.38 to $7.25 a share.
   The board also authorized the repurchase of as many as one
million common shares on the open market and through private
transactions over the next 12 months. The publisher and
seller of artwork said the buy-back would be funded by
internally generated cash. As of Friday, Martin Lawrence had
7,799,648 common shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allen A. Baron, chief financial officer, said the company
expanded the buy-back program because it believes the stock
is a good investment at its current trading levels. The stock
closed yesterday at $4.375 a share, unchanged, in national
over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   RTC Entrepreneurs: Living Off the Land
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   To many of the folks who deal with it, the Resolution
Trust Corp. has been a giant bureaucratic slug, completing
its assigned task at an agonizingly slow pace.
   Douglas Slain wouldn't want it any other way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Slain is the executive director of the six-month-old
RTC Contractors Association, a for-profit group whose aim is
to feed information -- for a healthy $580 a year -- to the
lawyers and accountants who will be working for the RTC, a
federal agency created by Congress last August to mop up the
savings-and-loan mess.
   Mr. Slain is also the publisher of the monthly Bank/Thrift
Litigation Reporter, available for $487 a year; the monthly
RTC/FDIC Litigators' Work Product Portfolio, a steal for $45
a month; and the freshly begun Bank/Thrift Expert Witness
Database, updated weekly for just $75 a quarter. Plans are
already under way for the RTC Contractors First Annual
Conference next Jan. 24.
   Mr. Slain is counting on the RTC to keep to a snail-like
pace in managing and selling busted thrifts and the real
estate they financed. The longer the agency takes, the more
he makes. "I've spent a lot of money trying to glom onto
every aspect of this so I can have a lot of products to talk
about," he says.
   Mr. Slain isn't the only entrepreneur trying to glom onto
the growing RTC information industry. The massive
thrift-reform legislation has spawned a host of conferences,
newsletters and how-to guides. "I've got a stack on my desk
maybe a foot high of just RTC stuff," says Walter Blake, a
Dallas-based executive with the National Association of
Industrial and Office Parks.
   Not every potential customer is enthusiastic. "I was
outraged when I got a pamphlet from some company asking $500
for a book," says Deborah Wilson, a Dallas attorney. "It was
probably the same information you can get from the RTC. The
kicker is that they'll sell you supplements." But Ms. Wilson
herself is also benefiting from the creation of the RTC:
She's an adviser to people seeking contracts from the agency.
   Despite the criticism, publishers uniformly say
subscriptions are meeting or exceeding expectations.
Resolution Trust Reporter, a biweekly newsletter offered by
the publishers of National Mortgage News (formerly National
Thrift News), goes to almost 1,000 subscribers who ponied up
$398 a year each, according to consulting editor Stan
Strachan. Publishers of two weekly newsletters, RTC Watch
($550 a year from the American Banker group) and Bank/Thrift
Litigation and Enforcement News ($407 a year from Atlantic
Information Services Inc.), declined to disclose the number
of subscribers.
   Newsletters aren't the only product of the RTC publishing
boom. After a four-month marketing effort, Thompson
Publishing Group of Washington, D.C., went to press earlier
this month with the loose-leaf Guide to Contracting with the
RTC ($398 a year, including monthly news bulletins), adding
the title to its library of offerings, which include the Fair
Labor Standards Handbook and the Underground Storage Tank
Guide.
   For people interested in more than just reading about the
RTC, there is the conference circuit. Mr. Blake combed
through his foot-tall stack of RTC materials and came up with
22 conferences or seminars on the RTC that were held during
the past eight months. Among the sponsors: the American
Bankers Association, the Practising Law Institute, the
Institute for International Research and the fledgling Thrift
Bailout Minority Contractors Association.
   But the RTC conference sponsors, who did a land-office
business in the first few months of the agency's existence,
have since watched attendees flock instead to the seminars of
a formidable competitor: the RTC itself.
   The agency's 10-city road show, launched in mid-April, has
attracted more than 5,000 people so far, including about 700
who turned out for the eighth seminar, held two weeks ago in
Washington. Attendees get the basics -- how to contract with
the agency, how to buy a thrift -- directly from RTC
personnel.
   "We felt that rather than trying to convince others that
they should tailor their programs to {provide} important core
information, it would be more efficient to put on our own
seminars," says Steve Katsanos, a spokesman for the RTC in
Washington.
   And for beleaguered RTC watchers, it's a lot cheaper. The
RTC is charging $220 a person for its one-day seminars. By
contrast, Dorset Group Inc., publisher of National Mortgage
News and the Resolution Trust Reporter, was asking $595 a
head for its early May conferences on the RTC and Real
Estate. As proof that the free market works, Dorset canceled
the meetings when the RTC announced its less costly series.
Mr. Katsanos says the RTC prices its seminars to cover
expenses, not to make a profit. "They're paying for
themselves," he says.
   By running its own show and driving off some of the
competition, the RTC has also helped relieve some of the
strain on its employees, who have been in high demand as
speakers since last August. Carmen Sullivan, the southwest
regional RTC director, says she used to make three
appearances a week. Now, with the RTC dominating the
conference market, that has declined to one a week.
   Of course, there is also considerable demand for RTC
discussions at almost any gathering of lawyers or real estate
specialists, among others. Ms. Sullivan notes that she has
spoken to groups of senior citizens, appraisers, real estate
agents, home builders, even a group of professionals
concerned with right-of-way issues. Yesterday, she addressed
the Association of Women Entrepreneurs of Dallas Inc.
   "It's absolutely un-chic to have a seminar without
discussing the RTC," says Deborah Kops, head of the real
estate advisory group in the Dallas office of Arthur Andersen
&amp; Co.
   But some would-be contractors are beginning to show signs
of over-education. Robert Grunnah of Grunnah/Cole Real
Property Co. in Dallas says representatives of his firm
attended three or four conferences before determining they
weren't worth the price of admission. "Nobody's come up with
the magic recipe for doing business with the RTC," he says.
   Many of the speakers, Mr. Grunnah says, offer "viewpoints"
and no facts about the RTC's agenda. The facts that are
discussed, he maintains, can be had with a phone call or two
to the RTC itself. "There are much better areas for companies
like us to put their money in than going to conventions or
seminars," he says.
   Mr. Grunnah is investing the money previously spent on
conferences on an in-house coordinator who keeps track of new
developments at the RTC. The coordinator, he says, "is as
current or more current than the seminars."
   Mr. Grunnah can take heart. Soon, he will have the
opportunity to save even more money by eliminating the job of
RTC coordinator and subscribing instead to the newest product
from the ambitious Mr. Slain of the RTC Contractors
Association.
   Noting the 30 to 35 RTC conferences scheduled for this
year, Mr. Slain plans to dispatch reporters to a dozen or so.
And come July 15, you, too, can subscribe to Bank/Thrift
Seminars Digest, described by Mr. Slain as a "quarterly
summary of the proceedings and handouts at all significant
seminars and conferences."
   Act now.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Semco Pipeline Authorization
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORT HURON, Mich. -- Southeastern Michigan Gas Enterprises
Inc. said Semco Pipeline Co. received authorization to
construct an extension and operate its Eaton Rapids pipeline.
   The pipeline will allow Semco to transport gas from the
Eaton Rapids Gas Storage System to storage customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Michigan Public Service Commission has authorized the
issuance of as much as $24 million in long-term debt by the
Eaton Rapids Gas Storage System. Proceeds of the debt will be
used to refinance short-term debt incurred for the
acquisition of property and construction of facilities for
the storage system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Rule Changes
   For Pensions:
   Who Gets What
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Once again, Uncle Sam is trying to tell companies how to
design retirement benefits that aren't slanted in favor of
the bosses.
   Job hoppers, mid-level executives and the young probably
are going to take it on the chin. Lower-level employees close
to retirement are apt to come out ahead. And executives at
the very top could well emerge unscathed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's the opinion of benefit consultants who have pored
over the 300-plus pages of proposed retirement-plan
regulations recently issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
   The rules are designed to carry out a policy goal first
enunciated by Congress almost 50 years ago and rewritten by
the Tax Reform Act of 1986: Tax-favored retirement plans must
not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees.
For 1990, that means those earning more than $85,485 a year,
or $56,990 if they are in the top 20% of a company's earners.
   The IRS has been working on the rules for three years.
Benefit experts say many companies should have little trouble
complying with the proposed new regulations. Most other firms
will get by with what Donald E. Sullivan, a vice president
and director of consultant Towers Perrin, terms "tinkering."
   Such tinkering almost certainly will mean somewhat richer
pensions for older, lower-paid employees who are close to
putting in for their gold watch.
   On the other hand, at companies aiming to hold overall
retirement costs where they are now, these boosts at the
bottom could be funded by somewhat smaller packages for
employees with bigger pay checks and those who switch jobs.
The highest paid certainly will be hit; the 1986 act puts a
limit, $209,200 for 1990, on the earnings that can be used in
computing tax-favored retirement benefits.
   Still, employers anxious to attract and retain top
executives could move some of these lost retirement benefits
out of the qualified plans covered by the new IRS rules into
so-called nonqualified plans that, in most cases, are riskier
unfunded corporate IOUs.
   But there is a Catch 22 that could hit mid-level
executives. Another piece of federal legislation, the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or Erisa,
dictates that only the highest-ranked managers may be offered
unfunded retirement plans, Mr. Sullivan says. All other
employees must have pensions secured by squirreled-away
securities or cash. So, while top bosses could get back
through unfunded plans whatever the new rules cost them,
mid-level managers and professionals will have to content
themselves with only the tax-qualified plans that the
proposed regulations are likely to tilt in favor of the rank
and file.
   Just who gains and who gets hit and how much depends on
how companies rewrite their retirement-plan formulas to
conform to the new rules and on how aggressively they push
Erisa definitions to broaden the coverage of unfunded plans,
says Ethan E. Kra, a managing director of William M. Mercer
Inc., a benefits consulting firm.
   For companies aiming to maintain their current retirement
costs, he says, the list of potential losers could include
anyone earning something more than $50,000 a year (a likely
break point between those apt to get richer benefits under
the new rules and those likely to be cut) but less than
$85,000 a year (the lowest salary level to which even
aggressive employers are likely to extend unfunded retirement
plans).
   At many companies, the losers could stretch to those
earning as much as $120,000 a year. And even the
highest-ranked managers could be forced to bear some of the
cost at corporations that decide now is not the time for
rampant executive greed.
   Substantial tax benefits are offered to companies that
play by the new rules, known generally as the proposed
401(a)(4) regulations (though far more provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code are actually involved). A company in
compliance can take a deduction on its income tax return for
the money it pays into a qualified retirement plan. The
plan's earnings aren't taxed, and workers aren't subject to
any tax until they start receiving the benefits when they
retire or otherwise leave.
   The nonqualified plans that Erisa allows for top managers,
by contrast, would be taxable to workers immediately if any
benefits were vested and fully secured in a trustee's hands.
But companies generally help their executives duck the tax
liability until they leave by offering cashless promises that
aren't backed by any secured trust.
   The proposed 401(a)(4) rules and the other accompanying
new regulations, which are scheduled to become fully
effective next year but must be used as guidelines now, offer
companies seven "safe harbors" that the IRS says would "let
most pension plans comply with little or no difficulty."
   Most defined-contribution plans, where companies add a
specific amount or percentage of pay or profits to a worker's
account each year, would fit into one of the safe harbors.
Also fitting this class would be 401(k) savings plans with
matching employer contributions.
   More problematic are defined-benefit plans, particularly
those tied to Social Security benefits, that promise
employees a specific payment when they retire based on their
wages and years of service. At most major employers,
defined-benefit plans are the principal retirement vehicles.
   The problem arises because the IRS has denied a safe
harbor for plans that promise workers a company-paid benefit
minus a portion of what they will receive from Social
Security, the approach adopted by many firms.
   Thomas C. Butterworth, a partner at consultant Hewitt
Associates, says companies generally believe this offset for
Social Security is fair because "they contribute to Social
Security and want credit for it."
   Social Security offset still is permitted, but companies
first will have to undertake some elaborate tests to confirm
that the nondiscrimination goal is met.
   Companies with defined-benefit plans looking for a safe
harbor have two other basic formulas for ensuring they aren't
discriminating in favor of highly compensated employees.
   According to James G. Durfee, a Towers Perrin vice
president, one formula allows an employer to promise a
pension based on pay minus a percentage of the average wage
base used in assessing Social Security taxes, all multiplied
by years of service. The second permitted formula adds a
percentage of the Social Security wage base to a percentage
of pay in excess of Social Security wages, also multiplied by
years of service.
   Frederick W. Rumack, director of tax and legal services
for Buck Consultants, says switching from the old formula to
either of the newer ones could hit job switchers hardest
because the old pension tables generally permitted more
generous payments to early retirees and job hoppers than the
new rules would allow.
   Similarly, increases in the Social Security wage base over
the years could hurt younger workers, says Solomon A.
Weinberger, a Mercer managing director.
   Bottom-ranked workers could gain if companies establish
minimum pension payments to conform to the new
nondiscrimination rules or round up annuities for low-paid
workers.
   But before settling who gets what, companies will have to
decide how big a retirement load they want to carry and
whether it is to be more than, less than or the same as they
are spending now. And that will determine how much retirees
will see in future pension checks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comstock Resources Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMRE
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Comstock Resources Inc. said it has signed a
letter of intent to enter into a gas purchase contract with
Maple Gas Corp.
   The agreement will require Maple to spend at least $20
million for pipeline gathering facilities, and a gas
processing plant capable of accepting all casing head gas
production from Comstock's leases in four Texas counties. All
casing head gas from the Comstock properties will be
dedicated to Maple for 15 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Tennessee County Backs Bush Despite Reversal
   On Taxes, but Other Republicans Assail Switch
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WILLIAMSON COUNTY, Tenn. -- Before the president's
reversal on taxes last week, this was George Bush country.
   It still is.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At a Republican rally and in conversations with dozens of
voters in the prosperous Nashville bedroom communities of
Williamson County -- where Mr. Bush won 72% of the vote in
1988 -- the overriding reaction is faith in the president's
judgment and a willingness to back him up. George Bush,
Republicans here say, is our man -- and the country would be
better off if the Democrats in Congress would just leave the
poor man alone.
   "I don't know too many people who are delighted at the
prospect of having their taxes raised," says Keith Jordan, a
Republican candidate for the Tennessee state Senate. "But if
taxes are going to be raised, you'd rather it be by someone
who has to be dragged kicking and screaming all the way
rather than someone who is leading the raise."
   Says Harry Morel, a farmer who first voted for Wendell L.
Willkie in the 1940 presidential election: "Listen, what is a
little old country boy out here going to know about raising
taxes countrywide? That man is qualified, he's got qualified
people, and if they say it has to be done, I accept it."
   Six weeks ago, when the bipartisan budget negotiations in
Washington were getting under way, this newspaper talked to
some of these same people and found they believed Mr. Bush
would have to change his position. Now that he has, there is
little sense of betrayal, even among those who would have
preferred no tax increases.
   "I still think that President Bush is keeping the faith
because I think that he will raise taxes {only} on
non-essential items," says Paul Simpson, a lawyer in the next
congressional district.
   Mr. Simpson's congressman, Republican Don Sundquist, is
doing his best to reassure the party faithful that Mr. Bush
isn't selling out on the issue. Rep. Sundquist, in Williamson
County to address the GOP rally, assures the crowd: "I can
tell you this: This president will not agree to any package
that does not change the process that made it possible for us
to get into the mess that we're in today. The spenders are
the ones that got us into the trouble."
   Other congressional Republicans are using variations of
that same theme in an effort to deflect voter resentment.
"People who are very concerned with the deficit have no faith
in the Congress to do anything about it," says Rep. Lynn
Martin of Illinois, GOP candidate for the Senate against
incumbent Democrat Paul Simon this year.
   But other Republican lawmakers, after talking to
constituents, are more resentful. They say that while
President Bush may personally escape blame for a tax
increase, his reversal has cost his party one of its most
potent campaign issues, which can't help but harm GOP
candidates this year.
   After meeting with a visiting delegation of his staunchest
campaign supporters last weekend, California GOP Rep.
Christopher Cox says that Mr. Bush has "compromised" the
party's "longtime anti-tax stance." He adds, "If the
Republicans are for higher taxes, then we are witnessing the
convergence of the two parties. In the future, it will be
very hard to distinguish a Republican from a Democrat."
   Rep. Claudine Schneider of Rhode Island, the Senate
candidate against Democratic incumbent Claiborne Pell, notes
that many of her colleagues "were awfully adamant about
holding out on taxes, so yes, there will be defections on
taxes."
   Rep. Sundquist, a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, understands well the discontent, particularly from
Republicans challenging incumbent Democrats for the Senate.
"I understand where they're at and I don't criticize them for
it," he says. "But those of us in the House who aren't
running for the Senate who are George Bush supporters ought
to be there with him."
   While many among the congressman's audience here seem to
agree, one critical factor will be what kind of new taxes
come out of any budget agreement.
   For example, the prospect of any change in the income-tax
structure creates a visceral and unambiguously negative
response. Few of the audience would likely be affected by any
such change, which would almost surely be aimed at the
highest-income taxpayers. But almost all those interviewed
fear tampering with the rate structure nonetheless.
   "I do believe that {Bush} will come through this
harassment and he'll do a great job," says Bernadine
Lipinski, a former president of the local Republican women's
club. "But I do not believe that he will raise income taxes.
He will take some other route, but it's not going to be a
large tax increase and he's not going to go back on his
word."
   On the other hand, higher excise taxes on cigarettes and
beer don't seem to trouble these Republicans very much.
Sheriff Robert Lee of McNairy County, over in Congressman
Sundquist's district, says that in his county "you can tax
cigarettes and beer a penny or a nickel or a quarter and it
won't have any effect whatsoever."
   Not all the Republicans in this area are in a forgiving
mood where Mr. Bush is concerned. "Read my lips: I will never
vote for the man again," says Tom Singleton, an executive for
a hospital management company. But most of those troubled
seem to be more upset that Mr. Bush broke his word than that
their taxes might rise.
   "I think that he was ill-advised to make a promise that's
going to be used against him," says Larry Barnes, a police
officer in Franklin. "I'm disappointed not that taxes were
raised, but that {Bush} promised that he wouldn't raise
them."
   One reason there was little anger over the president's
reversal, Rep. Schneider suggests, is that few voters were
really surprised by it. "The agreement to raise taxes is a
blip on the scale of cynicism," she says. "It's not a
firestorm, but a brushfire."
   That would explain the comments of William Cowan Sr., a
farmer from LaGrange in Rep. Sundquist's district, who summed
up what seems the prevailing attitude. Is he disappointed in
the president's decision? he is asked. "Well, a little bit,
but not that much," he replies. "He's just politickin'."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ivester Is Named Coke USA President,
   Becoming Front-Runner for a Top Post
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   KO WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co., in moves that turn the spotlight
on executive succession, named a rising star to perhaps its
toughest job, while deciding to keep its president at the
helm a while longer.
   Coke named M. Douglas Ivester to the high-profile post of
president of Coca-Cola USA, in charge of all domestic
soft-drink operations, fueling speculation that Mr. Ivester
is the front-runner to eventually become president of the
parent company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since Mr. Ivester joined Coca-Cola as assistant controller
in 1979, his career has rocketed. Just last year, the
soft-spoken 43-year-old executive landed the plum assignment
as president of Coke's burgeoning European operation. It is
widely believed that Mr. Ivester, who is well regarded by
Coke's top executives, was given that pivotal job, as well as
his latest assignment, to give him the front-line operating
experience he will need to leap into senior management.
   Meanwhile, Coca-Cola yesterday said that 63-year-old
Donald R. Keough, Coke's ebullient president and chief
operating officer, wouldn't retire in 1991 at 65, as is
customary. Rather, Mr. Keough, whose business acumen is
praised industrywide (even by senior executives at rival
PepsiCo Inc.), will continue in his current roles until the
fall of 1993, Coke said.
   That decision, according to industry executives reading
the tea leaves, would buy Mr. Ivester -- or any other
contenders -- more time to develop executive potential. Mr.
Ivester wasn't available to be interviewed, and a Coke
spokesman wouldn't comment on the speculation. None of the
moves affect Chairman Roberto C. Goizueta, 58.
   Shortly after Mr. Ivester joined Coke, original plans
called for him to work his way up to become Coke's chief
financial officer by this year. But those plans were quickly
scrapped in 1981, when the company's chief financial officer
died of a heart attack. By 1985, Mr. Ivester was already
chief financial officer.
   A numbers man who spent a decade with accounting firm
Ernst &amp; Whinney before joining Coke, Mr. Ivester impressed
his superiors at the soft-drink company as an extraordinarily
quick study. In the course of a decade, he developed creative
approaches to financing -- including sophisticated hedging
strategies for foreign currencies -- helped restructure
Coke's bottling operations and fine-tuned Coke's European
business in anticipation of the unified market in 1992.
   "On paper right now, Doug Ivester has to be given the
most-valuable-player award at Coke," said Jesse Meyers,
publisher of Beverage Digest, a trade newsletter.
   While acknowledging that Mr. Ivester has nabbed
front-runner status, Mr. Meyers and other industry experts
said the race is anything but over. In the past, Coke has
been known to appoint people considered long shots to top
jobs. "Ivester got the tentative anointment, but there are
other knights at the round table," said Mr. Meyers. Other
names frequently mentioned are John Hunter, 52, president of
Coke's Pacific Group, and E. Neville Isdell, 47, president of
the Northeast Europe-Africa Group.
   Mr. Ivester succeeds Ira C. Herbert, known as Coke's
"Keeper of the Trademark" for his detailed oversight of the
company's image. At 62, Mr. Herbert will continue to oversee
Coke USA, however, through the position he keeps as as
president of Coke's North American Business Sector, which
includes the U.S. and Canadian businesses.
   Mr. Herbert is expected to keep a close watch. The USA
division, the centerpiece of Coke's world-wide operations,
recently appointed an outsider, Theodore Host, as its senior
marketing executive. And Mr. Ivester, himself, is untested in
operating the U.S. business. Industry executives, therefore,
don't expect to see any wrenching departure from past
marketing practices. Mr. Herbert "will be the guiding hand,"
said one former Coke official.
   In addition, Mr. Herbert now will oversee Coca-Cola's
foods division, which makes Minute Maid orange juice. The
division, which has struggled against strong competition, had
reported to Mr. Keough. Harry E. Teasley Jr. will continue as
president of the foods company. Mr. Herbert ran the foods
business in the late 1970s.
   Coke also announced that Mr. Hunter, president of the
Pacific Group, will get added responsibilities as deputy to
John W. Georgas, 62, president of Coke's international
business. That appointment suggested to some industry
observers that Mr. Hunter will eventually succeed Mr. Georgas
as head of the overseas operations, which account for about
80% of Coca-Cola's profits.
   Ralph H. Cooper, 50-year-old president of Coke's Northwest
European Division, will succeed Mr. Ivester as president of
the European Community Group.
   The appointments take effect Aug. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jack Henry &amp; Associates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JKHY ALII
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONETT, Mo. -- Jack Henry &amp; Associates Inc. said it and
Allied Capital Corp II ended talks to merge Henry and
Peerless Systems Inc., an Allied affiliate. No reason was
given, and officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   Henry said it does not intend to pursue a sale, merger or
business combination with other parties. This past February,
the data-processing systems concern had said it would
evaluate unsolicited acquisition inquiries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Manufacturing
   Sector Shows
   Signs of Upturn
   ---
   Purchasing Group's Index
   On Orders, Output, Jobs,
   Rose to 51.1% for June
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The nation's beleaguered manufacturing
sector showed more signs of emerging from its long slump,
according to a closely watched report by the National
Association of Purchasing Management.
   An index compiled by the group, based on orders,
production, employment and other indicators of manufacturing
health, rose to 51.1% in June from 50.7% in May. That marks
the third consecutive month the index has registered above
50%, and the association says any reading above 50% means the
manufacturing economy is "generally expanding." From May 1989
through March 1990 every monthly reading was below that
threshold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index is based on a survey of purchasing executives in
about 300 companies across the country, but economists and
the financial markets pay considerable attention to it
because it is often the first published report of economic
activity for any month.
   After seeing the index yesterday, Norman Robertson, chief
economist at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, said, "I think all
the evidence would now point to a slow, sluggish rate of
improvement in the manufacturing sector."
   Manufacturers, particularly makers of cars and other
big-ticket items, have been among the hardest hit by the
Federal Reserve's efforts to fight inflation by holding
interest rates high. But though recent economic indicators --
including durable-goods orders and the government's index of
leading indicators -- have suggested manufacturing may be
picking up strength, other sectors of the economy still seem
to be flailing.
   The Commerce Department reported yesterday that
construction spending slipped 0.4% in May, its second drop in
a row.
   The decline, which lowered the annual rate of construction
spending to $445.6 billion, followed a 2.2% decline in April.
In its initial report last month the department estimated the
April decrease at 0.7%.
   High mortgage rates and a growing caution among banks
about making real estate loans have battered the construction
industry in recent months. Commerce Department reports showed
that spending on both residential and business construction
fell in April and May.
   While a credit squeeze has crimped the real estate market,
the purchasing managers association said it found scant
evidence that tight credit conditions are spreading to other
parts of the economy. Of the companies seeking loans in the
past two months, "only a few experienced any tightened
lending restrictions or felt the need to issue commercial
paper as a substitute," the report said. However, a number of
the companies noticed that many of their smaller suppliers
and customers were having some trouble getting additional
credit.
   The numbers in both reports were adjusted for seasonal
fluctuations.
   ---
                   CONSTRUCTION SPENDING
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's figures for
construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally
adjusted annual rates.
                                    May    April     May
                                   1990    1990     1989
                                                                                                       

  Total new construction ........ 445.6    447.2   434.7
   Residential .................. 199.7    204.1   199.4
   Nonresidential ............... 101.6    103.4   100.8
   Public ....................... 109.1    104.5   100.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Trade Surpus Widens
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's trade surplus widened to $2.79 billion
for the first 20 days of June, from $2.63 billion in the
year-earlier period, the Ministry of Finance said.
   Exports for the 20-day period rose 4.1% to $14.42 billion,
from $13.85 billion a year ago. Imports rose 3.7% to $11.63
billion from $11.22 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan's trade surplus contracted in May to $3.13 billion
from $3.76 billion in the previous year.
   Forecasting that the surplus will start to expand again
soon, economists stressed in May that the yen's weakening in
foreign-exchange markets was encouraging exports, while
slower growth in the domestic economy was dampening imports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   School Reform
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   The Los Angeles school board has relented to public
pressure and voted 6-1 to expel kids who bring guns to high
schools or junior highs. Knives and BB-guns are still not an
automatic cause for dismissal in the 610,000-student
district. Board member Rita Walters, from a central-city area
worst affected by campus violence, was a holdout to the end,
saying that firearm-toters should instead be taught to "write
and read and compute . . . so they have a sense of
belonging." Her constituents seem to have a better sense of
where those characters belong and don't belong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Coffee, Tea and Liberty
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   "Continental Lands in Managua," blared the 24-point
headline. We did a double-take. The reactivation of a new
Contra force? No, just the most hopeful sign yet that perhaps
things really are getting better in Central America. It was a
Continental Airlines' newspaper ad inaugurating a direct
flight to Managua from Houston. "We make getting down to
business in Nicaragua easy, and reliable," the ad explained.
We'd say that's exactly what the voters had in mind when they
voted the Sandinistas out of office last February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   TW Holdings Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   TWFS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TW HOLDINGS Inc., Spartanburg, S.C., said it entered a
note purchase agreement with a group led by Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. for $160 million of mortgage financing for 240 Denny's
restaurants, which TW owns and operates.The company said the
mortgage notes will bear interest at 11% for a 10-year term.
Financing of the notes, which were placed in the Japanese
market, is expected to close within two weeks. The net
proceeds of about $120 million will be used to reduce senior
bank debt. The company said it signed a letter of agreement
separately under which Financial Security Assurance will
guarantee $225 million of mortgage notes for 398 Hardee's and
Quincy's Family Steakhouse restaurants that TW owns and
operates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ingersoll to Sell U.S. Publishing Empire
   To E.M. Warburg Pincus, His Partner
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ralph M. Ingersoll II, battered by a heavy debt load and a
downturn in the newspaper industry, is relinquishing his
ownership in the U.S. publishing empire he built up over the
past two decades.
   Ingersoll Publications Co. said E.M. Warburg Pincus &amp; Co.
will acquire all of Mr. Ingersoll's stock in his three U.S.
companies, which publish metropolitan daily newspapers in New
Haven, Conn.; St. Louis; Trenton, N.J, and elsewhere. Warburg
has been Mr. Ingersoll's partner for seven years, helping to
finance his ambitious acquisition drive in the 1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ingersoll will in turn acquire Warburg's 50% stake in
Ingersoll Publications Ltd., publisher of English and Irish
newspapers. After the split, both companies are expected to
have equity they value at between $200 million and $300
million each.
   The dismemberment of the Ingersoll empire comes after a
year in which Mr. Ingersoll faced a worsening debt situation,
particularly at his Community Newspapers Inc. unit, whose
expansion in recent years was financed largely by junk debt
issued by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Mr. Ingersoll's other
unit, Ingersoll Newspapers Inc., had a loss of $30 million on
the St. Louis Sun, a start-up daily newspaper that folded
after seven months.
   "This is a total collapse of Ralph's plan to build a giant
media company in the U.S. and Europe," said John Morton, an
analyst with Lynch, Jones &amp; Ryan, Washington, D.C.
   Mr. Ingersoll, for his part, said in an interview that he
welcomes the split because it will enable him to pursue what
he believes are greater opportunities in Europe. Though he
denied industry reports that his relationship with Warburg
had unraveled recently, he acknowledged there was a
"divergence of objectives" between him and the New York
venture capital and investment concern. Mr. Ingersoll said
Warburg Pincus wanted to put more money into the company and
own more equity. "I foresaw a whole succession of projects
like the (St. Louis) Sun that would make them uncomfortable,"
Mr. Ingersoll said. "I would rather put the burden on my
shoulders alone."
   In a statement, Warburg Chief Executive Lionel Pincus said
"we are saddened that our long partnership with Ralph
Ingersoll has come to an end." Although analysts speculated
that Warburg will now try to sell off some of the Ingersoll
properties, Warburg said it has no plans at present to do so.
However, Mr. Ingersoll said negotiations were continuing for
the planned sale of This Week, a chain of 76 free weekly
newspapers on Long Island, N.Y.
   After spending binges fueled by roughly $500 million in
junk-bond debt raised by Michael Milken, the junk-bond wizard
of the now-defunct Drexel, Mr. Ingersoll's three U.S.
companies carry bank and other long-term debt at face value
in excess of $700 million. Mr. Ingersoll's London-based
Ingersoll Publications Ltd. isn't as highly leveraged. It has
annual revenue of $178 million, cash flow of $40 million and
bank debt of $109 million.
   Warburg Pincus will assume one of the sources of Mr.
Ingersoll's problems: debt payments on bonds issued by
Community Newspapers Inc. Warburg Pincus said Community
Newspapers wouldn't make a $7 million semiannual interest
payment due yesterday on its 13% senior subordinated "reset"
notes, and said CNI wouldn't be able to reset the bond's
interest rate by this Saturday's deadline, as was required.
   The interest rates on CNI's bonds are to be reset so the
bonds trade at full face value. The CNI junk bonds, issued
originally in 1987 by Drexel, have traded as low as 35 cents
on the dollar this year. CNI would have been forced to pay a
prohibitively high interest rate to meet its reset
obligations. Bondholders have retained Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. as independent advisers. Smith Barney executives
didn't return calls for comment.
   Mr. Pincus said in his statement that he hoped "CNI would
be able to work out its financial problems with the holders
of its subordinated indebtedness . . . negotiations on those
matters have been in process for several months."
   To date, CNI bondholders have resisted tender offers by
Ingersoll Newspapers, which offered holders of the senior
bonds 55 cents on the dollar.
   Warburg Pincus will take control of three U.S. companies,
which include: Ingersoll Newspapers Inc., which publishes
nine dailies and 53 weekly newspapers; New Haven Acquisition
Co., publisher of the New Haven (Conn.) Register; and
Community Newspapers Inc., publisher of daily newspapers in
Ohio and Long Island. Robert Jelenic, currently president of
both CNI and INI, will become chief executive officer of
Warburg Pincus's U.S. newspaper properties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chock Full O' Nuts Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Chock Full O' Nuts Corp. said it completed the
acquisition of Everfresh Products Inc., a privately held
processor and packer of peanuts. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Dr. Leon Pordy, chairman and chief executive officer of
the coffee and food service company, said the new acquisition
was "profitable," with sales of over five million pounds of
peanuts in fiscal 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Congress Is Crossroads for Soviet Communists
   ---
   Factional Struggle
   May Be Played Out
   Behind the Scenes
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Even in this age of glasnost, Mikhail Gorbachev
is keeping his cards close to his chest.
   The Soviet leader's lengthy speech, delivered to the
Communist Party Congress yesterday, was presented for
approval three days ago to the party's Central Committee, a
body still packed with conservatives. But instead of handing
over the whole speech, as is customary, he merely submitted
an outline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That evening Mr. Gorbachev telephoned Boris Yeltsin, a
reformist Central Committee member who was recently elected
president of the Russian Republic, to ask him what he
thought.
   "I can't comment because I have only seen the outline,"
Mr. Yeltsin told him. Mr. Gorbachev replied, "The full speech
will be much better than the outline," saying that he was
working through the weekend to complete the toughly worded
text.
   The incident, recounted by Mr. Yeltsin to fellow
delegates, may well be a foretaste of the party congress as a
whole. Barring major surprises, much of the action could take
place behind the scenes, with Mr. Gorbachev and other senior
officials manipulating the proceedings as best they can. Such
backroom intrigue characterized preparatory work for the
congress and is likely to continue, say senior officials
involved in the process.
   The reasons lie in the current precarious political
situation. Throughout his five years in office, Mr. Gorbachev
has shown himself to be a master tactician, seizing every
opportunity to outmaneuver potential opponents. But now more
than ever he has cause to tread carefully: A majority of
delegates at the congress, who must elect the party's top
officials -- including the leader -- are largely hostile to
Mr. Gorbachev's policies. But while they will probably air
their grievances, officials say they appear unlikely to mount
a concerted challenge to his leadership, fearing that it
could spell the end of the Communist Party's influence.
   As a result, the nuts-and-bolts details that are decided
at the congress will be crucial to determining whether
conservatives opposed to Mr. Gorbachev or moderates who
support him have come out on top. And both sides are bracing
for a battle over issues that may seem obscure to the
uninitiated.
   According to senior officials, the following points are
likely to serve as litmus tests for the direction of the
meeting:
                                                                                                       

   GENERAL SECRETARY VS. CHAIRMAN
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Gorbachev originally wanted to replace the current
leadership structure, which consists of a general secretary
and 11 Politburo members, with a bigger Presidium headed by a
chairman. Conservatives oppose the change, fearing it would
weaken the party's influence. Some radicals are also nervous
about the new structure because it would include a deputy
chairman and a first secretary in charge of the Central
Committee staff. If two conservatives are elected to these
posts, they could conspire against Mr. Gorbachev, they worry.
The Soviet leader himself told the Central Committee meeting
on Friday that the job of chairman "must not become an
honorary position," according to officials present.
                                                                                                       

   BIG VS. SMALL CENTRAL COMMITTEE
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Gorbachev initially proposed turning the party's
policy-making body into a small group of full-time officials.
The new Central Committee must be elected by the congress,
and radicals fear that mainly conservatives hostile to
perestroika will be selected. Mr. Gorbachev is now trying to
limit the damage by seeking approval to select 75 of the
members himself. That would swell the committee's size to
almost 370, an unwieldy organization that the Soviet leader
could manipulate.
                                                                                                       

   MEDVEDEV VS. RAZUMOVSKY
                                                                                                       

   The two men, both Central Committee secretaries, played
key roles in drafting the documents for the congress. Vadim
Medvedev, a centrist who is in charge of ideology, brought
several moderates onto his committee to write a draft
congress declaration. Georgy Razumovsky, in charge of party
cadres and more hard-line, drafted new party rules with a few
like-minded aides. Officials involved say there was almost no
coordination between the two, and their draft texts differ
sharply in tone and even content. The officials say they will
be watching to see how much either text is amended by the
congress, and whether Mr. Razumovsky will stand as a
candidate for one of the top offices.
                                                                                                       

   YAKOVLEV VS. POLOZKOV
                                                                                                       

   A last-minute meeting on Saturday decided to give the
floor to each Politburo member to report on his activities
since the previous congress in 1986. They will later face
re-election, and there are question marks over several
moderates in the leadership, notably Alexander Yakovlev, a
liberal who strongly opposes Russian nationalism, and Nikolai
Ryzhkov, the prime minister who is under fire from
conservatives for his economic reform plans. Mr. Yakovlev may
even give up without a struggle. In his report to delegates,
he hinted that this might be his last congress. He didn't
elaborate.
   By contrast, Ivan Polozkov, a conservative apparatchik who
was recently elected head of the newly formed Russian
(Republic) Communist Party, has strong backing from large
numbers of congress delegates. He isn't in the Politburo, but
is widely seen as a powerful candidate for top office.
   Mr. Gorbachev yesterday moved to deflect some of the
expected personal criticism of his colleagues and himself. He
persuaded the congress to make comments and ask questions of
Politburo members only once all the reports had been given,
rather than after each speaker.
   The first day's congress proceedings were dominated by Mr.
Gorbachev's report and speeches by several Politburo members.
But liberal delegates say there are already unmistakable
signs that conservatives have the upper hand. One sign came
in the morning, when an attempt by radicals to add Otto
Latsis, a reform-minded economist, to the meeting's editorial
commission was overwhelmingly defeated. Mr. Latsis is deputy
editor of the party's theoretical journal, Kommunist, and
last week announced that he and his colleagues would refuse
to join the new conservative-dominated Russian Communist
Party.
   A meeting of delegation heads on Saturday removed Mr.
Latsis's name from the list of commission members. According
to one official present, his inclusion sparked an angry
reaction. "He not only doesn't deserve to serve on the
commission, he shouldn't remain in the Communist Party,"
complained one irate speaker.
   (See related story: "Gorbachev, in Speech, Defends
Perestroika, Calls for Party Unity" -- WSJ July 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN EUROP FREST JAPAN J.MBT LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   WORLD BANK IN POLAND
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The World Bank opened an office in Warsaw -- its first
permanent office in Eastern Europe -- and gave Poland a $250
million loan for development of natural-gas resources and
energy conservation.
   World Bank Vice President Will Wapenhans lauded the
economic stabilization accomplished by Poland's
post-communist government but urged "even more rapid" steps
toward creating a market economy.
   The World Bank has loaned Poland a total of $781 million
for five projects since January. Officials say additional
loans amounting to about $2 billion are envisioned during the
next two fiscal years.
   The new loan, repayable over 17 years with a five-year
grace period, is to help wean Poland from its dependence on
coal as an energy source.
                                                                                                       

   SINGAPORE EDICT
                                                                                                       

   The Singapore government ordered the dissolution of an
organization it said was a front to revive the banned
Unification Church. The Home Affairs Ministry said the Moral
Home Society, with about 200 members, was set up in 1986 to
obtain legal status for the church, whose followers are
widely known as "Moonies" after their South Korean leader,
Sun Myung Moon. Singapore banned the Unification Church in
1982, saying its "continued existence was prejudicial to
public welfare and good order."
                                                                                                       

   PORTUGAL CLAMPS DOWN
                                                                                                       

   The Bank of Portugal clamped down on foreign borrowing by
Portuguese companies by requiring that 40% of the value of
any capital raised abroad must be deposited in
non-interest-bearing accounts with the central bank. The
measure affects Portuguese companies' loans with foreign
banks and bond or stock issues offered on foreign capital
markets or bought by foreign investors. "Foreign capital
inflows over the last months have registered a marked
increase, bloating domestic liquidity and creating
difficulties for economic policy," a government statement
said.
                                                                                                       

   THE JAPANESE AND TECHNOLOGY
                                                                                                       

   Three out of four Japanese adults think technology
improves their lives, but more than half worry it could cost
them their jobs, according to a poll released by the prime
minister's office. In a nationwide poll of 3,000 Japanese
over the age of 18, 76% said technology improved their
standard of living. But 55.5% said they feared their jobs
could be performed by robots, computers and other automation
techniques. Of those surveyed, 32.1% believed technology
would never make their jobs redundant.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIETS' DWINDLING OIL OUTPUT
                                                                                                       

   Soviet oil production has entered a long-term downward
trend, a phenomenon that might trigger a world-wide spiral in
oil prices, a private research institute in Japan reportedly
said. According to a Japanese news agency, the Institute of
Energy Economics reported that oil output by the Soviet Union
dropped by 300,000 barrels per day in 1989 and has been
plunging by 500,000 barrels per day this year. The exhaustion
of large oil fields, surging costs of exploration, and
reduced investment in the energy sector are said to be
factors behind the diminishing output.
                                                                                                       

   WHALING BAN UNDER REVIEW
                                                                                                       

   Norway and Iceland, eager to lift a ban on whaling, said
there are enough whales in the world's oceans to resume some
commercial hunting. "There are no reasons to wait," Iceland's
Minister of Fisheries Halldor Asgrimsson told a conference in
the Netherlands of the 36-nation International Whaling
Commission. Conservationists say the move is the biggest
threat to whale populations since a global ban on commercial
whaling took effect in 1986.
                                                                                                       

   LOAN FOR AIR CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Trust &amp; Banking Corp. will offer a loan of $126
million to Air China, a Japanese news agency reported.
   The Japanese bank also reportedly revealed it has obtained
consent from the Finance Ministry and has already put a part
of the loan into action. This would be the first move by a
Japanese bank to resume giving new loans to China since a
suspension of credit to the country following the military
crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators last year.
   Air China will use part of the loan from Mitsubishi Trust
to buy new aircraft, according to the agency report.
   In another report, the agency said the head of the
Export-Import Bank of Japan hinted at the possibility of
resuming the bank's financial support for trade with China
even under Japan's current economic sanctions against China.
"The bank is willing to reopen financial support for Japanese
exporters who do business with China on a case-by-case
basis," the bank's president, Mitsuhide Yamaguchi, was quoted
as saying.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Airlines canceled dozens of flights in and out of Paris as
air-traffic controllers prepared for a three-day strike set
to begin today at France's largest flight-control center. . .
. India's former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi ordered his
party's youth wing to physically stop Amnesty International
officials from entering India to investigate alleged
human-rights abuses. Last week, the government lifted a
six-month-old ban on the London-based human-rights
organization's entry to India.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   N.V. Philips
   To Eliminate
   10,000 Jobs
   ---
   New Chief Puts '90 Deficit
   At $1.07 Billion, Vows
   To Hold Computer Unit
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- N.V. Philips plans to
eliminate 10,000 jobs and expects a loss of about two billion
guilders ($1.07 billion) for 1990, its new chairman said.
   But Jan Timmer, in his first day as chief of the Dutch
electronics giant, told a shareholders meeting that Philips
wouldn't give up on its troubled computer and semiconductor
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reacting to the news, Philips shares sank 87.5 cents to
close at $16.875 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, after falling over 7% on the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange. Analysts argued that the job cuts -- about 3.5% of
the work force -- were too small, warned of lower dividends
and fretted about a slump in earnings from Philips's lighting
division. Philips is also the parent of North American
Philips Corp., based in New York City, which makes electronic
products under the Magnavox brand.
   Mr. Timmer, a 38-year veteran of Philips who most recently
headed the consumer electronics division, acknowledged that
the company faces a struggle to regain its credibility. "We
have to prove that we are as good as we think we are," he
said at the shareholders meeting. The meeting was called to
ratify his appointment to succeed Cornelis van der Klugt, who
was forced to resign in May after his forecast that Philips
would show higher profit this year proved wildly optimistic.
   Mr. Timmer, 57 years old, provided few details about his
restructuring plans, saying they were still being formulated,
and declined to comment on how dividends would be affected.
   He said the job cuts would be primarily in Europe.
Philips's total world-wide work force of 290,000 already has
shrunk by nearly 90,000 over the past 10 years as the company
has lurched through a series of restructuring programs.
   While the personnel cuts were greater than expected,
analysts were unimpressed, saying the company probably could
eliminate 10,000 jobs through attrition alone. Arjen Los of
County NatWest Securities in London estimated that Philips
would need to shed 40,000 to 50,000 people to attain
efficiency comparable with its strongest rivals. At UBS
Phillips &amp; Drew, another London brokerage firm, Dorian Foyil
said: "It's a huge bureaucracy. You could get rid of 10,000
people in management alone and just make a dent."
   Philips said it would make a provision of 2.7 billion
guilders in this year's second half to cover the costs of
severance payments, write-downs in asset values and other
restructuring expenses. Had restructuring costs been at the
"normal" level, Philips said, the profit forecast for 1990
would be 400 million guilders, down from 1.37 billion
guilders in 1989. Sales for 1990 are expected to total 56
billion guilders, down from 57.22 billion guilders.
   For this year's first five months, Philips said operating
profit fell 13% from a year earlier to 774 million guilders,
but profit grew 16% to 326 million, reflecting gains on asset
sales and other exceptional items. In a major surprise,
Philips also said profit from its lighting division, long the
company's cash cow, slumped 23% in the latest five months.
   In the computer division, Mr. Timmer promised to curtail
development and manufacturing and to stress assembly of
computer systems using standardized products made by others.
He said Philips would focus on its strengths, such as
providing computer systems to banks and producing optical
imaging and storage products. He also pledged to trim the
company's direct-sales staff and rely more on computer
dealers.
   Philips has been ambushed by rapid shifts in the market to
systems based on personal computers instead of minicomputers,
to standardized systems from proprietary technology and to
dealership sales from direct selling, Mr. Timmer said.
   Philips's professional products and systems division --
which includes computers as well as several healthier product
ranges, such as medical electronics, telecommunications and
accoustical equipment -- showed an operating loss of 124
million guilders in the first five months on sales of 4.74
billion guilders.
   Mr. Timmer acknowledged that Philips is stuck with
unsalable inventories of outdated computer equipment and said
the company would try to put its own house in order before
deciding whether to form an alliance in the industry.
   The components division -- which includes integrated
circuits, color television tubes and other electronic parts
-- produced an operating loss of 42 million guilders in the
first five months. Because of the deteriorating results, Mr.
Timmer said, Philips will provide less "support" to
loss-making integrated circuits and focus its efforts on
fewer ranges of chips.
   Philips's U.S. semiconductor unit, Signetics Corp., based
in Sunnyvale, Calif., is on track with its plans to return to
profitability under new management, Mr. Timmer said. He said
the latest restructuring plans would have little effect on
Signetics.
   Philips's lighting division, the world's biggest producer
of lamps, showed operating profit of 267 million guilders in
the five months, down from 346 million guilders a year
earlier.
   Philips did have good news in its biggest division,
consumer electronics, where operating profit in the five
months shot up 85% to 645 million guilders from 349 million
guilders.
   Though shareholders applauded Mr. Timmer's speech
vigorously, many scathingly criticized the company's
management during a question session afterward.
   For instance, several shareholders expressed incredulity
over assertions by Wisse Dekker, the head of Philips's
supervisory board, that the company's financial reporting
system is working well. Only three months ago, the company's
former chairman, Mr. van der Klugt, predicted higher profit
for 1990 and failed to signal the plunge in first-quarter
results.
   Mr. Dekker insisted that Philips couldn't discuss the
reasons for that faulty forecast because of pending
litigation in the U.S., where Philips shareholders have filed
a suit accusing the company of having misled investors about
its prospects.
   ---
                         Philip's Woes
                                                                                                       

 1 -- May 3: First-quarter profits disappoint analysts and
company says it expects little improvement in 1990 net
income.
                                                                                                       

 2 -- May 14: Chairman Cornelis van der Klugt resigns, Jan
Timmer, head of consumer products succeeds him.
                                                                                                       

 3 -- June 14: Philips says second-quarter profits will be
lower than in 1989 and that full-year profits will be very
low.
                                                                                                       

 4 -- July 2: Philips says it will lose nearly $1.1 billion
in 1990 and will lay off about 10,000 workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   With These Flags,
   All One Needs Is
   A Bridge or Gridiron
   ---
   Americans Are Keen to Set
   Marks, but Some Banners
   Are Too Big for Flagpoles
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Some people's idea of the perfect American flag is one so
big no one would ever have to ask: "Oh, say can you see . .
.?"
   Len Silverfine, an East Coast adman, has twice held the
world record in the big-flag category. His first attempt, for
which he formed the Great American Flag Co., was a red, white
and blue job 50% bigger than a football field. Constructed by
a team of flag and sail makers, it had stars that were 11
feet across and stripes 15 feet high. The thing weighed 3,000
pounds and took 50 men to hoist.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of course, no flagpole is big enough to support such a
behemoth. So Mr. Silverfine planned to hang his banner on the
Verrazano Narrows Bridge, to mark the nation's Bicentennial
in 1976. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
approved, and the makers of Arm &amp; Hammer baking soda agreed
to underwrite the undertaking.
   But during a trial run-up, disaster struck. A modest
breeze on New York Bay tore the thing to shreds. "I had tears
in my eyes," Mr. Silverfine recalls.
   Such setbacks haven't deterred people who get stars in
their eyes when they think of the flag and like to do things
in a big way. Their interest hasn't flagged. Last year,
wholesale flag sales in the U.S. increased 15%, to an
estimated $60 million.
   Flag makers are quick to point out that bigness isn't
necessarily bestness where Old Glory is concerned. The bigger
the banner, the harder it is to get it aloft, they say.
Furthermore, big flags make a racket when they flap in the
wind, and they are particularly vulnerable to damage and
destruction. So it can be said they cause a good deal of
free-floating anxiety.
   Yet none of this seems to stop Americans who wish to
display their patriotism, not on their sleeve but by the
acre. Here are some stories for the Fourth about five such
creations.
   Mr. Silverfine created this flag -- now said to be the
world's largest -- to replace the one that didn't fly on the
Verrazano Narrows Bridge. Made of polyester the quality of
grass-catcher bags and reinforced with seat-belt webbing,
this 7.7-ton beauty, 411-by-210 feet, was engineered to
withstand the elemental blows that felled his first flag. But
this one didn't even make it to the bridge: He couldn't raise
the million bucks he needed to rig and store it there.
   So, on June 14, 1983 -- Flag Day -- Mr. Silverfine and his
supporters unloaded the flag at the White House as a gift to
the American people. With the flag spread out on the Ellipse,
near the White House lawn, President Reagan accepted it,
remarking, "Who could stand before this scene with Old Glory
unfurled in all its majesty across the area of two football
fields and not feel their heart fill with pride?"
   Mr. Reagan might also have mentioned that traditional
respect (and the federal Flag Code) calls for it never to
touch the ground. But this flag is so big that there's little
else that can be done with it. This flag mainly has
languished in a faded, 40-foot-long, red, white and blue
trailer in a federal warehouse. The disappointed Mr.
Silverfine says he had hoped it would be hauled out and shown
off on the grass in front of the Washington Monument every
Flag Day, but that was not to be.
                                                                                                       

   Ski Demski's Creations.
                                                                                                       

   Ski Demski of Long Beach, Calif., is known for his flags
all over this blue-collar town. Day and night, he flies a
60-by-30-footer over the building where he lives and runs a
mail-order business in bumper stickers. (Flag etiquette calls
for flags to be taken down before sunset.) On holidays, Mr.
Demski runs up his 82-by-47-footer -- the one he had made in
1981 to celebrate the return from Iran of the Americans held
hostage there. He has a 300-by-160-footer, too, but he keeps
that one in a red, white and blue hearse.
   He put up his 132-foot flagpole after seeing other such
constructions towering over auto dealerships along the San
Diego Freeway. His neighbors don't all share his enthusiasm.
City officials questioned whether such a tall pole should be
erected in a residential area, but they relented. Later, his
flag, snapping in the wind during a rainstorm, brought
complaints that he was disturbing the peace. He appeared in
municipal court on charges, later dismissed, that he was
violating noise laws.
                                                                                                       

   The Hudson Flag
                                                                                                       

   This standard, first displayed in 1949 by the J.L. Hudson
Co. department store in downtown Detroit, was considered the
biggest American flag on Earth. Still extant, it is a
235-by-104-foot affair -- little more than a quarter the size
of the Great American Flag. Weighing a ton, it once dangled
over the side of the now-shuttered building -- extending down
seven stories. Hudson put it up -- or, rather, down -- for
ceremonial occasions.
   It finally was donated to the Smithsonian Institution in
1977. And it was such a handful for curators that it went
into storage, the most common location of very big flags.
   Mary Jo Jansson, of Houston, has since saved it from
obscurity.
   Ms. Jansson, a contralto who sings "God Bless America"
with the verve of Kate Smith, persuaded the Smithsonian to
let her borrow the Hudson flag for display on a federal
building on Flag Day in 1984. Later that year, the
Smithsonian gave it to her and her backers to keep.
   Since then, Ms. Jansson has made appearances with the flag
at patriotic occasions and sporting events across the
country. She sings and seeks donations to establish a final
resting place for her flag and Mr. Silverfine's orphaned
emblem. Her main aim in her capacity as president of the
Great American Flag Association (Box FLAG, Flagtown, N.J.):
To raise $100 million and build an exhibition hall.
                                                                                                       

   On the GW Bridge
                                                                                                       

   A mere scrap compared with the others, this banner --
measuring 60-by-90 feet and weighing not all that much more
than a professional wrestler -- 450 pounds -- is actually
manageable. Owned by the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, it is stored in a tower of the George Washington
Bridge crossing the Hudson between Manhattan and New Jersey.
It is rigged for display on nine national holidays each year,
and will be up there tomorrow.
   The Authority says it is the world's largest free-flying
flag -- which experts say isn't true. "Free-flying,"
according to the Authority, means it hangs in the air. But
the Guinness Book of World Records says Brasilia, the capital
of Brazil, boasts the biggest flag flown from a flagstaff. It
measures 328 feet by 230.
   Learning of the Guinness entry, James Hinnigan,
maintenance supervisor of the bridge, refines the claim. His
is the largest free-flying American flag.
   Flag experts agree that size doesn't matter. A little one
does the job just as well as a big one. "Any flag of the
nation speaks an eloquent message of freedom and liberty, no
matter how big or small it is," says George Cahill, president
of the National Flag Foundation, a Pittsburgh group devoted
to the frequent and proper display of the Stars and Stripes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Atlantic Richfield
   Pays $800 Million
   To End Tax Case
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Atlantic Richfield Co. paid $800 million to
the Internal Revenue Service to resolve a long-running
dispute over windfall profit taxes on the company's Alaskan
North Slope crude oil production from 1980 to 1985.
   The IRS had sought roughly $1.8 billion in back taxes and
interest. It filed a "notice of proposed deficiency" in 1988
seeking $577 million plus interest for alleged unpaid taxes
for the years 1980 through 1983. In April, the agency filed a
similar notice for $212 million plus interest for 1984 and
1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An Arco spokesman said the payment won't have a material
effect on the oil and energy company's earnings. At the end
of 1989, the company's reserves included $756 million for
unspecified deferred liabilities. The spokesman said the
company set aside additional reserves in the first quarter
that "more than cover" the $800 million payment.
   The dispute involved a tax levied on crude oil above
certain price levels starting in 1980. The agency and Arco
disagreed on the proper method for constructing a taxable
"wellhead" price for the crude, which requires certain
assumptions about transportation costs and other factors.
Determining that price was complicated, as most of the oil is
produced and transported before it is sold.
   An internal IRS document from 1987 indicated that the
agency was studying whether several oil companies overstated
costs of transporting oil to the continental U.S. and thus
depressed the imputed value of the crude. The methods Arco
used for several years were believed to result in a lower
price than those used by other Alaska oil producers.
   Arco maintained its calculations were appropriate but
changed its method in early 1985 to a weighted average value
reported by other northern Alaska oil producers. The Arco
spokesman said the windfall tax ceased to apply with the
plunge in oil prices in 1985, and the tax was repealed in
1988.
   An IRS spokesman in Washington declined to discuss the
issue, citing taxpayer confidentiality. Arco has settled a
dispute with the Alaska Department of Revenue for production
taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kemper Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KEMPER Corp. (Chicago) -- Ira Nathanson, senior vice
president and director of corporate communications at the
Kemper Financial Services Inc. unit of this insurance and
investment services concern, was named vice president,
communications, at the parent, a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Rekindled Flame
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand A mighty
woman with a torch, whose flame Is imprisoned lightning, and
her name Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand Glows
worldwide welcome; her mild eyes command The air-bridged
harbor that twin cities frame. "Keep ancient lands, your
storied pomp]" cries she With silent lips. "Give me your
tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe
free. The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these,
the homeless, tempest tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the
golden door]
   -- Emma Lazarus
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   This Fourth of July the citizens of the United States will
reflect pride in their nation, a successful land of
successful immigrants. These are largely happy times for most
Americans.
   Yet other, less noble images lurk in the background of our
July 4th celebrations: the guards who patrol our 2,000-mile
border with Mexico or reports by government agencies that the
nation's immigration law has indeed caused widespread hiring
discrimination against non-whites. We read that Southeast
Asian nations and British officials in Hong Kong have warned
the United States that they may no longer provide first
asylum for the flood of refugees that still flee from
Vietnam.
   The question for Independence Day is which symbol
represents this country's attitude toward the modern
equivalent of our desperate immigrant forbears -- the Statue
of Liberty or the stiff arm of refusal and prejudice?
   The law of our land is now the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which seeks to hound "illegal" immigrants and
persists in sending anyone who hires them to jail or fining
them. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service had
assessed millions of dollars in fines against employers under
this law. Four years ago today, we offered an alternative. We
wrote, "If Washington still wants to `do something' about
immigration, we propose a five-word constitutional amendment:
There shall be open borders."
   We added, "Perhaps this policy is overly ambitious in
today's world, but the U.S. became the world's envy by
trumpeting precisely this kind of heresy." A policy of
liberal borders is no more or less radical than the notion
that a democracy founded in a new, wild world could become
the envy of all nations.
   Without question, many free nations have done much the
past 15 years to absorb the world's refugees. But however
grim and arduous this task, there can be no justification for
abandoning it, and them. The price of freedom does not lie
only in defending it through force of arms but also in
proving its worth by extending it to the unfree. What is
required now when many are tired of helping the huddled
masses is leadership.
   The consensus in Congress after the immigration law passed
was that it would be modified if it proved discriminatory.
Instead, there has been talk of creating an improved personal
"document system," which sounds very much like a national
identity card. Some elected official -- Republican or
Democrat -- has to provide the leadership that will eliminate
the abuse of immigrants.
   We have no illusions that this will be easy. There will be
opposition. Backers of immigration limits are a coalition
built on unattractive arguments. Nativists cast their
opposition to immigration in terms of protecting a cultural
status quo. Some of them think legislation is needed to make
English an official language, though surely the growth of
English as an international language is likely to make such
parochial laws unnecessary. Limits-to-growth types, prevalent
along the coast between New York and Washington, say we've
run out of space.
   Recall that when the Statue of Liberty was unveiled, an
earlier generation of nativists had said that the Irish
pouring into the U.S. would never assimilate. Their English
was, well, unEnglish. Ronald Reagan and John F. Kennedy
appear to have disproved these intensely held fears.
   The past year has seen a number of works published
allaying some of the most frequently heard criticisms and
fears of the harm immigrants pose to U.S. society. George
Borjas of the University of California at Santa Barbara
compiled "Friends or Strangers: The Impact of Immigrants on
the U.S. Economy," and Julian Simon continued his research in
"The Economic Consequences of Immigration." The President's
Economic Report this year advocated more liberal immigration
restrictions, because of immigration's benefits.
   Our support for more immigration isn't entirely for the
benefit of the immigrants alone. This nation needs the
rejuvenation that waves of new Americans bring. Latins,
Vietnamese and West Indians are the new Irish, Italians and
Poles. We must guard against slipping into the self-satisfied
view that we are good enough as is, no more need apply or
trespass on the American experiment.
   The yearning masses offer us their talents, ambitions and
obviously unbreakable spirit. In return, we acquire a renewed
view of our own difficult past and, if we are true to that
past, a reason for confidence in our future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Staloff, Ex-President
   Of Comex, Becomes
   Head of Bloom Staloff
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Arnold Staloff, former president of New
York's Commodity Exchange Inc., became president and chief
executive officer of a specialist and market making firm on
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
   The company, renamed Bloom Staloff Corp., from Bloom &amp;
Co., was founded in 1985 by James Bloom, 46 years old, who
becomes chairman of the firm. Mr. Staloff will hold a
substantial equity interest in the new company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Staloff, 45, was president of the Comex from August
1989 until his resignation in April. Previously, he was head
of marketing and new product development at the Philadelphia
exchange, and president of its Philadelphia Board of Trade
subsidiary. Mr. Staloff began his career at the Securities
and Exchange Commission in 1969.
   During his 16 years with the Philadelphia exchange, Mr.
Staloff played a key role in the introduction of foreign
currency options and development of a stock index-like
product called Cash Index Participations (CIPs) that became a
bone of jurisdictional contention between the SEC and the
Commodities Futures Trading Commission.
   "For me this is an opportunity to enter an
entrepreneurship mode and capitalize on my knowledge of the
market," said Mr. Staloff. He also added that he is delighted
to be re-entering the Philadelphia Stock Exchange community.
He said that he hopes to resume working with the exchange and
contribute ideas about new products through committee
assignments.
   The new firm, Bloom Staloff Corp., will continue the work
of its predecessor, Bloom &amp; Co., which was one of the largest
specialist firms on the Philadelphia exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cineplex Odeon
   To Sell Its Interest
   In Universal City
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPX MCA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Cineplex Odeon Corp. said it has agreed to sell
its interest in the 18-screen Universal City Cinemas of
Universal City, Calif., to a unit of MCA Inc. for $45
million.
   Cineplex said one of its subsidiaries will be retained to
manage the theater on a long-term basis. It said the purchase
price is subject to post-closing adjustments, which aren't
expected to be material. Expected to close in the third
quarter of 1990, the transaction is also subject to U.S.
regulatory approval and to other conditions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cineplex, a large entertainment concern based in Toronto,
said proceeds of the sale will be used to reduce debt.
   Cineplex added that, under terms of the sale agreement, it
may accept within 60 days a higher bid for its interest in
the theater. MCA will then have the option of matching the
competing offer.
   MCA, based in Universal City, Calif., is a major
shareholder in Cineplex, which said the transaction was
negotiated by a special committee of directors independent of
MCA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Unveils
   Debt-Offer Details,
   Stock-Split Plan
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC IYCOY J.SEV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In its ongoing efforts to keep a proposed rescue
by Japanese investors alive, debt-burdened Southland Corp.
announced details of a revised debt exchange offer and a
1-for-10 reverse stock split.
   The plan's broad outline was announced June 14. Details of
the plan, including the stock split occurring immediately
before the completion of the debt offer, were outlined in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the
7-Eleven convenience-store operator.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, under the revised offer,
bondholders would receive debt securities totaling about $550
million bearing cash interest rates of 12% to 14% and having
maturities of seven years or less. In addition, bondholders
and preferred shareholders will be offered about 18 1/2% of
Southland's common stock in the exchange offers.
   Bondholders reacted with cautious optimism to the details
of the new proposal. "At first blush, it looks all right,"
said John Gordon of Deltec Securities Corp., who heads a
steering committee of Southland security holders. While
emphasizing that the committee had not endorsed the proposal,
Mr. Gordon said he was hopeful a final agreement could be
negotiated, citing the "good attitude" during recent
discussions between the company, the Japanese investors and
the bondholders.
   The Thompson family, which founded Southland, took the
company private in a $4.9 billion leveraged buy-out in late
1987. The stock of Southland remains closely held.
   After giving effect to the 1-for-10 reverse stock split,
the revised exchange offer would provide holders of $1,000
principal amount of the company's 13 1/2% senior extendible
reset notes due 1995 with $450 principal amount of 12% senior
notes due 1996 and 37 common shares. Holders of $1,000
principal amount of its 15 3/4% senior subordinated notes due
1997 would get $300 principal amount of 13% first priority
senior subordinated notes due 1997 and 24.5 common shares.
   Holders of $1,000 principal amount of the company's 16
1/2% senior subordinated discount notes due 1997 would
receive $255 principal amount of 13% first priority senior
subordinated notes due 1997 and 21 common shares. Holders of
$1,000 principal amount of its 16 3/4% subordinated
debentures due 2002 would get $200 principal amount of 14%
second priority senior subordinated notes due 1997 and 16.5
common shares.
   Holders of $1,000 principal amount of its 18% junior
subordinated discount debentures due 2007 would get $95
principal amount of 14% second priority senior subordinated
notes due 1997 and eight common shares. Holders of each share
of Southland's 15% cumulative exchangeable preferred stock,
Series One, would receive one common share.
   To reflect the terms of the revised plan, Southland said
it had entered into a new stock-purchase agreement with
Ito-Yokado Co. and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., which have agreed
to buy a 75% stake in Southland for $400 million if the
company can restructure its $1.8 billion in publicly traded
debt. An initial offer to bondholders last March involving
zero-coupon notes with maturities of more than 10 years was
received with hostility.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   JOHN GORDON of Deltec Securities Corp., who heads a
steering committee of Southland Corp. security holders, said
issues remain between security holders and Southland
regarding a revised debt exchange offer by the company. In
Tuesday's edition, Mr. Gordon was quoted as saying he was
favorably impressed by the exchange offer's details. Mr.
Gordon said his comments related only to the relative
allocation of values among various security holder groups and
not to the overall amount being offered by Southland.
   (WSJ July 5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   NCNB Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   NCB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NCNB Corp. (Charlotte, N.C.) -- Robert B. Lane, 52 years
old, previously corporate executive vice president, general
banking, at NCNB Texas, was named president of the banking
unit, succeeding Kenneth D. Lewis, who last week was named
president, general banking, at the parent company, a bank
holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NUI Early Retirement Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NUI
</CO>
<LP>
   BEDMINSTER, N.J. -- NUI Corp. said it has offered an early
retirement incentive to about 6.5% of its work force in an
effort to pare operating expenses.
   NUI, the parent of natural gas distributors Elizabethtown
(N.J.) Gas Co. and City Gas Co. of Florida, said it could
incur a pretax cost of about $2 million if all eligible
employees accepted the offer. But it said it hopes to reduce
costs by $5.5 million. It said about 50 of the 770 NUI and
Elizabethtown employees would be eligible; City Gas employees
have a separate pension plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the offer, all employees covered under the pension
plan and born before Jan. 1, 1932, would be eligible. The
company's incentives include crediting eligible employees
with three more years credited service for purposes of
calculating their pension benefits. NUI said eligible
employees have until Sept. 30 to choose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lewis Lehrman Resigns Top Position
   At Morgan Stanley Asset Managing Unit
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lewis E. Lehrman, a top executive at Morgan
Stanley Group Inc.'s burgeoning asset-management division,
jumped ship to head a financial forecasting firm.
   Mr. Lehrman's departure is the most visible of several
executive shuffles at Morgan Stanley following a recent shift
in the big securities firm's uppermost management echelons,
spurred by the retirement of its chairman. Morgan Stanley, by
many measures the healthiest firm on Wall Street, recently
reassigned the managers of its equity group in London. More
executive changes are expected soon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Lehrman's move isn't likely to stunt the growth of
Morgan Stanley's asset-management unit. During his two-year
stint as managing director and chief operating officer, this
division has blossomed into a major driver of Morgan
Stanley's success.
   The asset-management division manages about $30 billion,
up 20% in the past two years. The division should generate
$120 million in revenue this year, including about $20
million from the management of Morgan Stanley Leveraged
Equity Fund II, says Samuel Liss, an analyst at Salomon
Brothers Inc.
   Its equity and balanced portfolios have performed in the
top 25% of a broad universe of managed funds over the past 10
years, and its bond portfolios are in the top 1%, according
to a recent report by Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Michael Crowe, a principal in the firm's San Francisco
office, will assume Mr. Lehrman's duties, including marketing
Morgan Stanley's mutual funds, a spokesman said. The firm
hasn't filled the post of chief operating officer.
   For Mr. Lehrman, the move is the latest twist in a career
that included a stint in the public eye in a failed New York
gubernatorial bid against Mario Cuomo in 1982. Before aiming
his sights on politics, Mr. Lehrman was president of
drugstore chain Rite Aid Corp.
   In his new post, Mr. Lehrman will head Bell Mueller Cannon
Inc., a Washington-based financial forecasting firm that will
be renamed Lehrman Bell Mueller Cannon. The two-year-old firm
provides monthly economic forecasts and political analysis to
banks, brokerage firms, money managers and corporations.
   In an interview, Mr. Lehrman said it would take five years
to build the venture into a major firm. Why leave Morgan
Stanley when it's thriving? "My greatest joy has been
pioneering new ideas or new businesses or new products," he
said.
   Morgan Stanley recently announced a change in top
management following the retirement, effective Jan. 1, of
Chairman S. Parker Gilbert. Among other moves, Richard Fisher
is slated to become chairman and Robert Greenhill will be
president.
   The firm's asset-management unit hasn't been the only
division facing personnel shifts lately. The firm recently
reassigned Will Osborne to head its equity capital-markets
office in London, replacing Amir Eilon, who will focus on
"strategic equity projects," according to an internal Morgan
Stanley memo.
   Vikram Pandit will replace Mr. Osborne as head of New York
Equity Capital Markets, and two other London-based equity
professionals have been reassigned following the
disappointing performance of two recent stock offerings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Mixed Methods?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   When tackling tough problems
   Our business-school profs
   Get solutions precisely right,
   By using the latest economic techniques,
   Plus a little old-fashioned hindsight.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Alternative
                                                                                                       

   Maybe if we'd think twice, we wouldn't need a second
opinion.
   -- Gil Stern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reports of Cracks
   In Ford Cars Spurs
   New Investigation
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal highway-safety agency reopened an
investigation into the alleged cracking of floors in
1979-1983 Mustangs and Capris after receiving dozens of
complaints, including one from a motorist whose car crashed
after he fell through the floorboards and lost control of the
vehicle.
   The low-level inquiry by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration was reopened this spring and covers 1.2
million Ford Motor Co. cars. The agency had closed a similar
investigation in April 1987 after concluding that "although
this problem is a significant driver irritant and expensive
to correct, the alleged floor pan cracking on the subject
vehicles doesn't appear to represent a safety hazard."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the time, no accidents or injuries had been reported as
a result of cracking pans, the steel plate that is under the
cars. But since the closing of the investigation, the Center
for Auto Safety, a consumer watchdog group, has received 150
complaints, including reports of two serious accidents.
Earlier this year, it turned the complaints over to the
federal highway-safety agency, asking it to reopen its
investigation.
   Ford said it was "cooperating fully with {the agency} in
its investigation" but had no other comment on the action.
   One accident, according to the Center for Auto Safety,
involved a Los Angeles man who said he was seriously injured
in 1987 when he fell through the floor of his 1983 Mustang,
causing the vehicle to crash. In November 1987, the group
said, a 1980 Mustang split in half along a floor crack behind
the front seats after hitting a fence post.
   A spokesman for the highway-safety agency said it has
received a total of 554 complaints about the cars, including
170 since it closed its 1987 investigation. Most of the new
complaints were provided by the Center for Auto Safety.
   The consumer group has asked the agency to order a recall
of the vehicles before more drivers "slip through the
cracks." Government-ordered recalls are unusual; the federal
agency generally prefers to negotiate a voluntary recall by
the auto companies if needed. The new inquiry is a
preliminary evaluation, the lowest of the agency's three
levels of investigations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Ideology of Equality
   Only Fuels Racism
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Hodding Carter III's attempt ("They Love Old Glory Now --
They Reviled It Back Then," Viewpoint, June 21) to castigate
the opposition by resorting to an ideology of equality that
has fueled racism is as skewed as applying Justice Holmes's
clear-and-present-danger doctrine to flagburning. Just as Mr.
Carter's incomplete understanding of the flag as the "symbol"
of the Bill of Rights prevents him, as it does a majority of
the Supreme Court, from recognizing that the flag should be
protected as an instrument of sovereignty, his egalitarianism
prevents him from understanding that the price of imposing
"equality" on the states was the loss of their freedom of
self-determination.
   Gordon D. Payne
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Madison, Wis.
   ---
   I say three cheers for someone with guts and clear
thinking. I hope this column helped persuade the cowards and
the wishy-washy, muddled-thinking congressmen and senators to
stand up and be counted among those who oppose this
amendment. Opposing this amendment sends a message to those
who would tamper with, and whittle away, our rights under our
glorious Constitution, and will help courageous lawmakers be
re-elected.
   Henry scheier
   Boca Raton, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Warnings on Aspirin
   For Pregnant Women
   Made Stricter by FDA
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Food and Drug Administration will
require over-the-counter aspirin products to carry stricter
warnings advising women in the last three months of pregnancy
against using the products unless directed by a physician.
   The agency said the stronger warning on labels is being
required because aspirin can affect fetal circulation and
uterine contraction, which can harm the baby and cause
problems during delivery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aspirin products now carry a general warning that says:
"As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby,
seek the advice of a health professional before using this
product."
   Manufacturers have one year to add the stronger warning to
all oral and rectal over-the-counter products containing
aspirin, the FDA said.
   The warning reads: "It is especially important not to use
aspirin during the last three months of pregnancy unless
specifically directed to do so by a doctor because it may
cause problems in the newborn child or complications during
delivery."
   An advisory panel of medical experts had recommended the
stronger warning. A similar, third-trimester pregnancy
warning is already required on nonprescription products with
the pain-reliever ibuprofen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                            Week Ended:
                                         Jun 29,   Jun 22,
                                          1990      1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a ..... 8.17      8.16
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) ... 8.27      8.24
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b .......... 8.28      8.28
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ............... 8.25      8.23
   Treasury bills (one year)-c .......... 8.13      8.14
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ........ 8.42      8.44
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ......... 8.45      8.47
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c .......... 8.51      8.52
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ........... 8.49      8.49
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, June 27,1990
and Wednesday, June 20, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Mobile Guide: Celtic Touch on the Coast of Spain
   ----
   By Nicholas King
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   La Coruna, Spain -- We buried him darkly at dead of night,
   The sods with our bayonets turning . . .
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I thought everyone knew this stirring poem about the
secret burial of Sir John Moore here in 1808 after a bitter
espisode of the Napoleonic wars.
   But no. My well-educated friend had never heard of it. We
were driving toward this weatherbeaten port on the
northwestern coast of Spain, through the soft, stony hills of
Galicia, where the fields are small, and the vineyards too,
and a farmer may own no more than a cow or a couple of sheep.
   It rains here more than in any other place on the
peninsula. The people are of Celtic origin and speak their
own Iberian language, Gallego or Galician, which is even
taught in schools and spoken on a special television channel.
Like other Celts, they have the bagpipe. Theirs is small,
with a characteristic remote, mournful sound.
   Moore's body was later removed from its rude grave to a
serene Roman sarcophagus now standing in the middle of a
walled garden that overlooks the port at the foot of the
Ciudad Vieja. Inscribed on one side is the poem itself, which
was written by Charles Wolfe. On the other is a pronouncement
of the Duke of Wellington as to the matchless bravery of
Spanish soldiers. Moore's army and his Spanish allies had
been caught in the snowy mountain passes inland and all but
cut to pieces by the French cavalry.
   The garden is shrouded by elms and plane trees, date palms
and spidery hibiscus. Over the wall and down past the
barracks and fortifications, the harbor sweeps toward a Roman
lighthouse. From here the Invincible Armada set sail for
England in 1588, the priests chanting Mass and the incense
billowing as the soldiers dropped to their knees on the
galleon decks.
   La Coruna is a big fishing port thick with ocean-going
trawlers, which is why The Correo Gallego carries a headline,
otherwise odd in a local paper, about a dispute over
territorial waters off southwest Africa. Galicians (Gallegos)
are famous in Spain for being tough and crafty. Francisco
Franco was a Gallego, and so were many Spanish immigrants to
America in the past century.
   Around the corner from the Ciudad Vieja, with its little
palaces and its twisted, Romanesque church, rise the
apartment houses of the modern town, shuttered in glass
miradors that are the passive solar answer to the fierce
climate of the Bay of Biscay. We take the coast road to turn
the corner of the continent, but soon it turns into a
potholed asphalt track threading along and around the black
highlands, shadowed by pine and eucalyptus. We went inland,
in order to head roundabout for Cape Finisterre (literally
land's end), the westernmost point of Europe.
   We reached the coast again south of the cape itself and
navigated a gale-beaten country. Little patches of bright
grass bearded with golden broom lay below solemn,
druidic-looking rocks. From time to time on the other side of
the road arcs of brilliant white beach flowed along the
shallows of cobalt and aquamarine.
   Mile after mile the car followed the banks of the "rias,"
as the surging inlets are called. Once or twice there was a
village with a bus stop, a car or two, and, at Muros, a town
market. Far out on the flats left by the tide, men and women
worked for clams with rakes and baskets.
   Now mountains rose along the coast, as the cape swung into
view, with white specks of houses below a smooth pale peak,
pale green and lavender in the stormy sun, and black in the
storms themselves. There were no sailboats, no pleasure craft
in the harbors, no tennis courts dug into the hills, no golf
courses, no swimming pools, no beach umbrellas, and not a
summer hotel angled to catch, or shelter from, the Atlantic
winds.
   Far inland, in the countryside near Santiago de
Compostela, there is plenty of building and bustle, reminding
the traveller of prosperous and "European" Spain.
   And along the roads, in a constant if unrealized process
of improvement and enlargement, every fifth or sixth car, it
seems, carries a rooftop sign signifying that yet another
person is learning to drive.
   ---
   Mr. King is director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Berlin Bourse
   Seeks to Seize
   Former Glory
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP DRSDY G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST BERLIN -- A day after Germany's monetary and economic
merger, the once-sleepy Berlin stock exchange was gripped
with high hopes of once again being a major player in
European finance.
   The floor opened with ringing bells and shouting brokers
as buy orders were rushed into the circular trading area. By
midmorning, most brokers were registering above-average
volume as investors bought pieces of a unified German
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bonds were firming nicely, and the DAX German stock index
was up about 1.8% from Friday. A hot local stock was Berliner
Kindl Braueri AG, a big West Berlin brewer with vast plots of
city real estate on its books.
   "For Day-X plus one, this is a great beginning," said
Bernd Bollhof, a floor trader for Dresdner Bank AG. "Everyone
is relieved that all went so smoothly Sunday. Last week,
there were still many pessimists who thought something would
go wrong."
   But East German consumers didn't storm into Western shops,
and inflation didn't rise overnight. And, in the words of
Bonn Finance Minister Theo Waigel, "Everything is under
control."
   So far, anyway. But pessimists are a rare breed at the
Berlin bourse since the Berlin Wall burst open Nov. 9. The
Berlin exchange has long been a second-tier player in the
backwater of a West German financial system dominated by the
Frankfurt banking capital. Among West Germany's eight stock
exchanges, West Berlin has been fighting a seesaw battle with
the Stuttgart exchange for fifth place in trading volume.
   With West Germany's banks set on remaining centered in
Frankfurt, the Berlin exchange is unlikely to ever regain the
leading position held at the turn of the century, when major
banks and corporations were still based in Berlin.
   Yet Berlin wants a lot of that business back. And if it
can't overtake Frankfurt, the Berlin stock exchange is out to
regain at least some of its old prominence and prestige.
   Rid of the wall and four decades of isolation, Berlin is a
thriving metropolis with a new lease on life. The effect on
the exchange has been infectious after four irksome decades
of living in the shadow of Frankfurt. Sometimes called
"Bankfurt," the financial capital is a fraction of Berlin's
size and has little worldly luster. But it still controls 75%
of West German securities trading and treats the smaller
German exchanges more or less like branch offices.
   Frankfurt lists 850 stocks to the Berlin exchange's 400,
which include most West German blue chips. But this could
soon change as more international interest focuses on the
reunified city, particularly if it is restored as Germany's
capital. Moreover, the Treuhandanstalt public trust set up by
the East German government to privatize 8,000 state-owned
East German companies is only just across town.
   "Of those, we expect that between 500 and 600 {companies}
will eventually be floated in public offering. And we already
have indications that they will be listed here, giving us a
real chance to build," said Wilfried G. Huebscher, director
of the West Berlin exchange.
   The big German banks are competing intensively to be the
first one to bring an East German company public; the
prestige benefit would be priceless. The exchange director
said he believes Dresdner Bank already has two candidates.
"And you have to assume that if Dresdner has two, Deutsche
Bank must have at least two," he said. Directors of several
East German corporations have also come to the Berlin
exchange independently, asking for advice on public
offerings.
   "Berlin is their place, why would they want to go to
Frankfurt?" said the exchange's Mr. Huebscher, who added that
he isn't at all happy about plans by the Frankfurt-based
Association of German Stock Exchanges to help erect a new
stock exchange in Leipzig. "There is a small disagreement on
that point," he said. "Our aim is to strengthen Berlin."
   The West German government agrees. In a Sunday newspaper
interview, Economics Minister Helmut Haussmann said he would
like to see East and West German joint ventures to be listed
on the Berlin stock exchange. "I don't consider this to be
utopia," he asserted.
   Even without official endorsements, Berlin is a likely
candidate to become the primary exchange for East German
share offerings. The exchange already is attracting new
members interested in stocking up their German growth fund
portfolios. Bourse officials speak confidently of expanding
their cramped office facilities to accomodate new resident
banks.
   Six financial institutions have joined the exchange's
membership roster since November, bringing the number of
members to 56. The new arrivals include Nomura Securities
Ltd. of Japan and Italy's IMI Bank group. The exchange also
has been contacted by several big Japanese investment groups,
as well as France's Compagnie Financiere de Paribas and
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. from the U.S.
   "We were always neglected out here. Now we're seeing the
avalanche effect," said Ursula Wiegand, the exchange's public
relations official.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Republic Waste Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RWIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Republic Waste Industries Inc. said it
completed the acquisition of Alliance Holding Corp. of Ohio.
Terms weren't disclosed. Alliance, through a subsidiary,
provides bonding and general liability insurance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Congress Is Crossroads for Soviet Communists
   ---
   Gorbachev, in Speech,
   Defends Perestroika,
   Calls for Party Unity
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev faced down
mounting criticism from left and right with a resounding
defense of his policies and a call for unity at the opening
of the Soviet Communist Party Congress.
   He defied the conservative charge that perestroika, or
restructuring, is to blame for the Soviet Union's social and
economic crises, calling it "nonsense." The situation
"dictates the imperative need to accelerate and radicalize
economic reform," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Either society goes along the road of the deep
transformations that have begun . . . or anti-perestroika
forces will get the upper hand, and then dark times are in
store for the country and the people."
   Perestroika and glasnost, or openness, have guided the
country's changes since Mr. Gorbachev unveiled the twin
policies at the last nationwide party meeting in 1986. At
first, they sparked sudden and radical improvements in the
intellectual and economic life of the country. But in the
past year, people have grown almost blase about glasnost, and
Mr. Gorbachev himself admitted that perestroika hadn't
averted a sharp economic decline.
   But Mr. Gorbachev said the leadership was learning from
its mistakes. "It is above all essential to bear in mind the
incompleteness of perestroika itself," he said. "We are in a
transitional period in which the dismantling of the old
system -- and still less the building of the new one -- has
not been completed."
   The 4,700 delegates to this week's congress are deeply
divided over how the party can keep its power and public
support from eroding completely. Radical reformers have
threatened to split off if the congress doesn't change the
party fundamentally. Rightists demand a return to rigid
definitions of communism and some are even calling for the
resignation of Mr. Gorbachev as party head. Even before Mr.
Gorbachev spoke, a delegate from the Magadan region in
Siberia took the floor and demanded the Central Committee and
Politburo resign.
   Mr. Gorbachev urged the delegates to work for unity and
abandon "petty passions." He said that a split would
strengthen other political forces such as nationalism, as
happened in the Baltics. He didn't mention the Baltic
independence movements specifically, but called for the
speedy creation of a new all-union treaty that would enable
the Soviet Union's 15 republics to become sovereign states
and still remain united.
   Mr. Gorbachev has managed to stay in power and keep
divisiveness in bounds through a savvy playing off of right
against left. His two-hour speech yesterday was an artful
answer to the simmering anxieties of both sides. He called
for more and deeper reforms, including removing the party
from a management role in government and industry, a clear
nod to left and centrist members. At the same time, he
rejected a redesign of the party leadership that would
eliminate the all-powerful Politburo, saying the basic
structure should remain as it has been for decades.
   Agitated members had demanded a complete accounting from
party leaders of what they had done in the past five years to
bring the nation to such a crisis. Mr. Gorbachev acknowledged
that he had made mistakes in carrying out his policies. But
he also pointed the finger at some of his closest allies and
harshest critics.
   Mr. Gorbachev lashed out at Prime Minister Nikolai
Ryzhkov's most recent economic reform plan for the
"absurdity" of making price increases the first step,
although he himself surely signed off on the program at the
time. Then he took a swipe at conservative Politburo members
for sabotaging crucial agricultural reform for their own
ends.
   He also took on hard-liners, including military leaders,
who have accused him of giving in to the West by withdrawing
forces from Eastern Europe. "Deep changes are taking place in
Eastern Europe. Some say it is a collapse of socialism, but
we counter: What socialism? A variety of the Stalinist
authoritarian and bureaucratic system that we ourselves have
abandoned."
   The very ideology of Soviet socialism must change, Mr.
Gorbachev said, tackling one of the most emotionally
provocative themes of the meeting. The party, as he described
it, is "emphatically against dogmatic and pedantic reasoning
and in favor of a consistently creative approach. . . . " The
party's purpose, he said, is "humane and democratic
socialism."
   (See related story: "Factional Struggle May Be Played Out
Behind the Scenes" -- WSJ July 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Jackpot Enterprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   J BRST
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   JACKPOT ENTERPRISES Inc. raised the quarterly to eight
cents from seven cents and declared a 5% stock dividend, both
payable July 31 to stock of record July 17. The Las Vegas,
Nev., operator of slot machines said the shares distributed
as a stock dividend will not receive the cash dividend. The
stock dividend will reduce the conversion price of Jackpot's
$34.5 million of 8.75% convertible subordinated debentures
due May 1, 2014, to $14.74 a share from $15.14 effective July
17. Separately, Bristol Holdings Inc., also of Las Vegas,
authorized a special dividend of one Jackpot common share for
every 200 shares of Bristol common stock, payable July 31 to
stock of record July 18. The dividend is expected to involve
about 17,000 Jackpot shares, which will reduce Bristol's
stake in Jackpot to about 4.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Schering-Plough Sells Line
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADISON, N.J. -- Schering-Plough Corp. said it completed
the sale of its Maybelline cosmetics business for $300
million to Maybelline Holdings Inc., a newly created
affiliate of Wasserstein Perella Partners L.P.
   The Wasserstein group agreed to the cash purchase a month
ago, after a similar accord with another group collapsed. The
first group was led by Playtex Family Products Corp. and
Playtex and Maybelline management. Schering put the unit up
for sale in December, saying it wanted to concentrate on
pharmaceuticals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Maybelline is a leading maker and marketer of color
cosmetics in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and other world
markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hallwood Group Unit
   Forms Partnership,
   Hallwood Realty
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWG EFG
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Hallwood Realty Corp. said it has created a new
partnership, Hallwood Realty Partners L.P., which will
exchange limited partner interests for outstanding limited
partner interests in 11 partnerships now sponsored by Equitec
Financial Group Inc.
   The exchange, said company officials, will be contingent
on the approval of a majority of the interests held by
investors in each partnership. The newly issued interests are
to be listed on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol
HRY.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Equitec, said Hallwood officials, which recently defaulted
on significant debt obligations, believes the exchange is in
the best interests of its investors. Equitec will withdraw as
general partner once the exchange is completed, leaving
Hallwood Realty Partners as indirect owner of 27 properties
appraised at $534.7 million.
   Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. is acting as dealer-manager of
the exchange, which is scheduled to expire at 5 p.m. Aug. 24.
   Hallwood Realty Corp. is a subsidiary of The Hallwood
Group Inc., which engages in a range of merchant-banking
services and specializes in corporate rescue financing. It is
an investor in real estate, oil and gas, specialty
restaurants, retailing and textiles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Olympia &amp; York
   And San Francisco
   Set Renewal Pact
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd. reached
an agreement with the city of San Francisco allowing a
long-stalled $2 billion urban renewal project to begin as
early as next summer.
   The agreement, which still faces a design review by city
planners, appears to end a 37-year squabble over how the
87-acre, city-owned tract south of historic Market Street
should be revitalized. Olympia &amp; York was chosen 10 years ago
as designer and developer. Talks between the city and Olympia
&amp; York started and failed several times over the decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the first mega-project approved since October's
earthquake, the development is seen as a great boost to San
Francisco's business fortunes and public image.
   Critical to resolving the impasse over the Yerba Buena
Gardens project were trade-offs that call for the
Toronto-based developer to fund up front about $110 million
in public improvements, including a huge park and esplanade,
within the redevelopment area. In exchange, the city has
granted Olympia &amp; York permission to build three high-rise
office buildings, comprising about 1.6 million square feet,
under a flexible schedule extending until the end of 1999.
   The approval comes at a time of flat demand in the city's
commerical office-space market, but "the key is the
flexibility the agreement gives us," said Albert Reichmann,
Olympia &amp; York's chairman, in an interview.
   Thus, while the market here "is not so strong that I would
start a speculative building now," Olympia &amp; York will have
ample time to find "a sizable tenant" to anchor the first of
its high-rises prior to beginning construction, Mr. Reichmann
said. The developer hopes to break ground on the first of
those buildings in 1993.
   The high-rise agreement is also important in that it
essentially grants Olympia &amp; York an exemption from a
recently adopted citizens initiative that put a cap of
400,000 square feet a year on new commercial projects.
   But Olympia &amp; York was forced to concede ground in other
areas. It essentially "decommercialized" two large blocks of
the development, abandoning plans for a privately operated
amusement park; it also greatly scaled down an original
proposal that would have allowed it to construct about
250,000 square feet of retail space in the project. Instead,
most of those areas will now be dedicated to "public places,"
including a children's park and museum, said Sandy Frucher,
an Olympia &amp; York executive vice president.
   Mr. Reichmann gave Mayor Art Agnos a check for $4.2
million, representing a "good faith payment" toward the $110
million total that will allow the city to begin planning and
building the the project's public amenities. The core of
those components, a 10-acre public park, will be built atop
the roof of an addition to the city's Moscone Civic Center.
That addition, currently under construction, is expected to
be completed next summer, allowing park construction to begin
then, city officials said.
   Olympia &amp; York is a closely held real estate development
concern; its other current projects include the
12-million-square-foot Canary Wharf office space complex in
London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Submits Plan
   For Paying Investors
   In Wang-Lee Case
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said
it filed a plan in federal court for investors to receive
more than $19 million in profits allegedly obtained by
Stephen Sui-Kuan Wang Jr. and Chwan Hong Lee through insider
trading.
   In a 1988 complaint, the SEC charged Messrs. Wang and Lee
with violating insider-trading laws by trading in securities
of at least 25 companies. The suit alleged that Mr. Wang
obtained the nonpublic information while employed as an
analyst at New York-based Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., a unit of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the terms of a settlement of insider-trading charges
with the two men, the SEC said it obtained full disgorgement
of their allegedly illegal trading profits of more than $19
million.
   The SEC's proposed plan calls for the money to be
distributed to investors who sold securities in the companies
named in the insider-trading suit on the same day or days
that Messrs. Wang and Lee purchased the securities.
   The settlement also called for Mr. Lee to pay a fine of
$1,503,977, plus $4,560,472 in taxes owed from his allegedly
illegal trading activity, the SEC said. The commission said
Mr. Lee is now a fugitive from an indictment relating to the
illegal activities alleged in the SEC suit.
   Mr. Wang earlier plead guilty to three felony charges
involving securities trading related to his employment at
Morgan Stanley. He was sentenced to eight months in prison
and has completed his sentence, the agency said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Suit in New York to Test Libel Protection
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR FREST MCD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A libel suit involving a letter to the editor of a
scientific journal has emerged as a test case of whether New
York state, home to many of the nation's media companies,
will make statements of opinion immune from defamation suits.
   The state's highest court dismissed a libel suit filed by
Immuno AG concerning the letter to the editor. But the U.S.
Supreme Court threw out the decision last week and ordered
the state court to reconsider the case in light of its recent
ruling in Milkovich vs. Lorain Journal Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Milkovich, the Supreme Court ruled that under the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution there is no special
immunity from libel suits based on expressions of opinion.
But that doesn't prevent individual states' courts from
deciding that their own state constitutions implicitly offer
such immunity.
   Courts in 36 states and the District of Columbia had ruled
that statements of opinion can't form the basis of libel
lawsuits, but in many instances it was unclear whether such
rulings were based on federal or state constitutional law.
The U.S. Supreme Court ruling will now force many of those
courts to explicitly determine whether or not state
constitutions afford such protection.
   The current case arose from a letter published in the
December 1983 issue of the Journal of Medical Primatology
that criticized a plan by Immuno to set up a facility in
Sierra Leone to breed chimpanzees to use for the testing of
medical products. The letter was written by Shirley McGreal,
head of the International Primate Protection League, an
organization concerned with the welfare of primates. Immuno,
a multinational concern based in Vienna that manufactures
products derived from blood plasma, alleged that the letter
was false and defamatory. The only remaining defendant in the
case is Jan Moor-Jankowski, co-founder and editor of the
publication.
   The stakes in the Immuno case are particularly high
because so many media companies are based in New York. In
addition, media defense lawyers said the New York court is
influential in libel law and its decision could affect how
other states resolve the issue.
   Robert G. Sugarman of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, an attorney
for Dr. Moor-Jankowski, said he believes the New York
Constitution does provide protection from libel suits based
on opinions. He said he will ask the court to reaffirm its
earlier ruling as it previously determined that the facts
that formed the basis for the opinions in the letter were
true.
   But Raymond S. Fersko of Tanner Propp Fersko &amp; Sterner, an
attorney for Immuno, disagreed. He said: "I don't think
there's a basis for {stating} that what the framers of the
New York state Constitution had in mind was expanding First
Amendment protections in libel cases in a situation like
this."
   ---
   TEENAGE MUTANT Ninja Turtles spawn court battle over
licensing.
   A New York state court in Long Island will hear arguments
Thursday on whether to dismiss a $281 million lawsuit against
the licensing agent and creators of the Turtles, comic-book
characters who are the basis for an animated television
series and movie.
   The characters have earned millions of dollars from
manufacturers that hold licensing agreements to put them on
everything from posters to frozen pizzas. They also appear as
action-figure toys and on T-shirts. The characters were
created by Peter Laird and Kevin Eastman, partners in Mirage
Studios, of Northampton, Mass. The licensing agent is Mark
Freedman, president of Surge Licensing Inc., Jericho, N.Y.
   The suit was filed by Licensing Development Group Inc., a
New York company formed in 1987 to find products and license
them for manufacturing. It contends that Mr. Freedman
deceived it by secretly acquiring and exploiting the
licensing rights to the Turtles while he was serving as the
company's president and chief executive officer.
   The suit alleges that Mr. Freedman should have been
seeking the licensing right on behalf of Licensing
Development Group, and that his actions breached his
fiduciary duty to the company. It also contends that Messrs.
Laird and Eastman induced him to violate his fiduciary
responsibilities. Playmate Toys Inc., a La Mirada, Calif.,
company that makes Ninja Turtle toys, also is named as a
defendant.
   Jerome Halperin, a New York attorney for Mr. Freedman,
said he has asked the court to dismiss the suit. "It has no
merit either in law or fact," he said. "It's a worthless
lawsuit."
   Frederick U. Fierst, an attorney in Northampton for
Messrs. Laird and Eastman, said the allegations are totally
without foundation. Richard Sallis, a senior vice president
of Playmate Toys, said he had never heard of LDG and didn't
know anything about the lawsuit.
   ---
   SUIT AGAINST TRUMP over hiring of construction workers
goes to trial.
   A class-action lawsuit on behalf of construction workers
went to trial in federal court in Manhattan. The suit alleges
that Donald Trump and others conspired to cheat the union's
pension and welfare funds by hiring immigrants without work
papers off the books and under-reporting the number of
employees on the job. The workers were hired for demolition
work to make room for the construction of the Trump Tower in
1980.
   Milton S. Gould, of Shea &amp; Gould, an attorney for Mr.
Trump and Equitable Life Assurance Society, which was a
partner in the project, said Mr. Trump was sued only "because
they needed somebody with deep pockets."
   "There will be no proof that {Mr. Trump or Equitable}
dictated, suggested, or even hinted at who should or should
not be listed on any reports" of workers at the job site, Mr.
Gould said in his opening statement. "There is no proof that
{they} committed any act which furthered a breach of trust"
involving the funds.
   Mr. Gould said the labor agreement under which the
demolition work was being done was between a contractor and
the workers. He said Mr. Trump had nothing to do with that
agreement.
   The lawsuit, filed in 1983, seeks damages of $1 million.
The nonjury trial is being heard by federal Judge Charles
Stewart.
   ---
   BANKRUPTCY JUDGE reluctant to approve contempt charges
against Kuhn.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Prudence B. Abram, in New York, said
she was reluctant to hold Bowie Kuhn and his lawyers in
contempt for proceeding with a suit against former partners
of Mr. Kuhn's now-defunct law firm, Myerson &amp; Kuhn. But the
judge said she was concerned that the firm's bankruptcy
proceeding "go forward with some degree of orderliness."
   Myerson &amp; Kuhn's bankruptcy lawyers asked Judge Abram to
hold Mr. Kuhn and his law firm in contempt for allegedly
violating a restraining order that prohibited Mr. Kuhn and
his lawyers from "commencing, continuing or prosecuting
litigation" against former partners of the now-defunct firm.
Mr. Kuhn's lawyers at Kelley Drye &amp; Warren say that neither
they nor Mr. Kuhn have violated the order.
   Marine Midland Bank had sued Mr. Kuhn, the former baseball
commissioner, seeking to recover about $3 million in debt
that he had personally guaranteed for the firm. Mr. Kuhn, in
turn, sued his former partners for their share of the debt.
   In a hearing about the contempt motion, Judge Abram
appeared impatient with Mr. Kuhn's lawyers and said "it is
possible for some people to turn anything into a three-ring
circus." But she said her main concern was to ensure that all
the parties understood what actions were barred by her
restraining order. The judge said she would take the contempt
motion "under advisement."
   Richard Cohen, who represents Myerson &amp; Kuhn in the
bankruptcy proceeding, said in an affidavit filed last week
that Mr. Kuhn's action against the partners had cost Myerson
&amp; Kuhn more than $10,000 in legal fees that he should now
reimburse.
   ---
   HEAVYWEIGHT BOXING fight gets set for round one in court.
   James "Buster" Douglas, the heavyweight boxing champ,
claims promoter Don King sided with Mr. Douglas's opponent,
Mike Tyson, in their title fight last February. Thus, Mr.
Douglas says, he can drop out of his contract with Mr. King
and claim at least $10 million in monetary damages to boot.
   Mr. King, who has promotion contracts with both Mr.
Douglas and Mr. Tyson, denies any unfair dealings and seeks
at least $25 million in damages from Mr. Douglas for reneging
on their deal. The bout is set to begin today in federal
court in New York.
   ---
   COUDERT BROTHERS expands into Thailand.
   The New York law firm has formed an affiliation with
Chandler &amp; Thong-Ek, an 18-lawyer firm in Bangkok. Chandler
lawyers will act as local counsel for Coudert clients on
matters requiring knowledge of Thai law, and Coudert lawyers
will assist the Thai law firm. With 370 lawyers, Coudert has
offices in Tokyo, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore and
Sidney.
   James B. Sitrick, Coudert's chairman, says the law firm
decided to form the affiliation because the partners believe
Thailand is on the verge of a business boom.
   He said the law firm represents American, Japanense,
French and German companies who do business in Thailand.
   ---
   LEAVING MCDONALD'S: Donald P. Horwitz, executive
vice-president for law and secretary of McDonald's Corp., is
to leave the food-service giant to become a partner at
Sonnenschein Nath &amp; Rosenthal, Chicago. Mr. Horwitz will
handle corporate and franchise matters at the 270-lawyer
firm, which has been McDonald's principal outside counsel for
20 years. Mr. Horwitz, who was the Oak Brook, Ill., concern's
chief legal officer for 18 years, will remain as a director
of McDonald's.
   ---
   Wade Lambert and Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saks's Earnings Slumped in First Half,
   Memo by Retailer's New Owners Shows
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A first-half earnings slump at Saks Fifth
Avenue may signal bad news for an Arab-led investment group
that completed its $1.6 billion purchase of the retailer
yesterday.
   The earnings news is disclosed in "Project Windows," a
confidential bank-financing memorandum drafted by Saks's new
owners, Investcorp International Inc. Investcorp acquired
Saks from B.A.T Industries PLC of Britain. About half the
purchase price was provided by Investcorp; banks lent the
rest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank memo also provides a detailed look at
Investcorp's five-year strategy for Saks, one of America's
most prestigious department stores. According to the memo,
Investcorp plans to slash capital spending more than 50%,
opening just one new store from 1991 to 1995. Investcorp is
counting on tax breaks, job cutbacks and other
belt-tightening measures to help boost profitability.
   Currently, Saks isn't performing as well as Investcorp had
expected. The bank memo shows that Saks's trading profit --
or net income plus interest expense, taxes and amortization
-- totaled $26.4 million for 1990's first half. That's 17%
below the levels that Saks management had predicted last
spring, and 20% below the level that Investcorp had forecast
when it bid for Saks.
   Saks's profit will have to pick up fast if Project Windows
is to have much chance of succeeding. Investcorp is telling
bankers that it expects Saks to post a $73.5 million trading
profit for 1990's second half, and $147 million in trading
profit for all 1991. If that 1991 estimate is met, it would
represent a more than 50% leap in trading profit from 1990's
expected level, after five years of stagnant earnings at the
company. Last year, trading profit amounted to $110.5
million.
   Bankers say Saks should get a boost from an expansion of
its flagship New York store that is coming on stream this
year, as well as a relocation this year of its Chicago store
to larger quarters.
   After this year's growth, though, Investcorp has budgeted
for only minimal expansion. Capital spending is expected to
decline to $23 million in 1995 from a peak of $97 million
this year. Investcorp predicts that Saks will have 49 stores
open at the end of 1995, just one more than it currently
operates.
   Investcorp does identify several ways it thinks it can
improve Saks's profitability. "We have reached the conclusion
that the company's non-store staff can be reduced
significantly," Investcorp says in its bank memo. It outlines
plans for cutting 270 people from Saks's headquarters staff
of 1,154.
   Those cutbacks had drawn protests from top Saks managers
when they first were reported by The Wall Street Journal in
May. At that time, Investcorp had said the cutbacks were only
a possible option.
   Robert Glaser, a member of Investcorp's management
committee, said yesterday that Saks managers will report back
by September on what job cuts they think are appropriate.
"Logic will prevail," Mr. Glaser said. "We aren't going to
tell them what they must do."
   The tone of the bank memo, however, suggests that
Investcorp doesn't expect to give much ground.
   Investcorp also is telling bankers that it expects its
fastest growth to come from Saks's catalog business, Folio,
and from its Texas stores. Nationwide, Investcorp said it
thinks it can improve Saks's profitability by using a "more
optimal mix of full-time and part-time sales help."
   For the financial community, Investcorp's acquisition of
Saks already has paid off handsomely. The bank memo discloses
that the purchase price includes $115.6 million of
"transaction expenses." That's the term generally used to
refer to bank fees, lawyers' fees and any fee claimed by
Investcorp itself.
   Aside from Saks's operations, Investcorp is counting on
some sizable tax breaks to help make its acquisition pay off.
Saks's new owners are increasing the book value of Saks's
assets more than $700 million, which will allow the company
to take a much bigger depreciation deduction from its tax
bill. The write-ups include $365.4 million for Saks's fixed
assets, $80 million for its inventory and $200 million for
its trade name.
   Although such write-ups are a standard acquisition
maneuver, Investcorp in its bank memo is unusually blunt
about the consequences. "This will result in Saks paying only
minimal income taxes for the foreseeable future," Investcorp
told bankers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morton International
   Sells Stake in Venture
   To Japanese Partner
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MII J.TOR TKC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Morton International Inc. said it sold a 40%
stake in Toray Thiokol Ltd. to Toray Industries Inc., its
Japanese partner in the joint venture, for about $30 million.
   The maker of specialty chemicals and salt said it expects
to report a gain of about $13 million, or 27 cents a share,
on the sale. The move reduces Morton's holding in the venture
to 5%. Morton's ownership of the Toray Thiokol stake dates to
1969, when the U.S. company was known as Thiokol Corp.; the
company now known as Morton International was spun off by
Thiokol Corp. in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman said the sale followed an "economic and
strategic assessment" of the operation, and added that there
are "no current plans" to sell the remaining 5% holding.
   Morton also said it will record provisions totaling about
$7 million, reducing earnings about 15 cents a share, "for
additional anticipated costs related primarily to previously
divested operations and to last year's separation from
Thiokol Corp."
   Both the sale and establishment of the partly offsetting
provisions occurred in the fourth quarter ended Saturday;
Morton said its earlier earnings projection of $2.60 to $2.80
a share for the fiscal year just ended didn't include the
effect of either action. Taken together, the two moves would
have an indicated net effect of boosting earnings about 12
cents a share and moving the projection's range to
$2.72-$2.92 a share. The spokeswoman said the original range
for its operating results still holds, exclusive of the
unusual items.
   In the first nine months, net income was $98.5 million, or
$2.05 a share, on sales of $1.21 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR ADD FEXC BLL FCBN G
</CO>
<LP>
   MANAGERS AIM HIGHER than a decade ago. But they also want
out earlier.
   Half the top managers below chief executive at major
corporations aspire to be CEOs or own their own firms, up
from a third who shared the ambition 10 years ago. Yet a
survey by Korn/Ferry International and UCLA's Anderson
Graduate School of Management shows that 91% of the
executives would retire early, up from 82%; only 10% would
work as long as possible, down from 17%, and 63% would
continue working if financially independent, off from 68%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Today's executives are more ambitious and less satisfied
than their counterparts 10 years ago," says Lester Korn,
chairman of the recruiting company. Only 48% would choose the
same career if they were starting over, down from 60% who
would have walked the same path a decade ago. The executives,
moreover, contend they would like to spend more time with
their children and less time traveling and in school. Yet
they still maintain a grueling pace.
   The managers put in an average 56 hours at work each week,
up three hours in 10 years.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS JITTERS keep many executives close to desks this
summer.
   When Stephen Pistner took over as chief executive of
troubled Ames Department Stores, he told senior managers "I'm
going to ruin your summer but save your future." So neither
Mr. Pistner nor Douglas Ewing, a vice president who recalls
the incident, are planning breaks this year. Nor is Fred
Carr, First Executive Corp.'s CEO, who has been busily
defending the firm's investment strategy. He isn't "opposed"
to vacations, he says. He just doesn't have time.
   John Teets, chairman of Greyhound Dial Corp., is getting
away for 10 days in August to "count waves" in Maui. Still,
he'll take along a portable fax to keep in touch. But Jack
Snyder, a group vice president of Ball Corp., plans a
Minnesota canoe trip that will keep him out of contact with
his business world. Similarly, Peter Churm, CEO of Furon Co.,
has set a two-week fishing expedition in British Columbia,
arguing "no one person is essential to the operation of any
company, no matter what he says."
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVE COMP: Even those awarding pay aren't sure
they're doing right.
   Chairmen of compensation committees at major corporations
-- outside directors who generally run other companies --
overwhelmingly believe that "shareholder interests should be
linked to executive compensation." But a survey by Hay Group,
a consulting firm, finds only one-third of the chairmen
"strongly agree" their companies are doing a "good job" of
linking the two.
   They aren't necessarily compatible, suggests Ira Kay, a
Hay senior vice president. The compensation chairmen believe
that executives view base salary as the most important part
of their pay while shareholders may be served best by
long-term incentives that tie pay to stock values. Hay says
base pay accounts for 38% of a CEO's compensation; long-term
incentives bring in 27%. Bonuses are 22% and benefits 13%.
   Protecting share owners may require firms to put more
weight on the longterm component, Mr. Kay suggests.
                                                                                                       

   THE BITE IS BIGGER. Nearly half the employers who have
figured up the cost of retiree health coverage find their
liability is larger than anticipated, consultant Foster
Higgins says. Only 7% find the bill is less.
                                                                                                       

   ILLITERACY CREEPS IN. People who can't read or handle
numbers are hired for jobs that don't require the basic
skills. They become problems when given new duties, say the
Society for Human Resource Management and Commerce Clearing
House.
                                                                                                       

   COMMITMENT FADES. Only 43% of the workers with less than a
year on the job view their companies as "more than just a
place to work." And even that rate slips to 32% after five
years, Wyatt Co. says.
                                                                                                       

   SOMEBODY'S GOT a big office. The Building Owners and
Managers Association International says the average office
worker has 266 square feet of personal space.
                                                                                                       

   GUARDING HENHOUSE means making sure the fox doesn't apply.
   At Barton Protective Services Inc. in Louisiana, screening
begins on the telephone; applicants are put on hold to hear
the company's drug-free policy. Then come a questionnaire,
two interviews, credit checks, psychological and drug tests,
police screening and 32 hours of training. ExecuTech Inc.,
Denver, checks police files and puts applicants through 40
hours of school. Armed guards get special training. Epic
Security in New York says its screening process winnows out
24 of 25 applicants.
   But industry officials say problems persist, if at other
firms, not their own. "You've got convicted felons who work
as trusted security guards for months before their records
are discovered," asserts Ira Lipman, president of Guardsmark
Inc., Memphis. Robert Trotta of T&amp;M Security Service in New
York says he routinely sends applicant fingerprints to state
officials but sometimes never gets a response. So he hires
retired and off-duty law-enforcement officers.
   San Francisco Security Services complains California
limits how applicants can be questioned and tested.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: If they don't know? Nearly 60% of Harvard
undergraduates believe they don't know themselves well enough
to make career decisions, Rabb Planning Center says. . . .
But about housing: Summer interns seeking rentals in New York
reject the "status-conscious life style" of the past for
"more austere, socially conscious" dwellings, Spencer Realty
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MANAGING
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR XON GM CTA MO MRK HWP DIS GE JNJ
</CO>
<LP>
   When Summer Comes,
   Work on Friday Goes
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FRIDAYS IN SUMMER are increasingly relaxed.
   Some 3,000 workers at Fluor Corp. in Irvine, Calif.,
accumulate extra hours to earn alternate summer Fridays off.
At two other sites, Fluor employees tally nine-hour days
Monday to Thursday and leave early every Friday.
   "It provides our employees with a benefit without a
dramatic increase in costs," says Chuck Bradley, vice
president for human resources.
   At Thom McAn Shoe Co. in Worcester, Mass., 500 workers
squeeze in 40 hours before quitting at 1 p.m. on Fridays,
when casual dress is also permitted. "It's something that
makes {employees} feel good about the company," says Richard
E. Cramer, director of marketing.
   One-third of companies now adopt special schedules each
summer and more plan them, says a survey by the Society for
Human Resource Management. One-quarter of such programs are
less than two years old.
   Client needs often preclude abbreviated hours. But "if the
realities of your business mean you can close early, you
should offer this," advises Michael B. Jones, partner with
benefits consultants Hewitt Associates.
   Promus Cos., formerly Holiday Corp., has half days on
Fridays year-round at its Memphis, Tenn., headquarters, an
outgrowth of a popular summer program started in 1985. "If I
tried to take it away now," says Neil F. Barnhart, a Promus
vice president, "I'd have a real problem."
                                                                                                       

   Some Old Heroes Exit
   With Graduation March
                                                                                                       

   THE NEXT generation of managers doesn't think much of
tobacco makers, Exxon Corp. or Donald Trump.
   According to a University of Pittsburgh survey of 710
newly minted M.B.A.s, polled from a dozen schools nationwide,
they're also less interested in finance.
   Just 22% expect to specialize in finance, down from 32%
last year. Marketing and consulting each attracted 19%, while
investment banking (10%) and general management jobs (8%)
lagged in popularity. Men favored finance over consulting and
marketing, while women put marketing first and finance last.
   The graduates cited advancement opportunity as the most
important factor in job selection, followed by job
responsibility, work environment and location.
   Among the 82% of graduates who ruled out entire industries
in their job searches, 61% said they wouldn't work for
tobacco producers. Also on the blacklist were investment
banks (39%), defense contractors (35%), alcohol makers (25%),
direct investors in South Africa (24%), oil and gas companies
(19%) and foreign-owned companies (9%).
   Exxon, as Valdez villain, topped the list of least-admired
companies. General Motors, Drexel Burnham Lambert, Texas Air
and Philip Morris filled out the notoriety roster.
   Merck &amp; Co. ranked highest among most-admired companies,
followed by Hewlett-Packard, Walt Disney Co., General
Electric and Johnson &amp; Johnson.
   More than half of the M.B.A.s said they hoped eventually
to become entrepreneurs, so H. Ross Perot's selection as the
most-admired person was no surprise.
   But Mr. Trump, popular in previous surveys, "dropped
totally off the page this year," says Daniel R. Nagy, the
Pitt official who ran the poll.
                                                                                                       

   Resume-Snippet Book:
   Flip Side to Classifieds
                                                                                                       

   NUMBER 602 is an experienced bank manager, fluent in
Spanish, who seeks a $45,000 salary. Number 810, a veteran
executive of several big consumer products companies, sports
an M.B.A. and would settle for $175,000. Number 1017 knows
cosmetics inside out, boasts "excellent people skills" and
can be had for just $100,000.
   "The Directory of Available Executives," published by
outplacement firm Lee Hecht Harrison Inc., includes thumbnail
listings of hundreds of managers and others who have lost
their jobs over the past year. Quarterly editions of the
directory, with separate editions for the New York, Chicago
and Los Angeles areas, are being sent to hundreds of
recruiters and headhunters.
   "In the past, our job search counseling and support
process hadn't included any pro-active effort to make
candidates visible in the marketplace," says Penny Shaw,
senior vice president. "This is a way of doing that."
   The company got 300 inquiries in response to the April
mailing of its New York directory, resulting in a handful of
offers. Callers refer to job-seekers by code and are sent a
complete resume without cost, but candidates aren't told of
the requests. That keeps down expectations and anxiety. "In
following up, people can do more harm than good," says Cathy
Kennedy, the firm's marketing administrator.
   Drake Beam Morin Inc., a competing firm, is developing
listings of its clients, too, suggesting that the format may
become more common. Says Thomas E. Price, a Drake Beam vice
president: "It's one more way to help people identify
opportunities."
   Not everyone wants a listing. Some "want tight control
over their search" and don't want to publicize their
credentials too widely, Ms. Kennedy says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   HARDER WORK: Some 95% of managers toil more than 40 hours
a week and 66% feel more stress now than a decade ago, says a
survey of 1,300 managers by Priority Management Systems Inc.,
Bellevue, Wash. . . . Smart money? New York University's
Stern School of Business touts its $68 million new complex,
for which it broke ground last month, as "the most expensive
property in the history of management education."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former First Lady
   Of Philippines Gets
   Best Birthday Gift
   ---
   Imelda Marcos Is Acquitted
   In Racketeering Trial;
   Khashoggi Also Innocent
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In what Imelda Marcos called the best birthday
present she ever received, a federal jury acquitted the
former first lady of the Philippines of all charges in her
racketeering trial.
   The jury, on its fifth day of deliberations, which was
Mrs. Marcos's 61st birthday, also found Adnan Khashoggi
innocent of the two charges against him. Mrs. Marcos was
accused of using $200 million allegedly stolen from the
Philippine government to buy jewelry, artwork and real estate
in the U.S. Mr. Khashoggi, a Saudi businessman, was accused
of helping Mrs. Marcos hide her ownership of real estate in
Manhattan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Marcos's supporters, who maintained a vigil with her
at the federal courthouse in Manhattan, immediately claimed
the verdict as a win not only for Mrs. Marcos, but as a
vindication of her late husband, Ferdinand Marcos, who died
last September. Mr. and Mrs. Marcos came to Hawaii in 1986
after they were ousted from power in Manila.
   "It's her commitment and responsibility to bring back the
remains of President Marcos to the Philippines so that he can
be buried alongside his mother," said Enrique Fernando,
former chief justice of the Philippine supreme court under
President Marcos. Mr. Fernando, now a lawyer in Manila,
served as one of Mrs. Marcos's advisers during the trial.
   "She shouldn't have been tried here at all in the U.S.,"
Mr. Fernando added. "It is a vindication of the Marcoses."
   The lack of specific evidence pinning the alleged
racketeering, obstruction of justice and mail fraud on Mrs.
Marcos -- as well as doubts that a U.S. court was the proper
venue for the trial -- hurt the prosecutors' case, some
jurors said after the verdict. The jury of seven women and
five men also appeared sympathetic to the sight of a widow
dressed in mourning clothes. As Mrs. Marcos's supporters
loudly cheered after the verdict was read, one juror blew
kisses to the spectators in the crowded courtroom.
   The jury's forewoman, Catherine Balton, a retired
secretary, said, "There was no evidence. It was a poorly
prepared case."
   Another juror, Thomas O'Rourke, a mason from the Bronx,
said the prosecution "did a terrible, terrible job. They had
half truths and not the right witnesses. . . . It may have
been a conspiracy {to commit racketeering}, but it didn't
involve Mrs. Marcos."
   Mr. O'Rourke also said the trial "was on the wrong side of
the ocean. . . . We are not big brothers to the people
overseas."
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan, which prosecuted
the case, conceded in its closing arguments that its case
against Mrs. Marcos was largely circumstantial. But they
argued that the evidence and the testimony of 95 witnesses
proved that Mrs. Marcos -- a member of President Marcos's
cabinet and a powerful government figure in her own right --
must have known that money stolen from the Philippine
government was being used to make the purchases in the U.S.
   People familiar with the government's investigation said
the case was seriously hurt just weeks ago, however, when two
Filipinos considered potential key witnesses decided not to
testify. Apparently they feared that their families and
assets in the Philippines would be at risk if President
Corazon Aquino -- President Marcos's successor -- falls from
power.
   Carmen Pedrosa, the spokeswoman in New York for the Aquino
government, said Mrs. Marcos is still banned from returning
to the Philippines because the former first lady is
considered a threat to national security. Ms. Pedrosa said
that if the government changes its policy and allows her to
return, criminal charges will be filed against her involving
the alleged theft of government funds. She said the
Philippines hasn't brought its own criminal case against Mrs.
Marcos because it doesn't want to allow her return.
   Referring to allegations made during the trial that
President Marcos routinely collected kickbacks and misused
government funds, Ms. Pedrosa said, "What this trial has
established clearly is what the Marcos regime was all about
-- unbridled corruption and total abuse of power."
   Stanley Karnow, who won a Pulitzer prize this year for his
book "In Our Image: America's Empire in the Philippines,"
said, "I think this will be another blow to the Aquino
government," which so far has staved off several coup
attempts.
   Mr. Karnow said the verdict is likely to bolster Aquino's
opposition, some of whom have been represented at the trial.
For instance, Celia Laurel, the wife of Philippine Vice
President Salvador Laurel, who has become one of Mrs.
Aquino's most vocal critics, visited Mrs. Marcos at the
courthouse recently and greeted her with a kiss during a
break in the trial. And the half sister of Juan Ponce Enrile,
a Philippine senator accused of plotting to overthrow Mrs.
Aquino, also accompanied Mrs. Marcos and her entourage during
part of the trial.
   Mr. Karnow, who was in the Philippines a few months ago,
said, "You're beginning to see the notion that Marcos, after
all, wasn't so bad, at least in the early years {of his
20-year reign}. . . . Some people are saying, `To hell with
democracy, what we really want is prosperity.' "
   From the very start of the trial, Mrs. Marcos's lead
attorney, Gerry Spence, maintained that Mrs. Marcos was being
unfairly held accountable for the alleged wrongdoing of her
husband. Even supporters of the prosecution concede that the
government's task became much more difficult with the death
of Mr. Marcos, who also was charged.
   While Mrs. Marcos long served as her husband's
globetrotting emissary and was appointed by him to powerful
positions such as governor of Manila, President Marcos may
have long ago decided to insulate her from his decisions
regarding money. In 1976, when Mrs. Marcos was believed to be
in line to succeed her husband as president should he fall
ill, Mr. Marcos told reporters, "She works on culture, the
arts and social welfare and development. When these subjects
involve finances and national politics, she refers everything
to me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Through the Open Door
   ---
   What Is It Like to Be
   An Immigrant in America?
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Virtually every American knows where he comes "from."
There are native Americans, of course -- Indians, Eskimos,
Hawaiians -- but most of us came here from someplace else.
   The lore of American families typically includes an
immigration experience -- their own or that of a
not-too-distant relative. For many of us, though, such
memories are fading. Today, only about 6% of the population
is foreign-born, compared with about 9% 50 years ago and
nearly 15% a century ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the eve of Independence Day, we asked 13 prominent
naturalized Americans to write a few words about their
experiences as immigrants. Here are their replies:
                                                                                                       

   Madeleine Kunin
   Governor of Vermont
   Born: Zurich, Switzerland -- 1933
   Naturalized: New York City -- 1947
                                                                                                       

   On June 10, 1940, when we stepped off the SS Manhattan in
New York, we were greeted by our cousins, in all their
American finery. I well remember Irene Kahn, in her red hat,
red shoes and red handbag. I was dazzled. This is America.
   Irene took one look at my straight bob and bangs, and
declared in her heavily accented Bronx English: "Mudlin, this
is America. You gotta have coils. In America, all the goils
have coils."
   To be just like everybody else, that was what I wanted
most as an immigrant child. Cream cheese and jelly
sandwiches, on white bread with the crusts neatly cut off,
precisely like the sandwiches my friends' mothers made.
   I remember being hushed in the subway when my brother and
I spoke in the Swiss German dialect. It was wartime, and any
sounds that resembled German provoked nasty looks, or worse
yet, confrontation. To correct the misunderstanding that
Swiss German was the same as German, my mother pinned Swiss
flags on our lapels. I felt confident that with this insignia
I would be secure.
   My mother, who brought her two children to America alone,
in fear that Hitler would invade Switzerland, made us
impatient with her seemingly slow assimilation. I did not
fully appreciate until later that she gave us the vision of
the American dream.
   Quite simply, she believed it: Anything was possible in
America. Horatio Alger was not a folk tale. It was history,
and it was expected that we would follow in his footsteps.
                                                                                                       

   John Kenneth Galbraith
   Economist, Harvard professor emeritus
   Born: Iona Station, Ontario, Canada -- 1908
   Naturalized: Boston -- 1937
                                                                                                       

   In the late spring of 1934 I arrived in Washington, newly
endowed with a Ph.D., to view the New Deal. Economists, a
blessed matter, were in short supply in those exciting days.
   A University of California professor of mine, now high in
the Agricultural Adjustment Administration, told me that I
was greatly needed and must go to work at once. In the next
day or two I emerged as an associate agricultural economist
in the AAA at the then-munificent salary of $3,200 annually.
No one asked was I a citizen, which I was not. I was asked if
I was a Democrat and this I strongly affirmed.
   Thus the relation between a benign and civilized
government and its immigrants.
                                                                                                       

   Alex Kozinski
   Judge -- Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit
   Born: Bucharest, Romania -- 1950
   Naturalized: Los Angeles -- 1968
                                                                                                       

   Learning English for everyday use was one thing; mastering
its nuances was quite another. Matters were complicated by
the fact that my primary connection to American culture was
the TV and endless hours of "The Andy Griffith Show," "Father
Knows Best," "The Donna Reed Show" and "Leave It to Beaver."
Were real American families like that?
   I got my chance to find out when a schoolmate, Andrew
Reineke, invited me home for dinner. Was this my chance to
meet Ward, June and Wally Cleaver? With some apprehension, I
accepted. No little Jewish boy with a thick Romanian accent
had ever shown up in Mayberry; there was no script for this
episode. I would have to wing it.
   Andrew and I found Mr. Reineke in the rec room. "Tell me,
Alex," he asked, "why did your family come to America?"
   I've heard that question a thousand times but I've never
figured out how to answer it. How do you explain the obvious?
   "Are you pushing my leg, sir?" I replied. "We came to
America for the same reason as everyone -- because we could."
   At dinner, after grace, plates of food were passed around
"American style," as I had seen on television. I was helping
myself to mashed potatoes when Mrs. Reineke confronted me
with a fateful question: "Would you like a glass of milk?"
   "No, thank you, ma'am. I don't drink," I heard myself
answering. Had I just claimed to be a teetotaler or a camel?
I attempted a tactical retreat: "What I meant to say is that
we have plenty of milk at home."
   "So, what do you plan to do?" Mr. Reineke growled, "run
home between courses?"
   The rest of the dinner was uneventful. I said little, and
managed to avoid more verbal snakepits.
   The school year was over soon, and Andrew and I parted
ways. I went back to my television and mused about how much
easier life in America would be if we all had scripts to
follow.
                                                                                                       

   Mervyn Dymally
   Congressman (D., Calif.)
   Born: Cedros, Trinidad, British West Indies -- 1926
   Naturalized: Los Angeles -- 1957
                                                                                                       

   Nothing makes me prouder to be an American than when I
visit former British colonies in the Caribbean, Africa and
Asia and say to those who once were my fellow British
subjects. "Here I am, a former colonial, serving in the
greatest deliberative body in the world, the United States
Congress."
   After the Watts riots, the State Department sent me (then
a California state assemblyman) to the Caribbean to talk
about how democracy was still alive in America. That
assignment took me back to St. Benedict's (Secondary)
College, where I had failed the senior exam.
   After my lecture, a young man stood up and asked: "Mr.
Dymally, are there any opportunities for blacks in America?"
   I replied: "If a black American were to come to Trinidad,
could he run for your Parliament and win?"
   The young man paused and said: "Honestly, no."
   I said: "Here I am a Trinidadian, a black man, who went to
the United States, ran for the California state Legislature
and won." I ended my speech.
                                                                                                       

   Bob Hope
   Comedian
   Born: Eltham, England -- 1903
   Naturalized: Cleveland -- 1910
                                                                                                       

   I don't remember much about the trip from England to the
United States. It's been a long time since I was four years
old. And what I remember may really be the constant
recollections of my mother and brothers. I do remember
running around the ship and that it was hot and noisy. (We
occupied two steerage cabins directly above the main drive
shaft.)
   Mahm carried a souvenir of the trip for her entire life,
thanks to me. When it was time for the customary vaccination
of all the immigrants on board, Mahm lined us all up for our
shots. When it came my turn I bolted and ran. They caught me
and held me and amid howling and squirming I got the needle.
Mahm reached down to comfort me and got some of the vaccine
on her left thumb and for the remainder of her life she
carried a cicatrix as a reminder of that incident.
   My brothers used to tell me that on the train ride from
Ellis Island to Cleveland all the Hope boys sang -- and then
embarrassed Mahm by passing the hat for coins. But she got
even by washing our underclothes and hanging them out of the
window to dry.
                                                                                                       

   Michael Blumenthal
   Chairman of Unisys;
   Limited partner, Lazard Freres
   Born: Oranienburg, Germany -- 1926
   Naturalized: Trenton, N.J. -- 1952
                                                                                                       

   In one important respect, my immigrant experience
parallels that of others who have come to these shores: the
tradition of Americans accepting immigrants as individuals
who are judged by what they can do, rather than by their
family or background or on the basis of where they came from.
This was my experience when I arrived as a 21-year-old
immigrant in San Francisco in 1947.
   On my third day here, with no more than $60 but lots of
ambition and dreams, I went job hunting. The man who hired me
told me at once that his own father had come here as a young
man and worked his way up from the bottom while attending
college at night. He said he'd give me a break so that I
could try to do the same. Only 14 years after arriving here,
and nine years after receiving my citizenship, I was
appointed a deputy assistant secretary of state and, soon
thereafter, sent abroad to represent my new country as a U.S.
ambassador. What better proof that this remains an open
society for immigrants?
                                                                                                       

   Anthony Frank
   Postmaster General
   Born: Berlin -- 1931
   Naturalized: Los Angeles -- 1943
                                                                                                       

   I came here from Nazi Germany in 1937 at the age of six.
My parents, both Ph.D.s, had arrived a year earlier, with my
father having found employment as a messenger on Wall Street
and my mother as a professor at Bryn Mawr College. I often
ask my wealthy, highly educated friends if they could make
such a transition in middle age. We soon resettled in
Hollywood, Calif.
   I remember my father, Dr. Lothar Frank, taking his exams
for citizenship: "How many members of Congress are there?"
"Five hundred forty-one," said my father. "Wrong," said the
examiner, "there are only 535." My father said: "You have
forgotten there are six observers from places such as the
Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia." "I didn't know
that," said the examiner.
   I have attempted to fulfill my obligation to this country
by a number of public service positions, culminating in my
being the first immigrant to head the Postal Service. The
Postal Service, which employs one out of every 150 employed
Americans, is itself a melting pot and the gateway to the
middle class for hundreds of thousands of native-born and
immigrant Americans.
                                                                                                       

   Ruth Westheimer
   Sex therapist
   Born: Wiesenfeld, Germany 1928
   Naturalized: New York 1965
                                                                                                       

   I was born in Germany, in 1928, was sent to an orphanage
in Switzerland during the war, and emigrated to Palestine in
1945, where I was a member of the Haganah, fighting for
Israel's independence. I later went to France to study at the
Sorbonne, and in the fall of 1956 I came to this country as a
tourist. I ended up staying.
   I arrived on the liner Liberty, traveling in fourth class.
On the night before we came into New York harbor, I didn't
sleep a wink, fearing I would miss seeing the Statue of
Liberty. I took a room in Washington Heights, decided I
wanted to see Times Square, more than 100 blocks south, and
started to walk there. I had heard that Americans don't like
to walk, so I wasn't surprised when a large man, whom I
stopped to ask directions, tried to dissuade me, but it made
me laugh when he asked this person who had arrived here with
almost no money in her pocket why she didn't just drive
there.
   As I walked around New York in those first days, it was
like being in a dream. Amazing sights were everywhere, but
one I remember very vividly was of strikers picketing Macy's,
smoking cigars. In Europe, cigars were only for the very
rich, yet here even men who weren't collecting a paycheck
could afford them.
   One of my first major purchases was a second-hand sewing
machine; I thought I could support myself with it if need be.
I paid that machine off, a few dollars at a time, every week.
I still have it, but part of my personal American Dream is
the hope that I'll never have to use it again.
                                                                                                       

   Ilena Ros-Lehtinen
   Congresswoman (R., Fla.)
   Born: Havana, Cuba -- 1952
   Naturalized: Miami -- 1972
                                                                                                       

   One of my sharpest memories about being a "Cuban refugee"
was standing in line in downtown Miami's Freedom Tower with
my family and hundreds of other newly arrived Cubans waiting
to receive U.S. government-issued boxes of powdered milk,
cheese and processed meat.
   Those were confusing times for all Cuban families who came
to this country fleeing Fidel Castro and his communist thugs.
Many of us came with round-trip tickets, always thinking that
our stay in Miami would be momentary, merely a matter of days
or weeks. The weeks turned into months and the months into
years and now, 30 years later, we look through our dusty
closets searching to see if we still have the other part of
the round-trip ticket and wondering if we will ever get the
chance to use it.
   Although I have come a long distance from that line for
giveaway food, part of me is still there. The lines are now
filled with Haitian and Nicaraguan faces, but on several
occasions I would swear I've seen a little girl who looks
just like me. May her 30 years in exile be as fulfilling as
they have been for me. And may she become the first Haitian
or Nicaraguan woman in Congress. The opportunity is there.
                                                                                                       

   Henry Kaufman
   Economist
   Born: Wenings, Germany -- 1927
   Naturalized: New York -- 1942.
                                                                                                       

   I came to America when I was 10 years old. The question
before my family had been whether to leave our comfortable,
middle-class existence and cross the ocean to the unknown.
The decision was made for us one night when, following a
torchlight parade, the Nazis broke into our house.
   Shortly after our arrival, I went to the local public
school. The principal tried to evaluate my English-language
skills. He pointed to his hand, fingers and nose and I
responded by saying the correct words because they were the
same in German. Of course, he quickly realized that I did not
know any English at all. I was put in the first grade, where
I was the oldest and the tallest child.
   Going to college was assumed as a matter of course by my
parents. Because of the burden this would pose for them, I
pushed hard to complete my undergraduate work in 2 1/2 years
and then took just one year to qualify for a master's degree.
I earned my Ph.D. at night over seven years while I held a
full-time job. Later, I was fortunate that Charles Simon, a
partner at Salomon Brothers, recognized my work. He
introduced me to Sidney Homer, of the bond market research
department, who gave me my first job there.
   This country gave me the opportunity first to survive and
then to succeed by obtaining an education that enabled me to
move along with the help of professors and business
associates. This is typical of what America provides
immigrants.
                                                                                                       

   Saul Bellow
   Novelist
   Born: Lachien, Quebec, Canada -- 1915
   Naturalized -- 1941
                                                                                                       

   I was born in Canada in 1915, was brought to Chicago by my
parents in 1924 and became a citizen in 1941. My father
simply forgot to tell me that I had never been naturalized
and after Pearl Harbor I was astonished to learn that I was
still a Canadian, so I turned myself in to the immigration
service, filled in the necessary papers and was sworn in
together with 40-50 other greenhorns.
                                                                                                       

   Rudy Boschwitz
   Senator (R., Minn.)
   Born: Berlin, Germany -- 1930.
   Naturalized: New York -- 1942
                                                                                                       

   We arrived in the U.S. on the last trip of the SS Majestic
on Dec. 23, 1935, and were scheduled to become U.S. citizens
on Dec. 9, 1941, two days after the U.S. entry into World War
II. Instead, the day before, we became enemy aliens, and not
long after the FBI came to check us out. I shared a room with
two brothers who were in their 20s and was already in bed
when the FBI arrived. They went through our home very
carefully and found one of my brothers' address books and
began reading off the names of young women; I gave them a
running commentary and evaluation.
   We were never allowed to forget our immigrant status, and
it has not been a deterrent. It made us work harder, perform
better, never quit and when combined with some pretty tough
times, it enhanced what my family has contributed to society
and our country.
                                                                                                       

   Stan Stephens
   Governor of Montana
   Born: Calgary, Alberta, Canada -- 1929
   Naturalized: Havre, Mont. -- 1954
                                                                                                       

   My experience as a Canadian immigrant varied considerably
from that of immigrants who must master a new language and
adapt to a different culture. There's very little difference
between life in Calgary, Alberta, and life in most Western
American communities.
   When I settled into a career in broadcasting in Havre,
Mont., in the late '40s, most of my new friends were either
unaware, or found nothing extraordinary in my having been
born and reared in Canada. The U.S. Army, too, paid little
attention to the fact that I was a Canadian, because in 1951
it sent me a draft notice. I could have refused on the
grounds of being a foreign citizen. But because I had already
decided to apply for citizenship, I felt the same obligation
as any other American when called upon to serve.
   Following service in Korea, I applied for citizenship.
This was granted by Montana District Judge C.B. Elwell in May
1954. On the appointed day, I appeared in court with the
other candidates. Judge Elwell, whom I knew quite well,
assumed I was there in my capacity as a radio newsman to
cover the proceedings. When I told him I was one of the
candidates for naturalization, his somewhat amazed response
was, "Well, Stan, I guess you'd better get in line with the
other foreigners."
   One can always reflect on what might have been. In jest, I
have told my good friend, Al Shaver, sportscaster for the
Minnesota North Stars hockey team and with whom I started
broadcasting in Canada in 1948, that had I remained in Canada
I probably would be announcing the play-by-plays for the
Minnesota North Stars. To which Al has replied: "And had I
immigrated to the States, no doubt today I would be governor
of Montana."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Metalclad Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MTLC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   METALCLAD Corp. (Anaheim, Calif.) -- Mark Tomberlin was
named acting chief executive officer of this industrial
insulation contracting company. He succeeds Leland E.
Sweetser, 62 years old, who retains his post as chairman. Mr.
Tomberlin, 38, had served as chief financial officer. Bruce
Haglund, a board member, said Mr. Tomberlin had been named
acting chief executive to give him time to help formulate a
long-term plan for the company and gain some operating
experience. Glenn W. Mayer, 39, was elected president of
Metalclad's principal unit, Metalclad Insulation. He succeeds
Russell Saunders, 70, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   P. Leiner Says Earnings Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PLI
</CO>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- P. Leiner Nutritional Products Corp.
said it expects to report that net income fell
"substantially" in the fiscal first quarter ended Saturday. A
year earlier the nutritional products concern reported net
income of $929,000, or 18 cents a share.
   Revenue declined about 15% to about $27 million from $32.2
million a year earlier. Leiner attributed the decline to the
recall of L-tryptophan amino acid products, overall softness
in vitamin sales, and a delay in introduction of new products
and programs. The company previously said it expected lower
first-half results, and believes that sales should improve
during the second half of fiscal 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Britain Reach Accord
   For Expanded Air Services
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AMR BAB
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. and Britain have reached an
agreement to expand air services, Transportation Secretary
Samuel Skinner said.
   The agreement is an amendment to the bilateral pact that
governs air service between the U.S. and Britain. The
amendment, finalized Thursday, will increase the number of
trans-Atlantic routes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new agreement makes permanent American Airlines's
right to serve the Chicago-Manchester route. The unit of AMR
Corp. has been serving the route under temporary authority,
department officials said. In addition, the U.S. government
may select airlines for two additional routes between the
U.S. and non-London airports.
   Britain may authorize a second airline for the
London-Boston route now flown by British Airways, and open
two routes between non-London airports and the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forstmann Bids
   To Buy General
   Instrument
   ---
   Offer Totaling $1.42 Billion,
   Or $44.50 a Share, May
   Be Topped, Analysts Say
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL FST MC PHG GTE AT SNG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Forstmann Little &amp; Co. said it plans a $1.42
billion leveraged buy-out of General Instrument Corp., a
cable TV equipment maker, in what would be Forstmann's second
big acquisition of the year.
   Investors, however, were betting yesterday that another
corporation in the telecommunications industry may try to top
the $44.50-a-share Forstmann offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
General Instrument stock surged $8.875 a share to $45.125.
Trading volume was a heavy 3.3 million shares, more than 10%
of the company's shares outstanding. Counting options that
will be converted in the purchase, General Instrument has
more than 32 million shares.
   Forstmann, which avoided the high-priced acquisitions of
the late 1980s that have caused its competitors some
indigestion, has had the buy-out field almost all to itself
in 1990.
   The reason is that while other buy-out firms depend for
financing on the now-wobbly market for high-risk, high-yield
"junk" bonds, Forstmann can tap its own fund of subordinated
debt to bid for companies.
   "Now, with none of that phony money around, you get back
to the real-money people. We have a real edge," said Theodore
Forstmann, general partner of Forstmann, Little. "We've never
had a deal that didn't work, never ever. We've never had a
restructuring ever," he said.
   Earlier this year, the Forstmann firm acquired the
Gulfstream business aircraft maker from Chrysler Corp. for
$825 million. The year's only other major leveraged buy-out
has been the $1.5 billion purchase of Saks Fifth Avenue by
Investcorp, which represents Middle Eastern investors. An
earnings slump at Saks, however, may signal bad news for the
investors.
   But it is "fairly likely" that its bid for General
Instrument will be topped, says Robert Anderson, a technology
analyst at Brean Murray, Foster Securities Inc. If General
Instrument accepts a higher bid, the company promised to pay
Forstmann Little a fee of $33 million, or about $1 a share.
   Analysts said potential bidders range from foreign
companies such as Matsushita Electric Industrial or Philips
N.V. to U.S. telecommunications concerns such as GTE Corp.,
Alltel Corp., or Southern New England Telecommunications
Corp. Bidders have until the offer closes Aug. 13 to top it.
   Harry Rosenthal, a telecommunications analyst at Deutsche
Bank Capital Corp., said the price is at the "low end" of the
$45 to $60-a-share range that he believes the company's
businesses are worth. He said General Instrument has 55% of
the market for cable TV components.
   Mr. Forstmann said he plans to try to expand the cable TV
equipment business internationally, and wouldn't rule out
selling the company's other two businesses, wagering
equipment and semiconductors. He estimated the chances he
will be outbid are only "one in 50."
   Mr. Forstmann said cable TV companies will have to spend
heavily on the kind of boxes and cable sold by General
Instrument to provide the kind of service that regulators
will demand as cable TV becomes more like a utility.
   General Instrument was assembled in the 1960s and 1970s by
Moses Shapiro, who served as the firm's chairman until 1975
and who died March 19. The business was shaped and stabilized
by his successor, Frank V. Hickey, 62 years old.
   Mr. Hickey wasn't available for comment beyond a
one-paragraph statement that he believes the offer provides
"excellent value" for shareholders and "new opportunities"
for the company. Mr. Forstmann said there aren't any
agreements to retain General Instrument executives following
an acquisition, but he expects to offer them a stake in the
company.
   Forstmann was advised on the buy-out by the securities
firms of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Lazard Freres &amp; Co. and the
law firm of Fried Frank Harris Shriver &amp; Jacobson. General
Instrument was advised by Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Cleary
Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton.
   Victor Lewkow, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer who
advised General Instrument, said the company elected not to
put itself up for bids before announcing the agreement with
Forstmann Little. He said Mr. Forstmann had refused to
participate in an auction, and that in any case "there have
been auctions where nobody came or the bids were
significantly lower than expected."
   "People with real money are not interested in auctions,"
Mr. Forstmann said. "They say, `You want to have an auction,
go to Sotheby's.'"
   Mr. Forstmann said he plans to finance the purchase with
$800 million in funds from his own investors, counting
roughly $200 million of equity and $600 million of
subordinated debt. He said the balance of the purchase price,
roughly $1 billion including fees and expenses, would be
raised by banks led by Manufacturers Hanover Corp. and
Continental Illinois Corp.
   Mr. Forstmann said the purchase will reduce the size of
his buy-out funds to about $1.5 billion, and indicated he may
try to raise more funds to increase that total later this
year. He said investors in his firm's equity and subordinated
debt funds received annual returns exceeding 50% in the
1980s.
   Despite Mr. Forstmann's claim of no restructurings, the
firm did put extra equity into FL Industries Inc. two years
ago. Mr. Forstmann said, however, that the move didn't
constitute a restructuring because his investors had already
received a larger dividend equal to five times their original
investment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brandon Securities Unit
   Is Expelled From NASD
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The National Association of Securities Dealers
expelled Brandon Securities &amp; Investments Inc. and barred a
principal of the firm from membership for allegedly raising
more than $1.5 million from investors and then misapplying or
misappropriating the funds.
   The NASD, the self-regulatory agency for the
over-the-counter markets, also fined the North Providence,
R.I., firm $1.5 million. Brandon, a subsidiary of Brandon
Securities Inc., and the principal, Ernest E. Michaud of
Kingston, R.I., consented to the sanctions without admitting
or denying wrongdoing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The NASD alleged that Mr. Michaud also supplied customers
with fictitious statements containing false representations
concerning their investments. Mr. Michaud also didn't respond
when the NASD requested information, the agency charged.
   Neither the firm nor Mr. Michaud could be reached for
comment.
   In a May 22 letter from the NASD's Boston office to its
general counsel's office in Washington, the agency said,
"Because of the egregious nature of the allegations in
issue," the NASD "notified the U.S. Attorney's Office for the
state of Rhode Island."
   The NASD staff "is assisting the {Federal Bureau of
Investigation} in relation to a criminal investigation," the
letter said. "We are also assisting the state of Rhode Island
Securities Division in their investigation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wall Street Hopes to Strike Gold
   By Mining the Silver-Haired
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER PWJ SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After decades of fixation with the young and
upwardly mobile, U.S. brokerage firms are starting to romance
the 50-and-older crowd.
   With Wall Street's individual-investor business still
struggling, brokerage firms are waking up to the large pool
of disposable income controlled by older investors. These
investors have perhaps $7 trillion in wealth, and their pool
of investable money can do nothing but grow along with the
age of the populace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In 2020, one in four Americans will be over the age of
65," predicts Joseph Grano, PaineWebber Group Inc.'s head of
sales and marketing. Brokerage firms are looking for any way
to appeal to such investors "because that's where the demand
is," he says.
   Age patterns are being studied as intensely as stock
charts these days at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., the nation's
biggest brokerage firm and one of several that run
"retirement seminars" to lure older investors. John Steffens,
president of Merrill Lynch's individual-investor operations,
predicts: "Probably for the next 25 years in this business,
we are really going to be demographically driven."
   Merrill Lynch, for example, says its average customer is
already 52 years old; the firm expects that average to move
up slightly in the next 10 years and jump to about 60 years
old in 2015.
   For some brokerage firms, the graying of their customer
base means they must prepare to sell more conservative
investments like certificates of deposit and municipal bonds.
But for others, part of the strategy is trying to persuade
older investors to loosen up and buy more stocks, rather than
low-risk kinds of bonds, by arguing that stocks provide
better long-term returns without undue danger.
   Henry Gottmann, head of sales and marketing at Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc., says: "These people are going to be
living longer, and the challenge is to make sure they don't
outlive their assets. . . . One of the things we have to do
with the mature market is educate them on the value of
investing in equities."
   For the most part, the richest investors have always been
older, of course. And with more people living longer, there
has long been talk among financial-services firms about how
they should adjust to the "graying of America."
   But until now, Wall Street has continued to focus on the
upwardly mobile younger crowd that came to be known in the
1980s as "yuppies." Most advertisements depicting investors
have used younger models, like a recent pitch from Charles
Schwab &amp; Co. featuring a trio of 30ish investors, one holding
a basketball. Brokerage firms' sales ranks seem to be filled
with 25-year-old brokers whose bosses often aren't much
older. Industry executives say that too often there seems to
be little attention paid to the needs of older customers.
   Brokerage firms have largely done only scattershot
attempts at marketing to the mature. That has left the field
open to money managers such as Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark Inc.,
which since 1985 has offered seven mutual funds through the
American Association of Retired Persons, a program that has
raised more than $4 billion in assets.
   But when Wall Street has homed in on retirement-age
investors, the results have been encouraging.
   A few months ago, PaineWebber sent out 800,000 pieces of
"direct mail" offering potential investors a free guide to
retirement choices. The response may wind up being the best
ever for a PaineWebber mailing. The 10% initial response rate
has led to about 8,000 new customers so far, who are
generating 40% more in revenue than customers acquired in
earlier mailings, PaineWebber says.
   Now Shearson, under new management sent down by its parent
American Express Co., is gearing up a program on "marketing
to the mature" for its almost 10,000 brokers. Shearson will
follow with an advertising blitz by early autumn targeted at
older investors. And it will use older brokers to advise
younger ones about how to serve mature clients, Shearson
executives say.
   How far will brokerage firms go with this older-investor
push? Merrill Lynch early this year introduced a telephone
stock-buying system for the deaf and hearing-impaired.
PaineWebber may, among other things, increase the radio ads
it runs on classical-music stations to entice mature
investors while they relax. And Shearson is circulating its
first "large-type" prospectus for an investment product.
   Merrill's new investor guide, "Enjoy Your Retirement
Years," features a sentimental illustration of a grandfather
and grandson. In case investors miss the message, the inside
cover carries a large-sized quotation from the 17th-century
author Anne Bradstreet. "Youth is the time of getting, middle
age of improving, and old age of spending," the quotation
reads.
   The closest thing to a guru for Wall Street's
older-investor push is Ken Dychtwald, a consultant and
lecturer on the aging of America. Firms including Merrill,
PaineWebber, Shearson and American Express have paid for his
advice. Mr. Dychtwald says Wall Street should be doing such
things as bringing retired brokers back to work part time to
cater to investors their own age.
   "Brokerage houses have to do a much better job showing
their best customers, those over 50, are being serviced
well," says Mr. Dychtwald, chairman of Age Wave Inc. in
Emeryville, Calif. He says there's no U.S. industry that
could "stand to profit more from the aging of our country
than financial services. But there may not be an industry
that has paid less attention" to it.
   (The Chicago Sun-Times last month dropped Mr. Dychtwald as
a free-lance columnist on aging, accusing him of copying
material from two stories that appeared earlier in the New
York Times. Mr. Dychtwald calls one of the incidents
"inadvertent" and says that in the other he believed he
didn't have to credit the Times for a Dartmouth medical
school study it printed. The brokerage firms he works with
say they accept his explanation for the incidents.)
   At the same time Wall Street is trying to appeal to the
older-than-50 crowd, it is also using the aging of America as
a marketing gimmick to lure investors of all ages.
Mutual-fund companies, including Fidelity Investments, are
marketing specialized funds that supposedly will do well as
the population gets older (funds with health-care and leisure
stocks, for example). Some firms urge investors to "ride the
age wave" and buy stocks benefiting from travel, such as Walt
Disney Co., AMR Corp. and Delta Air Lines.
   The one thing that experts say Wall Street shouldn't do is
suddenly start running ads depicting groups of gray-haired
investors. Shearson's Mr. Gottmann says, "You are not
advertising to people who think they are older. You are
advertising to people who think they are younger and will
live longer."
   Adds Mr. Steffens, Merrill's individual-investor head:
"People portray themselves as being 10 to 20 years younger
than they are. We've found that in some cases, portraying
older people in print ads tends to be extremely ineffective
and in some cases turns them off."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Lotus Takes
   Hard Line
   On Software
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS BORL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Lotus Development Corp., emboldened by
its copyright victory against a small software company, is
now waging battle against more formidable rivals.
   Lotus filed suit against California-based Borland
International Inc., claiming that Borland's upstart Quattro
software infringes on the copyright of Lotus's best-selling
1-2-3 spreadsheet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit, which includes a similar complaint against Santa
Cruz Operation Inc., another California software maker, comes
on the heels of Lotus's copyright infringement victory last
week over Paperback Software International.
   Legal experts say that last week's decision, while not
ensuring future success in court, has strengthened Lotus's
position. "Lotus is now in an extremely powerful position to
enforce its copyright against Borland and others," says Lee
Gesmer, a partner at the law firm of Lucash, Gesmer &amp;
Updegrove, a specialist in copyright law.
   Regardless of what happens, Lotus's aggressive posture
could deter other potential rivals from trying to invade its
turf.
   Borland and Quattro Pro were obvious targets for Lotus's
next legal attack because Quattro has become a hot product.
While Lotus dominates the spreadsheet business with a market
share of about 60%, Borland claims that Quattro Pro is
winning some business from Lotus. In heavy national
over-the-counter trading yesterday, Borland stock plummeted
$4.375, or more than 20%, to close at $17 a share. Lotus's
stock closed at $34.625 a share over the counter, down 12.5
cents.
   "The heart of the case for us is the similarity in menus,"
or screens and keystrokes that the user sees and uses, says
Lotus general counsel Tom Lemberg, noting Lotus's special
interest in Quattro Pro, Borland's latest version of its
Quattro spreadsheet. "Without the Quattro Pro, we wouldn't
have a case."
   In terms of keystrokes, Lotus, for instance, claims that
Quattro Pro's use of the "C" key to denote what type of
currency to use on a spreadsheet, as well as the use of "FR"
for file retrieve, constitute infringements on Lotus's 1-2-3.
   "We believe that the Quattro software is of original
design," responds Borland spokesman Dick O'Donnell, "and if
you ask Quattro users why they use our software, they'll tell
you it's because of the features they get that they can't get
elsewhere."
   Borland has specifically targeted Lotus's 1-2-3 with its
Quattro Pro. Borland sells Quattro Pro for just $99 to owners
of 1-2-3, compared with the normal Quattro Pro price of $495.
   Borland, anticipating Lotus's suit, actually fired the
first shot. Friday, the company filed for a declaratory
judgment in federal court in San Jose, Calif., stating that
Quattro doesn't infringe on Lotus's copyright. Because of
Borland's lightning strike, says Rick Sherlund, an analyst
with Goldman Sachs, the case will most likely proceed in
California rather than before the federal judge in Boston who
ruled in Lotus's favor in the Paperback case. "It was a
shrewd move," says Mr. Sherlund.
   Santa Cruz Operation said the software Lotus has legally
attacked, called SCO Professional, is a spreadsheet package
for a multi-user UNIX operating system. "We haven't seen the
complaint, but, to the best of our knowledge, we haven't
violated any copyrights," said company spokeswoman Janet
Morton. She added that SCO Professional has been selling in
the multi-user arena since 1986, while Lotus only recently
entered the UNIX-spreadsheet market.
   "We have every intention of appealing" last week's
decision, said Michael Burdick, a vice president for
marketing of Paperback Software International of Berkeley,
Calif. "The judge's extending of copyright law to user
interface has created broad adverse effects on the computer
software industry, as is evidenced by the Lotus-Borland suit
just filed. The legal wrangling has already begun."
   The suit underscores how litigious the software industry
has become. Apple Computer Inc., for example, has lawsuits
pending against both Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.,
charging their products infringe on Apple copyrights. Many
small developers of software have decried the trend, claiming
that the lawsuits stifle the creativity and entrepreneurial
spirit that helped build the software industry. But the
companies filing the suits counter that they are simply
protecting their property from competitors who seek to
benefit unfairly by copying unique features.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Murdoch Predicts Sky TV
   Will Break Even by 1992
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Rupert Murdoch said Sky Television, his
fledgling British satellite-TV service, should break even by
late 1991 or early 1992 after amassing operating losses "in
excess of #300 million. ($524.7 million)"
   While hefty, such losses would be less than the #350
million of red ink Mr. Murdoch envisioned in April. Other
officials of Sky TV, a unit of Mr. Murdoch's News Corp.,
cited the unexpectedly rapid acceptance of its new pay-TV
movie channel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Quite frankly, we underestimated the scale of the {Sky
TV} project," Mr. Murdoch, chairman and chief executive
officer of the Australia-based media concern, told a news
conference here. "The risks were enormous and a lot of
expensive mistakes were made along the way." However, he
added, the Sky TV venture "has worked."
   The four-channel service began beaming TV signals directly
to homes in Britain and Ireland in February 1989, 14 months
ahead of rival British Satellite Broadcasting Ltd. Equipment
shortages and customer confusion about the new technology
meant few people watched Sky TV at first.
   The Murdoch venture subsequently gained wider acceptance
last fall largely because it introduced and heavily promoted
a cheap rental subscription package for an initial cost of
#4.45 ($7.78) a week. The package covered installation of
satellite receiving dishes, rental and descrambling equipment
and fees for its pay-TV channel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FRE FNM MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, July 2, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 7/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 3/8% near
closing bid, 8 7/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 30 to 44 days; 8.10% 45 to 59 days;
8.025% 60 to 119 days; 7.975% 120 to 149 days; 7.925% 150 to
179 days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.25%
30 days; 8.175% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.74% two
months; 7.76% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.14% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.30% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.08% 30 days; 8.03% 60 days; 7.97%
90 days; 7.92% 120 days; 7.88% 150 days; 7.82% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% three months;
8 3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 2, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73%, 13 weeks; 7.60%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.99%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.94%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.80%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tokai Bank Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.TKB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKAI BANK Ltd. (Nagoya, Japan) -- Eiichi Kimata was named
a director. Mr. Kimata, 50 years old, fills a vacancy on
Tokai's board of 30 members, and is currently general manager
of the company's New York branch, which holds $15 billion of
the bank's $229 billion total assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Westwood One Inc.:
   Loss of $3.8 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WONE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Westwood One Inc. said its net loss in the second quarter
ended May 31 narrowed 42% to $3.8 million, or 26 cents a
share, from $6.6 million, or 45 cents a share, a year
earlier.
   Revenue increased 27% to $37.4 million from $29.5 million.
Operating profit was $1.7 million compared with an operating
loss of $3.2 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, William Battison, president and chief
financial officer, attributed the narrowed losses to added
productivity in "turnaround properties" acquired in the past
three years. He said the progress occurred despite increased
interest expense and good will amortization as a result of
these acquisitions.
   Westwood One, based in Culver City, Calif., produces and
distributes radio programming that owns and operates the
Mutual Broadcasting System and NBC Radio Networks and owns or
has interests in several radio stations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Norway Oil Union Accepts
   Oslo's Back-to-Work Order
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OSLO -- A Norwegian oil workers' union said it resolved to
accept a government back-to-work order yesterday but did not
exclude the possibility of wildcat strikes on offshore
platforms.
   The central committee of the Norwegian Federation of Oil
Workers advised 4,000 striking workers to return to work
because compulsory arbitration ordered by the government
earlier yesterday is legally binding, said deputy leader
Oddleiv Tonnessen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The union had considered defying the government order,
claiming it violates international trade union agreements.
   A union official, speaking unofficially, said unsanctioned
wildcat strikes might break out at some offshore fields.
   The 6,000 member union began shutting Norway's North Sea
production of 1.63 million barrels a day of oil and 63
billion cubic feet a month of natural gas at midnight
Saturday. Last-minute negotiations had failed to settle a new
contract.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   FENIMORE INTERNATIONAL FUND: EQUITY SERIES charges a
maximum 5% fee, or load. The Mutual Fund Scorecard table in
Thursday's edition incorrectly classified Fenimore as a
no-load fund.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   THOMAS H. ROULSTON SR. was named chairman of Defiance Inc.
In yesterday's edition, it was incorrectly stated that Mr.
Roulston was Defiance's president and chief executive
officer.
   (See: "Who's News: Defiance Inc." -- WSJ July 2, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FNM I.BNL EUROP J.IBJ B.GDB
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $1.3 billion in
debentures, consisting of $700 million in new callable
debentures due July 11, 1994, to yield 8.65% and $600 million
of premium callable debentures due July 10, 2000, yielding
9.15%. The four-year issue, callable on or after July 11,
1992, was priced at par, with a spread of 0.32 percentage
point above four-year Treasurys. The 10-year issue, callable
on or after July 10, 1993, was also priced at par, with a
spread of 0.74 percentage point above 10-year Treasurys. The
10-year issue has a redemption, or call, price of 104.575,
the percentage of the principal amount redeemed equal to 100%
plus one-half the coupon rate on the debentures plus accrued
interest on the amount redeemed. The redemption price will
decrease on each succeeding interest payment date as set
forth in Fannie Mae's Supplement to the Guide to Debt
Securities dated June 26, 1990.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $350 million of
real estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in 10 classes by First Boston Corp. The offering,
Series 1990-92, is backed by new stripped mortgage securities
formed from Fannie Mae 9% securities. First Boston took a
portion of the Class 1 principal-only strips and a portion of
the Class 2 interest-only strips from the new trust SMBS
000082-CL and used them as collateral for the Remic. Yield
and price details weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Istituto Credito Oficial (Spain) -- 25 billion yen of 7%
bonds due July 31, 1995, priced at 101 3/8 to yield 7.12%
less fees via IBJ International Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   Lavoro Bank Overseas N.V. (Italian parent) -- 300 million
marks of floating-rate notes at the six-month London
interbank offered rate, priced at par and due May 31, 1995,
via Trinkaus &amp; Burkhardt. First coupon is for four months'
interest and will be four-month Libor. First Libor fixing
July 27. Guaranteed by the parent, Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro.
   IBJ Leasing Co. (Japan) -- 50 million marks of 9 3/8%
bonds due July 24, 1995, priced at 101 3/8 to yield 9.02%,
via Industriebank von Japan (Deutschland) AG. Guaranteed by
Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd.
   Okobank (Finland) -- $60 million of 9 3/8% bonds due July
24, 1997, priced at 102 to yield 9.35% less fees via Fuji
International Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   ALSK-CGER Ifico (Belgian parent) -- Two billion Luxembourg
francs of public bonds due July 31, 1996, priced at 101 1/2
via Banque International de Luxembourg. Subordinated
guarantee from ALSK-CGER, Brussels.
   Genfinance S.A. (Belgian parent) -- One billion Luxembourg
francs of 9 1/2% bonds due Aug. 7, 1997, priced at 101 3/4
via Banque Generale du Luxembourg. Guaranteed by Generale
Bank Brussels.
   Parbel International Finance N.V. (French parent) -- One
billion Luxembourg francs of 9 1/2% bonds due July 31, 1995,
priced at 101.95 via lead manager Banque Paribas (Luxembourg)
S.A. Guaranteed by Banque Paribas Belgium.
   Vorarlberger Kraftwerke (Austria) -- 55 million Swiss
francs of 7% privately placed notes due July 26, 1995, priced
at 101 1/4 via Credit Suisse. Fees 1 1/2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Chief Asks Exchanges
   For Options-Trading Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Securities and Exchange Chairman Richard
Breeden asked five exchanges to settle their differences and
come up with a joint plan by Sept. 21 for having several
exchanges list options on individual stocks.
   He also asked, in letters to the heads of the exchanges,
that the exchanges extend until Oct. 1 a moratorium on
listing any options that were traded on another exchange
before Jan. 22 of this year. That moratorium expired
Saturday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move, which had been expected, came in response to two
plans submitted by the exchanges to create options-trading
networks. One plan -- supported by the Chicago Board Options
Exchange and the New York, American and Pacific stock
exchanges -- would create electronic links allowing options
to be bought and sold at the best price on any exchange, much
as stocks are traded.
   Under another proposal, being pushed by the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, when two exchanges show the same price for an
option, orders would automatically go to the exchange that
posted the price first.
   Options, which are divided into puts and calls, permit
holders to buy or sell a stock at a specified price for a
limited period. A call is an option to buy, and a put is an
option to sell.
   Currently, trading in most options is allocated by a
lottery system to a single exchange, and they then can be
traded only through that exchange. The SEC has argued that
these monopolies don't benefit the consumer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Medicare Benefits Expand
   To Help Cover Pap Smears
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Department of Health and Human Services
said that Medicare benefits have been expanded to help pay
for pap smears.
   Congress approved the new benefits last year in an effort
to reduce the death rate from cervical cancer in women over
65 years old. Effective Sunday, Medicare benefits cover one
pap smear every three years for most women, and more
frequently for women with a high risk of cervical cancer.
Forthcoming regulations will define the high-risk group.
Medicare pays 80% of approved charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cure rate for cervical cancer, which is treated with
surgery and radiation, is relatively good if the disease is
found early. Over the last 15 years, the incidence of
invasive cervical cancer has fallen about 4% a year among
women 65 and older, primarily because of increased use of pap
smears.
   But a study by the congressional Office of Technology
Assessment earlier this year found room for improvement. Only
about half the women over 65 had a pap smear within the last
three years, and at least 25% of all elderly women had never
had a pap smear. The American Cancer Society estimates that
among women 65 and older, there will be 3,700 new cases of
invasive cervical cancer this year and 2,500 deaths.
   The government expects about 4.1 million claims for the
new benefit in 1991, the first full year of coverage, at a
cost of about $30 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- GNI Group Inc.:
   Firm Expects New Plant
   To Boost Results Sharply
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNUC
</CO>
<LP>
   GNI Group Inc. said the start-up and commercial operation
of a new chemical resource processing plant will result in a
nearly 40% increase in both revenue and net income for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1991.
   For the year ended June 30, 1989, the Houston company
reported a loss of $75,000, or two cents a share, on revenue
of about $12.5 million. Results for the period included a
$550,000 charge related to the write-down of assets. The
company expects to release earnings for fiscal 1990 in early
August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Located at GNI's Deer Park, Texas, complex, the plant
provides waste reclamation and custom processing services for
the chemical and petrochemical industries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Advance on Index-Linked Buying;
   Shares Ease at London but Climb at Frankfurt
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices finished higher in light trading helped
by index-linked buying by investment trust funds in the
afternoon session.
   Stocks were down a bit in London. But they were broadly
higher at Frankfurt in the wake of the German monetary union
Sunday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up
219.99 points to close at 32160.23. The index lost 165.95
Friday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index was up
48.50 points to 32208.73.
   Monday's trading remained light, with only 380 million
shares changing hands on the First Section, down from 551.6
million Friday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues, 520 to 405,
while 195 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the First Section, which lost 7.04 points Friday, was up
5.34 points, or 0.23%, at 2348.70.
   The Second Section index, which gained 22.19 points
Friday, was down 10.91 points, or 0.26%, to close at 4189.90.
Volume in the Second Section was estimated at 18.4 million
shares, down from 28 million Friday.
   The market didn't favor the yen's early advance as it
usually does, as the dollar fell below 152 yen at the open in
Tokyo Monday, and stock prices remained at lower levels
during the morning session.
   Expectations for higher domestic interest rates have been
growing, together with uncertainty about foreign interest
rates, following the German economic union Sunday, traders
said.
   The yen's strength wasn't good news to the market because
it brought on expectations for higher Japanese interest
rates, traders said.
   After finishing the morning session with a 96-point loss,
however, the Nikkei index gradually rose during the
afternoon.
   Stock prices went up, largely helped by buying by
investment trust funds and minor arbitrage buying in the
afternoon, traders said. Also, a slight recovery of bond
prices in the afternoon prompted some buying, they said.
   "But investors in general hesitated to buy," said Shigeru
Akiba of UBS Phillips &amp; Drew International.
   As reflected on the low trade volume, investors'
participation was sluggish.
   In addition to continuing speculation about an official
discount rate boost by the Bank of Japan, investors have a
number of excuses to remain on the sidelines, said a trader
at Yamaichi Securities. They include the Soviet Communist
Party conference and U.S. Federal Open Market Committee
meeting, both beginning Monday, as well as U.S. jobless rate
data to be issued Friday, the trader said.
   Fanuc and Kyocera, which led advances in the morning
session, declined toward the end of the day along with other
high-technology issues that advanced strongly last week.
Fanuc was at 7,550 yen ($49.65), down 80 yen, while Kyocera
ended at 8,900 yen, up 10.
   Sony dropped 220 to 8,860 and TDK lost 100 to 7,400.
   The focus of buying Monday afternoon shifted to domestic
shares, with stocks related to public spending setting the
pace of advances.
   Shares of general construction companies, road building
companies, makers of construction-related equipment and home
builders rose as these companies are expected to benefit from
expanded public spending, traders said. The Japanese
government pledged to spend a total of 430 trillion yen on
public works over the next 10 years as part of the Structural
Impediment Initiative talks with the U.S. last week.
   London share prices recovered ground at the close of light
trading, helped by a moderately healthy performance by Wall
Street shares and bargain-hunting among London players.
   After the market hit bottom at midafternoon, when the
Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-index was off 6.4 points,
some players took the opportunity to pick up stock at lower
levels. When Wall Street started firming, buying interest at
London accelerated.
   "People didn't foresee a further imminent fall," commented
one dealer.
   However, volume was very light, with 309.4 million shares
traded by the close, compared with 461.9 million Friday.
   The FT-SE 100-share index closed down 2.6 points at
2372.0.
   The narrower FT 30-share index was down 3.3 points, at
1896.6, at the close. In the futures markets, the September
FT-SE 100 index contract ended at 2441.0, down from its close
of 2446.0 Friday.
   Dealers expect volume to remain depressed throughout the
week, with the U.S. market closed for a public holiday
tomorrow.
   "London isn't under any pressure. There's a buyers' strike
and no economic news," said one dealer.
   Stocks to show hefty gains included Glaxo, up 16 pence (28
cents) at 834 on weekend newspaper reports that it will
profit handsomely from sales of its new asthma drug in the
U.S. However, most of the buying interest was from the U.S.
as London players don't rate the drug's prospects as highly.
   Reuters was up 5 pence at #12.65 pence ($22.13), on
unconfirmed weekend media reports that the company may soon
make an acquisition.
   Some oil stocks initially benefited from anticipation of a
strike in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. That strike
was averted later Monday after negotiations led to an
agreement.
   Enterprise was among the few stocks to retain its initial
gains, ending up 4 pence at 634.
   Prices of shares on the Frankfurt exchange rose broadly as
it became apparent that East Germans haven't engaged in a
spending spree since German monetary union took effect
Sunday.
   The weighted German Stock Index, or DAX, advanced 1.9%
from the previous close to 1915.30. Gains were spread across
the board, led by the blue chips.
   Dealers said the smooth start to monetary union calmed
some recent worries in the market about a rush by East
Germans to spend their new marks on consumer goods.
   Concern over the possible inflationary impact of
unification and investor worry about the stability of the
mark have led to widely fluctuating stock market prices and
weakness in West German bond markets in recent months.
   But amid more confidence about monetary union, West German
institutional investors were buying stock, with modest
foreign purchases also recorded, dealers said.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Madrid, lower in
Paris, Zurich and Milan and were mixed in Stockholm, Brussels
and Amsterdam. South African gold stocks closed marginally
higher.
   Share prices closed higher in Hong Kong, Wellington and
Seoul and were lower in Sydney, Singapore and Manila. Taipei
was closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                                Jun 29    Jun 28     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .........................  330.9     330.8   +  1.8
 Britain ......................  707.6     703.1   -  1.9
 Canada .......................  389.5     388.2   -  9.9
 Japan ........................ 1304.7    1309.7   - 21.2
 France .......................  570.0     570.3   +  0.5
 Germany ......................  302.4     307.0   +  6.0
 Hong Kong .................... 2438.3    2433.0   + 16.3
 Switzerland ..................  226.4     224.8   +  2.6
 Australia ....................  309.2     307.1   -  6.6

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Relatively Flat in Light Trading
   As Holiday Nears; Digital Sound Dives
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks drifted quietly in pre-holiday
trading.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 0.25 to 462.04, a 0.05%
loss, as volume sagged to 114.2 million from 158.8 million
Friday. Declining stocks outpaced advancers, 960 to 900.
However, 111 shares hit new highs while 60 traded to new
lows.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was very quiet throughout the market," said Patrick
Kane, senior OTC trader with Robinson Humphrey &amp; Co.,
Atlanta, adding that no patterns were apparent in yesterday's
trading. With a number of investors and traders away for the
Fourth of July, Mr. Kane predicted that by noon today there
will be very little market activity.
   Trading was "a mixed bag" at Cowen &amp; Co.'s San Francisco
office, according to Jerry Newman, an institutional trader
there. Mr. Newman noted that shares of some software
companies and makers of voice processing systems fell amid
negative news from individual companies in those industries.
   Digital Sound plunged 4 1/4 to 5 after the Santa Barbara,
Calif., maker of voice processing systems said it expects to
report a loss for the second quarter ended June 30. Citing a
slower-than-anticipated order rate from certain major
customers, Digital Sound said second-quarter sales were
substantially lower than first-quarter net sales of about
$9.25 million.
   Among other makers of voice processing systems, Octel
Communications fell 1 1/4 to 21 1/2.
   Borland plummeted 4 3/8 to 17 on nearly 1.2 million shares
after Lotus Development filed a lawsuit against the Scotts
Valley, Calif., software maker charging it with copyright
infringement.
   Borland said that on Friday it sued Lotus and asked court
confirmation that its spreadsheet product doesn't infringe
any copyrights of Lotus's 1-2-3 spreadsheet. Among other
software makers, Microsoft fell 2 1/4 to 73 1/4 and Lotus
eased 1/8 to 34 5/8.
   Mid-State Federal Savings Bank tumbled 4 1/4 to 19 after
First Florida Banks of Tampa, Fla., said it cut the price it
agreed to pay for Mid-State to $22.43 a share from a maximum
$27.41 a share under a previous agreement.
   Regency Cruises, trading under the symbol SHIP, was the
day's most-active stock. A group led by Rainbow Cruises Inc.
President Antonios E. Lelakis said it may seek representation
on Regency's board. The Rainbow Cruises group already has a
32.2% stake in the New York cruise line and said it might
seek control of Regency, among other business alternatives it
might consider. Shortly after the announcement, a 3.52
million-share block of Regency shares changed hands. The
stock closed unchanged at 2 1/32 on more than 4.1 million
shares.
   Westwood One added 1/2 to 5 1/2 after the Culver City,
Calif., radio-program producer said its losses for the second
quarter ended May 31 narrowed to 26 cents a share from a loss
of 45 cents a year earlier.
   Consilium advanced 1/2 to 25 1/4 after the Mountain View,
Calif., supplier of management software and services said
that Digital Equipment raised its stake in the company to
5.8% of Consilium's outstanding common shares.
   Favorable analysts' comments propelled Adobe Systems,
which gained 1 1/4 to 38 and Cirrus Logic, which climbed 3/4
to 20 7/8.
   Adobe Systems, a Mountain View., Calif., software maker,
got a boost in this week's edition of Barron's from T. Rowe
Price Science/Technology Fund manager Roger B. McNamee.
Yesterday morning, Lehman Brothers (formerly Shearson Lehman
Hutton) included Adobe in its list of 10 "uncommon values" in
the stock market.
   Goldman Sachs analyst Rajiv Chaudri repeated a
long-standing "buy" opinion on Cirrus Logic, a Milpitas,
Calif., maker of integrated circuits, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor report. Citing stronger-than-expected
demand for disk drives, Mr. Chaudri also raised his estimates
for the company's earnings for fiscal 1991 ending March to
$1.15 a share from $1.10.
   Immunogen jumped for the second consecutive day, but a
company official told DJPIR the company couldn't explain the
gains and noted that the start-up concern is expected to post
a loss for fiscal 1990. Thursday, the Cambridge, Mass.,
biotechnology company signed a joint research pact with
Immunomedics. However, PaineWebber biotechnology analyst
Linda Webber told the news service it's premature for
shareholders to react to the research pact. Immunogen rose 1
3/4 to 14 1/4 yesterday after a 1 1/4 gain Friday.
   Enzon tumbled 1 1/8 to 9 3/4 after the South Plainfield,
N.J., drug concern said it will delay filing an application
with the Food and Drug Administration for licensing of a
leukemia drug until it secures a long-term commitment from
the supplier of an enzyme critical to manufacturing the
product.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hollingsworth Quits
   Top Job at Hercules;
   No Successor Named
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   HPC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Hercules Inc. said its chairman and
chief executive officer, David S. Hollingsworth, will retire
in 1991, leaving open the question of who will succeed him.
   Mr. Hollingsworth, 62 years old, will be stepping down
before the mandatory retirement age at Hercules of 65. A
42-year veteran of the chemicals and aerospace company, he
took the top job in March 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a memo distributed to Hercules employees yesterday, Mr.
Hollingsworth said he had accepted the chief executive's post
with the understanding that he preferred to stay in the job
for no more than four years.
   The memo made no mention of recent difficulties at the
company, including technical troubles and order delays in its
rocket-booster operations, which led to a charge against
earnings in 1989 of $221.9 million. The charge left the
company with a loss for the year of $81.3 million, or $1.76 a
share, on sales of $3.09 billion.
   Stuart E. Eizenstat, a Washington lawyer who heads the
Hercules board's nominating committee, issued a statement
saying, "While the other members of the board and I may have
wished that David had been willing to remain until age 65, we
respect his wishes as expressed to us at the time of his
selection" as chief executive.
   Hercules didn't give any indication as to whether its
58-year-old president, Fred L. Bruckner, may be favored in
the selection of a successor to Mr. Hollingsworth. Mr.
Eizenstat said there are several candidates within Hercules,
and he suggested that the board will also be looking outside
the company by saying it "does not want to foreclose any
options.'
   The company disclosed Mr. Hollingsworth's plans shortly
before the close of composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, where Hercules shares rose 62.5 cents each to close
at $34.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Perry Drug Stores Inc.:
   Revco Purchases Reinforce
   Chain's Michigan Stronghold
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Perry Drug Stores, Inc., Pontiac Mich., said it has signed
an agreement to acquire for an undisclosed price 24
additional former Revco drugstores throughout Michigan.
   Separately, Perry said it has completed the acquisition of
16 former Revco drugstores in the Detroit area, previously
announced on May 19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sales are part of a larger transaction in which Revco
sold 221 stores through Chapter 11 proceedings to Reliable
Drug Stores Inc. of Indianapolis.
   The acquisitions tie in with Perry's strategy of filling
in existing markets and of concentrating on Michigan, said
Jack A. Robinson, Perry's chairman and chief executive
officer. With these two acquisitions, Perry will operate 210
drugstores throughout Michigan, reinforcing its position as
Michigan's No. 1 drugstore chain. Perry also operates 23
stores in the Chicago area.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Soybean Prices Leap on Forecasts Intense Heat
   In Southwest Is Heading Toward Midwest Crops
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The price of soybeans jumped in the U.S. amid
forecasts that the intense heat in the Southwest is heading
east toward crops in the Mississippi Delta and Midwest.
   During the session the price of some soybean contracts
rose by their daily limit of 30 cents a bushel. Profit-taking
late in the session trimmed gains. Nevertheless, the wild
rally signals just how skittish the grain industry is getting
about prospects for the soybean crop.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most crop analysts don't foresee that much damage from
this heat wave, which might last for roughly a week in the
important soybean-growing areas of the delta. The soybean
crop there doesn't reach its vulnerable flowering stage for
many weeks. The unusually wet spring gave much of the U.S.
crop ample -- if not excessive -- soil moisture on which to
draw.
   But analysts are edgy because the government surprised
them last week when it lowered its three-month-old estimate
of planted soybean acreage by 1.4 million acres to 58 million
acres. Most analysts had thought the government was going to
raise its estimate.
   "I don't think the weather will be that much of a
problem," said Steve Freed, senior grain analyst at Dean
Witter Reynolds, Chicago. "But we have low acres and stout
demand" for soybeans.
   At the same time, the spate of hot weather is rekindling
interest in forecasts by a few private meteorologists that
the soupy spring will be followed by a hot and dry summer.
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday the
soybean contract for July delivery rose 22.5 cents a bushel
to settle at $6.46 a bushel.
   The prices of corn futures contracts rose slightly to
touch new life-of-contract highs during part of the trading
session. Hot weather is expected to brush the Midwest for a
few days. Temperatures in parts of Iowa, for example, are
expected to approach 100 degrees Fahrenheit today.
   After the close of trading, the National Weather Service
released a six- to 10-day forecast calling for above-normal
temperatures throughout much of the Midwest.
   Crop condition reports released by the major farm states
late yesterday show that the corn and soybean crops are in
relatively good condition despite the cool and wet planting
season.
   In Iowa, 60% of the soybean crop is in excellent or good
condition and 65% of the corn crop falls in that category.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil futures prices hit new session lows in
late trading yesterday and closed lower on the New York
Mercantile Exchange in light trading. Oil futures traders
focused on the hour-to-hour developments of the strike by
4,000 of Norway's oil workers that began late Saturday and
shut down Norway's total crude oil output of 1,630,000
barrels a day. The market opened higher on the chance that
strikers might ignore the government's forced arbitration
order. But the market fell as the government called on the
strikers to return to their jobs. The Norwegian Federation of
Oil Workers Union central committee advised 4,000 striking
workers to return to work because arbitration ordered by the
government earlier yesterday is legally binding. After
futures trading ended, the Norwegian oil workers' union
disclosed that most of the workers won't obey the
back-to-work order and that wildcat strikes are widespread.
"We have lost control of our members. Production in the North
Sea is completely stopped," said a union official, according
to Dow Jones International Petroleum Report. In some cases,
he said, the workers have blocked helicopter landing pads
with cranes so new crews can't land. If the stoppages
continue, prices are expected to rise today. Analysts
caution, however, that it would take an extended strike to
whittle down global inventory levels, which are currently at
an eight-year high.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Prices closed strong with the October contract
ending 0.49 cent higher at 13.26 cents a pound. Sandra Kaul,
tropical commodities analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton in New
York, said that Cargill Inc.'s taking delivery of more than
400,000 tons of sugar on Friday showed that interest in the
physical market was more intense than had been perceived
earlier. "There is some feeling in the trade that Cargill
might have done a deal with the Soviets for sugar," she
noted. Ms. Kaul also said that there isn't much sugar
currently available, but there is plenty of uncertainty in
Brazil concerning their export targets. She said Pakistan,
Jordan and Syria have all announced that they will be coming
into the market soon to buy white, or refined, sugar. She
said tight supplies of white sugar will start influencing
raw-sugar prices. Harry Schwartz, commodities specialist at
Cargill Investors Services, said he believes this rally has
limited potential. "When prices get over 15 cents again I
believe that we will begin to lose" some sales in the
physical market, as happened earlier this year.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices rose. The September contract gained
$63 a ton to $1,309, $8 off the day's high. Mr. Schwartz of
Cargill Investors Services said yesterday's price action was
puzzling to him because the Ivory Coast has been receiving
moisture at close to normal levels, and because summer is
usually cocoa's slack period. "I have to believe that this is
nothing more than a technical rally," he said. Ms. Kaul from
Shearson disagreed. She noted that chocolate manufacturers
have established a large number of long hedges -- that is,
they bought cocoa for future delivery between $1,000 and
$1,200 a ton -- which in effect has established a band of
support for the market. Ms. Kaul also noted, "There are
perceptions that the French will reduce their commitment to
West Africa, the major cocoa growing region of the world,
because of easing fears about the spread of world communism."
She said such a perception could cause the cocoa industry to
worry about political stability in the area. In addition, the
fungus witches' broom has been spotted in Bahia, the largest
cocoa-producing region in Brazil, the world's second largest
producer after the Ivory Coast. Ms. Kaul says this fungus
devastated cocoa production in the Amazon region of Brazil in
the 1950s. The country has taken many steps to ensure that
the disease didn't spread, but apparently didn't completely
succeed. Ms. Kaul said there is no known cure for the fungus.
She said the market could see the first effects of the
disease on the main Brazilian crop, which will begin to be
harvested in October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Florida Banks Inc.:
   Price for Mid-State Federal
   Is Reduced to $48 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   FFBK MSSB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Florida Banks Inc. said it signed a new merger pact
with Mid-State Federal Savings Bank that reduces the purchase
price for Mid-State to $48 million from up to $59.7 million
under an earlier pact.
   Tampa, Fla.-based First Florida said an examination of
Mid-State by federal regulators showed Mid-State has
inadequate loan-loss reserves -- a discovery that was adverse
enough to permit First Florida to void the earlier merger
pact.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms of the new agreement call for shareholders of Ocala,
Fla.-based Mid-State to receive $22.43 a share; the earlier
agreement called for its holders to get $25.07 a share and up
to an additional $2.34 a share contingent on Mid-State's
disposal of certain assets.
   First Florida said the shortfall in Mid-State's reserves
surfaced when the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
concluded Mid-State should have reserves of $8 million to $9
million instead of $1.3 million.
   A special meeting of Mid-State shareholders to vote on the
new pact is expected to be held in September or October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Probe of Alleged Collusion
   By Airlines Is Broadened
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department said it expanded its
investigation into possible antitrust violations by major
U.S. airlines.
   James Rill, the department's antitrust chief, said that
prosecutors are investigating a pricing arrangement between
two airlines whose names he declined to disclose.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department is conducting four other
investigations of possible anticompetitive activity in the
airline industry. These involve the actions of major carriers
that dominate certain large airports, known as hubs; the
relationship between airlines and the industry's computerized
clearinghouse for fares; possible collusion related to
certain fare changes made in September 1989; and the buying
and selling of slots at Chicago's O'Hare airport by United
Airlines.
   Individual airlines under Justice Department scrutiny have
denied any wrongdoing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Integra Says Corcoran
   Quits 2 Senior Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ITG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Integra-A Hotel &amp; Restaurant Co., said that
Thomas J. Corcoran Jr. resigned as president and chief
executive officer but will remain on the board. He has been
succeeded by David R.A. Steadman, an Integra director for the
past year and president of Atlantic Management Associates
Inc.
   Mr. Corcoran's resignation came a day after Integra said
an agreement providing $10 million in new capital for the
company was terminated. The failed agreement also would have
allowed Hallwood Group Inc. to sell its 13% stake in Integra.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Company officials were unavailable to say whether Mr.
Corcoran's resignation was related to the failed agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Heritage Media Corp.:
   Legal Dispute May Affect
   Bid for Rest of POP Radio
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   HTG POPX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Heritage Media Corp. of Dallas said a continuing legal
dispute could affect its $39 million offer to acquire the 43%
of New York-based POP Radio Corp. that it doesn't already
own.
   The owner of television and radio stations said it has
been informed that Thomas Dilk, a former POP Radio employee
and a plaintiff in one of two class action suits whose
settlement was a condition of the acquisition, hasn't
withdrawn his assertions that his attorney wasn't authorized
to enter the settlement agreement. The class action involving
Mr. Dilk arose from an earlier acquisition proposal by
Heritage, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Heritage said it believes the situation involves a dispute
between Mr. Dilk and his attorney. The company hasn't
concluded what action it will take in response to the
situation. Heritage said its current acquisition offer
expires Oct. 31.
   POP Radio provides customized radio programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Photographic Sciences Patent Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PSCX SBL
</CO>
<LP>
   WEBSTER, N.Y. -- Photographic Sciences Corp. said it sued
Symbol Technologies Inc., alleging infringement on two PSC
patents relating to hand-held bar code scanners.
   L. Michael Hone, PSC's president and chief executive
officer, said the company is seeking a court order to prevent
permanently Symbol and its officers from infringing on its
patents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Damages weren't specified, Mr. Hone said, but the suit
seeks punitive damages of not less than three times the court
judgment for actual damages.
   Symbol, based in Bohemia, N.Y., is a competitor of
Photographic Sciences.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Smith Corona Corp.:
   Connecticut Firm Expects
   `Small Loss' in 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   HAN SCO
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Smith Corona Corp. said it expects to post a "small loss"
for the fourth quarter ended June 30 and that officials will
recommend a dividend cut.
   G. Lee Thompson, chairman and chief executive officer,
said management will recommend that the quarterly dividend be
reduced to about five cents a share after a scheduled
15-cent-a-share dividend is paid Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New Canaan, Conn., maker of portable electronic
typewriters and personal word processors said the expected
loss reflects "charges relating to inventory write-downs and
nonrecurring provisions for major overhead expense reduction
programs."
   Smith Corona, which went public at $21 a share a year ago,
has been reeling from a series of adverse developments,
including a 51% decline in fiscal third quarter net income.
The stock fell 87.5 cents yesterday to $5.375 in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Hanson PLC of Britain
holds 47.9% of Smith Corona.
   In the year's first nine months, the company had net
income of $34.4 million, or $1.14 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Biocontrol Technology Inc.:
   Company Successfully Tests
   A Vascular Access Device
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BICO
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Biocontrol Technology Inc. said it concluded a successful
clinical trial on animals of its vascular access device.
   The Indiana, Pa.-based company, a maker and developer of
biomedical devices, said it plans to apply to the Food and
Drug Administration immediately for approval to begin
clinical studies in humans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Biocontrol's vascular access device, known as the
Bio-Port, is a drug delivery receptacle that is implanted
beneath the skin. The device eliminates skin and blood vessel
damage when repeated injections are necessary, such as in
chemotherapy treatment.
   The company said its market research indicates a $50
million annual market for these devices world-wide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Going Ape
   ----
   By Joe Queenan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Advance copies of Harold T.P. Hayes's posthumous "The Dark
Romance of Dian Fossey" (Simon &amp; Schuster, 352 pages, $21.95)
come with an enthusiastic blurb from the man who created
Archie Bunker and helped destroy Robert Bork. According to
Norman Lear, "Harold Hayes delivers Ms. Fossey in an envelope
of compassion and understanding that derives from his own
25-year love affair with Africa. To top that off, his prose
is simply brilliant."
   Mr. Hayes's prose is pretty good, but the remark about
"compassion" made me wonder if Mr. Lear and I were reading
the same book. In "Dark Romance," Mr. Hayes methodically
demolishes the prettified image of the martyred gorilla lover
conveyed in the unstintingly dumb movie "Gorillas in the
Mist" and discusses in detail what the film -- and the
autobiography it was based on -- left out. In the place of
Sigourney Weaver's Radcliffe-Goes-to-Rwanda savior of
mountain gorillas, we now are face to face with a brute: a
vindictive, egomaniacal misanthrope whose love of the
endangered mountain gorilla eventually led her to flog
poachers' genitals, smear them with excrement, kidnap their
children, gun down peasants' livestock, and generally make
life unpleasant for anyone who fooled around with her
personal primates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   She was not without grievance. Where the movie shows Ms.
Fossey merely being kicked out of the Belgian Congo during
its ferocious civil war of the middle 1960s, the book
investigates Ms. Fossey's oft-repeated assertion that she was
gang-raped by Congolese troops, shortly before three of her
young human proteges either were eaten or burned alive. This
would seem to explain, without condoning, her animosity for
Africans the rest of her life, an animosity so profound that
the greatest mystery about her unsolved murder in 1985 is not
who did it but why it took so long to happen.
   "I told her that if she stayed, I fully expected she would
have her throat cut by the end of the year," her former
fiance, a white African, told Mr. Hayes. "It was absolutely
ludicrous to live on a mountain out there, harassing a bunch
of poachers and expecting to stay alive."
   "Dark Romance" is a very fine book, but a very depressing
one. What makes it all the more depressing is that Mr. Hayes,
a former editor of Esquire who recently died of a brain
tumor, is no longer around to accept praise -- or fend off
attacks -- for a book sure to be unpopular with admirers of
the Sigourneyized Fossey. We read about an unglamorous,
reclusive, sexually unfulfilled physical therapist who had
spent 10 undistinguished years in Louisville, Ky., before she
decided to visit friends in Africa. There she fell in love
with the exceedingly rare mountain gorilla, and spent the
rest of her life in a suicidal war with poachers and farmers
determined to make the gorillas even more rare.
   Along the way, there was her capture by the Congolese (Mr.
Hayes seems to doubt that she was raped, but others don't),
the murder of her assistants, two abortions, incessant health
problems, and no money. Meanwhile, poachers periodically were
chopping off the heads, hands and feet of her beloved
gorillas, whose number at one point had dwindled to around
210 (they are now back above 300). That she survived as long
as she did Mr. Hayes attributes to her convincing the locals
that she was a witch.
   Most certainly, she was an extremely lonely woman who
invariably sought to bed down with the men who came to work
with her, then harassed them if they refused her advances.
Mr. Hayes portrays her as a manipulative back-stabber who
would do anything to get her way, though, considering the
line of work she was in, a bit of manipulative back-stabbing
hardly seems excessive. The gorillas were getting stabbed in
the front.
   If the book has a failing, it is Mr. Hayes's insufficient
awe of Ms. Fossey's immense physical courage. But he is right
on target when he wonders about the wisdom of having
well-meaning white women from Louisville telling dirt-poor
blacks from one of the most densely populated countries in
Africa what they should be doing with their land, animals and
time. He particularly faults her for encouraging her staff to
fire on poachers. Once the shooting started, the locals
retaliated by killing off six gorillas. The man who started
the shooting, Alan Goodall, now laments: "It was as though
Rwanda had become our own private empire, with no sense of
responsibility on our part to those involved . . . I had the
feeling after I left that the African people wanted to see
all the gorillas killed so that all of us would leave."
   Mr. Hayes also believes that Ms. Fossey was wrong to
reject appeals to turn the preserve into a tourist
attraction, arguing that the best way to save an endangered
species is by providing locals with a powerful economic
motive for keeping them alive. In fact, the only truly
humorous passage in the book concerns a young surfer from San
Diego who worked for a few months as a volunteer in Ms.
Fossey's camp, and who tried to convince her of the virtues
of free enterprise.
   "I said, `Dian, this is nuts, man. You call up Yamaha and
Honda and you get them a deal that says you'll publicize
their equipment, and they'll give them (motorcycles) to you
for free. And you can do five days' work in four hours] You
don't have to walk a mile-and-a-half an hour up a vertical
hillside. You sit on a motorcycle, and putt-putt-putt, you're
there. That'll scare the hell out of the poachers."
   No, it wouldn't.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sterling Software Inc.:
   NASA/Ames Research Pact
   Is Signed 2 Years After Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SSW
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Two years after initially bidding to provide software to
the NASA/Ames Research Center in California, Sterling
Software Inc., Dallas, said it has signed a three-year
contract with a two-year renewal option. The contract has
been valued by NASA at $210 million, according to company
officials.
   Sterling has had a similar contract with Ames since 1970,
but in 1988 lost its renewal bid to Computer Sciences Corp.
of El Segundo, Calif. Sterling appealed, on the basis that
Computer Sciences hadn't submitted the low bid, but lost. It
appealed again and won, with a panel of the Board of Contract
Appeals of the General Services Administration concluding
that Computer Sciences had misrepresented its bid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Sterling closed at $10.625, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Energy Conversion Devices Inc.:
   Alliance Is Set With Canon
   To Build Solar Cells in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ENER CANNY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Energy Conversion Devices Inc., Troy Mich., said it has
agreed to form a joint venture with Canon Inc. of Japan to
manufacture solar cells in the U.S.
   Canon is making an initial $30 million capital
contribution to the joint venture, including a credit of $8
million for canceling a term loan to Energy Conversion
Devices. Energy Conversion Devices is contributing its solar
manufacturing plant and a technology license.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eliichi Kondo, chief executive of Canon's chemical
products operations, will be president and chief executive
officer of the joint venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Doskocil Reorganization Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DOSKQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   HUTCHINSON, Kan. -- Doskocil Cos., which in March filed
for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code, said the federal bankruptcy court has
granted a six-month extension for the company to propose its
own reorganization plan.
   Doskocil and 18 of its subsidiaries, including Wilson
Foods Corp., now have until Jan. 11, 1991, to formulate a
plan and a March 12, 1991, deadline to solicit consents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of pizza toppings and delicatessen meats ended
its first quarter with a loss of $7.7 million, or $1.51 a
share, compared with year-earlier net income of $1.5 million,
or 28 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Enzon Corp.:
   Enzyme-Supply Assurance
   Sought for Leukemia Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ENZN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Enzon Inc. said that its product-license filing with the
Food and Drug Administration for a leukemia drug will be
delayed until it secures a long-term commitment from the
supplier of an enzyme critical to the drug's manufacture.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers halted
trading in the pharmaceutical company's stock pending news.
The stock closed in national over-the-counter trading at
$9.75, off $1.125.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enzon, based in South Plainfield, N.J., has completed
preparation of its product-license application, but the "FDA
won't accept" the filing "without the long-term supply
commitment," a spokeswoman said. She added, "I can't give you
a time frame" for resolving the supply difficulty, "but we're
working very actively on it."
   The product-license application is for PEG L asparaginase,
a drug used to treat patients with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia who are allergic to unmodified forms of the drug. In
March, Enzon received FDA clearance for Adagen (PEG ADA), a
treatment for a form of severe combined immunodeficiency
disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Monoclonal Antibodies Inc.:
   Firm Discloses Merger Talks
   With Biotechnology Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MABS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Monoclonal Antibodies Inc. said it is negotiating a
possible stock-for-stock merger with a larger, closely held
biotechnology firm. The other company wasn't identified.
   Monoclonal officials said they would remain as the
surviving entity in any resulting merger, but said that no
decision has been reached regarding details of the proposal.
The transaction would require approval by the boards of
directors and shareholders of Monoclonal and the other
concern, company officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such a merger would help provide Monoclonal with
much-needed capital without the company issuing more equity,
an analyst said. The Sunnyvale, Calif., biotechnology concern
has been plagued by class action and copyright-infringement
lawsuits that have deeply cut into the company's earnings
since 1987.
   "This is not something we would have normally announced,
but we felt the disclosure was required for our report to the
Securities and Exchange Commission," said Thomas Glaze, the
company's chief executive officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mattel Inc.:
   Mattel Expects to Report
   Higher 2nd-Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MAT
</CO>
<LP>
   Mattel Inc. said it expects to report earnings of about
$19 million, or 38 cents a share, in the second quarter. A
year earlier, the Los Angeles toy maker reported net income
of $16.6 million, or 33 cents a share.
   Second-quarter sales, it's estimated, similarly climbed
16% to about $315 million, vs. $272 million a year earlier,
in the face of a soft retail sales market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John W. Amerman, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the results are consistent with the company's
projections of double-digit revenue growth for 1990. Mattel's
stock fell $2.25 to close at $22.125 a share in composite New
York Stock Exchange trading yesteday, as the projections are
somewhat below what many analysts had been expecting.
   Thomas Kully, an analyst with William Blair &amp; Co. in
Chicago, attributed part of the second-quarter softness to
the weakness among large retailers, as well as an increasing
shift to just-in-time inventory. Analysts said Mattel's stock
also was affected by weak performances among its competitors,
such as Hasbro Inc.'s recent announcement of an anticipated
50% drop in second-quarter profit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   May Department Stores Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MAY DEPARTMENT STORES Co. (St. Louis) -- William D.
Edkins, 38 years old, was named senior vice president of
strategic planning at this retailer. He is currently senior
engagement manager at McKinsey &amp; Co., a Pittsburgh-based
management consulting firm. Mr. Edkins will succeed Ken C.
Hicks, who was named senior vice president and general
merchandise manager of home furnishings at May Merchandising
Corp., a unit of the retailer. Mr. Hicks, 37, will succeed
Thomas A. Larkin, 67, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- King World Productions Inc.:
   Net Income Increases 23%
   For Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KWP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   King World Productions Inc., New York, said fiscal
third-quarter net income climbed 23%, as it continued to take
in higher license fees from three television shows it
distributes -- "The Oprah Winfrey Show," "Wheel of Fortune"
and "Jeopardy]"
   King World also said it benefited from its TV news show
"Inside Edition," which it produces and distributes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the period ended May 31, net rose to $14.2 million, or
54 cents a share, from $11.6 million, or 46 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue grew 12% to $81.2 million from $72.4
million. The latest results reflect a charge of six cents a
share for amortization and depreciation from the December
1988 acquisition of WIVB-TV of Buffalo, N.Y.
   The company recently announced a 3-for-2 stock split,
payable July 23 to stock of record July 9. The per-share net
King reported doesn't reflect that split.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
King World shares fell 37.5 cents to close at $37.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Rise,
   Bonds End
   Unchanged
   ---
   Pre-Holiday Trading
   Is Thin; Dollar Sinks
   As Commodities Gain
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar sank and commodities prices rose, a
combination that often weakens U.S. financial markets. But
stocks rose and bonds held even in thin, pre-holiday
activity.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 18.57 points to
close at 2899.26. Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices
finished unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adding to the expectation of lower bond prices was a
stronger-than-expected gain in the Purchasing Managers Index,
an indicator of activity in the economy's industrial sector.
Any signs of economic strength have been bearish for bonds
lately because the Federal Reserve would be less likely to
lower interest rates.
   Higher commodities prices also can hurt bonds, because
they suggest higher inflation, which undercuts the value of
bond yields. Soybeans and some precious metals were among
commodity-price gainers, but crude oil prices fell.
   "I thought bonds would trade off a bit more on the PMI
report," said Michael H. Sherman, investment strategist at
Shearson Lehman Hutton. Anyone expecting the Fed to ease
interest rates soon would have to have second thoughts after
that report, he said.
   Several analysts said the low volume of trading in the
stock market made yesterday's advance in the industrial
average suspect. "It's a very light week, and movements are
being exaggerated," said James Awad, president of BMI
Capital.
   The only major burst of activity came on buy programs --
in which stock-index futures are sold and baskets of the
underlying stocks are purchased to profit on brief price
discrepancies between the two markets.
   Helping buoy prices, Mr. Awad said, was renewed interest
in takeover possibilities in the wake of news that General
Instrument Corp. is being taken private by a leveraged
buy-out led by Forstmann, Little &amp; Co.
   "People are saying maybe LBOs are finished," Mr. Awad
said, "but all-cash strategic acquisitions of companies --
many of them undervalued -- should provide positive support
in the market."
   But if the dollar continues weakening and commodities
prices keep climbing, the stock market could feel the pinch
soon, said Kenneth Spence, director of the technical analysis
group at Salomon Brothers. "There may be consequences for
stocks and bonds after we return from the holiday," he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose on light volume of 130.2 million shares
in New York Stock Exchange trading. Advancing issues edged
out decliners, 775 to 744.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were little changed. The yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond stood at 8.40%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ogden Corp. Unit,
   Universal Services
   Form Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OG
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Ogden Corp. said its Ogden Allied Services
Corp. unit and Universal Services, a Seattle-based remote
services concern, have formed a joint venture, Universal
Ogden Services.
   Ogden said the company, to be based in Seattle, will be
one of the largest remote services companies in the U.S.,
providing catering, housekeeping and other services to
hundreds of offshore and other secluded locations throughout
the U.S., Canada and Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Universal Ogden, with 3,000 employees, will serve roughly
50,000 meals daily; it is expected to have revenue of $135
million for 1991, an Ogden spokesman said.
   Universal Services was founded in 1946 to house and feed
the large work force rebuilding defense bases in Alaska
following World War II. Ogden, in a statement, said a
division of Ogden Allied Services pioneered the remote site
catering business to the oil and and gas drilling industries
in the Gulf of Mexico.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Campbell Soup Co.:
   ABA Holding Inc. Acquires
   Juice Bowl Products Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Campbell Soup Co., Camden, N.J., said it sold its Juice
Bowl Products Inc. subsidiary to ABA Holding Inc. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Campbell, which is trying to sell several businesses to
boost profit, disclosed in January that it had put Juice Bowl
on the auction block. The company said the unit, which had
sales in fiscal 1989 of about $60 million, no longer fits
with plans to focus on Campbell's two main beverages, tomato
and V8 juices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale involves a plant in Lakeland, Fla., which employs
220 people. Campbell said ABA Holding will retain the work
force, the plant and the Juice Bowl name.
   ABA Holding, based in Cranbury, N.J., is the parent of a
Belgium fruit juice company, Looza N.V.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Burlington Coat Factory
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BCF
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, N.J. -- Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse
Corp. said it plans to buy back as much as $10 million of its
common stock on the open market, or privately over the next
two years.
   Based on the current selling price of $13.25 a share on
the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, the company could
repurchase as much as 755,000 shares. Currently 17,797,000
shares are outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Burlington, which operates a chain of discount apparel
stores, said it plans to use the shares for stock option
plans and for other purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   They Were Cleaning Up Nicely
   By Recycling Piles of Old Paper
   ----
   By Bill Richards
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Forget Bonnie and Clyde. Lawmen here are
calling Jane Lunbeck and her all-woman Dumpster divers the
bank-robbery ring of the '90s.
   Ms. Lunbeck and her four other gang members didn't make
their money busting through bank doors brandishing machine
guns. They did it the hard way. "They'd go through the
Dumpsters behind the banks looking for stuff," says King
County Deputy Prosecutor Brenda Bannon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What they found would have made Willy Sutton smile.
   "Loan applications, credit reports, signature cards,
deposit slips and thousands of checks," says Detective Denise
Pentony of the King County fraud unit. Detective Pentony says
the gang used the throwaways to tap bank accounts of
unsuspecting customers for at least $250,000. She adds that
several gangs are working the Dumpsters behind dozens of
banks in the Seattle area.
   Ms. Lundbeck and another gang member told police they used
the checks and other material to make it seem they were
depositing funds. Then they asked for part of the bogus-check
proceeds in cash, using material from the trash to back up
the request. Ms. Bannon says banks rarely asked for proof of
identity.
   The scheme came to light after customers began complaining
to banks about unauthorized withdrawals from their accounts,
police say.
   Detectives say trash pickers line up to get at the most
popular Dumpster. "Word has gotten around that there's a gold
mine out there," says Detective Pentony.
   Even Ms. Lunbeck says she was taken aback by the Dumpster
contents. Interviewed at the King County jail, where she has
been residing since she pleaded guilty last month to using
the trash to steal from banks, the 32-year-old says, "I was
surprised at what was in there." With charges pending in
several more counties, she declines to elaborate.
   Police say one branch was so careless with its trash it
even threw out a memo from bank headquarters warning about
Ms. Lunbeck's activity. The women told police they stayed
away from the bank after they found the memo.
   Police say they're frustrated by banks' lackadaisical
efforts to foil Dumpster divers. "It's going to take more
than a little lock on a Dumpster to stop these people," says
Kent, Wash., Detective Glenn Woods, who arrested Ms. Lunbeck.
"If you could take a bank for $1,200 a day without using a
gun, wouldn't you do it?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Foreign Debt Widened Last Year;
   Nation Remains World's Largest Debtor
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- America's foreign debt swelled again last
year, further miring the nation in its rank of the world's
largest debtor.
   During the year, foreign holdings in the U.S. grew nearly
twice as much as U.S. holdings abroad, the Commerce
Department said. As a result, the U.S. was left shouldering a
net debt burden -- the difference between U.S. holdings
abroad and foreigners' holdings here -- of $663.75 billion.
That was nearly 25% higher than the nation's $531.08 billion
net debt position in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report was the latest chapter in America's stunning
decline from the world's largest creditor nation in 1983 to
the world's largest debtor nation.
   A continued surge in foreign investment in everything from
New York office towers to Treasury securities to entire U.S.
companies, hoisted foreigners' assets in the U.S. to $2.076
trillion last year from $1.797 trillion in 1988. That swamped
the growth in U.S. investment abroad, which lifted U.S.
foreign assets to $1.413 trillion from $1.266 trillion in
1988.
   Not only was the report grim news for the U.S. government,
but it also brought some embarrassing chiding of the Commerce
Department. For the first time, the department decided not to
publish the bottom-line debtor position of the U.S. -- the
$663.75 billion figure -- in its report on international
investment, although it provided enough information to
calculate the number.
   In a statement accompanying the report, the department
explained that the comparison of the values of foreign assets
in the U.S. and U.S. assets abroad was imprecise since it
mixed current prices of assets with prices paid when they
were purchased. The result, according to the department, was
that U.S. assets, many of which were purchased decades ago,
were generally undervalued compared with foreign assets, the
bulk of which were purchased in the 1980s.
   But critics accused the government of trying to paper over
a dreadful number. "Any decision not to print a bottom line,
I think, is masking a net position and a trend that is
indisputably very adverse," said C. Fred Bergsten, director
of the Institute for International Economics here.
   Mr. Bergsten, who is writing a book on America's debtor
status, did agree that "there are big problems with the
numbers." But he said the numbers may understate U.S.
liabilities as well as assets. "My conclusion is that the net
bottom line is not too inaccurate, and certainly the trend of
the last 10 years is indisputable," he said.
   Allan Young, head of the Commerce Department's Bureau of
Economic Analysis, which compiled the report, said the
department's decision not to print the number was part of a
government-wide effort to improve the quality of economic
statistics. "No other considerations entered into it," Mr.
Young said. "It's simply that we didn't think it was an
accurate number." By this time next year, he said, the
department aims to publish a report valuing all international
investment at current prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bristol-Myers Ends
   Accord With Collagen
   For Growth Regulator
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CGEN BMY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Collagen Corp. said Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. terminated a two-year partnership to jointly
develop a cell growth regulator used to treat skin disorders,
rheumatoid arthritis and cancer.
   The agreement, as originally written, was to be terminated
at the end of June; Bristol-Myers had an option to renew the
contract but chose not to, said Jim McKinley, Collagen's vice
president and chief financial officer. "We were surprised,"
said Mr. McKinley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Collagen said it retains all proprietary rights to the
substance, called transforming growth factor beta-type 2, or
TGFb2. The company said it began testing the naturally
occurring peptide in humans at the University of Michigan
last January, after obtaining FDA approval. Mr. McKinley said
the companies are still working together on a bone graft
substitute called collagraft.
   Collagen also said its board approved a plan to split the
company's Celtrix Laboratory into a new public entity.
   Company officials said it was splitting off its laboratory
division to provide Collagen a more focused emphasis on
medical devices developed for use in plastic and oral
surgery, dermatology, urology, orthopedics and oncology. Dr.
Bruce Pharriss, Collagen's senior vice president of science
and technology, will become the chairman and chief executive
officer of the newly created subsidiary.
   Collagen closed yesterday at $21.125, down $1 on trading
of 192,900 shares in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A New Nippon?
   MITI `Vision' for 1990s
   Seeks a Mellow Japan
   Others Shouldn't Fear
   ---
   But Some Doubt the Agency
   Has Changed or Is Able
   To Open Up the Country
   ---
   A Report That's Partly PR
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Every decade, the powerful Ministry of
International Trade and Industry gazes into its crystal ball
and publishes what it calls a vision of the future. "Warning"
might be a better word.
   Had foreign steel, semiconductor and other industries
viewed the visions of the 1960s, '70s and '80s as economic
war plans, they might have been better prepared for the
struggles they later faced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in its vision for the 1990s, slated for publication
Thursday, MITI calls for nothing less than the dawning of an
industrial Age of Aquarius. New national goals, according to
early drafts, include creation of a "mellow society" for
Japan's elderly and "promoting eating space" in Japanese
homes and restaurants, so that "the dining table will be a
place where you can express yourself."
   The main industries targeted for improvement by the vision
are domestic. They include such unstrategic sectors as
resorts, interior decorating, traditional handicrafts and
fashion (through fashion museums, fashion towns and design
days). The vision also calls for "technoglobalism" --
world-wide sharing of research -- and "harmonizing" Japan's
trade ties.
   "If you look at our report," says one official working on
it, "you might wonder where MITI's industrial policy is."
   Indeed, MITI's professed transformation from driver of
this nation's economic steamroller to dispenser of mellowness
does stir wonder. Amid growing international suspicion of
Japan, "you have to take it {the new vision} as a
public-relations document," says Ezra Vogel, a Harvard
professor and Japanologist, on hearing a summary of the
report. Even one of the authors admits, "We have drafted this
document based on the fact that foreigners will read it."
   Yet for those wondering what Japan will look like in the
year 2000, the real question is not whether MITI is sincere
but whether it -- or anyone else -- can loosen up Japan. For
the 1990s prognostications to turn out as accurately as
MITI's previous forecasts, Japan will have to make changes
far deeper than ever before.
   "I'm skeptical about how strongly MITI will be able to
influence industry," says Naohiro Amaya, a retired MITI aide
and main author of the 1970s vision. "It's simple to say
development of steel is important. But when MITI says quality
of life is very important, it's not so simple."
   Even doubters will pay attention to MITI's new vision,
though, because few bureaucracies anywhere can rival MITI's
track record over the past few decades. MITI emerged after
World War II with a vast arsenal of formal and informal
economic powers, ranging from controlling access to foreign
exchange to proffering "administrative guidance" to
executives. In the early 1960s, for example, MITI forced
International Business Machines Corp. and Texas Instruments
Inc. to license potential Japanese competitors as the price
of setting up shop in Japan.
   Chalmers Johnson, a Japan expert at the University of
California at San Diego, argues in his 1982 book "MITI and
the Japanese Miracle" that the ministry charted Japan's
economic rise and still wields great influence. Others
disagree. They cite such famous MITI flubs as its failed
attempts to block Sony Corp. from acquiring American
transistor technology in 1953 and Honda Motor Co. from
entering the auto business in 1963. They say MITI's main role
was to ratify existing trends.
   But even when MITI followed rather than led, it played an
important bureaucratic role. Its tracts, though far from
Communist-style five-year plans, are much more important than
hands-off macroeconomic forecasts. Work on the 1990s vision
began in the fall of 1988, with help from more than 300
Japanese leaders, including MITI officials and such outsiders
as the chairmen of Sony and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.,
professors of economics, law, and literature from Tokyo
University and an editorial writer from Japan's leading
economic newspaper.
   MITI isn't just an intellectual middleman. The ministry
helps define a consensus and, by lending its seal of
approval, gives that consensus great weight. Executives
invoke MITI statements to defend investment decisions. Bank
loans often flow into MITI-targeted areas. College students
flock to technologies highlighted by MITI as growth
industries. Specific MITI policies and projects often follow
the general visions.
   The visions give "an orderly frame of reference within
which corporate actors can make a series of their own
decisions," Daniel I. Okimoto, a Stanford political
scientist, wrote last year in "Between MITI and the Market,"
a book largely skeptical about the ministry's current power.
"When economic plans are concrete, industry-specific and
based on a consensus between MITI and industry, they can get
actors in the private and public sectors moving in the same
direction."
   When the vision of the 1960s was published in 1963, Japan
had already bounced back from the war's devastation but still
worried about surviving international competition. MITI
called for concentration on high-growth heavy industries and
chemicals and subsequently fostered those sectors. In steel,
for example, MITI helped coordinate production, investment
and pricing to prevent "excessive competition," eventually
engineering the merger of two large manufacturers into Nippon
Steel. By the end of the decade, Japan had tripled its steel
output and become the world's most efficient producer.
   The next vision, published in 1971, called for a
"knowledge-intensive" economy. Japan was worried about
competition from low-wage developing countries and industrial
pollution. MITI steered its financial machinery-tax breaks
and loans away from heavy industries and toward clean
technologies, while maintaining trade curbs in those
strategic sectors.
   It launched research projects with Japanese electronics
companies in areas such as mainframe computers and
semiconductors. It guaranteed a market for these nascent
industries by buying only domestic products, even though
foreign technology was superior. By the end of 1970s, Japan
had largely pushed America out of consumer electronics, made
major gains in computers and become the technological leader
in basic chips.
   The 1980s vision was more diffuse. It dwelled on what
seemed at the time like a long-term energy crisis. But its
goals included becoming "technology-intensive," on the ground
that Japan must "develop its own technology to serve as a
bargaining power." The report listed many crucial fields,
such as artificial intelligence and new materials, and MITI
subsequently underwrote related research projects. American
trade negotiators also allege that MITI encouraged, or at
least shielded, measures that protected Japan's domestic
technology while wiping out foreign competitors.
   It is too early to judge the success of many of the
advanced research ventures. But as the 1980s ended, Japan had
virtually chased Americans out of the dynamic random access
memory semiconductor business and seemed poised to take a
large chunk of the supercomputer market.
   But something else happened in the 1980s that MITI hadn't
envisioned: The world got angry at Japan. Americans and
Europeans termed its policies unfair, blamed MITI and
threatened to close their markets unless Japan changed. So
one of the ministry's new missions has been to shine up
Japan's image -- and its own.
   MITI officials talk these days like graduates of
re-education camps. They diligently refer to declines in
Japan's trade surplus as "improvement" in the trade picture.
Many Americans fear that Japan is targeting aircraft as its
next great industrial leap, but Shinichiro Ohta, the head of
MITI's aircraft and ordnance division, insists that "we don't
have national goals."
   MITI's face lift has included everything from negotiating
limits on Japanese exports and sharing research money with
foreign companies, down to plastering "Import Now" posters
all over Tokyo's Narita Airport. And now comes the vision of
the 1990s, which essentially declares that the mission of
building up Japan Inc. has been accomplished. Like the KGB,
which is suffering an identity crisis in the Soviet Union,
MITI needs a new task.
   The 1990s report still talks about the health of the
Japanese economy, but focuses on such domestic issues as
dealing with the labor shortage. The vision calls for more
basic, as opposed to commercial, scientific research. The
industrial-policy section calls for consumerism and more
attention to "human values."
   "MITI had great success in making Japan an economic
giant," says Hiroshi Tsukamoto, a 22-year veteran of the
ministry who helped draft a section on "yutori and yutakasa,"
which roughly translates into "comfort and affluence." "But
now the surroundings of Japan are changing, and we have to
have a more balanced relationship between the economy and
individual people's lives."
   Yet MITI hasn't abandoned its traditional role. It still
targets commercial technologies in which Japan lags behind
other countries, such as jet engines, for
government-sponsored research and tax breaks. And it
strenuously resisted U.S. pressure to open up markets ranging
from supercomputers to the retail system.
   "The only thing that is changing is what is needed to
promote Japanese business in the 1990s," says John P. Stern,
who heads the American Electronics Association's Tokyo
office. "Japanese companies are overflowing with capital.
They don't need the West anymore to develop technology. They
need to maintain foreign markets' openness. I see absolutely
no change in MITI's fundamental vision."
   The innocent-sounding vision of the 1990s might appear to
be aimed at doing just that. For the first time, the ministry
plans to release an English-language summary simultaneous
with the Japanese report. The release comes just a week after
the first full report of the Structural Impediments
Initiative, a forum in which the U.S. is urging Japan to
adopt a more mellow economy. In fact, the Japanese
government, in an interim agreement in the SII talks signed
in April, specifically agreed that its "vision" statements
"shall not be used to enhance the competitive position of
particular companies in the Japanese market" and that in
trade-related visions, "the significance of imports shall be
emphasized."
   Yet more and more Americans are convinced that MITI really
is evolving. Some visiting U.S Commerce Department officials
last September praised MITI's helpful role in trade
discussions and criticized the more intransigent Ministry of
Posts and Telecommunications. "Some people are going to be
very reluctant to change, but there is a recognition {within
MITI} they've got to open up," a Commerce Department official
said here recently.
   MITI, in fact, has plenty of reasons other than pleasing
Americans for adopting a new look. In Japan's fiercely
competitive bureaucratic wars, MITI's new vision can be read
as a gambit for expanding its turf. Most of the issues
addressed have little to do with MITI's direct
responsibilities. The push for greater public spending, for
example, is a shot across the bow of the tightfisted Ministry
of Finance. The drive to cut labor hours -- reinforced with
yet-another report issued in early June -- nudges into the
Labor Ministry's domain.
   In fact, while MITI and the Americans talk about the same
goals, the proposed means often differ sharply. U.S.
negotiators argue that the source of most economic conflict
is the heavy hand of the Japanese government and that the
solution is deregulation. But MITI's response to most
complaints is a new MITI program.
   Besides, MITI isn't alone in calling for reorientation of
Japan's economy. The 1990s vision will be only the most
prominent in a stream of reports issued since then-Prime
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone commissioned a 1986 report calling
for a laundry list of market-opening and lifestyle-enhancing
measures.
   And just yesterday, Japan's largest trade-union federation
and the federation of employers' associations, in their
first-ever joint report to the government, urged a
reorientation in Japan's industrial structure away from
producers and more toward consumers, according to the Kyodo
news agency.
   But even if MITI, as well as other pockets of Japan's
leadership, really have the will, it isn't clear that they
have the way, or even know the way, to craft such a
transformation. After all, the 1970s vision included a call
for a five-day workweek, and the 1980s vision advocated
"relaxed ease" -- though stressing balance with economic
"vitality." Over that time, Japan's economy has certainly
gained in vitality, but working hours have stayed stuck at
more than 2,100 a year, 10% more than those in any other
industrialized nation.
   One problem, analysts say, is that MITI is advocating
values alien to long-held Japanese practices. "I think there
is a desire on the part of Japanese leaders to avoid
confrontation and friction with the U.S. and other
countries," says Clyde Prestowitz, a former U.S. trade
negotiator who often jousted with MITI. But, "the more
important question is `Do they know how?' . . . If you don't
really have a concept of openness, then how do you get
there?"
   Another potential stumbling block is that MITI, by
championing foreign companies as well as Japanese workers and
consumers, would rile its traditional constituency: Japanese
industry. Is it really able to rein in the giant it helped
create? Some say it is -- but just feigns impotence to
convince Americans further market-changing measures are
impossible.
   Others aren't so sure. "Whenever companies consider {MITI
policies} good for them, they follow," says Makoto Kuroda,
the ministry's recently retired vice minister of
international affairs. "But when MITI says something stupid,
or believed to be contrary to the interests of business,
there is no way to force them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries:
   Pretax Profit for Fiscal '90
   Rose 33% to $320.6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SCT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries PLC of Britain said pretax
profit for the year ended April 29 rose 33% to #183.3 million
($320.6 million) from #138.2 million a year earlier, helped
by strong gains in brewing and the company's new leisure
division.
   Profit after taxes, less minority interests and
allocations to profit-sharing and before an extraordinary
gain of #424.4 million from sales of assets, rose 27% to
#116.1 million from #91.3 million a year earlier, when the
company had an extraordinary loss of #4.8 million in
connection with successfully defending a hostile takeover
bid. Earnings per share increased 23% to 28.7 pence from 23.4
pence. Profit attributable shareholders surged to #535.5
million from #81.2 million. Operating profit rose 32% to
#210.9 million from #159.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales climbed 20% to #1.24 billion from #1.03 billion.
   The company is recommending a final dividend of 8.58 pence
a share, making a total payout of 13 pence, an increase of
20% from 10.83 pence a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Foremost Corp. of America:
   Home Insurance Firm Halts
   5-Month Search for a Buyer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FCOA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Foremost Corp. of America, Grand Rapids, Mich., said it
had ended a five-month search for a buyer for the company.
   "We have proceeded diligently over the past five months in
identifying and contacting potential purchasers," said
Richard L. Antonini, Foremost's president and chief executive
officer. "Our efforts, however, have been unsuccessful and,
accordingly, the board has determined that it is not in the
best interests of the company and its stockholders to
continue to explore a possible sale."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foremost, which provides insurance for manufactured homes
and recreational vehicles, lost $20.8 million in 1989. For
the quarter ended March 31, Foremost posted earnings of $5.2
million, down from $11.9 million a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Three Firms Explore
   Possibility of Team
   For Rocket Engine
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UT ROK GY
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Three rocket engine makers said they are exploring the
possibility of forming a team to develop a propulsion system
for a new family of launch vehicles designed to lift heavy
payloads into space at a fraction of the current cost.
   Rockwell International Corp.'s Rocketdyne division, the
Pratt &amp; Whitney division of United Technologies Corp., and
Aerojet, GenCorp's aerospace segment, said the team approach
was requested by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, the government agency overseeing the engine
development program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rocketdyne's project marketing manager, David Wright, said
that the team might become effective as early as Oct. 1 if an
agreement can be reached on melding the companies' nine
existing contracts for the project's initial phase. The next
two phases, which he valued at $600 million to $700 million
over five to six years, would begin in October 1991.
   The companies said they will design an engine using liquid
hydrogen and liquid oxygen propellants with a 580,000-pound
thrust level. The new engine would be the first significant
advance in rocket engine technology since the early 1970s, a
Rocketdyne spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Columbia Pictures
   Halts Production
   On `Radio Flyers'
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE TWX CRC MGM
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures Entertainment
Inc. has suspended production of the movie "Radio Flyers" and
relieved the film's writer of his job as director.
   Although Columbia said it expects to find a new director
shortly and resume the production, the problems at "Radio
Flyers" are a setback for Columbia, which stunned the
industry when it paid more than $1 million to writer David
Mickey Evans for his screenplay and agreed to let him direct
the picture even though the 27-year-old virtual unknown had
never directed a movie.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Radio Flyers" is also one of the first movies to be put
into production by the new management team of Peter Guber and
Jon Peters, who are scrambling to restart production at the
moribund studio. The project was among the first in the
recent spate of high-profile screenplays that have sparked
bidding wars among Hollywood studios, which are now paying
more than $2 million for certain screenplays that might have
fetched less than $500,000 only a year ago.
   In the case of "Radio Flyers," Time Warner Inc.'s Warner
Bros. unit was eager to acquire the highly-regarded
screenplay, but it wanted to put veteran director Dick
Donner, who directed "Lethal Weapon," in charge of the film.
But Mr. Evans insisted that he direct the film himself, which
Warner executives balked at, so he sold it instead to
Columbia after Mr. Peters agreed to pay him $600,000 for the
movie and another $500,000 to direct it.
   Filming of "Radio Flyers" began June 16, but according to
people familiar with the production, it was troubled from the
start and the so-called "dailies" -- initial footage from the
day's filming -- made it clear the movie wasn't working. The
film was being produced for Columbia by Stonebridge
Productions, one of the film companies associated with actor
Michael Douglas.
   Mr. Evans couldn't be reached for comment, and Stonebridge
declined to comment. Columbia released an unusual statement
that said "Radio Flyers" is "one of the greatest screenplays
we have ever read," and "in our spirit of affection for the
screenplay, Stonebridge, with Columbia Pictures, gave David
Mickey Evans the opportunity to participate directorially. We
hope David will stay on the film to be of great value as one
of the producers."
   "Radio Flyers" is the story of two young brothers who
escape into their fantasy worlds to cope with a harsh life
and abuse by their stepfather. Among its stars are Rosanna
Arquette and Joe Mantegna.
   So far, Columbia doesn't have much else in the pipeline.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters scrapped almost all the movies that
had been developed by former studio chief Dawn Steel. The
Columbia unit has virtually nothing for release this summer
other than the Aug. 10 opening of "Flatliners," from the
Steel regime. The Tri-Star Pictures unit will provide
virtually all the revenue with its distribution arrangements
with Carolco Pictures, producers of the current hit "Total
Recall" and upcoming "Air America." Tri-Star is also
releasing "The Freshman," starring Marlon Brando, later this
month.
   Columbia will soon begin shooting "Hudson Hawke" with
Bruce Willis, and it also recently acquired the movie "The
Prince of Tides" from MGM/UA Communications Co., which
originally agreed to produce a film-based on the best-selling
novel -- starring Barbra Streisand. Columbia acquired the
film as a result of Ms. Streisand's longstanding relationship
with Mr. Peters, who was once her hairdresser and boyfriend.
The film, which also stars Nick Nolte, is currently in
production.
   Since Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters took the helm at Columbia
earlier this year, they have bought a number of expensive
film scripts, though it is not clear all of them will be
produced. Last spring, they hired producer Frank Price -- who
had previously run both Columbia Pictures and MCA Inc.'s
Universal Pictures -- to run the Columbia unit again, and
lured Mike Medavoy away from Orion Pictures to run the
Tri-Star Pictures unit. Mr. Medavoy and Mr. Price were given
autonomy to chose their own productions. Mr. Price, for
example, recently started production on a sequel to "The Blue
Lagoon," a project he had been working on before being
rehired by Columbia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- BASF AG:
   Two North American Lines
   Are Put on Auction Block
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASF AG, a West German chemical company, put its U.S.
flavors and fragrances operating unit and its North American
ink business up for sale, saying the non-core lines don't fit
into its long-term growth strategy.
   BASF hired Wasserstein Perella &amp; Co., New York, to find a
buyer for the Fritzsche Dodge &amp; Olcott unit, which develops,
makes and markets products world-wide for the nutrition and
cosmetics industries. It retained Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., New
York, to arrange the ink business's sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fritzsche Dodge, acquired in 1980 from the family that
founded it in 1798, has 850 employees, 550 of them in the
U.S. BASF declined to disclose financial details, but
Fritzsche Dodge's annual sales have been estimated at about
$150 million. A spokesman in the U.S. said the divestiture
proposal shouldn't affect the unit's capital spending plans
of about $600 million this year, up from $460 million in
1989.
   The printing ink operations in the U.S. and Canada, with
about 1,400 employees, make and supply printing ink and
auxiliary products to the publication, packaging and
commercial printing industries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Takeovers, Program Trading Lift
   Stocks, Enlivening Slow Session
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Takeovers and program trading lifted stocks
yesterday, adding some excitement to a sluggish trading day.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 18.57 to 2899.26.
Volume totaled about 130,200,000 on the New York Stock
Exchange, where advancing issues barely stepped ahead of
declining shares 775 to 744.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The narrow breadth was reflected in the smaller rise of
broader market measures. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index gained 1.52 to 359.54, an advance equal to an 11-point
gain in the Dow industrials. Stock-index arbitrage buy
programs helped boost volume in a day of otherwise slow
trading, reflecting the approach of the July Fourth holiday.
   Some takeover excitement returned to the stock market with
Forstmann Little &amp; Co.'s $44.50-a-share, or $1.6 billion,
buy-out agreement with General Instrument Corp. General
Instrument's stock soared 8 7/8 to 45 1/8 on volume of 3.3
million shares. Also, Kay Jewelers received a $17-a-share, or
$328.1 million, offer from Ratners Group of Britain. Kay
Jewelers climbed 3 3/8 to 14 1/4 on 1.5 million shares. The
two stocks were the largest gainers in percentage terms on
the Big Board yesterday.
   Traders said the acquisition offers enlivened takeover
speculators' interest in several other stocks. Avon Products,
for example, gained 5/8 to 37 3/8; McGraw-Hill rose 1 to 57
1/4, and American depositary receipts of Glaxo Holdings PLC
rose 1 to 30.
   "I think we are seeing the beginning of takeovers in
industries like technology, where there is overcapacity and
opportunities for restructurings, mergers and
consolidations," Michael Metz, chief market analyst at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co., said. "A lot of industrial companies are
underleveraged, and banks are looking for respectable
borrowers."
   Outside of takeover speculation and futures-related
buying, investors bought auto and financial service stocks.
Ford gained 5/8 to 44 3/8. Federal National Mortgage
Association rose 1 1/8 to 41 3/4; Federal Home Loan Mortgage
rose 2 1/4 to 77 3/4.
   Ralston Purina closed 1 1/2 higher at 93 3/8. A
Prudential-Bache Securities analyst, John McMillin, increased
his earnings forecast for the stock to $1.40 a share, on a
fully diluted basis, for Ralston's fiscal third quarter just
ended; the company earned $1.18 a year earlier. He raised his
full-year forecasts to $6.10 a share for fiscal 1990 ending
in September, and to $7 a share for all of 1991. "Operating
trends have been much more stable" at Ralston, Mr. McMillin
said. He added that the company is an "aggressive" buyer of
its own stock.
   Shearson Lehman Hutton produced its 42nd annual list of
"Ten Uncommon Values in Common Stocks." Among the recommended
issues: Johnson &amp; Johnson rose 1 7/8 to 69 5/8; Contel gained
1 1/4 to 27; Cable &amp; Wireless gained 1 1/8 to 30 5/8; Acuson
added 1 3/4 to 40 1/2, and Unum went up 1 3/8 to 54 3/4.
   Shearson's list also included Interpublic Group, which
went up 1/4 to 35; Newell, up 3/8 to 32 3/8; Nord Resources,
up 7/8 to 18 1/2, and Schlumberger, down 3/8 to 57 1/8. Adobe
Systems, the only over-the-counter stock to make the list,
gained 1 1/4 to 38.
   Meanwhile, in its most recent look at corporate dividends,
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. found that 65 companies increased
dividends last month, down 26% from a year earlier. The
number of companies decreasing dividends rose to 14 in June,
compared with eight in the same month last year. Companies
omitting dividends doubled to 18.
   "Corporations are wary of increasing dividends and are
husbanding cash because of the poor earnings environment,"
said Joseph Tigue, managing editor of the S&amp;P "Outlook"
newsletter.
   N.V. Philips dropped 7/8 to 16 7/8. The company projected
a loss of about $1.07 billion for the year, including
restructuring charges of about $1.44 billion that it plans to
take in the second half. Its restructuring proposal calls for
about 10,000 employees to be trimmed from the work force,
mostly in Europe.
   Smith Corona fell 7/8 to 5 3/8. The company said that it
expects to report "a small loss" for the June quarter and
that its board will consider cutting the quarterly dividend
to about five cents a share from 15 cents.
   Prime Motor Inns tumbled 1 1/8 to 7 7/8, after saying it
expects a "substantial" loss for the fiscal year ending next
June, including about $150 million in charges for additional
reserves and asset write-downs.
   Elsewhere on the takeover front:
   -- Rorer Group gained 1 3/8 to 70. Rhone Poulenc moved
another step closer to completing its merger with the
company, as the French firm received U.S. clearance to
proceed with an offering of contingent value rights to Rorer
shareholders.
   -- Milton Roy climbed 2 5/8 to 25 1/2. On Friday,
Sundstrand disclosed that it holds a 14.99% stake in the
company, bought with a possible takeover in mind.
   -- MGM/UA Communications dropped 5/8 to 16 5/8. Time
Warner, which previously decided against providing Pathe
Communications with $650 million in financing for its
proposed acquisition of MGM/UA, has filed a $100 million suit
against Pathe in a dispute growing out of the companies'
financing talks.
   -- Kollmorgen slid 1/4 to 12. The company purchased all of
its common shares owned by Vernitron, which staged an
unsuccessful proxy fight for board seats in May, under a
10-year standstill agreement.
   Also, Ferro fell 1/2 to 25 on volume of one million
shares, after soaring 4 3/8 points Friday on news that
investor Jon M. Huntsman received clearance to acquire as
much as 15% of its common shares.
   Long Island Lighting gained 3/4 to 20 on volume of 1.6
million shares, following an appeals court decision, issued
late Friday, which upheld the company's agreement with
customers in 1989 to reduce electric rates by $390 million
over 10 years. The court rejected efforts to overturn the
settlement as too small.
   Responding to the ruling, Kidder Peabody upgraded its
investment opinion on Lilco to the firm's top rating. Douglas
W. Preiser, an analyst, told Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report that the decision, in which the court also upheld a
lower court's overturning of a racketeering verdict, "removes
a big boulder" that had been hanging over the company.
   Also, Prudential-Bache Securities and Salomon Brothers
reiterated "buy" recommendations on Lilco stock, following
the appeals court ruling, according to the investor report.
Analysts at all three firms said they expect the utility to
proceed later this summer with a 50% dividend increase
proposed under the settlement.
   Several other utility stocks also were actively traded on
the Big Board, including SCEcorp, which was unchanged at 37
1/2 on 1.5 million shares; Pacific Gas &amp; Electric, which
dropped 1/8 to 23 1/8; Teco Energy, which went up 1/2 to 29
1/2; Potomac Electric Power, which added 1/4 to 21, and
PacifiCorp, which closed unchanged at 21 1/4.
   McDonnell Douglas gained 1 5/8 to 38 1/8. A group headed
by Menke Titola Capital, a San Francisco buy-out firm,
acquired the company's computer maintenance and distribution
business for $65 million.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.07
to 360.14. Volume totaled about 9,850,000 shares, compared
with about 14,720,000 Friday. Advancing issues totaled 230
and declining issues 369, and 229 were unchanged.
   American Science &amp; Engineering fell 1/2 to 6 1/8. The
company reported a loss of 43 cents a share for its fiscal
fourth quarter, ended in March, compared with a slight profit
in the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fluor Corp.:
   Iron Ore Processing Unit
   Sold to Big River Minerals
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fluor Corp., Irvine, Calif., said it sold its iron ore
processing unit to St. Louis-based Big River Minerals Corp.
for about $12 million, resulting in a one-time after-tax gain
of less than 10 cents a share for the third quarter ending
July 31.
   Pea Ridge Iron Ore Co. had been carried on Fluor's books
as a discontinued operation since a 1987 reorganization when
Fluor began entertaining offers to buy it. Fluor in recent
years has sold off natural resources investments in gold,
zinc, oil and copper, and is entertaining inquiries about its
lead investments. Last March, Fluor said it had retained an
investment banking firm to explore options for its Massey
coal-producing unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, which earned $68 million or 40 cents a share,
in the second quarter ended April 30, is focusing on its core
business of engineering, construction and technical services.
   Pea Ridge operates an iron ore mine and pelletizing plant
with about 250 employees near Sullivan, Mo. Big River is a
closely held investment company formed in 1988 by executives
of former Fluor unit St. Joe's Minerals Corp., including
former Fluor President John Wright. Big River produces coal,
zinc, precious metals and iron ore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Rectifier
   Pact With Siliconix
   Struck Down by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IRF SILIQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- International Rectifier Corp. said a
federal bankruptcy court in San Francisco didn't approve an
agreement with Siliconix Inc. that would have settled
patent-infringement litigation between the two companies.
   "The court feels it is premature to consider the agreement
separately from Siliconix's reorganization plan," said a
spokeswoman for El Segundo, Calif.-based International
Rectifier, which supplies power semiconductors and other
products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Siliconix, Santa Clara, Calif., filed for bankruptcy-law
protection in April after a federal court held valid all five
of International Rectifier's patents on power-transistor
technology. Under terms of the settlement, Siliconix would
pay International Rectifier $12 million over a two-year
period and would acquire a royalty-bearing license under the
litigated patents.
   A target date of July 15 has been set for filing the
reorganization plan with the court, said a Siliconix
spokesman. International Rectifier said it is evaluating the
effect of the bankruptcy-court decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HealthVest Agrees
   To Transfer Its Lease
   On Tennessee Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HVT HII
</CO>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- HealthVest, an ailing real estate
investment trust, said it agreed to transfer the operating
lease on Eastwood Medical Center to Regent Health Group Inc.,
a closely held hospital-management company.
   The Eastwood facility, a 243-bed hospital in Memphis,
Tenn., will continue to be operated by Healthcare
International Inc. until the new lease is signed. Signing,
said HealthVest officials, is contingent on successful
formation of a physician limited partnership and is expected
by Aug. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HealthVest had a net loss of $116.8 million, or $10.57 a
share, for 1989, much of it the result of troubles at
Healthcare International, which leases many of its
properties. The two companies have had a standstill agreement
for several months and have extended it to Oct. 15, 1990,
according to HealthVest officials. Terms of the extension
call for payments of $2.4 million a month by Healthcare plus
net cash proceeds from its hospital in Tustin, Calif.
   HealthVest also has a standstill agreement with its
lenders that is to remain in effect until Dec. 14 while it
tries to restructure about $252 million in debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Rothmans International PLC:
   Firm Will Buy Dutch Unit
   Of American Brands Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RIN AMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rothmans International PLC, London, said Monday that it
has agreed to buy the Dutch tobacco unit of American Brands
Inc. for 245 million guilders ($131 million).
   The purchase of Theodorus Niemeyer B.V., a unit of
American Brands's Gallaher Ltd. subsidiary, is aimed at
strengthening Rothmans's position in the pipe and fine-cut
tobacco markets in continental Europe, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gallaher will continue to market the Dutch company's
Saamson, Can and Holland House tobaccos in the U.K. and
Ireland.
   Niemeyer is expected to show net assets of 172 million
guilders as of June 30. For the nine months ended June 30,
pretax profit is estimated to have been 34 million guilders.
   American Brands is based in Old Greenwich, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VMS Partners
   Settlement Plan
   Is Sent to Judge
   ----
   By Andrew Patner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   J.OTL VHT VMG VMLPZ VMTGZ VMORZ VST VSLF VLANS
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Limited partners in a once-troubled syndication
sponsored by VMS Realty Partners would receive $10 million
under a settlement agreement presented to a federal judge
here. Each investor would receive about $78,000 for each
investment unit in what would be the first settlement in a
suit against the partnership sponsor.
   Some 20 cases filed against VMS have been consolidated
before federal Judge James B. Zagel. Attorneys for both
plaintiffs and defendants estimate that another 20 to 30
cases involving privately placed partnerships will be brought
against VMS this year. In addition, VMS, its individual
partners and several leading brokerage houses face a number
of suits from holders of publicly traded securities sponsored
by VMS.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   VMS, which claimed as recently as February to control some
$9 billion in real estate assets, raised $2.6 billion from
the public in the late 1980s, including $1.5 billion in
private placements.
   Investors in the 111 West Washington Street Association
Ltd. partnership had each put in $150,000 in principal and
about $52,000 in interest for each unit. Although investors
received tax write-offs, VMS had also promised returns of two
to three times the investment. The settlement comes as
something of a surprise as the syndicated property, the
Chicago Title &amp; Trust Building, was appraised in February at
$72 million, less than the amount needed to satisfy the first
and second mortgages on the property.
   But when VMS agreed to sell the downtown office building
to a unit of Rubloff Real Estate &amp; Capital Inc. for $91
million, VMS and the other general partners agreed to forgo
$10 million in profits to satisfy the settlement, according
to the settlement agreement. After recovering about $5
million advanced to the property to satisfy cash shortfalls,
the general partners will receive only about $680,000 in
profits under the settlement.
   Chicago-based Rubloff Real Estate is owned in part by ORIX
Corp., a Tokyo-based financial concern. The settlement is
contingent on the successful closing of the sale to Rubloff.
All of the funds paid to VMS may be subject to creditors'
claims.
   The settlement may prove to be anomalous, according to
attorneys for certain of the parties. Few of the other
properties syndicated by VMS appear to have sales prospects
as strong as the Chicago Title building. In addition, other
suits that name Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., Cigna
Securities Inc. and the accounting firm of Laventhol &amp;
Horwath as defendants as well as VMS are said to be more
complex.
   Joel A. Stone, president and chief executive officer of
VMS, said the settlement was consistent with the minimum
payment and expectations set when the partnership was
structured five years ago. "We would have liked to have seen
more for the limited partners and for us," Mr. Stone said,
"But that was impossible considering the current state of
real estate prices in downtown Chicago."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tate &amp; Lyle PLC:
   U.K. Sugar Firm Decides
   To Drop Bid for Berisford
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TAT U.BRF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tate &amp; Lyle PLC, a British sugar company, said it will not
proceed to bid for Berisford International PLC, a British
food, property and jewelry concern.
   In a statement, Tate and Lyle said its appraisal of some
of Berisford's non-sugar businesses showed a takeover would
be ill-advised. Berisford had no immediate comment on Tate &amp;
Lyle's decision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month, Britain's Department of Trade and Industry
ordered an investigation of the competitive impact of such a
merger on the country's sugar industry. Berisford and Tate &amp;
Lyle together control about 95% of the country's sugar
supplies.
   A Tate &amp; Lyle spokesman said the investigation "led Tate &amp;
Lyle to conclude that it didn't want to proceed with a bid
for the company."
   The inquiry also found that an acquisition of Berisford
would jeopardize Tate &amp; Lyle's cane sugar refining margins. A
Tate &amp; Lyle spokesman said a merger with Berisford, a large
sugar beet refiner, might have led to an end to European
Community and U.K. government payments, which support Tate &amp;
Lyle's cane sugar refining activities against competition in
the EC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   First City Bancorp.,
   Unit, Credit Ratings
   Placed Under Review
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FBT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- The credit ratings of First City Bancorp. of
Texas Inc., a bank holding company, and its lead bank, First
City, Texas-Houston, have been placed under review for
possible downgrade by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
   The review could affect about $641 million in securities,
including First City Bancorp. senior long-term debt, now
Ba-1, and its subordinated debt, now Ba-2; and First City
National long-term deposit obligations, now Baa-2, and
short-term deposit obligations, now Prime-3.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's cited First City Bancorp.'s announcement of an
increase in nonperforming loans, which was expected to be
$200 million by the end of the second quarter, up from $140
million at the end of 1989. But a First City Bancorp.
spokesman said the company "looks forward to the opportunity
to discuss its loan portfolio" and believes that a thorough
review will confirm that current ratings should be
maintained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Are Little Changed in Quiet Session
   As Now-Ritual Wait for Jobs Data Is Re-enacted
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Candace Cumberbatch
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   KJI EUROP JAPAN FNM FRE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices were little changed in mostly
torpid trading as investors began their monthly ritual of
waiting for the employment report.
   For bond investors, the Department of Labor's monthly
report has become the most anxiously awaited of all
government economic indicators. It has the ability to sway
sentiment and move the markets, which explains why some
investors shy away from the market in the days before its
release. The June employment report will be released on
Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The approaching July Fourth holiday, which falls in the
middle of the week, also kept many investors away.
   "We're really playing with a half-staff on Wall Street,"
said Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist and managing director
at Midland Montagu Securities Inc. "The first half of the
week will be treated as if it is an extended holiday." He
said that traders, investors and investment advisers will
likely return on Friday, in time for the release of the June
employment report.
   In the municipal market, traders kept close watch on bonds
issued by the city of Philadelphia. On Friday, Moody's
Investors Service Inc. downgraded about $1.35 billion of the
city's outstanding general obligation bonds to Ba from Baa,
citing a burgeoning budget deficit and continued
uncertainties surrounding the development of recurring
funding sources.
   Bonds rated below Baa are considered junk bonds and
Philadelphia is now the only major U.S. city whose general
obligation bonds are rated in that category. However, several
city's have been rated non-investment grade in the past,
including New York, Cleveland and Detroit.
   There wasn't a general consensus about how the
Philadelphia bonds moved. Traders at Butcher &amp; Singer Inc.
said that some Philadelphia bonds fell between two and four
points, which amounts to losses of between $20 and $40 for
bonds with a $1,000 face amount. However, other traders said
the bonds were just slightly lower.
   But all dealers said that trading activity was very slow
yesterday with only a handful of firms putting out lists for
the bid. When bids were taken on $150,000 of Philadelphia's
8.25% bond due 2009, investors sought yields of 8.20% and
higher. Those bonds were yielding about 8% on Friday. Bids
also were taken for $500,000 of Philadelphia's 8.10% of bonds
due 2000.
   Trading activity in Philadelphia bonds could pick up
substantially in the weeks ahead as news of the downgrading
spreads. Although few analysts believe that Philadelphia will
default on its obligations, many institutional investors are
prohibited from holding fixed-income securities that are not
rated investment-grade.
   Some traders see a silver lining in the clouds overhanging
the bonds, arguing that the response could have been much
worse Monday.
   Market participants were "kind of prepared" for the
Moody's action, said W.M. Norris Jordan Jr., a trader at
Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. in Philadelphia.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds were little changed from Friday. The
benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a price of 103
23/32 to yield 8.40%, unchanged from Friday.
   Trading in the Treasury market was actually brisk early
yesterday morning as prices declined in response to a weaker
dollar on foreign exchange markets, rising commodity prices
and news that the National Association of Purchasing
Management's index of business conditions rose to 51.1% in
June from 50.7% in May. The rise suggests that manufacturing
activity picked up slightly.
   Short-term rates were lower when compared with last week
at the government's weekly auction of Treasury bills. The
government sold $17.6 billion of bills yesterday with an
average discount rate of 7.73% for three-month bills and
7.60% for six-month bills.
   The rates were down from last week's auction when they
were 7.78% and 7.67%, respectively.
   Here are details of yesterday's bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                13-Week          26-Week
   Applications ........... $35,303,705,000  $25,258,875,000
   Accepted bids ..........  $8,828,890,000   $8,814,195,000

   Accepted noncompet'ly ..  $1,538,940,000   $1,342,775,000
   Average price (Rate) ...  98.046 (7.73%)   96.158 (7.60%)
   High price (Rate) ......  98.049 (7.72%)   96.168 (7.58%)
   Low price (Rate) .......  98.046 (7.73%)   96.158 (7.60%)
   Coupon equivalent ......           7.99%            8.01%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated July 5, 1990. The 13-week bills
mature Oct. 4, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Jan. 3,
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate, Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of Kay Jewelers Inc. rocketed higher on
news that the jewelry chain received a friendly takeover bid
from Ratners Group PLC, a major jewelry retailer in Britain.
   In the proposed takeover, 12.4 million of outstanding Kay
Jeweler stock will be exchanged for new Ratners perferred
stock valued at $17 a share. The proposed acquisition is
contingent upon the ability of Ratners to purchase a majority
of Kay's junk bonds. Ratners said it will try to purchase
those bonds in the open market as well as launch a tender
offer for the bonds at 75% of face value.
   Prices of some Kay junk bonds jumped 15 points, or about
$150 for bonds with a $1,000 face amount. Kay's senior notes
were quoted late in the day at a bid price of 75, although
some were being offered at 90. The wide spread between bid
and offer is a sign that some investors expect Ratners to
sweeten its offer for the bonds.
   Frederick H. Taylor, high-yield analyst at Salomon
Brothers Inc., doubts that a price of 75 will appeal to
bondholders.
   That price, he said, "seems inadequate in light of the
total value of the company and particularly in light of how
the equity is being valued. I expect bondholders to hold out
for a higher value."
   In other trading, most corporate bonds, both junk and
investment grade, ended little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The value of the U.S. dollar declined sharply on foreign
exchange markets, boosting foreign currencies and sparking a
rally in most foreign bond markets.
   On the first trading day after West and East German
monetary unification, the West German bond market was
surprisingly quiet.
   Bond dealers attributed the market's somber tone to
anxiety about the first ever German Unity Fund bond offering,
scheduled to take place tomorrow. The proceeds from the issue
will be invested in East Germany. Market talk is that the
bonds will mature in 10 years and carry a coupon rate of
between 8.75% and 8.875%. The size of the bond offering is
expected to be between five billion or six billion marks
($3.01 billion to $3.61 billion).
   In trading, West Germany's 8.75% bond due 2000 rose 0.22
point to a price of 100.50 to yield 8.67%.
   Prices of Japanese government bonds finished firmer as the
yen rose sharply against the dollar. In Tokyo, the dollar
ended at 151.43 yen, down from 152.20 yen late Friday in New
York and from 152.88 yen in Tokyo on Friday.
   As the value of the yen rose, Japanese government bonds
followed. At the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
the price of Japan's benchmark 4.8% 10-year bond was 86.43,
up 0.18 point, to yield 7.31%. In over-the-counter trades
after the Tokyo Stock Exchange closed, the yield traded as
low as 7.275%.
   (Foreign government yields are quoted here in local terms
and therefore differ somewhat from yields calculated for
these markets by U.S. investment banks, which tend to use the
semiannual compound measure to compare yields across
markets.)
   But British government bonds, called gilts, ended weaker
due to disappointing economic news. The British government
revised its growth estimate for May retail sales to 1.4% from
1.2%, suggesting that consumer demand was a bit stronger than
previously reported.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   In the absence of market-moving news, Philadelphia's
general obligation bonds were a focus of the sleepy municipal
bond market.
   Meanwhile, actively traded municipal bonds closed flat to
1/4 point higher.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% securities of
2018 finished 1/4 stronger at 98 3/4, yielding 7.30%. On
Friday, the bonds yielded 7.32%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Taking their cue from the stagnant U.S. Treasury market,
mortgage securities prices were unchanged to a shade firmer.
   The primary market also was quiet, with one issue priced
-- a $350 million issue of Federal National Mortgage
Association real estate mortgage investment conduit
securities offered by First Boston Corp.
   The offering is backed by new stripped mortgage securities
formed from Fannie Mae 9% 30-year mortgage-backed securities.
Stripped securities are formed by separating principal and
interest portions of a security, and then selling them
separately to investors.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for July delivery were 1/32 firmer on the day at 99 17/32;
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5% issues were up 1/32 at
98 27/32 and Fannie Mae 9.5% securities were also up 1/32 at
99 11/32.
   In the 10% coupon issues, the Ginnie Maes were up 1/32 at
101 27/32, the Freddie Macs and Fannie Maes were unchanged at
100 25/32 and 101 9/32, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Nashua Corp. Belies an Unglamorous Image,
   Offers a Lot and Is Undervalued, Analysts Say
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   NSH
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- At first glance, Nashua Corp. seems to want
for focus.
   It has four seemingly unrelated and unglamorous
businesses, and though it has annual sales of more than a
half-billion dollars, few Wall Street analysts follow it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But those who do say its shares are cheap, and they would
seem to have a point. The Nashua, N.H., manufacturer is
selling at only 10 times estimated 1990 earnings.
   "We have it rated as a good, strong solid buy," says
Prudential-Bache analyst Alex Henderson. "Cash flow is
strong. It has a quality balance sheet. And it doesn't take a
lot of reinvestment."
   With many manufacturers, low share prices are the fruit of
too much debt. But Nashua has a balance sheet that would
qualify it for Debtors Anonymous. As of the end of 1989,
long-term debt as a percentage of capital was a cool 7.6%.
   Even after its recent buy-back of roughly 30% of its
shares, Nashua's total debt is only about $20 million. It
could more or less pay that off with its cash on hand.
   Nashua's cash cow is mail-order photofinishing -- which
produces high returns on assets and requires relatively
little reinvestment. Marketing under names such as York Photo
Labs, Nashua dominates mail-order photofinishing in the U.S.,
Canada and Britain. Its other strong business is
manufacturing hard disks for computers.
   Nashua also makes office supplies, such as toners for
copiers and printers; and "coated products," such as
facsimile papers, pressure-sensitive tapes and labels. These
are slow growers.
   But Nashua's businesses do have a tie that binds. In an
era when corporate America is hung up on financial
engineering, Nashua is hung up on nuts-and-bolts
manufacturing. Its chairman, Charles Clough, a 59-year-old,
33-year company veteran, is a devotee of W. Edwards Deming,
the quality-control guru who has been revered in Japan and
largely ignored at home.
   Mr. Clough took the helm in 1983, when Nashua almost
bankrupted itself by trying to compete with the Japanese in
making copiers. Since then, Mr Clough says: "We probably have
a greater appreciation for the value of cash." He also has
developed a Japanese-like obsession with quality.
   Mr. Clough is forever sermonizing about the need to
involve workers at every organizational level. "If you have a
product you should work on continuing to improve it, which is
what the Japanese do," he says. "So often, we and others,
after we fix a process, tend to ignore it."
   Though the concept sounds cliched, analysts say it works.
"The tie that binds Nashua is that it's one of the best
manufacturers in the country," says Harry Wells, an analyst
with Adams Harkness &amp; Hill. "They have put into practice all
of the buzzwords about quality control."
   Nashua's earnings have, ironically enough, recently
suffered because of an equipment-maintenance failure at one
plant. Mr. Clough says that is proof merely of the need for
constant vigilance.
   As evidence of its emphasis on quality, Mr. Wells notes
that Nashua exports computer disks to -- among other
countries -- Japan. And he says it has sufficiently reduced
inventories, a high-cost item, to have refurbished a former
warehouse into a corporate cafeteria.
   Nashua's low share price might seem reasonable, given that
manufacturing is cyclical and sensitive to the economy.
However, in photofinishing and computer disks -- Nashua's two
businesses with the best potential for growth -- analysts say
demand is strong.
   In 1990, Nashua's first-quarter net from continuing
operations was $3.6 million, up from $1.4 million a year
earlier. For the year, Prudential-Bache's Mr. Henderson
forecasts net of $3.90 a share (based on an estimated 6.3
million shares outstanding at year-end).
   The disk business is cyclical and highly competitive, but
Mr. Clough, who tends toward understatement, says: "You can
safely say we are in an up cycle. This area should grow quite
significantly."
   Last year, Nashua had free cash flow, after dividends, of
almost $20 million. Mr. Henderson says the figure should
easily top that this year. That is, one assumes, why a group
led by cash-sensitive Mario Gabelli recently acquired a 5.8%
stake in Nashua. It also begs a question: what will the
company do with its excess cash? Mr. Clough's cryptic
response is that "in this environment, cash won't be a
problem. I think it presents an opportunity." Certainly, an
acquisition by Nashua is possible.
   Ordinarily, one would be concerned that Nashua's
hard-earned cash might be ill-spent. But, in the case of Mr.
Clough -- who Mr. Henderson calls "a nuts-and-bolts operating
guy who doesn't like taking risks" -- that seems unlikely.
   ---
   Nashua Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: NSH)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Manufacturing and photofinishing
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989*:
   Sales: $549.3 million
   Net income: $20.1 million; or $2.11 a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 30, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 39 cents vs. 27 cents*
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 129,822 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 6.5 million
                                                                                                       

   *1989 figures are restated to reflect discontinued
operations. Year-end profit includes $2.5 million income from
discontinued operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Maxtor Corp.:
   Firm Completes Acquisition
   Of MiniScribe Corp. Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MXTR MINQE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Maxtor Corp. said it completed the acquisition of the
assets of the troubled Longmont, Colo.-based MiniScribe Corp.
   The San Jose, Calif., company said it created a subsidiary
called Maxtor Colorado Corp. to absorb the MiniScribe assets.
Maxtor appointed Taroon Kamadar, who managed the concern's
assets during bankruptcy proceedings, to head the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the acquisition, announced in April, will
"provide us with the ability to serve the entire range of
markets, from laptops to personal computers to workstations
to mainframes." The accord makes Maxtor the world's
third-largest maker of data storage products, the company
said.
   MiniScribe filed for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in January after
alleging financial improprieties by its management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midwest Energy Merger Approved
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MWE IOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DES MOINES, Iowa -- The proposed merger of Midwest Energy
Corp. and Iowa Resources Inc. into a holding company to be
called Midwest Resources Inc. was approved by the Iowa
Utilities Board. The merger still awaits rulings by both the
Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV DEFENDED his policies as a Soviet party congress
got under way.
   The Soviet president faced down mounting criticism from
left and right with a call for unity at the opening of the
Communist Party forum in Moscow. He rejected conservative
criticism of his social and economic restructuring as
"nonsense." The situation "dictates the imperative need to
accelerate and radicalize economic reform," Gorbachev
declared. The 4,700 delegates to the congress are split over
how the party can retain power and prevent public support
from eroding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lithuania's premier said the Kremlin has lifted its
economic blockade completely following the republic's
decision to suspend its independence bid.
   ---
   IMELDA MARCOS WAS ACQUITTED of all charges in her
racketeering trial.
   A federal jury in New York acquitted the former Philippine
first lady of charges that she used $200 million allegedly
stolen from the Filipino government to buy jewelry, artwork
and real estate in the U.S. The jury also found Adnan
Khashoggi innocent of the charges against him. The Saudi
businessman was accused of helping to conceal ownership of
Marcos property. The lack of evidence -- and doubts that a
U.S. court was the proper venue -- hurt the prosecutors'
case, jurors said.
   Marcos backers immediately claimed the verdict as a
victory not only for her, but as a vindication of her late
husband, Ferdinand, who died in September.
   ---
   ABOUT 1,400 MOSLEMS DIED in a stampede of pilgrims in the
city of Mecca.
   The people suffocated or were trampled in a pedestrian
tunnel leading to the Saudi Arabian city, witnesses said.
They said the stampede began when some pilgrims stopped in
the air-conditioned tunnel and there was a rush outside of
people pushing to escape the 112-degree heat. They also said
the ventilation system appeared to fail. According to one
diplomat, most of the victims were Malaysians and
Indonesians.
   The stampede shattered what had been a peaceful observance
of the annual Hajj, or pilgrimage, and was the worst incident
in recent years.
   ---
   East German factory workers staged a series of warning
strikes after the weekend economic merger with West Germany.
The protests were said to be aimed at getting better salaries
and working conditions, but some workers were also hoping to
apply pressure to prevent their plants from having to shut
down.
   ---
   Bush met with aides in Maine to prepare for a NATO summit
he said will bring changes but no "bombshell" in the
alliance's military strategy. The president is expected to
urge NATO to overhaul its policy for repelling a Soviet
attack by making the use of nuclear arms an unlikely last
resort. The London summit begins Thursday.
   ---
   Rebels surrounded Monrovia, cutting all major land routes
out of the Liberian capital and severing telephone and telex
links, according to guerrilla sources. Water and electricity
supplies to the city were halted last week after the
insurgent forces captured a waterworks and hydroelectric dam.
   ---
   NASA engineers are focusing on a small misalignment of
fuel tanks on two space shuttles as they search for hydrogen
leaks that have grounded the shuttle fleet. The mystery of
the leaks is throwing the shuttle schedule into disarray and
is threatening to delay at least two missions that are
planned this summer, according to NASA officials.
   ---
   Mandela addressed the Irish Parliament, alluding to
Ireland's fight against "unrelenting tyranny" to gain
independence from Britain in the 1920s. The black leader also
asked British leaders to follow the example of the Pretoria
government and not require a truce before talking with the
Irish Republican Army.
   ---
   Panama has filed 16 criminal charges against toppled
dictator Noriega, including charges of murder, torture,
human-rights violations and drug trafficking, authorities
said. Noriega was ousted by a December U.S. invasion and has
been awaiting trial in Miami on drug-trafficking charges.
   ---
   Israel's Shamir appealed to Egyptian President Mubarak to
take the initiative and work for Mideast peace. The Israeli
prime minister's statement, made in Jerusalem to a delegation
sponsored by U.S. lobbyists for Israel, coincided with an
Israel Radio report that Bush had written to Mubarak urging
an Israeli-Egyptian summit meeting.
   ---
   Yugoslavia splintered further as the republic of Slovenia
adopted a declaration on full state sovereignty and another
republic, Serbia, battled an independence declaration by
ethnic Albanians in Kosovo province.
   ---
   Provincial authorities will negotiate with Communist
rebels in the Philippines rather than use military force to
try to obtain the release of a U.S. Peace Corps member,
according to local officials. The 26-year-old volunteer was
kidnapped on June 13.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eaton Corp. Acquires Opcon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ETN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Eaton Corp. said it acquired Opcon, an
Everett, Wash.-based developer of photoelectric sensors.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   Eaton makes engineered products for the automotive,
industrial, commerical and defense markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO. (New York) -- Frederick S. Schiff
was named vice president and controller at this
pharmaceutical and consumer products company. Mr. Schiff, 42
years old, succeeds Anthony W. Ruggiero, 49, who joined
Reader's Digest Association Inc. as vice president and chief
financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Philip Morris Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PHILIP MORRIS Co. (New York) -- Bruce S. Brown was named
vice president, taxes, a new post, and elected a corporate
officer of this tobacco, food, brewing and financial services
company. Mr. Brown, 51 years old, was previously staff vice
president and director of taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   RTC Alters System for Real Estate Bids
   After Protests Over Random Selections
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When the savings-and-loan bailout agency set
out in the spring to award lucrative contracts to manage $2.6
billion in Houston real estate, it spun its wheel of fortune.
   Resolution Trust Corp. officials used a computer's random
number selector to narrow 3,000 eligible bidders down to 60.
The contracts, which are valued at millions of dollars, to
manage the real estate portfolio of University Savings of
Houston haven't been awarded yet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since then, howls of protest from real estate managers
have persuaded the agency to remove some -- but not all -- of
the element of chance from its bidding system. "We are
complaining about irrational bidding," says David
Fensterheim, a Washington attorney who represents a large
group of well-heeled thrift-asset managers, including NCNB
National Bank, Charlotte, N.C.; Chemical Banking Corp. of New
York; and Mellon Bank Corp., Pittsburgh, and a subsidiary of
New York financier Ronald Perelman's thrift, First Gibraltar
Corp., Dallas.
   Under a new bidding system, the RTC is set to award 42
contracts to manage $7.4 billion in assets over the next two
weeks. The asset-management contracts are for "work-out
specialists," who will take control of properties of failed
S&amp;Ls, fix them up and sell them, or manage difficult loan
portfolios.
   Industry protests also spurred the agency to widen bid
solicitations for a nationwide computer system to track the
RTC's vast real estate holdings. Initially, just 30 firms
were invited to bid. "The word hit the street immediately,"
says Thomas Horton, in charge of the RTC contracting, "and we
had complaints everywhere." This past Wednesday, the agency
sent out solicitations to 204 firms.
   The RTC, operating under procurement rules spelled out in
last year's S&amp;L bailout law, can't just select the cheapest
bidder or the most experienced bidder. The agency must
include women and minority contractors and take pains to
allow every interested bidder at least a theoretical shot of
landing the work. The RTC had to hire, for example, an
American Indian consultant in North Dakota to help deal with
certain land in the Northwest. The agency must also screen
out individuals who have contributed to past S&amp;L losses.
   "It's obviously a contrived system," says Mr. Horton. "We
have to be fair and open, or we are accused of steering these
to inside favorites."
   Under its new system, the RTC will send letters describing
particular contracts to every eligible bidder on its list of
potential contractors. Those who respond that they have
interest and experience will be put into a pool. From this
pool, 30 are selected to bid on each contract, with women and
minority contractors included, plus a mix of first-time and
experienced bidders. The final contract is awarded on price
and technical quality.
   "It's a dramatic improvement from the previous approach,"
says Mr. Fensterheim. "But that doesn't mean they should give
up trying to get the best people, and eliminate the
irrationality."
   So far, 7,313 contractors are on the RTC's list of
potential contractors, claiming expertise in one area or
another. The huge number, the RTC says, slows the bidding
process, because too few are actually experienced at
foreclosing on complex, and often fraud-ridden real estate
loans.
   "Everybody and his brother is out there calling himself an
asset manager," says Lamar Kelly, director of the RTC's
division of asset and real estate management. "Frankly, we
are looking very hard at these start-up firms to see if they
have demonstrated experience in handling these problems."
   This week, the agency will also begin awarding huge
contracts to manage the bulk of the RTC's residential real
estate. The agency will solicit bids to manage and sell
thousands of repossessed homes in San Antonio, Houston and
Dallas. The contracts will be worth millions over time, Mr.
Horton says.
   On Friday, the RTC selected Lowe Enterprises, a Los
Angeles company, to manage one of the agency's largest single
real estate assets, the Banning-Lewis Ranch, Colorado
Springs, Colo., a $250 million property stretching across 13
miles. The contract is for $39,500 a month, and a sales price
percentage that declines over time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau's Federated and Allied Units
   Narrowed Loss in May to $27.2 Million
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Campeau Corp.'s two retailing units posted a
narrower cumulative loss of $27.2 million for May on
depressed sales, reflecting lower inventory levels and the
sluggish economy.
   In documents filed with the U.S. bankruptcy court in
Cincinnati, Federated Department Stores Inc. said it had a
loss of $17.8 million for the four weeks ended June 2, while
Allied Stores Inc. had a loss of about $9.5 million. The
losses, which compared favorably with the $33.5 million loss
for the two units in the four-week period ended May 5, don't
include bankruptcy court-related expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the four weeks ended May 5, Federated had a loss of
$18.1 million, and Allied had a loss of about $15.5 million.
Results for these four weeks were restated.
   Revenue in May decreased slightly at Federated and Allied.
Sales at Federated dropped 2.4% to $82.1 million for the four
weeks ended June 2 against $84.1 million for the four weeks
ended May 5. Revenue at Allied dropped 2.1% to $47.4 million
from $48.4 million.
   In a statement, Allen Questrom, chairman and chief
executive officer of Federated and Allied, said the May
results had been anticipated. "There is no shortcut through
this process," said Mr. Questrom. He added that he doesn't
expect the performance at Federated and Allied to improve
before the latter part of this year.
   In the court filing, Federated and Allied attributed the
poor May results to a new merchandising strategy that
includes lower inventory levels, fewer promotions, and the
willingness to take markdowns on slow moving goods in order
to bring in fresh stock.
   Federated and Allied also cited "a general weakening and
slowdown" in the U.S. economy as well as "unseasonably cool
and rainy weather," which hurt the sale of summer
merchandise.
   "The cumulative losses are approaching the point of
embarrassment, which leads me to believe an asset sale could
be imminent," said Alan Millstein, publisher of the Fashion
Network Report. "At best they may break even in August."
   A spokeswoman for Federated and Allied disagreed, noting
that a plan of reorganization is still being developed.
"Nothing substantive will be done prior to such a plan, which
won't be completed before this fall," said Carol Sanger, vice
president, corporate communications, for Federated and
Allied.
   Several apparel manufacturers sounded optimistic about
Federated and Allied's future despite the May results.
   "Everybody is concerned about the losses, but we are
confident that we are going to be paid," said Howard Bloom,
president of Chetta B Inc., a woman's apparel maker. "I've
got the sense that they are straightening themselves out.
They seem to be getting back to the normal way of doing
business -- a sale at the end of the month, not every day."
   Bernard Holtzman, president, Harve Benard Ltd., a women's
apparel maker, said he also believes that Federated and
Allied are showing improvements. "May wasn't a great month
for anybody at retail," said Mr. Holtzman. "Eventually
they'll have a good business again. But they won't be able to
fix all the problems overnight."
   Federated Department Stores consists of Bloomingdale's;
Abraham & Straus; Lazarus, Rich's/Goldsmith's, and Burdines.
Allied Stores consists of Jordan Marsh; Maas/Jordan Marsh
(Florida); Stern's, and The Bon Marche.
   Federated and Allied filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
protection Jan. 15.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Glaxo Holdings Unit
   Seeks FDA Approval
   For Migraine Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C. -- Glaxo Inc. said it filed
for approval to market its migraine treatment sumatriptan in
the U.S.
   The U.S. unit of Glaxo Holdings PLC said its application
to the Food and Drug Administration included safety and
efficacy data on its injectable form of sumatriptan. It said
its oral-form application for FDA approval is expected to be
filed later this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Glaxo spokeswoman said the filing means its FDA-review
process is "on schedule." As previously reported, Glaxo
Holdings said it hoped for British clearance this month but
said the FDA may not clear the drug until 1993.
   In its data, the U.S. unit said, were the results of
testing of more than 3,000 patients in North America and
Europe. According to Dr. Charles A. Sanders, chief executive
officer of Glaxo, patients "reported rapid relief, with over
80% reporting little or no headache following treatment."
Glaxo said it believes sumatriptan acts on migraine and
cluster headaches by selectively constricting cranial blood
vessels that become enlarged during a migraine attack.
   Glaxo said about 10% to 12% of the world's population
suffers from migraines, with women more prone to them. It
said men are more prone to cluster headaches, which are like
migraines but occur in separate, shorter durations.
   Migraines are a complex, incurable disorder producing
severe headaches and nausea. Current medications often don't
work well or cause ill effects, limiting their global market.
Analysts have said sumatriptan could be big earner for Glaxo,
much like its ulcer medicine Zantac.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Education
   Says Insurer Will Pay
   Portion of Settlement
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   NEC
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- National Education Corp. said the
liability insurer for its directors and officers agreed in
principle to pay about $5.5 million of a $11.9 million
settlement of several class-action lawsuits against the
company.
   The shareholder suits alleged that National Education made
misleading statements about its financial condition last
year. Federal court approval of the settlement is expected in
about 30 days, said a spokesman for the vocational training
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A private arbitrator also reached a decision concerning
severance payments and other benefits claimed by the
company's former chief executive officer, David Bright. The
arbitrator had ruled that the dismissal of Mr. Bright wasn't
"for cause" as defined by his contract.
   National Education didn't disclose terms of the decision.
The "net" effect of the insurance proceeds and the
arbitration settlement will be a "small positive
contribution" to results in the second quarter, the company
said. The spokesman declined to say whether the company would
report profit or loss in the period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- LTV Corp.:
   Judge Gives Firm Extension
   For Its Reorganization Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LTV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal bankruptcy judge gave LTV Corp. another 120 days
to formulate a plan for repaying its creditors and emerging
from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization.
   The Dallas company, which is approaching its four-year
anniversary under Chapter 11 protection, had sought the new
deadline for its reorganization plan prior to the U.S.
Supreme Court's ruling that the company is liable for funding
more than $2 billion in employee pension plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LTV now has until Nov. 6 to present a reorganization plan
to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland of New York. The
company had been scheduled to present its plan early next
week.
   None of the parties to LTV's reorganization objected to
the extension.
   The Supreme Court ruled June 18 that LTV couldn't pass its
liability for funding the pension plans to the federal
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., meaning that LTV's creditors
are likely to receive much smaller payouts under a
reorganization plan. The company, which filed for bankruptcy
protection in July 1986, stopped funding the pension plans in
1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Portland General Corp.:
   Agency Proposes to Narrow
   Revenue Rise Utility Seeks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PGN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Portland General Electric Co. said the staff of the Oregon
Public Utility Commission recommended increasing the Portland
General Corp. unit's 1991 revenue by $6 million, sharply less
than the $89 million increase the Portland, Ore., company had
requested.
   In March, the utility filed a request for the 11.4%
increase in estimated 1991 revenue and a return on equity of
13.5%. The electricity price increase proposal will be
negotiated during the next several weeks, and public hearings
are scheduled to begin Sept. 5.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Portland General Electric, which serves
570,000 customers, said the company has requested a final
order to be issued in time for it to implement the new rate
structure on Jan. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Judge Dismisses
   Bankruptcy Petition
   Of Members Service
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MSCXV TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- A federal bankruptcy judge dismissed Members
Service Corp.'s Chapter 11 filing.
   Judge Randolph Wheless Jr. granted Members Service's
request to dismiss its six-week-old bankruptcy court
petition. The company said it sought court protection in late
May after the Internal Revenue Service unexpectedly demanded
payment for delinquent taxes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Members Service, which has holdings in telecommunications,
energy and financial services, claimed the funds sought by
the agency were the result of action by an "overzealous
Internal Revenue agent." It acknowledged it had bought some
companies with tax liabilities, but said it had met two IRS
schedules for payment and was prepared to meet a third when
the demand was made for accelerated payment.
   An IRS spokesman declined to comment on the company's
charge regarding one of its agents. The spokesman said the
agency has a lien pending against Members Service for $91,572
for failure to withhold Social Security and federal income
taxes. The lien, filed in Harris County here, is against
three units, and has not been withdrawn, the IRS said.
   As for the payment schedules, the IRS-spokesman said,
"they know something we don't know if they're talking about
an installment agreement."
   James R. Beazle, executive vice president for Members
Service, said he was unaware of any lien against the company
and, contrary to the IRS's contention, Members Service had
completed the IRS schedules for payment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Federal Express Corp.:
   Mexican Documents Carrier,
   Aeroenvios S.A., Purchased
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FDX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Express Corp. said it purchased Aeroenvios S.A. de
C.V., a closely owned carrier of documents and small packages
based in Mexico City. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Federal Express said Aeroenvios, which has annual sales of
$8 million, was formed in 1988 as a Federal Express licensee
that handled Federal Express pickups and deliveries in
Mexico.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Express, a Memphis, Tenn., express transportation
concern, said its managing director for Mexico, Puerto Rico
and the Caribbean, Fernando Duenas, was named to the
additional post of managing director of the new company,
which will be called Federal Express, Mexico. Alejandro
Espejo, who was general director of Aeroenvios at the time of
the purchase, will serve as a consultant to Federal Express,
it said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Music: `Siegfried' and Sackbuts by the Bay
   ----
   By David Littlejohn
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   San Francisco -- Tourist guides to Bayreuth are full of
advice on what pilgrims should do on the days off between
performances of Wagner's "Ring of the Nibelung." You can
potter through quaint shops, go for hikes in the hills, make
excursions to nearby castles and spas. Last month, the San
Francisco Bay area solved its own version of that problem by
offering two music festivals simultaneously: the first of
four cycles of Wagner's "Ring" west of the bay (with mixed
results); and the inaugural, totally successful, Berkeley
Festival of early music to the east. A diligent, omnivorous
music lover could counter the aftereffects of a surfeit of
romantic chromaticism, day by day, with the lovely plinking
of harpsichords, the simple harmonies of a Renaissance
consort.
   The 1990 San Francisco Opera "Ring" was a revival of one
first staged in its entirety here in 1985. The director and
designer (Nikolaus Lehnhoff and John Conklin, working
originally with conductor Edo de Waart) were under orders to
come up with something beautiful, naturalistic, and
unencumbered by the kind of heavy ideological "concepts" that
had dominated European productions of the '70s and '80s. We
did (for $4 million-plus) get a "Ring" that was stunning to
look at; but also one that was vastly more interesting than
the Met's no less costly version of 1989, just seen on PBS by
several million U.S. television viewers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, Mr. Lehnhoff and the new San Francisco
general director, Lotfi Mansouri, had what are politely
called "artistic differences." Mr. Lehnhoff refused to return
to see the 1990 version through. With his monumental
undertaking left in the hands of two relatively inexperienced
young directors, the production as a whole -- despite some
moments of brilliance -- seemed a paled replica of its flawed
but dazzling original.
   The big difference between San Francisco's "Ring" and the
Met's is that in the former a great many of Wagner's scene
and stage directions are ignored (as they have been at
Bayreuth since 1951), in favor of a mixture of
characterizations, actions and locales designed to stimulate
reflection on both Wagner's time and our own. The gods (and,
later, the Gibichungs) dwell not on craggy mountaintops but
in gilded pavilions, and wear costumes (half Roman, half
modern) meant to communicate more about their essence and
their values than did the helmets and breastplates of old --
though we have those also. Loge, in 1985 the family attorney,
wore a natty 19th-century cutaway suit. As he dismissed the
gods at the end of "Das Rheingold," he settled back into
Wotan's throne to read his Wall Street Journal. (This year,
for some reason, he was the family poet; he wore a Byronic
collar and read a slim volume of verse.)
   Edo de Waart may not be one of the world's great Wagnerian
conductors, but his absence this round also was felt. In his
place, the four 1990 cycles were split between two relative
newcomers, Peter Schneider from Mannheim (who has conducted
the "Ring" at Bayreuth), and British-born Donald Runnicles of
Hanover (who had never done it before). On the evidence of
the first cycle, Mr. Schneider can achieve genuine
magnificence with the score, when all is going well -- e.g.,
through most of "Die Walkure" and "Siegfried." But almost all
of "Das Rheingold" -- crucial orchestral interludes, "love"
music generally and the spectacular finale -- fell below
international-standard Wagner.
   What of the singers? Helmut Pampuch's Mime and Helga
Dernesch's Fricka may have lost some fire and shine in five
years. But both still are masterly dramatic and musical
performers, and compelling to watch. James Morris played two
of the three Wotans in 1985; this year (as at New York) he
sang them all. Although his acting is of the minimalist
school, there probably is not a better Wotan singing today.
There was a weak new Loge (Jacque Trussel) and a fabulous new
Alberich (Tom Fox); Birgitta Svenden, a new Erda we share
with the Met, sang a moving mezzo Earth Mother, weary of the
Earth. The Valkyries were loud and clear, if not always a
pleasure to look at or listen to, especially when amplified.
The Rhinemaidens, in maidenly shifts, sang awkwardly in Opera
I, beautifully in Opera IV.
   Rebecca Blankenship was vocally out of her league as
Sieglinde; Gary Lakes, as her brother and lover (also at the
Met, and on TV), will erase no one's memories of Peter
Hofmann, who at least looked heroic. But Mr. Lakes sang with
ringing, Italianate power.
   Gwyneth Jones, the first of San Francisco's three
Brunnhildes, was the rock on which this fitfully impressive
"Ring" rose and fell, through all three operas in which she
appeared. At her finest moments, all in "Die Walkure," she
soared splendid, strong and free, and reminded one of what
Wagner at his best is all about. In her love scenes with her
nephew Siegfried (William Johns), her great instrument too
often went out of control.
   These two aspects of her role were strangely reconciled in
"Gotterdammerung," in which Brunnhilde turns from
ex-Valkyrie-become-human-lover to hysterical woman scorned.
Here Dame Gwyneth's jagged, fortissimo leaps and sometimes
wild sounds suited the haggard, Straussian madwoman
Brunnhilde has become.
   Such frenzy, like last fall's earthquake, hardly touched
Berkeley, where, trying to play an instant game of
catch-up-and-overtake with the nine-year-old Boston Early
Music Festival, the University of California staged a
parallel event during the San Francisco "Ring." This kept
music critics and fans locked in traffic jams on the rebuilt
Bay Bridge.
   The first Berkeley Festival imitated its biennial Eastern
model in many ways (the idea is to alternate them year by
year in the future), while nearly doubling the number of
concerts. There were 24 here, as against 15 at Boston,
involving 13 different groups and three soloists, plus three
master classes and five symposia, all depending as much on
local talent as on imported names.
   The festival was contrived to provide a setting for one of
Berkeley Prof. Alan Curtis's celebrated early-opera
productions, which Europe sees far more of than we do. His
choice was Nicolo Jommelli's "La Schiava Liberata" of 1768, a
work not wholly unlike Mozart's "Die Entfuhrung aus dem
Serail" of 1782. The ingenious sets, designed for Mr.
Curtis's first revival of the opera at Amsterdam in 1982,
already have been used at Monte Carlo.
   This was a wholly professional effort, including singers
such as countertenor Jeffrey Gall (the casting, in fact,
could hardly have been better). It was stage-directed with
panache and costumed and lighted in glory. Mr. Jommelli is of
course no Mozart: "La Schiava Liberata" proved to be jumbled
but jolly, musically engaging and ingenious, and worth seeing
perhaps once in a lifetime.
   In addition to his imported soloists, director and sets
from Europe, Mr. Curtis made use of Nicholas McGegan's
impeccable San Francisco-based Philharmonia Baroque
Orchestra. It also offered two performances of Handel's
second oratorio, "La Resurrezione" (written in 1708, when the
composer was 23), a felicitous, transparent, predictable and
poignant work. Philip Brett, also of the Berkeley faculty,
conducted both Monteverdi's Mass and his "Vespers of the
Blessed Virgin" (1610) -- but that was my day for "Siegfried"
'cross the bay. Thomas Binkley, from the University of
Indiana, concocted an exuberant, high-spirited, trilingual
entertainment (involving 42 onstage performers) out of
various chunks of the original -- i.e., not Carl Orff's --
"Carmina Burana" manuscript, which was designed to transport
us to some kind of 13th-century
folk-outing-cumreligious-revival.
   Wrung out by the "Ring," I settled for the Jomelli opera
and six other good performances, a lively debate on the Early
Music Debate (or, Who Gives a Damn About Authenticity
Anymore?), and a wonderful exhibition in the Student Union
ballroom, where I pretended to be interested in buying
imitation-old harpsichords, sycamore dulcians, faggots and
curtals, and an authentic-old 1759 Stainer violin. I ended up
with an armload of Wagner/Earrly Music T-shirts, bargain CDs
and some unanswered questions about how music ever made it
from plainchant to Wagner.
   ---
   Mr. Littlejohn is a novelist, critic and professor of
journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HOLIDAY NOTICE
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal will not be published tomorrow, in
observance of Independence Day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Broken Hill Proprietary Co.:
   Company Predicts Increase
   In Earnings for Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BHP
</CO>
<LP>
   Broken Hill Proprietary Co. of Australia expects to
increase earnings this fiscal year ending May 31, 1991,
executives of the steel, oil and mining company said
yesterday.
   Brian Loton, BHP's chief executive, said the company "is
in excellent financial shape" and he predicts a
"satisfactory" year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week BHP reported that operating profit after tax
rose 6.4% to 1.1 billion Australian dollars (US$872.1
million) in the fiscal year ended May 31 from A$1.04 billion
a year earlier.
   Mr. Loton said one reason for stronger profits this fiscal
year is the expected start-up of BHP's 57.5%-owned Escondida
copper mine in Chile. Development of the mine is ahead of
schedule and it could start production in December.
   "This mine will be one of the lowest cost operations in
the world and will produce around 4% of the world's copper
supplies. It is an extraordinarily large and rich deposit,"
Mr. Loton said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kollmorgen to Buy
   Vernitron's Stake,
   Settle All Litigation
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL X.VER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIMSBURY, Conn. -- Kollmorgen Corp. said it agreed to buy
hostile suitor Vernitron Corp.'s stake and to settle all
litigation related to a proxy fight and failed merger accord.
   The settlement concludes Vernitron's effort to take over
Kollmorgen, which began about 18 months ago. The two
companies signed a standstill agreement prohibiting each of
them from buying the other's securities, participating in
proxy contests involving either company, or otherwise seeking
to control or influence the management of either company for
10 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kollmorgen, a maker of motors and electro-optical systems,
purchased Vernitron's remaining 424,600 shares in Kollmorgen
for $12.125 a share, or about $5.2 million. Vernitron at one
point held 593,000 shares, or about 5.5% of the Kollmorgen
common. It bought the shares at an average cost of $14.04 a
share; average net proceeds of the sales were $11.76 a share,
a Vernitron spokesman said.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Kollmorgen shares closed at $12, down 25 cents.
   In addition, Kollmorgen paid Vernitron $2 million related
to litigation and other disputes. Vernitron, a Deer Park,
N.Y., closely held maker of motors and controls, had total
expenses of about $20 million on the takeover fight,
including the loss on the stock position, the Vernitron
spokesman said.
   The companies said in a joint statement that the
settlement, which was "in the best interests of shareholders
and other constituencies" of both companies, would avoid the
expense and burden of litigation.
   Vernitron had sought to take control of Kollmorgen through
a proxy fight this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Great American Bank:
   San Diego Thrift Converts
   Into Federal Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GTA
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Great American Bank, attempting to combat its problems by
any means possible, said it converted from a state chartered
bank into a federal savings bank. The new name is Great
American Bank, a Federal Savings Bank.
   Like many thrifts, San Diego-based Great American has been
hurt by real estate losses, especially in Arizona. The
conversion to a federal savings bank won't alter its
operations, but it will eliminate state regulatory
assessments that total about $500,000. Great American, the
nation's seventh-largest thrift with about $15.4 billion of
assets, would welcome any help: Federal regulators have given
it until the end of the year to come up with $350 million or
face conservatorship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, the thrift announced that its board of trustees
named Robert Kemper, 61 years old, to serve as its new
chairman, chief executive officer and president. Mr. Kemper
was scheduled to take over for retired chief executive Gordon
Luce and former president Paul Lindland yesterday. The move
was seen by industry analysts as a reflection of continuing
regulatory pressure on Great American.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freddie Mac Sets
   Mortgage Program
   With Michigan
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. teamed with the state of
Michigan, lenders, mortgage insurers and community groups to
provide up to $500 million in loans for low-income and
moderate-income home buyers.
   Freddie Mac figures the program will help up to 10,000
people buy homes in Michigan and will serve as a prototype
for other states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The program offers 30-year, fixed-rate, single-family
mortgage loans with a minimum 5% down payment through
participating lenders. Freddie Mac has agreed to buy $250
million of such loans over a two-year period beginning in
October, and the state can extend the program for one year
and expand Freddie Mac's purchases by an additional $250
million.
   Under the program, borrowers whose incomes are close to or
below the state's median family income and can't qualify for
a conventional loan could spend up to 33% of their monthly
income on housing. Current guidelines allow for 28% with a 5%
down payment.
   Also, up to 1% of the down payment can come from nonprofit
community organizations or governmental or community
agencies, and another 1% can come from "sweat equity" work
performed before a buyer goes to closing.
   The program also includes counseling for potential
borrowers by community organizations that have been approved
by Freddie Mac and the state. And Freddie Mac said borrowers
without substantial credit histories can use records of
regular payments to power companies, telephone companies,
landlords and others. In addition, the program requires
mortgage insurance on at least 75% of the value; Freddie Mac
and Michigan said they would share losses that aren't covered
by insurance.
   Freddie Mac, a federally sponsored, publicly traded
corporation based in Reston, Va., operates a secondary market
in mortgage loans, buying loans from lenders and packaging
them into securities for sale to investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   US Sprint Subsidiary and Soviet Agency
   Form Data-Services Venture in U.S.S.R.
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST UT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- US Sprint Communications Co.'s international
unit and the Soviet Union's telecommunications authority have
formed a venture to provide data communications services in
the U.S.S.R.
   Ownership in the new company, Sprint Networks USSR, is
split evenly between Sprint and Central Telegraph of the
Soviet Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. The venture
plans to begin operating a switching center by the fourth
quarter in Moscow to provide high-speed data communications
services, domestically and internationally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement would broaden European penetration by
Sprint, which has built many of Western Europe's public-data
networks and which has been trying to strengthen its presence
in overseas markets against the overwhelming dominance of
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. Moreover, many of Sprint's
potential corporate customers are U.S.-based companies that
are locating businesses in Moscow and are demanding more
data-communications services.
   The joint venture still needs approval from the U.S.
Department of Commerce and the Paris-based Coordinating
Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (Cocom). While the
U.S. government has expressed a willingness to increase
exports of sophisticated telecommunications equipment to the
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, it recently shot down a plan
by a consortium led by US West Inc., the Denver-based Bell
regional phone company, to build a giant fiber-optic
communications network linking the Soviet Union with Europe
and Asia.
   Sprint, a unit of United Telecommunications Inc., filed
applications for licenses to export its technology last
March, when it announced it was holding discussions with the
Soviets. Susan Williams, Sprint's vice president of
international business development, said Sprint is confident
that its export requests will be approved.
   "Our applications for export are going well, and we still
expect service to begin in the fourth quarter {of this
year}," she said. "Everything is ahead of schedule."
   Sprint said the venture will link Soviet government
customers and the diplomatic corps in Moscow to the SprintNet
international data network, which ties databases and online
services in the U.S. and throughout the world. These
customers also will be able to get Sprint's Sprintmail
electronic mail service.
   "The goal is to offer all data communications services to
residential customers in Moscow that our customers in
Cincinnati and Miami can get today," said Ms. Williams.
Eventually service will be extended to other parts of the
country as the Soviet Union upgrades its telephone
infrastructure. Overseas links will be provided via
satellite, she said.
   A major portion of the agreement is potential future
orders for Sprint's Telenet data communications equipment.
Sprint added that installing Telenet transmission equipment
on customer sites in the country will end up "forming the
backbone of the Soviet Union's first data communications
network."
   "The joint venture is a landmark in the development of the
U.S.S.R.'s data communications capability, joining our telex
systems with new technologies that will serve our country's
needs, and those of foreign interests based here, well into
the 21st century," said Viacheslav Rubtsov, general manager
of Central Telegraph.
   The new company will be headed initially by Sprint
International's director of business planning and
development, Henry Radzikowski, while deputy managing
director will be Viktor Toor, who is currently the
second-ranked manager at Central Telegraph. The remaining
staff of 30 employees will be made up mostly of Soviet
nationals, said Ms. Williams.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
United Telecommunications stock closed at $40, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended June 29,
1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing in
editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to be
definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ATLANTA HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORP. 11.25% mortgage revenue
bonds, Capital Towers/FHA Insured and Section 8 Assisted
Elderly Project, due Aug. 1, 2004, will be redeemed in part
on Aug. 1, 1990. Shawmut Bank of Boston and Hartford, Conn.,
are paying agents.
   AUGUSTA, KAN., will call $35,000 of hospital revenue bonds
Series A, Augusta Medical Complex Inc., dated Feb. 1, 1978,
for redemption on Aug. 1, 1990. Ameritrust Texas N.A.,
Dallas, is paying agent.
   BOLINGBROOK VILLAGE, WILL AND DUPAGE COUNTIES, ILL.,
$900,000 of residential mortgage revenue bonds Series 1979,
due Aug. 1, 1991-1999 and Aug. 1, 2010, will be called Aug.
1, 1990. Continental Bank National Association of Chicago is
paying agent.
   CANADIAN COUNTY HOME FINANCE AUTHORITY, OKLA., $725,000
single family mortgage revenue bonds 1980 Series B, will be
redeemed Aug. 1, 1990. Liberty National Bank &amp; Trust Co.,
Oklahoma City, and Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, are paying
agents.
   CLARION COUNTY, PA., Hospital Authority will call for
redemption 9.5% Hospital Revenue Bonds, Clarion Osteopathic
Community Hospital Project, due Jan. 15, 2013, on July 15,
1990. Mellon Bank, Pittsburgh, is paying agent.
   CLEVELAND COUNTY, OKLA., Home Loan Authority, will call
for redemption Single-Family Mortgage Revenue Bonds, 1979
Series A, and 1980 Series A, on Aug. 1, 1990. Bank of
Oklahoma is paying agent.
   COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA will redeem $25 million of
25-year 12 1/8 bonds due Aug. 1, 2008, on Aug. 1, 1990.
Morgan Guaranty Trust, New York, is fiscal agent.
   COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, will call for redemption on
Aug. 1, 1990, $30,720,000 principal amount of its General
Obligation Refunding Bonds, due Aug. 1, 1993. Citibank, N.A.,
New York, and Continental Illinois National Bank &amp; Trust Co.,
Chicago, are paying agents.
   DECATUR COUNTY, GA., Bainbridge Industrial Development
Authority will recall $20,000 of its First Mortgage Revenue
Bonds, Bainbridge Health Care Series 1982-B on Aug. 1, 1990.
BankSouth, Atlanta, is trustee.
   DEL RIO, TEXAS, Industrial Revenue Corp. will call 6.75%
First Mortgage Industrial Development Revenue Bonds, Del Rio
Sportswear, Series 1973, due Aug. 1, 1998 on Aug. 1, 1990.
First City, Texas, Houston, is trustee.
   DENVER, COLO., will call $495,000 of single-family
mortgage revenue bonds 1978 Series A for redemption on Aug.
1, 1990. United Bank of Denver National Association or
Bankers Trust Co. of New York are the paying agents.
   FRANKLIN, TENN., will redeem $130,000 of revenue bonds
Series A, dated Aug. 1, 1971, on Aug. 1, 1990. The issue
matures on Aug. 1, 1991. Third National Bank of Nashville,
Tenn., is paying agent.
   GEORGIA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF FULTON AND RICHMOND
COUNTIES AND WAYCROSS, GA., will redeem Pollution Control and
Industrial Development Revenue Bonds, Georgia Railroad
Projects, First Series 1978, on August 1, 1990. BankSouth,
Atlanta, is trustee.
   HARRIS COUNTY, TEXAS, will redeem on July 25, 1990,
Housing Finance Corp. Collateralized Loans-To-Lenders Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 1981A, due July 1, 1994. Texas Commerce
Bank National Association, Houston, is trustee.
   JACKSONVILLE, FLA., Health Facilities Authority will
recall Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1980, Baptist Medical
Center Project, on Aug. 1, 1990. SunBank/North Florida
National Association, Orlando, is trustee.
   MARION COUNTY, W. VA., will call 1979 Series A Single
Family Residence Mortgage Revenue Bonds on Aug. 1, 1990.
Charleston National Bank, Charleston, W.Va., is paying agent.
   MASSACHUSETTS HEALTH AND EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES AUTHORITY
will redeem $640,000 of St. Elizabeth Hospital of Boston
issue Series A revenue bonds due Aug. 1, 1992, and $380,000
of Malden Hospital issue Series A revenue bonds, due Aug. 1,
2000, on Aug. 1, 1990. Shawmut Bank of Boston and Hartford,
and Citibank of New York are paying agents.
   MASON COUNTY, W.VA., will call its 1979 Single Family
Mortgage Revenue Bonds Series A on Aug. 1, 1990. Charleston
National Bank, Charleston, W.Va., is paying agent.
   MOLINE, ILL., Rock Island County will call, on Aug. 1,
1990, $835,000 principal amount of its Residential Mortgage
Revenue Bonds, Series 1979, due Aug. 1, 1990/1999 and Aug. 1,
2009. Continental Bank, National Association, Moline, is
trustee.
   NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will redeem
$60,000 of First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series B 1978, K
mart Corp.- Tenant, on Aug. 1, 1990. Liberty National Bank &amp;
Trust, Oklahoma City, is trustee.
   STATE OF OKLAHOMA, Clinton Industrial Authority, will call
it 6.30% 1973 First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Collins &amp; Aikman
Project, due Aug. 1, 1998, on Aug. 1, 1990. Wachovia Bank &amp;
Trust Co., Winston-Salem, N.C., is paying agent.
   PHILADELPHIA REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY FINANCE CORP. will
call $5,000 of 13.3% mortgage revenue bonds Series 1982,
Cobbs Creek NSA/FHA insured Section 8 Project due Aug. 1,
2024. Shawmut Bank of Boston and Hartford are paying agents.
   PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK &amp; NEW JERSEY will redeem on
July 15, 1990, $1 million of 8.20% consolidated bonds, 42nd
series, due July 15, 2011. Citibank, New York, is paying
agent.
   PORT HURON, MICH., pollution control revenue bonds,
$200,000 Series A dated Aug. 1, 1976, Mueller Brass Co.
Project, will be redeemed Aug. 1, 1990. Michigan National
Bank, Detroit, and Bankers Trust Co., New York, are paying
agents.
   PORT OF MORROW, ORE., National Rural Utilities Cooperative
Finance Corp. will call on July 15, 1990, its 12% Guaranteed
Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, Series 1981N, Pacific
Northwest Generating Company Project, due July 15, 2011.
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., New York, is trustee.
   PUERTO RICO HOUSING BANK &amp; FINANCE AGENCY will call $1.53
million of Single-Family Mortgage Revenue Bonds, 1983 Series
A due Feb. 1, 2015, Homeownership Development Program, on
Aug. 1, 1990. Banco de Ponce, New York, is trustee.
   RALEIGH, FAYETTE and NICHOLAS COUNTIES, W.VA., will call
for redemption $495,000 of single-family residence mortgage
revenue bonds Series A dated Aug. 1, 1979 on Aug. 1, 1990.
One Valley Bank N.A., Charleston, W. Va., is the paying
agent.
   RAPIDES PARISH HOUSING &amp; MORTGAGE FINANCE AUTHORITY, will
call $220,000 principal amount of its Single-Family Mortgage
Purchase Bonds, due Aug. 1, 1991/1999 and Aug. 1, 2010, on
Aug. 1, 1990. Continental Bank, National Association,
Chicago, is trustee.
   ROGERS, ARK., Health Care Facilities Board will redeem on
Aug. 1, 1990, its Hospital Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1979, Rogers Memorial Hospital Project. First National Bank &amp;
Trust Co., Rogers, is the paying agent.
   SANDUSKY COUNTY, OHIO, will call Industrial Development
First Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Acme-Cleveland Corp. Project,
Series 1976, on Aug. 1, 1990. Ameritrust Co., Cleveland, is
paying agent.
   SENECA COUNTY, OHIO, will call on July 31, 1990,
Industrial Development First Mortgage Revenue Bonds,
Chemetron Corp., due June 1, 1999. National City Bank,
Cleveland, is paying agent.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

   METLIFE FUNDING INC. will call for redemption on July 30,
1990, its 9 7/8% notes due 1992. Chase Manhattan Bank, New
York, is paying agent.
   HYDRO-QUEBEC will redeem $55.5 million of 10 1/4% sinking
fund debentures, series CX, due Feb. 15, 1996, on Aug. 15,
1990. Bank of Montreal Trust Co., New York, is redemption
agent.
   TALMAN FINANCE CORP. will redeem 100 shares of Market
Auction preferred stock on Aug. 6, 1990. Bankers Trust Co.,
New York, is paying agent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Comeuppance and Causation: Requiem for the Thrifts
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Retribution for the savings-and-loan debacle is a tornado
on the political horizon. An outburst might even sweep some
incumbents from the U.S. House of Lords in November. Come
1992, when the full dimensions of this taxpayer rout are
better grasped and the father of Silverado Savings director
Neil Bush presumably stands for re-election, the full storm
may hit.
   A bailout totaling hundreds of billions of dollars will
cause dramatic interstate shifts of federal revenues. This
magnifies the opportunity for smooth demagogues like Mario
Cuomo of New York to contrast the tab for the salvage of Sun
Belt thrifts with the familiar miseries of his own welfare
state -- as if making good on deposit insurance were some new
discretionary expenditure by Washington in place of feeding
the hungry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rep. Bruce Vento (D., Minn.), probably is hamming it up
himself in decrying the big salaries that the Resolution
Trust Corp., the thrift-bailout agency, has been paying
executives of busted S&amp;Ls as it tries to rescue them. If some
of these institutions are to escape insolvency through
legitimate creative financing, it's likely to take more than
a high-grade civil servant -- helped along by lots of
congressional "oversight" -- to pull it off.
   But journalists can sympathize with how difficult it is
for Rep. Vento's staff to discover much about Uncle Sam's
wards. Raw data finally have been coughed up and must be
analyzed. Earlier, it transpired that the conservator of
Franklin Savings in Kansas, John Carr, is getting $225,000
for six months. When I poked into Franklin a few months ago,
Mr. Carr was unavailable for any inquiries. Same with
officials of the hundreds of other taken-over thrifts.
   Press calls are referred to regional Resolution Trust
offices, which can be informational black holes as bad as any
in Washington. The RTC's Denver office has one spokesman for
all its thrifts in the West, and responses are spotty. I was
able to confirm one example of the kind of outrage that will
keep Rep. Vento at full volume until the Mississippi River
runs dry back home.
   My little tale involves California's Gibraltar Savings,
which at $13 billion in purported assets was the biggest of
the Western fish to land up in the RTC frypan. That was in
March 1989. The top guy at Gibraltar was forced out (replaced
by the same Mr. Carr who later turned up at Franklin), but
for the next nine months, the holdover senior managers
continued on in rather comfortable limbo. Finally the RTC's
man told them they'd have to give up a benefits plan that
included first-dollar coverage for all medical and dental
costs, including prescription drugs and cosmetic surgery.
   It was this April 1 before the supplemental fringes wound
down. Now breast enhancements and daily therapy sessions for
the lovelorn (two examples I heard about) would no longer be
a corporate/taxpayer expense. By themselves these perks may
not have amounted to much of the U.S. budget deficit -- I
couldn't find out how much, but Gibraltar was just returned
to the private sector at a $628 million federal loss -- yet
they and the fat paychecks are indicative of a way of life,
an arrogant irresponsibility, that can arouse a cynical
nation in a way mere red ink never will. It does little good
(and costs more money) to try to throw the worst of the S&amp;L
lot in jail, as politicians are wont to do with white-collar
wastrels other than themselves, but if the Resolution Trust
and its parent Bush administration appear to be protecting
this breed, they will inherit the prairie windstorm.
   The popular explanation for the pillaging of American
financial institutions during the 1980s has become
"deregulation." This simple theme was established by persons
seeking the power of re-regulation, echoed in the media. Full
deregulation would have no more handed the Treasury keys to
the glittering thrift shops than it does to the diners and
dry-cleaners next door to them on Main Street.
   It took special dispensation for this thievery to occur,
and as the editors of this paper keep trying to point out,
the rise in federal deposit insurance to $100,000 from
$40,000 per account in 1980 seems to explain much of the
story. The complicity of the Reagan administration and in
particular Donald Regan in what followed, including the gaps
in supervision of a runaway industry, rates those Republicans
special condemnation. But the legislative act itself was
primarily one by Democrats, ratified in a bipartisan 380-13
vote to okay the Depository Institutions Deregulation and
Monetary Control Act of 1980.
   One shouldn't put too much of a stigma on that final
tally, although it's all we have by which to remember most of
our legislators on this matter. The law did much to liberate
and perhaps save a good part of U.S. finance, most
importantly by eliminating Regulation Q, an interest-rate
ceiling that made it near impossible to obtain deposits at a
time of sky-high nominal yields. Indeed, Congressional
Quarterly listed the insurance-cap rise 38th among the
provisions of the bill, in an 11-word reference. The baker's
dozen in opposition were a political smattering, but the
presence among them of Texas libertarian Ron Paul and a few
other consistent foes of Potomac rule ought to have clued
others not to be silent.
   Much as deposit insurance cries out for reform, the Bush
Treasury Department appears no more quick on this political
draw than on other aspects of the S&amp;L quagmire. Secretary
Nicholas Brady's study of the issue drags on. Our front-page
story today offers hope the review eventually will lead
somewhere.
   Incriminating as the evidence on deposit insurance might
seem, at least one market-oriented analyst is challenging the
idea that it was central to the thrift crisis. George
Benston, a finance professor at Emory University's business
school, is concluding in a study for the National Bureau of
Economic Research that in the Southeast, at least,
interest-rate losses of the early 1980s, and not credit
losses after that, explain most of the troubles.
   Prof. Benston has a history on this subject. During the
mid-1980s, he argued on the Journal's editorial page and
elsewhere that regulators shouldn't bar thrifts from
investments outside their traditional home-mortgage base. He
maintained that diversification was the great hope for S&amp;Ls
caught in the vise of higher rates on deposits (revenue
outflow) and low yields on residential loans (inflow). But
the dally with office towers and shopping centers has been
blamed for much of the calamity that has since unfolded.
Critics found him a Pollyanna and tarred his work by noting a
tie to a law firm retained by notorious thrift magnate
Charles Keating.
   Mr. Benston isn't giving an inch. The "few wildmen" (like
Mr. Keating) who've become symbols of graft were the
responsibility of those in charge of supervision, who often
ignored warnings from their field offices. However, the bulk
of the industry's losses were sustained elsewhere and
earlier. In the larger sense, Mr. Benston muses, "Who are the
crooks? People like me who had 6% mortgages. That's where the
money went." He points to regulator testimony to Congress in
March that CenTrust, the Florida thrift whose finery recently
was auctioned by the feds to try to narrow a $2 billion loss,
was $525 million in the hole before a profligate new owner
bought his first junk bond.
   The thrift bailout law of 1989, Mr. Benston concludes,
just puts the industry -- to the extent it survives -- back
where it was before the disastrous cycle of the '80s, with
most of its assets in home mortgages susceptible to perilous
interest-rate swings. If he is right, there will have been
paid an enormous price, in dollars and possibly political
careers, for precious little.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Right Not to Agree
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   I was amused to see your June 18 editorial "The Flag and
the Community" glorifying the repression of free speech in
this country directly above another denouncing a similar
movement in Romania. I'm not so amused by the idea that you
and Ion Illiescu seem to agree on so many issues.
   You blame the media for the hype surrounding the
flag-burning amendment, 2 Live Crew's outlawed album and many
controversial art exhibits. Mr. Illiescu blames the media for
the anti-government uprisings in his country. It's not the
repressive governmental policies that matter to you, it's the
fact that the media is letting the people know what's
happening. It's funny what a stir the truth can cause.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You write that a community has rights superior to an
individual's. It can force individuals to have clean
thoughts, provide them with sanitized artwork, and make them
respect the community's symbol of liberty. Mr. Illiescu has
shown us that a truncheon is a very effective tool for a
community trying to teach its members which opinions are
acceptable.
   We need judgment, you say; we need standards. Never mind
that artistic opinions are subjective, and that an
individual's definition of quality art and acceptable speech
may not agree with a community's good taste. It's not
acceptable for those with minority opinions to create and
appreciate their art. It needs to be outlawed, repressed,
forced underground. A club-wielding mob is the only organism
with a valid opinion. We need judgment. We need standards.
   Free speech doesn't mean the right to government
subsidies, or the right to force your work upon an unwilling
community. It means the right not to agree with the
community; the right not to accept what its symbols have come
to represent; the right to choose what you read, say, view,
think; the right to be left alone.
   Jonathan Velline
   Richmond, Calif.
   ---
   Bravo] It gives me great pleasure to see a voice of reason
and common sense. More people need to realize that community
standards are established so that we might have a stable
foundation in our society. They are not established to
repress individualism, but to give individuals the
opportunity to learn and grow.
   Thomas Wall
   Loveland, Ohio
   ---
   I hate to break the news to you, but community standards
have been in decline for years, torn apart by drugs,
homelessness and racial tension.
   You presume our homespun values are suddenly under attack
by leftist zealots. Some perspective may help. Basil
Patterson's displeasure with crudity could apply to 1970,
1980 or 1990. Foul language heard on the streets, on TV or in
music has long existed. When Trent Lott pontificates about
America "drifting into moral decay" it sounds as though
McCarthy hearings are back in session. These media-hungry
politicians fish for soundbites while ignoring the root
causes of despair.
   Rather than dwell on burning flags, why not examine the
causes of flag-burning, the daily horrors of poverty and
self-destruction that drive people to set fire to a
conveniently potent symbol.
   Morey Stettner
   Sacramento, Calif.
   ---
   Your views on flag desecration, abortion, gay rights and
pornography as art show remarkable insight into today's
morass of liberal media distortion. I may not agree with your
every editorial view, but as a conservative Christian, I
appreciate your paper as a breath of fresh air.
   Tom Chaffin
   Principal
   Liberty Baptist School
   San Jose, Calif.
   ---
   There is a choice available currently. You can go see 2
Live Crew (and be warned in advance of the explicit nature of
the performance) or you can stay away. The marketplace can
determine whether 2 Live Crew should be allowed to perform.
If the performance is foul and rude and unacceptable by
community standards, people will cease buying their product.
   You say: "It is sometimes called having a sense of
judgment." Your position would disallow me the opportunity to
make such a judgment for myself. What we are arguing is a
matter of taste, and there is no dispute in matters of taste.
   Cary M. Crisp
   North Plainfield, N.J.
   ---
   You seem to feel it's OK for government to enforce a
"sense of community" by arresting people who make phonograph
records or who protest against the government by attacking
its symbol (the flag). At the same time, you seem to think
it's a bad thing that in Romania printers of a newspaper --
"doubtless pushed by the government" -- interfere with the
publication of a newspaper critical of that government. I'm
sure that, for the moment, you would be able to draw some
lines differentiating these two positions. But I think that,
in the case of the U.S. Constitution, those sorts of lines
have to last for, and be more enduring, than the moment.
Let's let ideas compete in the marketplace, too.
   Mark Goldstein
   Senior Director of Business Affairs
   Warner Bros. Records
   Burbank, Calif
   ---
   Liberal activists claim to oppose a constitutional
amendment allowing Congress and the states to prohibit
flag-burning because such an amendment would somehow
destabilize the Bill of Rights. But how stable is a 5-4
decision of the Supreme Court? One vote by an unelected
lawyer is hardly the bedrock upon which to base an allegedly
fundamental right of free expression for an entire nation.
   The liberal pundits opposed to the proposed flag amendment
conveniently ignore the ultimate provision of the Bill of
Rights: "The powers not delegated to the United States by the
Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are
reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."
   At the heart of the flag-burning controversy is the
federal judiciary's usurpation of a power "reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people" by the 10th Amendment.
The proposed flag amendment simply states that, "The Congress
and the States shall have power to prohibit the physical
desecration of the flag of the United States." Had this
amendment been drafted by James Madison, it may well have
read: "Among the powers reserved to the States respectively,
or to the people, is the power to prohibit the physical
desecration of the flag of the United States." Far from
destabilizing the Bill of Rights, this new proposed amendment
merely reaffirms the ultimate provision of the Bill of Rights
in one specific context.
   The American system of government is based upon the
consent of the governed. The Declaration of Independence
proclaims that "Governments . . . deriv(e) their just powers
from the consent of the governed," the opening words of the
Constitution are "We the people," and Article V of the
Constitution requires the consent of three-fourths of the
States for amendments to the Constitution.
   If the states and the people wish to exercise their
constitutional power under the 10th Amendment to prohibit
flag-burning, and to amend the Constitution pursuant to
Article V so as to prevent the federal judiciary from further
usurping that power, the proposed flag amendment is by far
the most stability-enhancing measure for "We the people" to
protect our rights and powers under the Bill of Rights.
   Joseph E. Schmitz
   Washington
   ---
   I couldn't agree more with your seeing something
"preposterous" in stopping flag-burning by amending our
Constitution.
   Whatever became of our old-fashioned remedies such as
"Citizens-arrest" and the "Disturbing-the-peace" ordinances?
   Or have we patriotic, peaceful and law-abiding folk
somehow, somewhere along the way lost another constitutional
right?
   Roy B. Lang Jr.
   Sunnyvale, Calif.
   ---
   Every country has a flag. It is the Constitution that sets
the U.S. apart, and the Bill of Rights is the Constitution's
soul. To restrict the First Amendment to ban flag desecration
is to desecrate the Constitution. Ideals and principles are
more important than symbols.
   F. Richard Cosin
   Administrative Law Judge
   San Francisco
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Continues to Slide;
   Post-Unity Mark Advances
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar declined again, continuing a
pattern that some traders think will be as hard to shake as
summer cold.
   For several weeks, traders have predicted the dollar's
drop against the yen and the high-yielding currencies of
Britain, Australia and Canada. But yesterday they were
surprised by the strength of the mark, which they largely
credited to the smooth currency unification between East and
West Germany over the weekend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This dollar is the `unidollar,' the unification dollar,"
said Liliana Nealon, a first vice president at Union Bank of
Switzerland in New York. "There was a lot of pent-up demand
for deutsche marks from corporations and institutional
investors who had held off buying until the monetary
unification actually took place to make sure it went without
a hitch."
   In late New York trading, the dollar stood near its
intraday lows at 1.6505 marks and 150.83 yen, compared with
1.6610 marks and 152.20 yen before the weekend.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was trading
at 151.68 yen; it closed Monday in Tokyo at 151.40 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6558
marks, up from Monday's Tokyo close of 1.6534 marks.
   Meanwhile, the British pound was in a class by itself
Monday, soaring to $1.7770 from $1.7485 late Friday on a
statement by German Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl that
he expects the pound to join the exchange-rate mechanism of
the European Monetary System "soon." The EMS is a joint float
of nine European currencies.
   Many analysts had expected the dollar to strengthen
against the mark after East Germany's adoption of the West
German currency Sunday. They had visions of East Germans,
flush with the buying power of one of the world's most
respected currencies, going on a spending binge for Western
goods they could never before afford.
   Instead, the exchange of billions of East German marks, or
ostmarks, for West Germany's deutsche marks went smoothly.
And yesterday, on the first shopping day of the new currency
era, East Germans did buy color televisions, computers and
video recorders -- but they didn't spend like drunken sailors
on leave.
   The dollar has receded steadily over the past few weeks as
international investors and speculators have been lured to
higher and rising interest rates abroad. In the past week
alone, the dollar has fallen nearly 3% against the yen and
about half that much against the mark.
   Three-month Eurodollar deposits currently yield 8.25%, the
same as their German equivalent and only a little more than
the 7.625% returns available on three-month Euroyen deposits.
   Those high rates outside the U.S. have given investors
second thoughts about taking on the currency risks of
dollar-denominated securities. Japanese investors purchased a
net $4.9 billion of foreign bonds in May and $624 million of
foreign stocks. Those represented large increases from a
month earlier but were still far less than they bought a year
ago. Not all those purchases were dollar-denominated
securities, but analysts assume that most were.
   "Last year, a lot of Japanese investors were investing in
the U.S., but this year that tendency is slowing down," said
Yoneo Sakai, joint general manager in charge of treasury
operations for Fuji Bank Ltd. in New York. "The U.S. economy
is slowing down, and there is still a possibility for easing
U.S. monetary policy."
   Some traders pointed to President Bush's confirmation last
week that his administration would be willing to consider tax
increases to reduce the U.S. budget deficit. A narrower
deficit, they said, could lead to smaller government
borrowing requirements and lower U.S. interest rates.
   "The market as a whole is expecting a decrease in U.S.
interest rates," said Yoichi Sakaguchi, chief trader at Sanwa
Bank Ltd. in New York. "If U.S. interest rates actually
decrease, then the market will sell dollars. But if it
doesn't occur, we'll see a lot of dollar buying interest at
the low 150yen level from trust banks and insurance
companies. It all depends on U.S. interest rates."
   At the same time, some analysts expect the Bank of Japan
to eventually raise its official discount rate to dampen what
they say is high monetary growth in Japan. Lately, the market
has been jostled by rumors to that effect, but Mr. Sakaguchi
said that if it happens, "I don't think it will occur
immediately." Higher Japanese rates would increase the yen's
attraction to international investors.
   Also boosting the yen yesterday were news reports that the
U.S.'s undersecretary of state for economic and agricultural
affairs, Richard T. McCormack, said the Group of Seven major
industrial nations are concerned about the Japanese
currency's depreciation over the last year, especially
because it will help boost Japanese exports.
   Heads of state from the seven countries -- the U.S.,
Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada -- are
scheduled to attend an annual economic summit in Houston
beginning next Monday.
   That meeting plus Friday's scheduled release of U.S.
employment data for June have some traders on edge. Few are
willing to place big bets either for or against the dollar,
especially with trading this week expected to be thin because
of tomorrow's Independence Day holiday in the U.S. A fall in
U.S. employment could signal an even weaker economy and
prompt interest rates to decline further.
   "The market mentality right now is very much in favor of
the deutsche mark because of the future outlook for the
German economy and because of the East European situation,"
said Klaus Schuermann, a vice president at CSFB Effectenbank
AG in Frankfurt. "I personally would be more favorable for
the dollar, but you have people talking lower interest rates
in the U.S. You can't say with confidence whether the dollar
will be much higher or much lower in the short period."
   Meanwhile, apart from Mr. Poehl's remarks, the pound is
being propelled by the sky-high interest rates that Britain
is using to combat inflation. High rates are also buoying the
Australian and Canadian dollars. Three-month Eurosterling
rates currently stand at 14.875%, while three-month domestic
deposit rates for the Australian and Canadian currencies are
15.06% and 13.6%, respectively.
   Nonetheless, analysts say the U.S. dollar isn't without
its strengths. "The Bush administration is strong," said Mr.
Sakai of Fuji Bank. By contrast, he said, Japan's Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu is a bit "shaky" because "he's quite
young and the older people are still watching his actions and
performance."
   Although the Japanese prime minister is committed to
instituting electoral reform sometime in September or
October, Mr. Sakai said, "many people doubt he can do it."
   Another, and in many ways more important, plus for the
dollar -- especially against the mark -- is the potential for
growing unrest in the Soviet Union. International investors
usually flee to the dollar during periods of tension. And the
mark, in particular, is often vulnerable to turmoil in
Eastern Europe because of Germany's proximity to the region
and its large trade links to it.
   But barring sudden negative developments in those areas,
Ms. Nealon of UBS said that over the next couple of weeks the
U.S. currency could fall to 1.60 or 1.62 marks and 145 to 148
yen.
   She also still likes the high-yielding British, Canadian
and Australian currencies. While they might give up some
advantage, Ms. Nealon said, "It's very, very costly to short
these currencies."
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $358.80 an ounce, up 90 cents. Estimated
volume was a light 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong early Tuesday, gold was quoted at $357.95 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900703-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900703-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prime Motor Inns Sees
   A `Substantial' Loss
   For the Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDQ
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, N.J. -- Prime Motor Inns Inc. said it expects
to post a "substantial" loss for the year ended June 30,
after adding to restructuring-related reserves and
write-downs totaling $150 million.
   In fiscal 1989, Prime had net income of $77.4 million, or
$2.35 a share, on revenue of $410.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The hotel company also said it completed the previously
announced sale of its Howard Johnson and Ramada franchise
businesses to an affiliate of Blackstone Capital Partners
L.P. for $170 million. Blackstone is an affiliate of
Blackstone Group, a New York investment banking firm.
   Prime used proceeds of the sale primarily to pay down
debt, although part will be invested in developing Prime's
AmeriSuites and Wellesley Inn chains. Prime said the sale
would result in an estimated pretax gain of about $60 million
in the quarter ending Sept. 30. In the year-ago first
quarter, Prime had net of $20.8 million, or 63 cents a share,
on revenue of $104 million.
   Prime also said its banks agreed to extend the maturity of
$60 million of demand loans beyond the due date of March 25,
1991. Prime said it has reduced its bank debt to less than
$130 million from about $350 million several months ago.
   Prime said about $80 million of the $150 million in
reserves and write-downs relates to its investment in
Servico, a hotel operator. Last month, Prime extended to Dec.
31 the maturity of a $74 million loan it made to FCD
Hospitality Inc. last year as part of FCD's purchase of
Servico. Prime said it is continuing to work toward a
recapitalization of Servico.
   The remaining charges relate primarily to Prime's mortgage
and notes receivable portfolio, an official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
