<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Greece Has Trouble Finding Takers
   For Pricey, Risky `Problem' Companies
   ----
   By John Carr
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATHENS, Greece -- When Procter &amp; Gamble Co. bought up the
property of a debt-burdened Greek engineering company earlier
this year, it received an unexpected dividend -- a bazooka
shell slamming into its Athens office.
   The late-night attack injured no one. But it could have
set back the Greek government's greatest economic hope: to
reorganize, sell or liquidate 30 unprofitable or
debt-burdened state-administered businesses. The concerns,
which account for 10% of the country's industrial revenues,
are sunk in debt totaling 170 billion drachmas ($1.07
billion). All but one is in private hands; all are under
government control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An organization called 17 November took responsibility for
the P&amp;G attack. The extremist group said it fired on the
company's local branch office because it "scandalously bought
up" the property of A&amp;G Couppas S.A. for "a mere" 454 million
drachmas.
   "We warn any Greek or foreigner who buys a company without
paying the debts, that we will consider it a robbery of the
Greek people," said 17 November, which has a history of
murdering U.S. diplomats and Greek industrialists.
   The incident has cast uncertainty over investing in
Greece. "Nobody is going to want to be a target, with
bodyguards and security and that kind of thing," said
economics writer Constantine Collmer.
   P&amp;G was the first foreign company to buy into what are
known here as "provlimatikes," or problematic businesses. So
far, it's the only one.
   But Greece's three-month-old free-market government
appears determined to continue its program to deal with the
companies. "We have no time to lose," Prime Minister
Constantine Mitsotakis said recently, just before embarking
on a tour of Western capitals aimed at attracting potential
investors.
   Economics minister George Souflias, took the first step
June 27 when he announced that Kerafina S.A., a ceramics
company, would be listed on the Athens Stock Exchange and the
over-the-counter market. He also said Kavala Plastics S.A.
would be put up for auction.
   A Herculean task lies ahead. These problem companies have
cost Greek taxpayers about 510 billion drachmas over the past
seven years just to keep them going. They include well-known
industries such as Aget Herakles S.A., the country's biggest
cement maker and the only one of the concerns whose stock was
publicly listed, and textile concern Piraiki-Patraiki S.A.
   These companies employ 27,000 people. Their votes could be
crucial for the government, which has a razor-thin
parliamentary majority of one. A strong Socialist and
left-wing opposition already has started whipping up strikes
to protest the government's plans.
   "If {the government} manages it," said one diplomat, "it
will be the most exciting thing to happen in Greece for the
past 20 years." The state is expected to save as much as $1
billion a year if all goes well.
   The basic plan is straightforward. According to Mr.
Souflias, some of the ailing businesses will be publicly
listed, others will be sold outright, and the most hopeless
cases will be shut down. In the case of companies that are
closed, laid-off workers will continue to be paid for a year.
   "It's too great a political risk," said Theodore Karatzas,
former deputy economics minister who served in the eight-year
Socialist administration that was voted out last year. "I
don't know if this government will do what it says it will."
   Mr. Karatzas, who has been described as an apolitical
technocrat, disavows any ideological connection with the
Socialist Party, which the present government blames for
having poured billions of drachmas into the state-run problem
businesses, and, by extension, into the pockets of party
appointees who headed the companies. "The Socialist
government didn't start the problem anyway," he added.
   Who did? The answer: a conservative government in 1953. In
the interest of economic growth, it nationalized most of
Greece's banks and started a tradition of government
intervention that is one of the biggest difficulties of Greek
business life. Poor management added to the problem.
   The Socialist government of the 1980s started an orgy of
borrowing to finance its expanded state services -- and
handsomely reward its political favorites. Prime Minister
Mitsotakis has said Greece's public debt by the end of this
year will hit 15 trillion drachmas, with the public-sector
borrowing requirement at about 3.5 trillion drachmas,
one-third of the gross domestic product.
   The starting prices of the debt-ridden companies aren't
exactly bargains. Piraiki-Patraiki, which posted a 1989
operating loss of 14.9 billion drachmas, half the total 1989
losses of all the problem businesses, is now offered for sale
at exactly that sum. And the buyer must take over the
company's debt of 30 billion drachmas.
   "Who is going to buy at such crazy prices?" asked Mr.
Collmer, the economics writer. The companies also are
burdened with obsolete equipment which, in the words of an
editorial in the English-language business journal Greece's
Weekly, "is worth little more than scrap."
   Not all the ailing concerns are unprofitable; some simply
have too much debt. Thanks to the healthy world demand for
cement, for example, Aget Herakles reported a 1989 operating
profit of 3.5 billion drachmas.
   But as the 17 November group has demonstrated, the subject
is still touchy. "Investors are poking around here," said a
U.S. business consultant in Athens. "But security is on a lot
of minds right now."
   The ruling New Democracy Party also has its own cadres to
worry about. During a period of multiparty rule last summer,
New Democracy put its people in the problem companies' top
jobs, just as the Socialists had done. Now, the bosses don't
want to give up their fat salaries, free travel and
chauffeured limousines.
   Mr. Souflias has said he is looking into charges that some
of the companies increased their inventories or falsified
production records to give the impression that business is
booming.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq-Kuwait Strains May Disrupt OPEC
   Bid for Pact to Prop Up World Oil Prices
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- Rising tension between two leading OPEC members
-- Iraq and Kuwait -- threatened to trigger a new debate on
strategy among oil ministers just as they appeared ready to
agree on production goals aimed at propping up world crude
prices.
   Most of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries'
ministers on hand for the opening of meetings here today
arrived convinced they can reduce their combined output
sufficiently to boost oil prices until demand picks up later
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the meeting is starting against an unsettling
backdrop. Iraq, which blames Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates for this year's oil-price fall, has reportedly
stationed troops on the Kuwaiti border. That move follows a
vociferous verbal attack on Kuwait last week by Iraq's
President Saddam Hussein, asserting that overproduction by
Kuwait and the UAE have caused Iraq economic damage. Pentagon
officials confirmed that U.S. warships have been put on alert
in the Persian Gulf because of mounting friction there.
   The discord between Iraq and Kuwait was immediately
apparent as their oil ministers here seemed to be far apart
on what OPEC's new pricing and production goals ought to be.
   Kuwait's new oil minister, Rasheed Salem Al-Ameeri,
wouldn't comment, but he has pledged to help increase oil
prices by reducing Kuwait's output to its quota of 1.5
million barrels a day. In return, Kuwait would get a higher
quota when demand picks up for OPEC oil later this year. The
UAE has made a similar pledge after a meeting of the Persian
Gulf producers in Saudi Arabia earlier this month.
   But, delegates here said, Kuwait supports only an increase
in the average price of OPEC oil to the previously targeted
$18 a barrel from the current average of about $16.50.
   By contrast, Issam Abdul Raheem AlChalabi, Iraq's oil
minister, arrived repeating a call for the OPEC benchmark
price to be increased to $25 a barrel. "We are aiming for an
agreement that will make the prices firm up to the level we
have announced," Mr. Al-Chalabi said. Libya's chief delegate
also supported the $25 target, though most others suggested
that currently it was out of reach.
   Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, declined to give a
pricing target except to say that he supports a higher price.
He also was among those predicting that the tensions between
Iraq and Kuwait wouldn't affect disccusions here. "We are
here to solve oil problems," Mr. Nazer said.
   Persian Gulf sources suggested Saudi Arabia might be
willing to accept an OPEC target price of $18 to $20 a
barrel. Iran's minister, and a number of others, want a $20
price.
   The proposal announced two weeks ago in Saudi Arabia
appeared to offer solutions to the price issue. It called for
a slight increase in OPEC's production ceiling, now 22.1
million barrels a day, to 22.4 million or 22.5 million, but
that would be far below recent output levels as high as 24
million.
   The increase in the official ceiling would allow a higher
quota of 1.5 million barrels a day for the UAE, matching that
of Kuwait's. However, both have produced as much as two
million barrels a day earlier this year.
   Delegates from Saudi Arabia said that proposal hasn't been
changed by the Iraq-Kuwait dispute. Others also said they
still expect OPEC production to be cut to under 23 million
barrels a day. They don't agree on whether the new ceiling
should remain in effect for the rest of the year or just for
the remainder of this quarter.
   A report by OPEC's economist to the ministers today will
address that issue. OPEC's meetings begin this afternoon with
a session of its eight-member monitoring committee; the full
conference starts tomorrow. Some delegates said they still
expect this meeting to end within two or three days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Wages, Benefits
   Rose More Slowly
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Growth in worker compensation slowed during
the latest quarter, the Labor Department reported, but still
was considered disturbingly high over the past year by many
analysts and economists.
   Wages, salaries and benefits paid to workers in private
industry rose 1.3% in the second quarter after a 1.6% gain in
the first quarter, the department said. But the
second-quarter rise still meant that the cost of compensating
workers grew 5.2% during the 12 months ended in June -- too
high, by many analysts' standards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Economists consider employment costs one of the best
indicators of inflationary pressures in the economy. Worker
compensation is a huge part of business costs, and its growth
can foreshadow increases in the prices companies charge for
goods and services.
   The compensation increases kept the average worker ahead
of consumer inflation, which was 4.7% in the year ended in
June.
   The department also reported yesterday that workers won
average annual wage increases of 3.8% in contracts settled so
far this year through collective bargaining. That's a big
improvement over the last time these workers negotiated,
generally in 1987 or 1988, when wage gains averaged 2.5%
annually over the life of the contract, according to the
department.
   As usual, the cost of providing benefits to workers
outstripped wage increases, the department said in its
employment-cost report. Wages and salaries grew 4.5% during
the year ended in June, while benefit costs jumped 6.9%.
   Part of the growth in wages reflected an increase in the
minimum wage this spring to $3.80 an hour from $3.35. But the
department said the effect of the increase, the first in 10
years, was probably minimal.
   Among industries, the wage gains over the past year varied
widely. They grew an average of 6.3% for health-service
workers but only 2.3% for transportation workers. Overall,
wages and salaries grew 4.6% in the service sector and 4.2%
in the manufacturing sector.
   In collective bargaining, service workers also made more
progress, winning average wage increases of 3.8% annually
over their new contracts' life, compared with an average of
3.3% for manufacturing workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cherne Medical Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CHNE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHERNE MEDICAL Inc. (Minneapolis) -- David L. Printy, a
44-year-old director, was named chairman of the company,
which makes a diagnostic system for the detection of heart
disease. He succeeds Lloyd G. Cherne, 65, who retired and was
named chairman emeritus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Van Gogh Never
   Suffered Madness,
   Doctors Maintain
   ---
   Instead, Artist Was Victim
   Of an Inner-Ear Disorder,
   New Diagnosis Suggests
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   The artist Vincent Van Gogh, a suicide 100 years ago, was
never mad but suffered instead from an inner-ear disorder,
some doctors now believe.
   A retrospective diagnosis of Meniere's disease,
characterized by severe, repeated attacks of vertigo and
ringing of the ears, is offered by researchers at Colorado
Neurologic Institute and Swedish Medical Center in today's
Journal of the American Medical Association.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For a century, Van Gogh has been portrayed as a mad
artist, who sliced off his own ear in a psychotic episode and
who had epilepsy. But there's no evidence for that
assessment, says I. Kaufman Arenberg, the lead author of a
report on the artist. Rather, some 800 letters the artist
wrote to his family and friends between 1884 and his death
reveal a man "constantly in control of his reason," but in
frequent despair as he fought disabling bouts of vertigo, the
authors say.
   A correct diagnosis probably wouldn't have helped much at
the time. Treatments weren't available for either epilepsy or
Meniere's disease, Dr. Arenberg says. He didn't speculate
about the effect of the disease on Van Gogh's paintings, but
thinks it spurred his prolific output. Fear that an attack
"would permanently prevent him from painting," Dr. Arenberg
says, "was driving him to paint more."
   Today, about 80% of Meniere's disease sufferers can manage
their symptoms by, among other practices, maintaining a
low-salt diet and avoiding caffeine, alcohol, tobacco and
stress, Dr. Arenberg says. Surgery is usually required for
the other 20%. Dr. Arenberg has designed a shunt to help
divert inner ear fluid that contributes to a buildup of
pressure in the inner ear. The buildup provokes some
symptoms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   GNW Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GNWF WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GNW FINANCIAL Corp. (Bremerton, Wash.) -- Ralph Lintz, 50
years old, was named president and chief operating officer
for this thrift holding corporation. He succeeds Raymond L.
Soule, 55, who will continue as chairman and chief executive
officer.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   GNW FINANCIAL Corp. named Ralph Lintz chief operating
officer of Great Northwest Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association, a unit of this holding company. Wednesday's
edition misstated his position.
   (WSJ July 27, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Synergen Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SYGN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SYNERGEN Inc. (Boulder. Colo.) -- Arthur Hull Hayes Jr.
was elected a director of this biotechnology company,
increasing the board's size to eight. Dr. Hayes is president
and chief executive officer of EM Pharmaceuticals Inc. and a
professor of medicine at New York Medical College.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Dance: NYCB's Robbins Fest
   ----
   By Dale Harris
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- "Jerome Robbins' Broadway" was designed to
survey the entire career of the most successful
choreographer-director of musicals in our time. The anthology
of Mr. Robbins's works recently presented by New York City
Ballet, though originally announced as a "retrospective," was
different in scope. Nearly every one of the ballets seen in
the concentrated, two-week survey already was in the
repertoire of NYCB. Besides, only four of them, "The Cage"
(1951), "Fanfare" (1953), "Afternoon of a Faun" (1953) and
"The Concert" (1956), date from the choreographer's early
days with the company.
   NYCB's spring season would have been an appropriate
occasion to honor Mr. Robbins with a truly comprehensive
review of his achievements as a classical choreographer. In
November, he announced his resignation from the company after
30 years of service, seven of them as co-ballet
master-in-chief with Peter Martins. It was Mr. Martins,
henceforth the sole director of NYCB and thus the guardian of
the company's Robbins repertoire, who conceived the idea of
saluting his colleague with a retrospective. Apparently,
however, there was not enough time for the choreographer --
notoriously a stickler for detail -- to revive the
long-unseen works of his first years with NYCB: "The Guests,"
"The Age of Anxiety," "The Pied Piper," "Quartet," "Ballade,"
nor even such later efforts as "Dybbuk Variations."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's hard to believe, though, that these pieces have
disappeared forever. Mr. Robbins always has shown himself
reluctant to discard anything he ever created. Exemplary in
this respect is the Irving Berlin number "Mr. Monotony."
Originally staged for "Miss Liberty" in 1949, it was cut
before the show's Broadway opening. Introduced into "Call Me
Madam" a year later, it again suffered the same fate.
Undeterred by the fact that the song is not one of Berlin's
masterpieces, and, indeed, makes little theatrical impact,
the choreographer had the last laugh by including it in
"Jerome Robbins' Broadway."
   The same need for vindication seems to have inspired the
revival of "Watermill." First presented by NYCB in 1972 with
conspicuous lack of success -- at its premiere, the audience,
restless throughout the long performance, exploded into
booing at the final curtain -- the piece soon disappeared
from the company's repertoire, seemingly forever. Forever in
this case turned out to mean less than two decades.
Resuscitated for the festival, "Watermill" even turned up
twice more in the penultimate week of the NYCB season. This
time there were no boos. But even with its original star,
Edward Villella, who at 54 gamely emerged from retirement to
tackle the leading role again, the work looked as jejune as
ever: endlessly protracted, numbingly portentous and all too
damagingly reminiscent of avant-garde theater artist Robert
Wilson.
   A similar lack of self-awareness lies behind the
maintenance in NYCB's repertoire of "Fancy Free," Mr.
Robbins's first ballet, commissioned in 1944 for what was
then called simply Ballet Theatre. One can understand why he
would feel protective about the work that made him famous
overnight, and which, transformed into the Broadway musical
"On the Town," led directly to his show-biz career.
Nonetheless, the piece now shows only sporadic signs of life.
   For one thing, the spectacle of sailors on shore leave has
none of the emotive power it did in the 1940s, when the
audience could hardly have watched their antics without a
subliminal awareness of their vulnerability as fighting men.
Without such an awareness, the spectacle of three gobs
forcing their attentions upon every girl who passes by simply
looks unpleasant, especially when they snatch one girl's
handbag and refuse to give it back. Without such an
awareness, moreover, the male bonding looks less innocent
than boorish.
   In any case, "Fancy Free" was made for artists schooled in
a mode no longer extant. In 1944, Ballet Theatre, dominated
by the aesthetic and technical standards of emigre Russian
ballet, was stylistically at one with its rival, the Ballet
Russe de Monte Carlo. Not for nothing was Ballet Theatre
advertised by impresario Sol Hurok as "The Best in Russian
Ballet." Almost everything in the company's repertoire
demanded characterization and the exploitation of individual
personality. Since then, largely because of the inescapable
influence of Balanchine, American performers have been taught
to depersonalize their dancing. For all the talent shown by
the three sailors, Damian Woetzel, Tom Gold and Robert
LaFosse, they were, as characters, mere ciphers.
   Mr. Robbins himself largely abandoned the Ballet Russe
mode early in his career, opting instead for a
neo-Balanchinian visualization of music, though always with a
discernible subtext of narrative or literary theme. In a
score of works, ranging from "Dances at a Gathering" and
"Goldberg Variations" to "Moves" and "In Memory of . . .," he
suppressed content in favor of form, though not fully enough
to render it imperceptible. As a consequence, his ballets on
the whole satisfy neither in terms of dance, which tends to
be both bland and derivative, nor of expression, which tends
to be indeterminate and evasive. Most of his works are
vitiated by a fatal sentimentality, a refusal either to
discard or to confront the subjects that have called them
into being in the first place.
   None of this would matter were Mr. Robbins's choreography
more interesting, daring and, above all, individual. As the
succession of works passed before our eyes during the
festival, it became impossible to keep them straight. Some
were easier to identify than others: "Ives, Songs" is the one
that, like Antony Tudor's "The Leaves Are Fading," features
an intrusive observer; "Glass Pieces" has music by Philip
Glass, and the ritualized, hypnotically reiterated non-dance
movement pioneered by Lucinda Childs. "I'm Old-Fashioned" has
a film clip of Fred Astaire and Rita Hayworth.
   No doubt Mr. Robbins's oeuvre would seem less vapid had he
not produced a masterpiece like "Afternoon of a Faun." In
this, he both acknowledges his subject matter -- the
paradoxical relationship between the impersonal art of dance
and the vulnerable human beings who perform it -- and
expresses it fully in movement. For once, there is no
suppression of meaning in favor of formal design. As danced
during the festival by Ib Andersen and the youthful Margaret
Tracey, it obliterated virtually everything else on view.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stotler Begins
   Dismantling Move
   As Plan Collapses
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Stotler Group Inc. began dismantling its
operations after an investor group's conditional offer to buy
a stake in the futures brokerage holding company collapsed.
   Stotler was among the largest independent futures clearing
firms in Chicago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The firm's inability to secure an infusion of money marked
the failure of a frantic attempt by its executives to shore
up Stotler's troubled finances. It is a major embarrassment
for Stotler Chairman Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann, who also is
chairman of the Chicago Board of Trade and who owns nearly
10% of Stotler's stock.
   "It's really kind of sad," said a CBOT member who asked to
remain anonymous.
   Mr. Mahlmann was testifying before the U.S. Senate in his
role as an exchange official and didn't return phone calls.
   Stotler's executives wouldn't explain what caused the
company's problems. In a brief announcement, the company said
it would give up its clearing memberships on the major
commodities exchanges, which cripples its ability to attract
business from institutional investors.
   Industry officials said the firm's troubles began when
regulators questioned the way certain financial data were
recorded by Stotler Group and its principal subsidiary,
Stotler &amp; Co. As a result of that, the Board of Trade
determined that the company's capital levels were below
industry minimums.
   Stotler's problems worsened as some of its major customers
began fleeing to other futures firms. In addition, Stotler
was forced to surrender some of its best accounts to
competitors. That move was designed to reduce the amount of
capital Stotler was obligated to hold to comply with
commodities exchanges' minimum requirements.
   Exchange members said Stotler is also being weakened by an
exodus of some of its brokers to competing firms.
   The conditional offer for part of Stotler, widely rumored
to have originated in Taiwan and amounted to more than $10
million, collapsed when the investor group's board of
directors failed to approve the purchase by Monday morning.
Yesterday's announcement of the failed deal pummeled
Stotler's stock, which fell $4 to close at $2.50 a share in
trading on the American Stock Exchange.
   Exchange members said that Stotler also is dismissing
employees. Other employees, they said, have begun seeking
work elsewhere, both on their own and with the firm's help.
"The message seems to be find another spot fairly quickly,"
one exchange member said.
   In its statement, Stotler said it had made arrangements to
clear its trades through an omnibus clearing account with
another futures firm, Brody, White &amp; Co.
   Until a few months ago, Brody White was known as Mocatta
Futures Corp. Brody White President Stephen Bergen said his
firm was simply acting to clear Stotler's trades and hadn't
acquired any part of the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CORROON &amp; BLACK Corp. (New York) -- Michael P. Sabanos was
named vice president and controller of this insurance
brokerage company, succeeding Robert P. Cuthbert, who was
named first vice president and chief financial officer late
last year. Mr. Sabanos was senior manager at Deloitte &amp;
Touche, a New York-based accounting firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armco Inc. Reports
   Loss of $85.1 Million
   In Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- Armco Inc. reported an expected
second-quarter loss as a result of a series of unusual
charges, combined with poor results from steel operations.
   The loss totaled $85.1 million, or 98 cents a share, which
contrasted with net income of $75.6 million, or 84 cents a
share, a year earlier. In the 1989 quarter, Armco had a large
gain on the sale of most of its carbon steel operations to a
joint venture with Kawasaki Steel Corp. of Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Armco said it expects to be profitable for the second
half, but didn't make a specific forecast.
   Armco said that excluding unusual items in both years, the
company had a second-quarter loss of $5.7 million, compared
with profit of $33.7 million in the year-earlier period.
   Armco said its board will decide Friday whether to
continue paying the 10 cent quarterly dividend. As previously
reported, provisions of the 13.5% senior notes due in 1994
could prevent Armco from paying a dividend on common stock
after the loss.
   Sales for the quarter were $457.2 million, down from
$665.6 million a year earlier. The 1989 quarter's sales
included $204.3 million from Armco's former Eastern Steel
division.
   The latest quarter included unusual charges of $30 million
for Armco's finance and insurance runoff companies and
charges of $15 million for federal tax assessments for prior
years. Other charges totaling $56 million resulted from a
breach-of-contract suit against Armco in Houston, a judgment
against Armco in Minnesota and other litigation and claims.
   Partly offsetting those charges, the company had gains of
$3.5 million on the sale of a tubing plant in Wildwood, Fla.,
and $18.1 million on the sale of an additional 5% ownership
of Armco Steel Co. L.P. to Kawasaki Steel.
   For the first half, Armco had a net loss of $72.2 million,
or 86 cents a share, in contrast to profit of $116.5 million,
or $1.28 a share, a year earlier. Six-month sales were $903.1
million, down from $1.57 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Rises in OTC's
   Two Categories
   ---
   Total Among Smaller Stocks
   Increases 18.5%; Figure
   For Larger Ones Up 1.2%
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest among smaller over-the-counter
stocks leaped 18.5% during the month ended July 13, while
short interest among larger OTC stocks rose 1.2%.
   The jump in short interest among smaller stocks follows a
21.2% increase in the mid-June month, which largely made up a
25.9% drop in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sentex Sensing Technology, a Ridgefield, N.J., developer
of air-detection devices, led the issues with the largest
increase in short interest. On June 6, the company introduced
Scentoscreen, an air analyzer designed to help states and
industrial companies comply with the proposed Clean Air bill.
Short interest in Sentex Sensing surged by nearly three
million shares, to 3.7 million.
   Short interest in the American depositary receipts of
Telefonos de Mexico, Mexico's state-controlled telephone
company, jumped 137.7% to 3.9 million shares.
   Short interest in Immucell jumped 64.4% to 3.1 million
shares. Yesterday, the Portland, Maine, biotechnology company
announced that shareholders approved a 1-for-100 reverse
split of its common stock. Immucell President Thomas Adelman
also said the company expects to report improved results next
month for the second quarter. The company had a loss of
$285,700 in the first quarter and a loss of $430,280 in the
year-earlier second quarter.
   Among those stocks in which short positions shrank the
most, the short interest in AST Research, a maker of personal
computer systems, fell 85.8%, and the short interest in
United Healthcare, a health maintenance organization, dropped
90.3%.
   First Executive, the Los Angeles life insurance company
that once held a large portfolio of junk bonds, maintained
its rank as the stock with the largest short position: 8.3
million shares sold short, despite a drop of one million
shares from mid-June.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   And some short interest doesn't reflect any opinion on the
stock at all but shows up as part of another strategy, such
as arbitrage or dividend capture.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory agency that operates the Nasdaq computerized
system on which more than 4,300 OTC issues trade, compiles
short interest data in two categories: the approximately
two-thirds, and generally biggest, of Nasdaq stocks that
trade on the National Market System; and the other, generally
smaller stocks that don't.
   The NASD reported that short interest in 2,306 National
Market System issues, the largest OTC stocks, totaled 256.1
million shares at mid-July, up from 253 million in mid-June
among 2,333 shares.
   Short interest in 1,252 smaller securities traded on
Nasdaq jumped to 42.7 million shares in mid-July from 36
million in mid-June among 1,245 issues.
   The National Market System's short-interest ratio at
mid-July rose to 2.57 from 2.15 a month earlier, while the
short-interest ratio for other OTC issues climbed to 1.06
from 0.80 a month earlier.
   The ratio -- the number of trading days at the market's
average daily trading volume that would be required to
convert the total short interest position -- is a measure of
negative trader sentiment. Some analysts suggest, however,
that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because
options and other products can be used to hedge short
positions.
   The adjacent tables show the National Market System issues
in which a short position of at least 50,000 shares existed
at July 13 or in which the short position had changed by at
least 25,000 shares from mid-June (see accompanying tables --
WSJ July 25, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Study Challenges Use of Mortality Data
   As an Indicator of Health Care Quality
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The federal government's use of hospital death rates as an
indicator of health care quality may be flawed, a new study
says.
   Researchers at Rand Corp. found that statistical random
variation and the severity of a patient's condition explained
differences in hospital death rates while quality measures
didn't account for any variation in mortality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You have to be somewhere between cautious and extremely
skeptical about interpreting mortality data as indicators of
poor quality," says Rolla Edward Park, lead author of the
study, which appears in today's Journal of the American
Medical Association.
   The report supports critics of the U.S. Health Care
Finance Administration, which for the past three years has
issued mortality data based on Medicare billing information
for each of more than 5,800 hospitals. The hospital industry
consistently has charged that the data are misleading because
they fail to account for severity of illness and other
factors it says can distort a hospital's relative
performance.
   But HCFA, which funded the Rand study, defends its methods
and says they have proven effective in spotting quality
problems. "We think this is an apples versus oranges issue,"
says Gail Wilensky, administrator of HCFA, which oversees the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. "We're not questioning the
Rand study. We don't think their conclusion is particularly
applicable" to the HCFA reports, which are based on many more
disease categories than Rand looked at, and across a much
bigger base of hospitals.
   Ms. Wilensky says her agency will use the report and other
research to improve the quality of its hospital data. But she
also said that HCFA has found quality problems in hospitals
with two consecutive years of excessive deaths. "We have
found the {data make} a useful predictor of where to look
further" for problems, she says.
   Health policy officials hope that as the numbers are
refined, consumers -- including insurers, employers and
referring physicians -- will use the information to choose
health care providers.
   The Rand researchers based their findings on 2,276
Medicare patients -- 1,126 with congestive heart failure and
1,150 who suffered heart attacks -- treated at hospitals in
California, Illinois, Minnesota and New York during a
12-month period ending Sept. 30, 1984. The states represent
one-fifth of the nation's hospitals and Medicare
hospitalizations, and the two diseases account for 7.5% of
Medicare admissions and 17.5% of Medicare deaths, the authors
said. The analysis comprised patients who died in the
hospital and those who died within 30 days of admission.
   The researchers identified "targeted" hospitals, where
mortality rates for the two diagnoses were 5.0 to 10.9 higher
per 100 admissions than in hospitals where death rates fell
within expected ranges. But 56% to 82% of the difference
resulted from "purely random variation," they said, and much
of the remaining difference was due to the severity of the
patients' conditions, especially among heart attack patients.
   Despite the conclusions, Mr. Park says that there is a
correlation between mortality and quality. However, it gets
lost in a statistical analysis of the type of data HCFA
gathers because the other factors are stronger, she says.
Other researchers have suggested that the number of
preventable hospital deaths are so few, that reliable death
rates can't truly be detected by HCFA's methods of gathering
data.
   The Rand researchers suggest that high death rates over
several years may be stronger indicators of hospital quality
problems. HCFA currently bases its analysis on just one year.
Mr. Park suggests that a better method of judging hospital
quality is to sample patients' medical records "to see
whether the things that should have been done for them were
done or not." That would result in a more direct measure of
quality. "Many patients who get bad care {don't} die," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West Capital Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW F.EDF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp. said it will
sell its uranium mining subsidiary, Malapai Resources Co.,
for $38 million to an affiliate of Electricite de France.
   The utility holding company agreed to sell the unit to the
French electric utility in April, but a price wasn't
disclosed. Pinnacle West said completion of the sale is
subject to certain closing conditions, including approval by
agencies that regulate mining activities in Texas and
Wyoming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gold Futures Decline on Profit-Taking, Selling
   Of Bullion by Mideast Interests, European Dealers
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gold futures prices couldn't sustain Monday's
surge and fell back under renewed selling.
   August delivery gold ended with a loss of $1.30 an ounce
at $368.40. September silver was down 7.3 cents an ounce to
$4.8550. October platinum declined $4.70 an ounce to $482.90.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General profit-taking after Monday's advance and a selling
of bullion by Middle Eastern interests and European dealers
contributed to initial weakness in gold futures, analysts
said. Only the fact that crude oil prices were strong, which
has inflationary implications, kept gold from falling
further, an analyst said.
   The dollar, particularly in the latter part of the day,
was mixed but stronger than on Monday, and that factor
weighed on gold as well.
   Volume and open interest figures for gold and silver
appear to show that Monday's rally was more of a liquidating
spree than an emergence of fresh demand to push prices
higher.
   A total of 69,179 contracts were traded in gold, and the
open interest, or number of contracts outstanding that remain
to be nullified by opposite trades or fulfilled by delivery
of the commodity, fell 2,676 to 101,789.
   In silver, trading totaled 13,175 contracts, and open
interest declined by 634 contracts to 98,426.
   "While that's not a good sign technically, gold actually
behaved very well in not falling sharply, considering the
negative factors it had to contend with," one analyst said.
   Analysts also noted that the August contract wasn't able
to crack above Monday's intraday high of $371.50. The highest
price August could post yesterday was $371.00, which they
said was another contributing factor in the weakness.
   Ian MacDonald, vice president of Credit Suisse, New York,
maintained a positive view of gold despite yesterday's
setback. He said that a drop of a little more than $1 an
ounce after an $8 rally was a good performance.
   "Prior to Monday, the market was very, very much oversold,
and the stock market plunge may have been more of an excuse
than a reason for gold prices to advance," he said. "Even if
the stock market drop hadn't happened, gold might have risen
because it was ready to do so."
   Mr. MacDonald said the market was trying to consolidate
and most of yesterday's selling was profit-taking.
   "Demand all over the world is strong for gold in all its
forms -- bars, wafers and what have you," Mr. MacDonald said.
"And when you have that kind of constant demand, it has to be
reflected in prices. I believe gold will be closer to $400
than to $350 by the end of the year."
   Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader at Chase Manhattan Bank,
New York, said widespread producer selling appeared Monday
and hit futures again yesterday when August gold was trading
between $367 and $370, triggering the profit-taking that set
prices back. Notwithstanding yesterday's correction, he said,
the market is poised to go higher.
   He said the recent change in attitude by Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan, the tension between Iraq and Kuwait
and the breakout above $367 by the August contract, which
created a stronger technical situation, all contributed to
Monday's gain and will continue to have a price-supporting
effect.
   In particular, he cited a change in emphasis by Fed
Chairman Greenspan away from inflation fighting and "somewhat
more toward recession fighting." He added: "This is an
important psychological issue. It also could set a trend
toward the Fed injecting more liquidity into the banking
system, which could set the stage for a more inflationary
environment. This favors gold."
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Prices of cattle futures contracts
rose amid signs that the slaughter is picking up this month,
said Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling Research Corp.,
Arlington Heights, Ill. A rise in the slaughter is easing
earlier concerns that cattle were backing up on feedlots in
such numbers as to potentially create a glut of fattened
cattle late in the year. Buyers also were attracted by the
drop in cattle futures prices Monday; that decline was caused
by jitters over the plummeting stock market. Prices of hog
futures contracts settled mixed. After plunging last week,
prices appeared to stabilize at least momentarily amid signs
of a slight pickup in demand for pork by retailers. Hog
prices were under pressure last week in part because of
concern that consumers were resisting high prices for pork in
supermarkets.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: There was no fresh news in cocoa but great
volatility in futures, whose prices ended only slightly
higher. The September contract was up $9 a metric ton at
$1,268. Initially, prices plunged to as low as $1,202, a drop
of $57, on heavy selling, an analyst said. Around noon EDT,
however, the market suddenly turned around and shot up,
recovering its loss and showing a net gain on equally
aggressive buying, the analyst said. "No one seemed to know
why the waves of buying and selling took place, but it
appeared that the buyers were the same people who sold
earlier," the analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices rose. The October contract advanced
0.13 cent a pound to 11.27 cents. A rumor that China had
bought between 20,000 tons and 100,000 tons of raw and
refined sugar helped the October price surge as high as 11.45
cents a pound. According to Merrill Lynch analyst Judith
Ganes, the amount China bought was probably in the middle of
that range. China has been out of the market for a long time
as a buyer because of high prices, Ms. Ganes said. However,
the purchases, if they occurred, would be near the price
level at which China said late last year it would be willing
to buy sugar, she said. "China said it would buy at around
10.50 cents {a pound}, and current prices aren't far from
that," Ms. Ganes said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   SRI International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SRI INTERNATIONAL Inc. -- James E. Carnes, 50 years old,
was named president-elect of David Sarnoff Research Center,
Princeton, N.J., a unit of SRI, effective Dec. 1. Mr. Carnes
succeeds James J. Tietjen, who on Monday was named president
and chief executive officer of SRI, also effective Dec. 1.
Mr. Carnes was previously vice president of consumer
electronics and information sciences at the research center.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Borden Chemicals &amp; Plastics L.P.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BCP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BORDEN CHEMICALS &amp; PLASTICS L.P. (Columbus, Ohio) --
Joseph M. Saggese, an executive vice president of Borden
Inc., was elected chairman, president, chief executive
officer and a director of this partnership, succeeding
Anthony S. D'Amato, who was recently named president and
chief operating officer of Borden Inc. The partnership was
established in 1987 to acquire and operate Borden Inc.'s
basic chemicals and polyvinyl chloride resins business in
Geismar, La., and Illiopolis, Ill. Borden Inc. owns a 2%
interest and serves as general partner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chase Manhattan Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHASE MANHATTAN Corp. (New York) -- Robert D. Hunter, 46
years old, was named executive vice president of the Chase
Manhattan Bank subsidiary of this bank holding company.
Previously senior vice president, Mr. Hunter continues as
national financial-services executive in charge of private
banking, upscale consumer lending, luxury auto financing,
investment services, home mortgage servicing and origination
and education finance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BCE Mobile Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BCE T.BCX T.B
</CO>
<LP>
   BCE MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (Montreal) -- John
McLennan, 45-year-old chief executive officer of this
cellular telephone company, was named to the additional post
of president, succeeding Alan Walter, 47. Leonce Montambault
and Robert Kearney, respectively chairman and executive vice
president of Bell Canada, were named to the BCE Mobile board,
succeeding Mr. Walter and C. Wesley Scott, who accepted
positions with Bell Canada. Bell Canada, a telephone utility,
is owned by BCE Inc., a Montreal-based holding company that
also owns 73% of BCE Mobile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bancorp Hawaii Buys FirstFed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FFA BNHI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONOLULU -- Bancorp Hawaii Inc. said it completed the
acquisition of FirstFed America Inc., parent of a 26-branch
thrift association, for $140 million.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Reserve
Board this month approved the sale, in which FirstFed
shareholders will receive $38.50 a share. Bancorp Hawaii,
with $9.8 billion in assets after the acquisition, required
that FirstFed's board and three bank officers resign as part
of the deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Auto Union
   Demands Higher Pay
   From GM Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canadian Auto Workers President Robert White
opened contract talks with the Canadian subsidiary of General
Motors Corp. by demanding higher wages and improved
protection against inflation.
   The union leader also demanded some guarantees against
possible job losses that result from corporate strategic
decisions. However, the CAW is more accepting of job losses
resulting from a downturn in market conditions, contrary to
the United Auto Workers, which is seeking total job security
during contract negotiations in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Frederick Curd, GM Canada's vice president and director of
personnel, said any wage increase must be tied to
improvements in productivity. He said the company was looking
for a "moderate settlement" that would help protect GM's
market share in Canada. In the first nine months of the 1990
model year, which began last October, GM had 33.9% of the
Canadian car market, down from 34.9% in all of 1989.
   Both sides said they hadn't defined how big a wage
increase they would consider. Both the Canadian and U.S.
union contracts with the Big Three automakers, including GM,
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., expire Sept. 14.
   Mr. Curd said GM Canada also wants more flexible work
rules at its plants and improved attendance levels. He said
absenteeism, including sick leave and scheduled vacations,
currently runs at an average 18.2% of GM's Canadian work
force, compared with about 15% at the company's U.S. plants.
   Unlike the UAW, the CAW leader doesn't believe that total
job security can be guaranteed. However, Mr. White said he
wants some protection for workers who lose their jobs as a
result of what is known in the industry as "out-sourcing,"
which involves a company's obtaining a product from an
outside supplier.
   Mr. White said the union wants workers affected by
outsourcing to be offered early retirements, voluntary
severance payments or positions at other plants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, July 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 15/16% low, 7 15/16% near
closing bid, 7 15/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.90% 5 to 44 days; 7.85% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 119 days; 7.70% 120 to 149
days; 7.65% 150 to 179 days; 7.55% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8% 30
days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.90% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.69% two
months; 7.71% three months; 7.89% six months; 8.09% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.95% one month; 7.98% three months;
8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.87% 30 days; 7.80% 60 days; 7.76%
90 days; 7.71% 120 days; 7.67% 150 days; 7.63% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 1/8% -
8% two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 1/8% - 8% four
months; 8 1/8% - 8% five months; 8 1/8% 8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/8% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.40% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.96%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.89%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.50%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.75%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitsubishi Power Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MIB J.MHI G.SIE FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., jointly with
Mitsubishi Corp. and Siemens AG of West Germany, received an
order for a power plant fired by coal and natural gas from
Indonesia's electricity authority, Perusahaan Unum Listrik
Negara, the Japanese company said. The plant's cost was not
disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Iceland Pushes Back
   English Invasion
   In War of the Words
   ---
   Ancient Language Is Given
   An Unusual Refurbishing
   To Rid Foreign Influence
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   REYKJAVIK, Iceland -- The Icelandic language has two Old
English letters and far too many new English words. At least
that's the view of many Icelanders, who dislike foreign
phrases cluttering up their ancient tongue. To slow the
spread of "jogurt" and "hamborgarar," Icelanders now are
purging their vocabulary by finding old words for new things.
   Icelandic has changed so little in the past 800 years that
"some parts of the sagas could have been written this
morning," says Baldar Jonsson, head of the Icelandic Language
Institute. But the Vikings didn't have computers. Modern
Icelanders do. They call them "tolva," a merger of two
medieval words, meaning "numbers prophetess." The word for
telephone, "simi," translates as "long thread." A military
tank is "skrithdreki," or "crawling dragon."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iceland now has committees grappling with foreign phrases
in 30 fields, from aviation to physics. Amateur wordsmiths
often send in ideas of their own. It is a task for which
Icelanders are well-suited. Per capita, Iceland has more
bookstores and Trivial Pursuit games than any nation in the
world. Long, dark winters also afford ample time for
brainstorming.
   Iceland isn't alone in fighting to keep its language pure.
France has long done battle with "Franglais," but linguistic
patriotism is hard to enforce in such a big and cosmopolitan
land.
   In remote, sea-locked Iceland, the war against Icelish
appears more successful. New words are published in journals
and quickly filter out through classrooms, dictionaries and
the media. In a society of only 250,000 people, it doesn't
take long for word to travel, and to catch on.
   Mr. Jonsson helped compose two words for AIDS. One is
"alnaemi," which roughly translates as "sensitive to
everything." The other is "eythni," derived from an old verb
meaning "to squander."
   Kirstin Flygenring, an economist, is combing William
Branson's "Macroeconomic Theory," listing terms such as
"liquidity trap" for which Icelandic substitutes are needed.
Sometimes, a literal translation will do. The "gross" in
gross national product, for instance, is easily derived from
an Icelandic word meaning "polluted" or "unfiltered." But
colloquialisms don't translate so easily. Iceland doesn't
have junk bonds or greenmail (or even a stock exchange), and
"putting some of these words into Icelandic can make them
confusing and a little silly," Ms. Flygenring says.
   In a related campaign, Icelanders also are weeding out
foreign names. Traditionally, Icelanders have been known by
first names only, followed by a patronymic; hence, Jon, the
son of Thor, is Jon Thorsson, and his sister's last name is
Thorssdottir. Iceland's slim phone book is alphabetized by
first names, and Icelanders rarely use Mr. or Mrs., except
when traveling abroad.
   But over the past century, many Icelanders have taken
middle names and also adopted non-Icelandic surnames. To stem
this tide, Iceland's parliament, or Althing, is expected to
toughen an existing ban on non-Icelandic surnames and also to
establish a formal list of acceptable forenames.
   "Names are part of our language and if we lose them we
lose our history," says Guthrun Kvaran, who is drafting the
law. While aimed at preserving tradition, the law also
acknowledges modern trends. Children born out of wedlock will
be able to take their mother's name.
   Immigrants who become Icelandic citizens also must take
new names and pass them on to their children. Hence, a
Vietnamese refugee named Tran Dat Phat now is Petur Tran Dat
Phat, and his children take the name Petursson or
Petursdottir.
   One notable exception to this rule is Vladimir Ashkenazy,
the Soviet pianist and conductor who was allowed to keep his
name after becoming an Icelander. (His wife is Icelandic, but
he now spends more of his time in Switzerland.)
   The Ashkenazy case inspired a Spanish immigrant in
Reykjavik, unhappy at having to adopt an Icelandic name, to
lodge a bizarre protest. As the Russian pianist's name was
now an approved Icelandic moniker, the Spaniard announced
that he wanted to take Vladimir Ashkenazy as his name, too.
Officials were amused but unmoved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mobil, Chevron
   Profit Increased
   In 2nd Quarter
   ---
   Texaco, Phillips Net Fell;
   Strong Results Posted
   For Refining, Marketing
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB CHV TX P
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. registered big increases in
second-quarter net income, while Texaco Inc. reported a small
decline and Phillips Petroleum Co. posted a large drop.
   Refining and marketing results for all four companies were
strong, with Chevron posting a record, as gasoline prices
held steady while crude oil prices plunged. That drop in
crude prices reduced profits on the exploration and
production side of the business, while chemical earnings
remained well below year-earlier levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mobil, based in New York, said net income rose 24% to $498
million, or $1.19 a share, from $401 million, or 98 cents a
share, a year earlier. The latest quarter included a $182
million gain from the sale of an interest in a North Sea
oilfield and a $112 million charge for future environmental
cleanup costs, mostly at service stations. The year-earlier
figure included a $140 million loss on the sale of business
operations in South Africa and a $21 million gain from the
sale of a chemical company. Excluding the gains and charges,
Mobil's profit fell 18%. Revenue declined slightly to $13.8
billion from $14 billion.
   The company said oil prices averaged $2.22 a barrel below
last year's level in the quarter, resulting in a small
decline in exploration and production earnings. Refining and
marketing profits surged more than threefold to $278 million,
while chemical profits sank 49%. Petrochemical prices have
fallen sharply from last year.
   Chevron, based in San Francisco, said net rose 60% to $648
million, or $1.83 a share, from $404 million, or $1.18 a
share. The latest quarter includes $58 million of gains,
while last year's period included a loss of $11 million.
Revenue rose 8.5% to $8.9 billion from $8.2 billion mainly
because of higher sales volumes of crude.
   The company's refining and marketing profits surged more
than threefold to $370 million. Chevron said stable gasoline
prices were supported by tight supplies resulting from a
large number of refinery shutdowns. It also said refineries
yielded less gasoline per barrel of crude because of
environmental reformulations.
   Texaco, based in White Plains, N.Y., said net dropped 3.6%
to $353 million, or $1.26 a share, from $366 million, or
$1.39 a share. Revenue increased 3.2% to $8.72 billion from
$8.45 billion.
   The company said its domestic gasoline sales grew 7.9%
amid flat demand industrywide, boosting overall refining and
marketing profits 57% to $328 million from $209 million. But
U.S. exploration and production earnings fell sharply because
of the lower crude prices, to $66 million from $168 million.
Petrochemical results also fell sharply, as they did at the
other integrated oil companies.
   Phillips, based in Bartlesville, Okla., said net plunged
47% to $105 million, or 43 cents a share, from $197 million,
or 81 cents a share. The year-earlier figure included a $21
million gain from the settlement of a pipeline dispute.
Revenue declined 9.7% to $2.98 billion from $3.3 billion.
   Stronger refining and marketing results weren't enough to
offset lower crude prices and the weakness in chemicals.
Phillips said its latest quarter included $58 million of
business-interruption insurance related to lost earnings from
its decimated Pasadena, Texas, chemical plant that exploded
last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Reserve Assets Rose
   $270 Million During June
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. official reserve assets rose $270
million in June to $77.3 billion, the Treasury said.
   Last month's increase followed a $745 million rise in May
to $77.03 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reserve assets consist of foreign currencies, gold,
special drawing rights at the International Monetary Fund and
the U.S. reserve position -- its ability to draw foreign
currencies -- at the IMF.
   The nation's holdings of foreign currencies increased $491
million in June to $47.29 billion, while gold reserves were
unchanged at $11.07 billion. Holdings of IMF special drawing
rights in the month rose $94 million to $10.49 billion, and
the U.S. reserve position at the IMF dropped $315 million to
$8.45 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UNC Sells Two Units
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UNC CHW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANNAPOLIS, Md. -- UNC Inc. said it sold two
environmental-service units to Chem-Nuclear Environmental
Services Inc. based in Oakbrook, Ill., for $24 million.
   The units, UNC Geotech and UNC Remediation, both based in
Grand Junction, Colo., provide environmental restoration and
waste-management services to the federal government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UNC said the gain from the sale will be offset by an
expected second-quarter write-down of its investment in its
third environmental services unit UNC Reclamation, which the
company is closing. The aviation products and services
company said it does not expect to record a loss in the
second quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush's Selection of Souter for Supreme Court
   Avoids, but Doesn't Bridge, the GOP's Schism
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- He may have dodged the problem for now, but
he can't escape it: President Bush rules over a Republican
Party with a hopelessly split personality on the most
contentious social issues.
   This Republican schism, which party leaders struggle
mightily to keep below the surface, was brought into sharp
focus by the resignation of Supreme Court Justice William
Brennan. GOP social-issue conservatives immediately
envisioned a replacement who would tip the court's balance
against abortion; other Republicans just as quickly geared up
a campaign for a nominee favoring abortion rights.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The president's artful selection of New Hampshire Judge
David Souter, a judicial conservative with virtually no
record on the abortion issue, may have skirted the problem
for now. But that hardly ends the problem. In fact, the
Souter choice only points out that the split personality is
likely to become a dilemma for Mr. Bush time and again, if he
has to fill more high-court vacancies -- and certainly as
Republicans try to write a platform for his likely
re-election campaign in 1992.
   "If the party goes out on a social-issues jag," warns GOP
consultant Roger Stone, "we'll split our coalition."
   In a sense, this rift is an outgrowth of Republican
success. In the past two decades, the party has drawn in
Americans with disparate backgrounds who unite behind the GOP
on economic and national-security matters. On one side of
this Republican tent are social-issue conservatives, to whom
such matters as abortion, flag burning and gun control are of
searing importance. On the other side are what party pros
often call the "yuppie" Republicans -- suburban voters who
are conservative on economics but either disagree with the
social conservatives or blanch at emphasizing such emotional
issues.
   In a sense, the president is like the hero in a Western
movie who is tied to two wild horses that the bad guys send
charging off in different directions to tear him apart. The
recurring challenge for Mr. Bush is to keep his horses
heading in the same direction. The risk is that if tax
increases begin to blur the differences between Democrats and
Republicans on economic matters, some voters could drift
toward the Democratic camp over social issues.
   Such splits emerge because the national Republican
coalition, building for years, now is "at a pretty late
stage" in which internal contradictions emerge more clearly,
says Republican theorist Kevin Phillips. "Managing it would
be pretty tough if you had the best of all worlds."
   The divisions are borne out by a recent Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll. Respondents were asked a series of
questions about abortion, flag burning, gun control,
obscenity and the death penalty, and were classified based on
their answers. The poll found that among Republicans, 28%
could be classified as social liberals, 38% as social
moderates and 34% as social conservatives.
   Republican operatives recognize the splits but argue that
they are inevitable in successful national movements. They
are "the growing pains of becoming a majority party,"
maintains Mary Matalin, the chief of staff at the Republican
National Committee.
   And Mitchell Daniels, former political director of the
Reagan White House, contends that "any coalition broad enough
to command recurring majorities is going to have to be broad
enough to have contradictions within it." He adds: "But I
think the cleavages within the Republican party are far less
than the Democrats managed to have and survive for so many
decades. The distance between these various shades of
Republicans isn't the same as the distance between Dixiecrats
and civil-rights workers."
   Still, the matter is complicated by an internal debate
about which camp is more important to Republican national
success. Many Republican operatives -- including some of
President Bush's advisers -- argue that the "yuppie" element
is more important in the long run, because it tends to
represent a breed of new, younger, upwardly mobile
Republicans who could provide long-term support.
   But others argue that such voters don't form the same kind
of dependable core of support that social conservatives do.
"Even though I know the yuppie segment has been part of the
coalition, it hasn't been the base and the strength of the
coalition -- not in terms of hitting the street," argues
Robert Billings, legislative director of the American
Conservative Union.
   The solution to the split, many analysts say, is to try to
keep the focus on issues that unite Republicans, such as
economic growth, the fight against crime and drugs, and
national defense. Notwithstanding the current flap over the
president's recent reversal of his no-tax pledge, economic
issues, in particular, represent the glue holding the
Republican coalition together, many party operatives argue.
   Another way to handle the splits, some suggest, is to
emphasize a philosophy of individual rights -- a philosophy
that theoretically should appeal to social-issue
conservatives because of their disdain for big government and
also to abortion-rights advocates because of their disdain
for intermingling politics and social issues. "The basic
philosophy of the party is one of individual choice," says
Ann Stone, who has just formed a group called Republicans for
Choice, a group of Republicans favoring abortion rights.
   The White House clearly hopes that Judge Souter and his
vague record on abortion won't antagonize anyone. "The
advantage is that neither wing of the Republican Party has
any idea how he'll come down on any of the issues the
different wings care about," says Republican Gov. Judd Gregg
of New Hampshire. Yet abortion is such a highly emotional
matter that it is difficult to finesse. And the issue
promises to rear its head time and again, particularly
because Mr. Bush could easily make several more appointments
to a Supreme Court whose two most-liberal members now are in
their 80s.
   The recent focus on abortion already has produced an
increasing outspokenness by Republicans favoring abortion
rights. "There are many Republicans who are pro-choice,"
maintains Rep. Claudine Schneider, a Rhode Island Republican
who is running for the U.S. Senate and who favors abortion
rights. "A lot of them feel disenfranchised. But we are there
-- and we are speaking out. The party is not of one point of
view here." Indeed, the Journal/NBC poll indicates that 59%
of Republicans don't favor making abortion illegal.
   And Ms. Stone warns that the Republican Party must work
out some compromise before it writes its party platform in
1992 or be forced to jettison its official anti-abortion
views entirely. "We will either work it out in language both
sides can live with or we will have it dropped," she says.
"How can the party continue to take this position? It really
tears at the core of the party, at the very fabric of the
party."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Prices Advance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's main measure of consumer prices
advanced 9.1% in June from a year earlier, the government
reported.
   For the 50% of urban households that spent between 2,000
and 6,499 Hong Kong dollars ($258 and $837) a month, consumer
prices rose 1% from May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the 30% of households spending between 6,500 and 9,999
Hong Kong dollars, prices climbed 9.3% from a year ago and
0.9% from the preceding month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latin Squeeze:
   Brazil's Moves to Curb
   Its Inflation Also Curb
   U.S. Concerns' Profits
   ---
   Collor's Freezing of Money
   Brings On Business Slump
   And Intermittent Strikes
   ---
   `Wishing We Weren't There'
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST LABOR G.VOW F TOK WHR AA CAT
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Three years ago, expansion-minded executives at Whirlpool
Corp.'s headquarters in Benton Harbor, Mich., summed up the
world on a single sheet of paper. Using the colors of a
traffic light, they graded each area of the globe on
qualities such as business climate and market potential.
   In what was dubbed the "stoplight chart," Brazil and South
America as a whole mostly earned stoplights. Business
climate? Red. Barriers to entry? Red. Financial stability?
Red. And so on.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, Brazilian President Fernando Collor de Mello's
sweeping, four-month-old anti-inflation and economic-reform
plan has U.S. companies seeing red for other reasons. The
plan, among other things, froze much of the country's money,
replaced the cruzado with the cruzeiro, caused
foreign-exchange translation losses for companies and
triggered a recession.
   Caterpillar Inc., which earned about $100 million last
year in Brazil, now expects a 1990 loss there. Whirlpool's
overall earnings are expected by analysts to plunge at least
30% in the second quarter because of a sharp swing to a loss
at its Brazilian operation; the company declines to comment.
And Aluminum Co. of America says its share of its Brazilian
affiliate's first-half profit skidded 90% to $6 million. Many
companies expect the trouble to persist into 1991.
   "We're wishing we weren't there," says Frederick A.
Krehbiel, chief executive of Molex Inc. The Lisle, Ill.,
maker of electrical connectors has made money in just two of
its eight years in Brazil.
   For manufacturers that thought only banks lost bundles in
Brazil, the economic upheaval illustrates the risks of going
global. Executives often portray international expansion as
the key to growth. But although they rarely expect it to be
easy, the Brazilian surprises show that even the biggest and
most patient global investors can be clobbered by a volatile
local economy and a government desperate to control it. Last
month, when Caterpillar hinted at the extent of its problems
there, its stock promptly lost more than $1 billion of market
value in two days.
   "The risk associated with this kind of operation is that
you've got your money tied up until stability is reached,"
says James F. Swallow, a manufacturing specialist at A.T.
Kearney, a consulting firm.
   In Brazil, U.S. companies are being beset by intermittent
strikes, supply shortages and overnight shifts in demand for
their products. Whirlpool had been accustomed to labor
harmony at its Embraco S.A. affiliate, which makes
refrigerator compressors, but it recently found strikers in
the plant using bullhorns to urge others to join them.
Embraco managers grabbed their own bullhorns and tried to
out-shout the strikers. That strike, and walkouts at two
other Whirlpool affiliates, have now been settled.
   For Tokheim Corp., of Fort Wayne, Ind., sales of its
gasoline pumps made in the Amazon region suddenly evaporated
after the Collor plan was unveiled March 16. Today, orders
are trickling back, but there's a hitch: Customers want
electronic gas pumps, which facilitate changing prices, now
that the government has eased controls. The company had
designed mechanical pumps especially for Brazil. Tokheim is
rushing to produce electronic pumps at the plant later this
year.
   It's easy to understand why U.S. manufacturers have long
eyed Brazil. The country accounts for half of South America
and is bigger than the continental U.S. It has abundant
mineral resources. And with a population of 150 million, more
than double that in 1960, it has an ample labor supply. In
addition, marketers such as Whirlpool, which notes that only
about one in four of Brazilian homes with electricity has a
washing machine, drool over the potential of a growing middle
class.
   Consequently, more and more U.S. companies have been drawn
to Brazil, and many of their operations have grown quite
large. At the end of 1988, U.S. corporations had $11.8
billion invested, representing nearly a third of overall
foreign investment in Brazil. Xerox Corp., with 4,000
employees at three locations in the country, has raised sales
of its office products to some $600 million to $700 million
in Brazil. Caterpillar employs about 5,000 workers in the
country.
   For all their troubles, many U.S. executives still see the
Collor plan as the best chance to curb runaway inflation and
pry open the Western world's eighth-largest economy. Roiled
by hyperinflation, Brazil has had little economic stability
in recent years. U.S. managers have had to spend more time
managing money than manufacturing.
   Last year, for instance, as inflation ran at a 1,765%
annual rate, Molex didn't ship products for the first 10 days
each month; it took that long to haggle over price increases
with customers and suppliers. And in a frantic dance to beat
inflation, the company hired workers to stand in the long
lines at Sao Paulo banks. They would take money given them by
another Molex employee, deposit it and go to the end of the
line to wait for the next transaction.
   For now, the game plans of most U.S. companies are simple:
Stem the bleeding and try to devise a strategy for the
future. That's easier said than done. "Forecasting down here
is absolutely impossible," says Robert Frey, president of
Whirlpool do Brasil. At Molex, managers now must update their
three-year Brazil plan every three months to keep pace with
changes. "I took my dartboard" to develop the latest plan,
jokes James Cummings, whose job at Molex is to stem the red
ink from Brazil.
   The effects of the Collor plan on Autolatina, the giant
auto maker owned by Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG, have
been harsh. Near the end of March, its parking lots bulged
with nearly 20,000 unsold vehicles. Soon afterwards, it shut
its plants for five weeks and laid off 28,000 workers.
   When customers resumed buying cars, Autolatina, like
Tokheim, discovered that their tastes had changed. Suddenly,
they shunned luxury and snapped up economy cars such as the
basic version of the Gol, a two-door hatchback. Autolatina
had to scramble to get the parts to meet the shift in demand,
and it took two months to change the model mix, says Miguel
Jorge, vice president for corporate affairs.
   Then, the strikes began. Because the Collor plan abruptly
ended automatic indexing of wages to inflation, unions
demanded wage increases to make up for lost buying power.
Monthlong strikes at Autolatina cost production of 35,000
cars and 2,700 trucks, the company estimates. All but one of
the strikes has ended, but the company says that turned
violent last Friday as workers damaged cars and vandalized
buildings. Companies that avoided walkouts had trouble
getting parts: Their suppliers had been struck.
   At Whirlpool's three Brazilian affiliates, strikes were
settled by relatively modest wage increases -- of about 30%.
But labor peace is hardly guaranteed. "A settlement here may
be good until the next month, when the latest inflation rate
is announced," Mr. Frey says.
   Another challenge is to explain all this to corporate
headquarters back home. When Mr. Cummings is asked the
seemingly innocuous question, "How's business?" he replies:
"Do you want to talk dollars or volume?"
   In dollars, Molex's business in Brazil is down to 60% of
its level before the Collor plan was announced. But unit
volume looks better, at 80% to 85% of the earlier level. The
difference: With inflation at a relatively tame monthly rate
of 10% in June, the company no longer has to charge customers
a huge markup between shipment and payment.
   Even while grappling with disruptions caused by the Collor
plan, foreign manufacturers in Brazil are scrambling to meet
the threat of import competition, which promises to be the
biggest challenge of all. For years, Brazil's strict curbs on
imports and rules requiring that products be made with
Brazilian components protected domestic companies. But as a
result, their factories were very inefficient. Molex found
the quality of some made-in-Brazil components so poor that it
had to inspect every piece of metal and plastic entering its
plant. That improved its products, but the company's
productivity in Brazil was half that of its other foreign
operations.
   Now that the government is lifting such barriers as
outright bans on some imports and quotas on others,
manufacturers have to decide what to make in Brazil and
whether to use Brazilian or foreign-made parts. Last week,
Xerox officials huddled at their Stamford, Conn.,
headquarters to develop a five-year strategy on just that.
Failure to do so could leave the company's Brazilian office
products vulnerable to better-made or less-expensive imports,
says David R. Myerscough, president of Xerox's Americas
Operations.
   With appliance imports permitted for the first time in
years, Whirlpool confronts a similar problem. The company
found, for example, that 15 key refrigerator components are
up to six times more expensive in Brazil than in the U.S.
Even with a hefty import tariff of 60%, that makes imported
appliances attractive.
   Or consider what Whirlpool touts as its "world washer."
David R. Whitwam, its chief executive, says the machine sells
for $500 to $600 in Brazil but would cost just $250 in the
U.S. One reason: The company's engineers in Benton Harbor
spent years designing such gizmos as electronic controls that
fine-tune the spin and timing of wash cycles. But the
local-content rules forced the company to spend twice as much
for Brazil-made controls as it would pay in the U.S. or Far
East.
   Not surprisingly, Whirlpool now is considering importing
components such as electronic instruments or motors from its
suppliers around the world. It also might brave the tariff to
offer Brazilians a luxury item not made by its affiliates in
Brazil: a side-by-side refrigerator-freezer with
through-the-door ice dispenser.
   Like many other companies that have done business in
Brazil for years, Whirlpool says it intends to remain in the
country. But with other options for multinationals opening up
in places such as Eastern Europe and Mexico, Chairman Whitwam
warns: "If Brazil doesn't present stability as well as growth
opportunities, all the companies have alternatives."
   Tokheim, meanwhile, already is chasing business elsewhere:
the Soviet Union. After spending about $4 million in Brazil,
"we're probably not going to put as much money in," says John
E. Overmyer, the chief executive. "In fact, we probably won't
put any money in."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PepsiCo Net
   In 2nd Quarter
   Rose by 10%
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc., paced by big earnings gains in its fledgling
overseas markets, said second-quarter net income rose 10%.
   Stripping away several one-time credits and charges,
Pepsi's earnings would have increased 19%, as the company
outperformed the sluggish fast-food industry in the U.S. and
peddled more chips, chicken and soft drinks to consumers
abroad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In line with analysts' estimates, Pepsi's second-quarter
net income was $292.5 million, or $1.10 a share, compared
with $264.9 million, or $1 a share.
   The latest quarter's net included a two-cent-a-share write
off of soda and snack receivables, resulting from the recent
bankruptcy-law filing of a major customer, Circle K Corp. The
quarter also included three cents a share in earnings
dilution from Pepsi's acquisition last year of two British
snack companies. The year-ago quarter's net included several
gains and charges, the net effect of which was a credit of
six cents a share.
   Sales for Pepsi, of Purchase, N.Y., totaled $4.2 billion,
up 17% from $3.59 billion.
   In snack foods, Pepsi's biggest profit maker,
second-quarter international sales more than doubled to
$347.7 million while profits jumped 75%. The latest results
include the operations of the big British snack companies.
But even without them, the overseas snack-food business sold
14% more chips, as measured in tons. In the U.S., by
contrast, where the snack-food market is more mature and
competitive, Pepsi's Frito-Lay unit showed a 5% increase in
volume. That gain translated, after higher promotional costs
for new products and some charges, into a 7% profit growth in
the U.S.
   In soft drinks, unlike main rival Coca-Cola Co., most of
Pepsi's profits come from the U.S. And with a 4% increase in
second-quarter sales by the company's domestic bottlers,
compared with about a 3% gain for Coke, Pepsi uncorked a 12%
rise in domestic operating profit, excluding a one-time
charge. Diet Pepsi and Mountain Dew led the volume increase
in the U.S.
   The nation's largest restaurant operator continued to
shake off the fast-food doldrums in the second quarter.
Same-store sales for company-owned operations, an important
indicator of restaurant health that compares sales for units
open at least a year, rose 10% at Pizza Hut, 15% at Taco Bell
and 5% at Kentucky Fried Chicken. Putting those gains in
perspective, industry-leader McDonald's Corp.'s company-owned
stores, hurt by industrywide price discounting, last week
reported about a 1% decline in second-quarter same-store
sales.
   A combination of new products, like Hot Wings at Kentucky
Fried Chicken, low-priced items like tacos and burritos at
Taco Bell, and expanded delivery service at Pizza Hut, all
helped Pepsi generate improved operating results from its
restaurants.
   For the first half, Pepsi's net income increased 10% to
$474.4 million, or $1.78 a share, from $430 million, or $1.62
a share. The latest period's net includes the charge for the
Circle K receivables; the year-ago period profit includes the
six-cents-a-share net credit.
   First-half sales rose 20% to $7.88 billion from $6.55
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Merck &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MERCK &amp; Co. increased its quarterly dividend 24% to 56
cents a share from 45 cents, payable Oct. 1 to stock of
record Sept. 4. The Rahway, N.J., pharmaceutical company said
the rise is intended to keep dividends in line with earnings
growth. Merck last boosted its payout in July 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Plans to Try to Save Arms Budget
   As Republicans in House Appear to Wilt
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The White House will use a last-minute
lobbying blitz to try to salvage its defense budget in the
House, where even senior Republicans appear ready to throw in
the towel.
   Faced with steadily eroding congressional support and a
drumbeat of complaints by GOP lawmakers that President Bush
hasn't personally entered the battle, White House aides have
scheduled a pair of White House sessions starting today to
plug the administration's defense priorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush and National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft are
expected to urge bipartisan delegations of congressional
leaders to save the B-2 Stealth bomber, provide robust
funding for mobile nuclear missiles, and keep the Navy's most
advanced submarine programs alive, administration officials
said.
   Mr. Bush's staff, according to other administration
officials, also is considering a presidential speech next
week in Colorado taking on lawmakers intent on slashing such
big-ticket Pentagon programs, including research on
space-based antimissile defenses called the Strategic Defense
Initiative.
   Such efforts, however, are likely to prove largely futile
in the House. Even before the House Armed Services Committee
begins voting next week on a $283 billion defense spending
bill for 1991, Rep. William Dickinson of Alabama, the panel's
ranking Republican, acknowledged that congressional support
has eroded badly for the administration's top-priority
defense requests.
   Rep. Dickinson, for example, said in an interview before
the White House decided on its new course, that he doesn't
intend to fight hard for money the Pentagon wants to deploy
MX missiles on specially built railroad cars. And he flatly
said he couldn't understand why the White House continues to
champion the radar-evading B-2, built by Northrop Corp., and
SDI.
   Even if Congress agrees to continue buying B-2s, the GOP
lawmaker asserted, "I don't know what their mission would
be." The Air Force's leadership "loses some credibility when
they're out there beating the bushes . . . for something that
just doesn't make sense," he added.
   Discussing the Navy's proposed fleet of high-speed,
super-quiet Seawolf attack submarines, which cost about $1.5
billion each, Rep. Dickinson said, "I don't know why we've
got to field a new class of submarines" in light of improved
U.S.-Soviet relations.
   The Navy, which has one Seawolf under construction, wants
money for two more of the vessels in 1991. But the committee
is almost certain to pare the Navy's request by one, and it
may delay the construction schedule for the other. The Senate
version of the bill doesn't include any money for the
Seawolf, slated to be built by units of General Dynamics
Corp. and Tenneco Inc.
   The House panel also is expected to cut deeply into the
Navy's Trident nuclear-missiles submarine program as part of
the decision by its leadership to slash some $3 billion from
the administration's $19.1 billion sea power budget request
for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.
   Meanwhile, the Pentagon's ambitious weapons-buying plans
are about to receive another blow from the General Accounting
Office. In testimony before the House Armed Services panel
today, Comptroller General Charles Bowsher is expected to
criticize Defense Secretary Dick Cheney sharply for failing
to go far enough to centralize procurement decisions and trim
acquisition and administrative personnel.
   To reduce the budget deficit and rein in the Pentagon's
procurement system, Mr. Bowsher will urge Congress to delay
full-bore production of the next generation of fighters,
helicopters and submarines until additional tests are
completed. And he is expected to call for reductions of 10%
to 20% in training, maintenance and other day-to-day
operating accounts, something the Pentagon strongly opposes.
Acting partly on Bowsher's recommendations, the committee is
ready to eliminate some 65,000 civilian employees from the
Defense Department's payroll by the fall of 1991, saving at
least $1 billion annually.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler to Raise Prices on Minivans
   While Trimming Cost of Certain Cars
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. is telling dealers
it plans to raise prices on its restyled 1991 minivans by as
much as 12% but will cut prices on some of its less popular
car lines.
   The No. 3 U.S. auto maker's preliminary pricing strategy
was outlined in price lists designed to allow dealers to
begin taking fleet orders now. A company spokesman stressed
yesterday that 1991 retail models could have different levels
of standard equipment and possibly different prices than
those indicated for fleet buyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, Chrysler's preliminary pricing strategy for the
fall represents a partial break with the more traditional
approach outlined by Ford Motor Co. Ford recently told
dealers it plans to raise prices broadly on most 1991 models
by between 4% and 9%. General Motors Corp. is expected to
release its preliminary 1991 prices soon.
   Chrysler isn't proposing to raise prices across the board
but instead is signaling that it will place big increases on
models that are selling well and balance those by cutting or
holding prices of lower-volume lines and models that are
under tougher competitive pressure.
   "About half {the models} have gone up, and half have gone
down," the Chrysler spokesman said.
   Chrysler plans some of its biggest price increases for its
1991 minivans, which it says will arrive this fall with new
interiors and more refined exterior looks. The minivans are a
key source of profit for Chrysler, and Chrysler's 1991
pricing appears aimed at recovering the expense of the
restyling and more, despite mounting competition in the small
van market.
   The base price of the least expensive Plymouth Voyager
minivan is scheduled to go up $1,076 to $13,071, a 9%
increase from last fall. The better-equipped and more popular
Voyager SE model is scheduled to go up $1,525, or 12%, to
$14,200. The most expensive two-wheel drive Voyager, the
Grand Voyager LE, will start at $19,300, up 5.3% from a year
ago. The price increases reflect, in part, some new standard
equipment, the company spokesman said.
   In addition, Chrysler will launch all-wheel drive versions
of the minivans this fall. Starting prices on these models
will range from $17,089 to $21,146.
   At these prices, however, Chrysler's minivans could
represent less of a bargain compared with models from Ford,
GM, Toyota Motor Corp. and Mazda Motor Corp. Toyota's Previa
LE model, which is comparable in size and features to a Grand
Caravan LE, currently starts at $18,698, compared with
$18,325 for the current Grand Caravan. But the proposed base
price of the 1991 Grand Caravan is $602 higher than the
Previa's. Toyota hasn't announced whether it will raise the
price of the Previa.
   "One of the reasons Voyager is so successful is that it
was in the lower price range" among minivans, said Longview,
Wash., Chrysler dealer Jim Clary. "Chrysler may be losing
their advantage. Price is a big thing in that people-carrier
business."
   When it comes to cars, Chrysler's 1991 pricing strategy is
more complicated. For example, the base price for the least
expensive 1991 Plymouth Laser coupe is tentatively set at
$10,864, just $9 more than a year earlier. But the starting
price of the more popular and better-equipped 1991 Laser RS
model is scheduled to jump $870 to $12,770, up 7.3% from last
fall.
   In a few cases, Chrysler is cutting base prices of car
models. The 1991 New Yorker Fifth Avenue is tentatively
priced to start at $20,550, down 1.5% from the year-earlier
$20,860 starting price. The most expensive 1991 Chrysler
LeBaron convertible will start at $17,625, down $2,427 or 12%
from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morrison Knudsen Wins Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRN
</CO>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- Morrison Knudsen Corp. said it received a
$36 million contract to build a container terminal facility
for the Port of Los Angeles.
   The largest of four structures planned for the site will
be a four-level 61,000 square-foot office building. The
company said it expects to complete construction in early
1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Postal Service
   Expects Delays
   If UPS Strikes
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<GV>
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- If the Teamsters union strikes against
United Parcel Service of America Inc. at the end of the
month, the U.S. Postal Service has a message for large
shippers: Take a number.
   Under the Postal Service's plan, anyone with five or more
packages to be delivered by truck or priority mail will have
to call a toll-free number, make a reservation and then take
the parcels to a designated postal facility for delivery. The
agency doesn't plan any restrictions on its overnight
express-mail service or on shipments of fewer than five
parcels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Teamsters' contract with UPS expires July 31, and the
union has advised its members against accepting the company's
final wage and benefit offer. A vote on the contract offer is
to be tabulated by July 31, and UPS has told its customers
that it can't guarantee its service will continue
uninterrupted after that.
   "There's no way the United States Postal Service can
absorb the operations of UPS overnight," deputy Postmaster
General Michael Coughlin said at a briefing yesterday. He
said the agency's first responsibility is the 500 million
pieces of mail it now handles daily. "But we are a national
postal service and we'll try to serve," Mr. Coughlin added.
   Postal officials said UPS delivers about 10 million
parcels by ground transportation daily, or 20 times the
Postal Service's volume for that category. UPS also delivers
300,000 packages overnight, compared with 200,000 delivered
by the Postal Service. The agency handles 1.5 million parcels
mailed at the first-class rate daily (called priority mail),
compared with half a million in that category handled by UPS.
Officials said priority-mail package delivery could be slowed
by about a day if there's a surge in demand because of a
strike against UPS.
   Under its labor contract, the Postal Service can hire
temporary workers numbering up to 5% of its total work force
of about 700,000. Officials said that number of temporaries
probably wouldn't be enough if there's a nationwide UPS
strike. The agency might have to declare an emergency, which
would permit them to hire additional help.
   The Postal Service doesn't view the possibility of a
strike against a major competitor as a chance to impress the
public or pick up new business. "I don't see this as an
opportunity. We simply can't handle 10 million extra pieces a
day," said Mr. Coughlin, who called picking up new business
"a secondary consideration."
   The parcel-reservation system, which would give callers a
time and place for bringing in their packages, is set to
begin operation by early next week. However, the timetable
may be moved up a day or more if a strike seems certain.
Postal officials will brief major shippers today and will
meet with representatives of the trucking industry to enlist
their help in carrying the extra volume of parcels.
   "We're a national utility. If this comes about, we want
the public to understand what we're capable of," Mr. Coughlin
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Revco Wins Court Extension
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RDS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   TWINSBURG, Ohio -- Revco D.S. Inc. said the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Akron extended until Aug. 31 the
exclusive period that the drugstore chain has to file a
reorganization plan.
   The previous extension was to expire July 31. The court
gave Revco until Nov. 30 to obtain acceptance of its plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revco has been operating under Chapter 11 protection from
creditors since July 28, 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   From an article by P.J. O'Rourke in the July 12-16 Rolling
Stone:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I've been writing about the American-political process for
some two years now. All that time I've been looking for a
straightforward issue. But everything I've investigated --
election campaigns, drug abuse, savings and loan regulation,
social security, housing, foreign policy, the environment --
has turned out to be a lot more complicated than I expected.
There were always angles I hadn't considered, aspects I
hadn't weighed, complexities I'd never dreamed of. Until now.
Until I got to the 1990 Farm Bill. Here at last is a simple
problem with a simple solution. Drag the thing behind the
barn and kill it with an ax.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Service -- On the Whole, Not a Bad Idea
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   National service is about to get its foot in the door, and
while it's only a toehold, it has profound implications --
especially for our children.
   The notion of national or community service is a very good
one. But the potential problems and pitfalls are real; it's
better to proceed cautiously, and that's what Congress and
the Bush administration are doing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Senate a few months ago cleared legislation that would
provide incentives, principally for young people, to
participate in various community services. The odds are that
a compromise version with the House will be sent to the
president before the 101st Congress adjourns this fall.
   The legislation grew out of two quite different
initiatives. One was President Bush's "thousand points of
light" plan to encourage part-time volunteers from more
affluent areas to help less fortunate citizens. The other was
a measure sponsored by Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), with Sen.
Charles Robb (D., Va.) and Rep. David McCurdy (D., Okla.), to
establish a broad-based national-service system providing
modest stipends and subsequent benefits to people who perform
public-service tasks for a year or two.
   The Senate-passed bill gives George Bush his points of
light initiative, authorizing $25 million over two years to
establish programs using volunteers. It also expands a youth
service corps for youngsters between 16 and 25, working in
teams in human service or conservation employment, and it
sets up a program to encourage elementary and high school
kids to undertake volunteer efforts.
   But the most important component is the bill's version of
the Nunn idea. This authorizes $35 million over two years for
a demonstration program in a few states in which young people
17 and older and senior citizens would provide such services
as helping nursing homes, tutoring disadvantaged kids and
aiding the homeless. These volunteers could make up to $6,000
a year and get $5,000 in annual post-service vouchers to be
used for educational expenses, as a down payment on a first
home or to start a small business. (The Senate scrapped an
even bolder Nunn proposal, making all federal aid for college
students contingent upon performing some community service.)
   National service programs, especially broad-based ones,
have plenty of opposition. Some liberals fear it is a sop to
avoid substantive social programs. Some unions worry that
low-paying jobs could displace higher-paid workers. Many
college presidents object, ostensibly on equity grounds;
administrators of most existing local service efforts say
they've been unsuccessful in getting middle- or upper-class
kids involved. Libertarians detest any effort by the
government to mandate service.
   To Sen. Robert Kerrey (D., Neb.), a winner of the
Congressional Medal of Honor, those pushing national service
are adults who say "we don't care enough about our country,
and our solution is instead of requiring adults to serve
more, we're going to require our kids to serve more." Any
parallel to the GI bill is inappropriate, he says, because
that was after the fact: "We didn't set it up and say, gee,
we've got these Nazis over there in Europe, and they're
really bad, and will you go put your life on the line for us
and then get these benefits."
   Many conservatives also criticize national service plans.
Some object to the cost; others such as Bruce Chapman,
director of the Census Bureau under Ronald Reagan and a
scholar at the Hudson Institute, object on broader grounds. A
national service program, he says, "stigmatizes the honest
labor of the poor {and} denigrates the genuine altruism of
the millions of Americans who donate their time to worthy
causes without expectation of material reward." He likens it
to a massive public-works boondoggle like the CETA
(Comprehensive Education and Training Act) program of
yesteryear.
   Yet most of these criticisms and complaints are
exaggerated. The bureaucracy would be limited. National
service would cost money, but it also would produce some
savings in areas such as defaults on federal aid to
education. President Bush's thousand points of light
volunteerism concept is a nice notion but it's different from
service. "We are asking," Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell says, for "a consistent, dependable rigorous
commitment over a sustained period of time."
   Complaints that young people shouldn't be compensated for
providing "volunteer" services are ludicrous. Otherwise, as
Sen. Nunn says, community service would be limited to those
who have the "luxury" to serve -- namely only the affluent.
On the other side, the idea of making educational aid an
earned right rather than an entitlement would be healthy for
most kids and institutions.
   There are two overriding arguments for national service.
One is the plain national need for more help in caring for
the elderly, the homeless and the disabled and in
conservation projects. The other is the desirability of
instilling, particularly in young people, a sense of national
or civic pride.
   There's an easy rejoinder for those cynics who doubt that
pride is waiting to be tapped. Try to recall a memorable
phrase from any president, even Ronald Reagan, in recent
history. (Richard Nixon's "I am not a crook" doesn't count.)
For any of us in our middle years, one comes instantly to
mind. It is John F. Kennedy's call: "Ask not what your
country can do for you; ask what you can do for your
country."
   ---
   Mr. Hunt is the Journal's Washington bureau chief.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Liberate the Lions
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   The adventures of the Great Circus Bim Bom From Russia
have been a high-wire lesson in capitalism. Having made
national TV when their U.S. tour went bust, the performers
are still holed up in Marietta, Ga., living off the good will
of local residents and entangled in the Byzantine
complexities of the U.S. legal system.
   The Bim Bom's adventure started out cheerfully enough. The
circus all-stars -- drawn from state circuses throughout the
Soviet Union -- arrived here in April for a two-year goodwill
tour of the U.S. But before anyone could say glasnost, the
circus's Kuwaiti and American backers skedaddled, leaving
behind $1.6 million in debts. Pressed by creditors, the
circus has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Lawyers are
arguing about whether this is kosher, given that the circus
maybe belongs to the Soviet government. Such litigiousness
isn't easy for a bear to bear; the Soviet government disavows
responsibility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So the Bim Bom is hopelessly entangled in a net of suits
that would daunt a Houdini. Just when you think it's
impossible to squeeze another clown into a little car,
another lawyer latches on. Bim Bom manager Yuri Turkin
describes this situation as making "an elephant out of a
fly." His ursine dancers are fidgety, and its famous
wrestling bear now "wrestles with misfortune."
   Still, Mr. Turkin looks on the bright side. While in
captivity, a lion has given birth to two cubs, and the
circus's 18 parrots, which used to speak only Russian, are
learning English. But one creditor, a Newburgh, N.Y.,
transport company, confiscated the circus's animals as
hostages. Another creditor took its equipment, which it
doesn't have to feed.
   A breakaway group, including the Flying Stankeevs, a
family of aerialists, followed the star acrobat to Las Vegas,
in a so-far-futile search for a stage. Meanwhile, Marietta
churches and civic groups have come to the aid of the rest.
Though the performers concede that they could go home,
leaving the equipment and animals behind, it's not hard to
understand why they take their chances with Southern
hospitality and the American courts rather than face empty
grocery-store shelves back home.
   So the cast includes Russian circus folk, American
lawyers, Kuwaiti promoters, Southern civic boosters, Northern
creditors, bears, lions, parrots and the Soviet government.
After looking into the matter, we've decided it would take a
year's research to figure out who's conning whom. As a famous
American once said, "There's a sucker born every minute."
   Still, this looks to us like a good chance to finally make
perestroika work. Among the various talents assembled, there
should be some way to liberate the lions and bears and let
the Bim Bom go back to work.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Helping Schools Learn How to Teach
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SAII
</CO>
<LP>
   Schools in urban Compton, hard by the Watts section of Los
Angeles, suffer from gang violence, teacher job actions, low
student achievement and budget shortfalls -- the usual litany
of inner-city education woes.
   But hard-pressed as it is, Compton spends $210,000 a year
on an innovation that it hopes will help lead it out of the
morass -- outside consultants. The consulting firm, Sage
Analytics International Inc., of Provo, Utah, has interviewed
hundreds of teachers, students and parents at 21 Compton
schools, diagnosed the system's ills with proprietary
computer software, and is now helping revamp curriculum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although problems still abound, school officials say they
see improvement in rising test scores, better attendance and
fewer crimes at high schools. "I would never say we couldn't
have done it without Sage . . . but they certainly made it a
great deal easier," says Oliver Miller, principal of
Compton's Centennial High School.
   As concern about education grows, more schools are turning
to consultants for help. The consultants acknowledge they
possess no wonder drugs for sick schools. Sometimes their
presence becomes controversial. But they can be a valuable
catalyst for energizing schools with low morale, and their
fresh outside views often lead to policy changes.
   In the past, schools have used outsiders such as local
universities for management advice, usually at no cost and
for limited purposes. But a new breed of consultants has
emerged in the current push for school change. They take
fees, paid by the schools themselves, government or private
benefactors. They often aim for school turnarounds measurable
in student performance. And whether run for profit or not,
they actively seek new clients.
   Last month, the Dade County, Fla., school system took the
consultancy idea to its ultimate, awarding a five-year
contract to Education Alternatives Inc., a Minneapolis
operator of private schools, to create a public elementary
school from the ground up. The school, expected to open in
the fall of 1991, will get the standard per-pupil outlay of
other Dade schools. Education Alternatives, which will design
the curriculum and pick its own principal and staff, is
promising higher student achievement.
   Outsiders rarely get this much say, but their influence is
spreading. In January, as part of its school-aid program,
Citicorp said it would pay Sage $7.2 million over five years
to advise 20 new schools, adding to its current total of 125.
The Quality Education Project, a not-for-profit consulting
group based in San Francisco, will advise 300 schools this
September, up from 240 in the last school year. One of the
best-known school gurus, Brown University's Theodore Sizer,
will add 50 schools to his 109-school network over the next
year or so.
   Much of the impetus comes from increased corporate
philanthropy. Mr. Sizer's Coalition for Essential Schools has
received $24 million in gifts or pledges since 1984 from
Aetna, Coca-Cola, Citicorp, Exxon, General Foods, Pacific
Telesis, Xerox and UPS. These corporations say schools are
training tomorrow's workers poorly.
   Another spur is the increasing call for schools to show
better results. The demand is coming from state education
departments, local businesses and media, and brutally
critical national reports.
   "School boards feel the pressure out there," says Frank
Lynch, principal of Petaluma High School in Petaluma, Calif.
"People are more willing to let {outside} people in, turn the
place topsy-turvy and start all over again."
   "Before, if the kids were doing poorly, you retained the
kids," says Jeffry Schiller, director of program development
for the schools in Prince George's County, Md. "Now you bring
in outside help."
   Prince George's County uses a variety of consultants,
including Sage and Lawrence Lezotte, a $2,000-a-day
consultant based in Okemos, Mich. Mr. Lezotte's ideas are
based on so-called effective-schools research, which stresses
high goals for all students, frequent evaluations and strong
principals.
   John Murphy, the district's superintendent, says Mr.
Lezotte's advice has led to improvements such as higher
standardized test scores and more rigor. The number of
students taking first-year algebra in the district, he says,
has risen to 75% from 15% in 1984.
   But to some teachers, the consultancy is a mixed blessing.
Margaret Spirer, president of the district's teacher's union,
says Mr. Lezotte's preachings can be used selectively as an
unfair weapon against teachers whose students don't show
test-score improvement. She says the reviews don't take into
account students' family income and other social factors --
even though those factors can, in Mr. Lezotte's view, affect
learning.
   Despite those reservations, she says Mr. Lezotte has
"inspired a lot of people" in the district to do better.
   Consultants' philosophies vary as much as schools'
problems do. Among Mr. Sizer's chief tenets is the teaching
of a few subjects in depth, rather than offering wide
variety. Sage, on the other hand, doesn't go in with a
prepared prescription. Instead, it surveys school employees,
students and parents for their gripes, then relies on
computer software it designed to sort the complaints and
identify root problems.
   The College for Human Services, a business college in New
York that is a consultant to about a half-dozen schools,
contends that schools are failing partly because they don't
try hard enough to show students how lessons can help them in
the real world.
   For P.S. 30, an elementary school in the Bronx whose
neighborhood suffers from heavy drug abuse, the college
helped organize fourth-grade studies last school year around
a theme of improving community health. Supermarket food
labels were studied and content disclosures used in studying
percentages and fractions. Writing assignments covered the
hazards of eating too much salt, Florence Nightingale's
biography was used in reading, and doctors from Albert
Einstein Hospital were guest teachers in science classes. In
April, the Hasbro Children's Foundation gave the college $1
million to add four schools outside New York to its network.
   The Quality Education Project stresses parental
involvement. Once it is retained, it demands that parents
sign cards pledging they will make their children go to bed
by 9 p.m., do their homework, and read aloud 15 minutes a
day. The parents also promise to provide a quiet studying
place at home and to attend school parent-teacher nights and
open houses. Teachers are asked to phone parents and urge
compliance, and are given logs by QEP to keep track of
results.
   The requirements may seem elementary, but "it's been an
amazing success," says Robert Aguilar, a teacher at
Montgomery High School in San Diego, where QEP has been
working since the 1988-89 school year. He says that
attendance at parents night has gone up to 1,200 from 70,
more homework is being turned in, and grades and state test
scores are up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   In Hollywood,
   Stars Come Out
   In Local Ads
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IPG NSP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Ever wonder what happened to actress
Loretta Swit, who played Major Margaret "Hot Lips" Houlihan
on the TV series "MASH"?
   The series ended, but Ms. Swit's TV career lives on --
she's now starring in low-budget TV ads for the AM/PM Mini
Markets, a local chain of 24-hour convenience stores. A
current ad starts with a close-up of the actress's lips and
pulls back as Ms. Swit talks up the chain's frozen yogurt
bar. That's right, not Diet Coke or American Express -- but
frozen yogurt at the AM/PM Mini Market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Celebrities once were wary of product endorsements, and
the hottest ones often steered clear of them entirely. These
days, however, high-caliber celebrities such as Madonna and
Paul Newman do endorsements for national advertisers. So the
lesser lights are working for smaller clients.
   Nowhere is that clearer than in Los Angeles, where many
television actors reside, making them readily available and
affordable for small jobs.
   Ms. Swit, who at one time appeared in a national ad
campaign for IBM, is hardly the only TV star to appear in a
local commercial here. Local TV and radio stations are
crammed with ads for off-price clothing outlets, car
dealerships, furniture stores, tool shops and more that
feature actors famous at one time or another for their
television roles.
   Scott Baio ("Happy Days") is in ads for the $5 Clothing
Stores, a chain of shops where no item costs more than $8.
Tom Poston ("Newhart") pitches the July sale at J.H. Biggar
furniture stores. Adrienne Barbeau ("Maude" and 1989's
made-for-video movie "Cannibal Women in the Avacado Jungle of
Death") did ads for the Campbell Automotive Group, a cluster
of car dealerships. Michael Constantine ("Leap of Faith," a
TV movie) pitched Murata Pearl, a jewelry store chain.
   Few of the ads -- most of them painfully low-budget -- are
likely contenders for the Clio ad awards. But agents and
marketing executives in this town say local advertisers more
than ever are lining up at the door to sign on actors to hawk
their products.
   "Some of the clients hire TV stars because they like to
hang around them, particularly the smaller retailers," says
Richard Perlmutter, president of Radio Play, a Los Angeles
radio production company that has done scores of such ads.
"If you're dealing with a local car dealer and they have a
choice of using Adrienne Barbeau or some other actress who
sounds like her, you're going to pick Adrienne Barbeau."
   One recent radio ad Mr. Perlmutter supervised featured
actress Edie McClurg ("The Hogan Family") pitching the
American Tool Exchange, a one-location tool store in North
Hollywood. He has worked with lots of TV actors, including
Teresa Ganzel (star of the short-lived sitcom "The Duck
Factory").
   Association with the perceived glamour of a TV actor is a
major reason local advertisers hook up with celebs. But cost
is another big factor. Industry executives say the former
sitcom stars often work for scale -- $366 a day for TV ads,
less for radio commercials -- just as no-name actors do.
   "From an economic standpoint, {Mr. Baio} was somebody that
we could afford," Morrie Dym, president and owner of the $5
Clothing Stores, admits flatly. Besides, he adds quickly,
"he's got very high-name recognition and he's a good-looking
guy." Mr. Dym says, though, that Mr. Baio was paid
substantially above scale, although significantly less than
actor Johnny Depp ("21 Jump Street"), his first choice,
demanded for the job.
   "The taboos {of doing TV ads} aren't as strong as they
once were," says Jeff Danis, an agent in the commercials
department at the high-powered ICM agency. He believes that
the use of celebrities in regional ads isn't strictly a Los
Angeles trend, noting that his clients have done ads for
other regional markets.
   But Los Angeles clearly has the vast majority of such ads.
And executives at big ad agencies here are downright
embarrassed by many of the local spots. They swear they're
not to blame, saying they are the work of small advertisers
who don't know any better.
   "Celebrities ought to have a little bit to do with what
they're selling. . . . There ought to be a bit of a
relationship there," says Brent Bouchez, executive vice
president and creative director at Ketchum Advertising, Los
Angeles. "They can be great when they have a strong
relationship with the product or service. Otherwise, there's
really no reason for them to be."
   Most of the advertisers, though, have such tiny
advertising budgets that their accounts aren't serviced at
big California shops like Ketchum or D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp;
Bowles, for example. Many locals use very small ad shops;
others hire a copywriter on a free-lance basis and pay him to
write a script.
   Mr. Dym defends his choice of Mr. Baio to appear in the
chain's TV ads, saying that the audience of "Charles in
Charge," the actor's most recent sitcom, is the target
audience for the store, too.
   In one ad, a teen-age girl says "Clothes for $5? What are
you, crazy? Yeah, and Scott Baio's going to ask me for a
date]" An elevator opens just then, and -- surprise -- Mr.
Baio steps out, leaving the girl and a friend in awe. At the
end of the spot, she bumps into him again -- and this time
the two get into a limousine. "Believe it]" the girl says.
   Mr. Dym says he doesn't think the actor has ever actually
been inside one of his stores. "Maybe his mother and his
sister have gone," he says.
   ---
   Interpublic Net Rose 9.3%
                                                                                                       

   Interpublic Group, New York, reported second-quarter net
income rose 9.3% to $30.9 million, or 92 cents a share, from
$28.3 million, or 84 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period.
   Revenue rose 8% to $342.4 million from $317.1 million,
with a big revenue jump from operations outside the U.S.
Interpublic posted a decrease in revenue from U.S.
operations, citing "slower economic growth." The company said
the lower U.S. revenue was also affected by the exchange in
July 1989 of its interest in Lowe Marschalk, an ad agency
that has been renamed Lowe &amp; Partners, for an increased stake
in its parent, Lowe PLC.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Northern States Power Co., Minneapolis, named
Martin/Williams, Minneapolis, as agency of record for its
$3.5 million account.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charges Are Filed
   Against 4 Traders
   At New York Merc
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
charged four New York Mercantile Exchange traders with fraud
in handling customer orders, the first government charges
from the 1989 investigation of the New York futures
exchanges.
   CFTC officials said the case is only the first of a series
it expects to bring in the next few months. But the complaint
comes just two weeks after federal prosecutors suffered a
setback in a similar case in Chicago. In that case against
three Chicago Mercantile Exchange traders, the jury reached
guilty verdicts on only eight of more than 100 charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The CFTC charged Douglas Friedman of Forest Hills, N.Y.;
Michael Pomerantz of Scarsdale, N.Y.; Lawrence Beck of Fort
Lee, N.J.; John King of Old Bridge, N.J.; and MSP Trading
Inc., a firm owned by Mr. Pomerantz. All are registered with
the CFTC as floor brokers, although Mr. Friedman trades
primarily for his own account, the CFTC said. Messrs.
Pomerantz, Beck and King declined to comment; Mr. Friedman
couldn't be reached.
   The CFTC hasn't determined the amount of damages it is
seeking in the nine-count administrative complaint, and none
of the defendants has settled the case.
   Federal investigators swooped down on New York's major
commodity exchanges in May 1989, seizing records and issuing
subpoenas to as many as 50 futures traders as part of a probe
of possible criminal and civil violations. The investigation,
which was much smaller than the separate Chicago undercover
investigation, focused on several alleged trading abuses,
according to people familiar with the New York inquiry.
   The agency said that 34 times between July and December
1988, Messrs. Pomerantz, Beck and King executed, with Mr.
Friedman's help, noncompetitive buy and sell transactions on
crude oil-futures trades for customers on the New York
exchange's floor. The CFTC said the transactions allowed the
brokers to trade for their own accounts, against their
customer orders.
   The CFTC alleged that Messrs. Pomerantz, Beck and King,
helped by Mr. Friedman, deceived customers and defrauded or
tried to defraud customers. It also said that Mr. Friedman,
helped by the others, engaged in fictitious sales and caused
untrue prices to be reported.
   The alleged misdeeds, which will be decided at a hearing
by a CFTC administrative law judge, carry potentially massive
penalties. The Commodity Exchange Act allows the CFTC to fine
the traders $100,000 for each violation, several of which may
have taken place in each trade, the agency said. The traders
also could have their trading privileges revoked.
   The four probably won't be the last CFTC targets in the
New York investigation. "I am confident there will be further
recommendations of charges to the commission," said Dennis
Klejna, the agency's enforcement director. The commission
must approve any recommendation by the enforcement division.
   The charges will be closely watched, coming on the heels
of the first decision in the Chicago case. While prosecutors
in that case had obtained guilty-plea agreements from several
defendants, much was riding on the recent jury trial. The
jury's verdict left the government's case uncertain.
   But Mr. Klejna said he didn't give all that much thought
to the Chicago decision. "What happened in Chicago has not
emboldened us or discouraged us in any way," he said. The
CFTC complaint is an administrative charge, which carries a
lesser burden of proof than that of criminal cases.
   One Chicago lawyer suggested that the CFTC could be
strengthened by the Chicago decision. The CFTC has been
"doing the job, and what it's said about the market over the
years is borne out" by the failure of prosecutors to prove
widespread fraud in the Chicago markets, said John
Troelstrup, a partner at Gottlieb &amp; Schwartz. Now, he added,
he expects to see the CFTC act more aggressively toward
exchange activities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Robert Half International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RHI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL Inc., Menlo Park, Calif.,
instituted an anti-takeover "poison pill," declaring a
dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share
of common stock. The dividend will be payable Aug. 8 to stock
of record on that date. The rights will expire Aug. 8, 2000.
The terms of the rights are activated only if 30% or more of
the company's stock is acquired by a person or group. In the
event of a sale or merger, the holder is entitled to purchase
stock in the acquiring company at half the market price.
Robert Half International specializes in the placement of
tax, banking and financial personnel services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Glenmore Distilleries Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   GDSB
</CO>
<LP>
   GLENMORE DISTILLERIES CO., Louisville, Ky., said it
borrowed $35 million through a private placement of senior
notes and has arranged a new $70 million revolving credit
agreement with banks. The 10.63% notes are due June 30, 2000.
They were placed with a group of insurance companies, and
proceeds were used to pay debt, the company said. First
Boston Corp. acted as Glenmore's agent. The revolving credit
replaces a $75 million facility with the same group of banks.
It is split into two portions -- $30 million for working
capital and $40 million for possible acquisitions. Citizens
Fidelity Bank &amp; Trust Co. of Louisville serves as agent bank.
Glenmore is a maker of alcoholic beverages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NKK to Link With Raycom
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NKK
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- NKK Corp. will form a linkup with Raycom Systems
Inc., based in Boulder, Colo., to manufacture and sell
Raycom's high-speed, fiber-optic computer networking systems
in Japan.
   NKK will begin selling one of Raycom's Local Area Networks
in August under the name Transway, NKK said. The system links
smaller computer networks, allowing large volumes of data to
be exchanged at high speeds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   U.S. &amp; Japan: Sauce for the Gander, Too
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.FUT
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   I do not understand why so many Americans believe Japanese
direct investment in the U.S. is too much and dangerous
("Strained Alliance" series, page one, June 19 segment). Such
investment is good for the U.S. economy. It is not a Japanese
invasion nor this country's defeat by the Japanese.
   And there are many Americans who benefit, especially those
who sold properties to Japanese investors. And there is this
to remember: Real-estate properties cannot be physically
moved; they are not something the Japanese investors can
bring home. You should not worry about the nationality of
your landlord because it does not affect the nature of the
property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. real-estate properties are attractive to Japanese
investors because they give a higher return and more value
than those in Japan. Also, it is logical and desirable for
the U.S. to encourage foreign direct investment, which brings
a fair amount of foreign money into the U.S.
   Considering the fact that the U.S. real-estate market is
slow, I believe it is good for the U.S. economy to encourage
the Japanese to invest in the U.S. and let Japanese money
compensate for this slow-market situation.
   Hiroshi Asada
   Westport, Conn.
   ---
   Your June 19 installment stated that "Fujitsu has no
Americans in top management." I and my colleagues were
greatly amused to learn that we were not members of senior
management. As a Fujitsu America board member, chairman of
Fujitsu America's North American data-storage research
subsidiary, Intellistor, and president of Fujitsu's largest
products group, Norman Petersen, for example, is certainly a
member of senior management even by the narrowest of
standards. I, myself, am a senior vice president of Fujitsu
America, have run two Fujitsu subsidiary companies and am a
board member of Fujitsu America subsidiary companies.
   At Fujitsu America, 49 members of our top-management team
-- vice-president level and above -- are American. This is a
particular point of pride for Fujitsu.
   While some foreign-owned companies may be struggling to
Americanize their U.S. operations, we at Fujitsu America take
great pride in our continuing progress.
   Arthur J. Gemmell
   Senior Vice President
   Fujitsu America
   San Jose, Calif.
   ---
   In the June 15 segment, you mentioned the almost
"adversarial" attitude of the younger generation of Japanese
toward the U.S. This is a dangerous attitude that must be
corrected soon if we are to avoid future conflict. Much of
the blame should be placed on the shoulders of Japanese
educators, who for many years now have tried to distort and
cover up the causes and hard facts of World War II. In
effect, they are lying to the younger generations. Now, many
of these people who will one day take over the reins of
government know only about the atomic bombing of their cities
by the U.S., but do not know much about their own aggression
and their brutal suppression of the hapless civilians the
imperial army conquered 50 years ago.
   The younger generation sees Japan only as the "victim" in
the war, and subconsciously may want to get even.
   Jacinto Chua
   Verona, N.J.
   ---
   How would the Japanese have treated America if they had
struck first with atomic weapons, devastated our towns and
industries, won the war and occupied our country? Would they
have saved and honored our chief of state, restored our
institutions, rebuilt our economy and subsidized and
protected us? Not likely. That may be one good reason for our
distrust of the Japanese.
   As to their economic success, why should we begrudge them
that? We set them up and got them going. Now, their main
offense is that they have found out what our consumers want
and are filling our needs expertly. If they can do that they
should make money and we should learn some lessons from them.
We need tough competition to make us improve our own game.
   Warren Coloney
   Bethesda, Md.
   ---
   The June 13 sidebar implied, as many have recently, that
the U.S. savings rate is substantially below that of Japan's
(5.4% to 16.8%). If you increase U.S. savings by adding
Social Security contributions, the savings rates are much
closer (15% to 16.8%). An additional adjustment could be made
for residential-property enhancements, which Americans think
of as savings but national income accounting reports as gross
private investment. In addition, putting a dollar figure on
the unaccounted-for time and money Americans invest in their
homes would also increase the U.S. savings rate.
   A second common misrepresentation concerns Japan's gross
private domestic investment as a percentage of gross national
product being higher than that of the U.S. (25.7% to 14.8%).
The U.S. invests 6% of GNP in defense, compared with 1% for
Japan, so the adjusted figures are 26.7% and 20.8%. These
figures were about equal until 1984, when Japan suddenly
increased its investment rate.
   The problem is not the amount of saving and investment but
their applications. The U.S. is wealthy and can afford to
make large investments in defense and residential
construction. In addition, the U.S. made the political
decision to raise the standard of living of its elderly and
almost tripled Social Security taxes during the past decade.
While important, these expenditures do not increase our
nation's productive capabilities. Until recently, Japan has
not been wealthy enough to defend itself, and being land-poor
its citizens do not put comparable time and money into
residential construction. As a result, Japan's investments
have been directed toward areas that do increase future
productive capabilities. The two nations must understand the
causes for their different economic-growth rates. Decisions
must be made over the next decade to ensure that these growth
rates eventually converge. Competitive cooperation and not
adversarial animosity must rule.
   Walter Antoniotti
   Special Assistant for Continuing Education
   Program Development
   Franklin Pierce College
   Rindge, N.H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel
   Urges Broader
   HUD Inquiry
   ---
   Federal Bribery, Conspiracy
   Investigation of Pierce,
   Ex-Aide and Firm Asked
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House panel urged the special prosecutor
in the Department of Housing and Urban Development scandal to
investigate whether former HUD Secretary Samuel Pierce, his
old law firm, and a onetime top aide violated federal bribery
and conspiracy laws.
   In calling for a much broader investigation by the special
prosecutor, Arlin Adams, the House subcommittee said that its
own 14-month inquiry had uncovered "widespread abuses,
influence peddling, blatant favoritism, monumental waste and
gross mismanagement" during Mr. Pierce's tenure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawmakers urged Mr. Adams to investigate whether Mr.
Pierce, who was the Reagan administration's only HUD
secretary, committed perjury before the panel on May 25,
1989, when he testified that he didn't order grants to be
awarded under a HUD program. In their 27-page letter, they
also asked him to investigate whether Mr. Pierce and other
HUD officials acted illegally in managing HUD's disastrous
co-insurance program for multifamily housing.
   In a statement yesterday afternoon, Mr. Adams said he
would review the panel's letter promptly and make a
recommendation to Attorney General Richard Thornburgh, who
could ask a special federal court here to give additional
authority to Mr. Adams. The court recently gave Mr. Adams the
authority to investigate developers, lobbyists and others who
sought or obtained grants from three HUD programs.
   Initially, Mr. Adams was appointed in March to investigate
whether Mr. Pierce and other HUD officials steered lucrative
rent subsidies to influential Republicans and friends under
HUD's so-called Moderate Rehabilitation Program.
   Yesterday's letter was signed by Rep. Tom Lantos (D.,
Calif.), chairman of the Government Operations Employment and
Housing Subcommittee, and the seven other panel members. It
focused on Mr. Pierce's testimony before the panel last year
as well as his relationships with his former New York law
firm, Battle Fowler, and with his onetime executive assistant
at HUD, Lance Wilson.
   "It is obvious that Secretary Pierce did not give us the
full story," the panel said, and that some statements were
"inconsistent and at odds with the sworn testimony of other
witnesses."
   Questioned about his role in awarding subsidies under the
Moderate Rehabilitation Program, for instance, Mr. Pierce
testified, "I never told these people to fund anything." The
panel noted, however, that a former top Pierce aide, Shirley
Wiseman, testified that Mr. Pierce had directed her to fund a
project in North Carolina.
   In his original request for a special prosecutor, Mr.
Thornburgh, the attorney general, said that an investigation
of perjury wasn't warranted.
   The subcommittee charged that Messrs. Pierce and Wilson
were doing favors for each other after Mr. Wilson left HUD in
1984, and that Battle Fowler frequently sought Mr. Pierce's
assistance. It said that Mr. Pierce was planning to rejoin
Battle Fowler before the HUD scandal erupted.
   The panel said that Mr. Pierce manipulated a federal urban
development program to fund a Florida project in which Mr.
Wilson was a consultant. It said that Mr. Wilson worked to
steer HUD-related business to Battle Fowler.
   The lawmakers linked Mr. Wilson and Battle Fowler to a
controversial, 316-unit housing project in Amherst, N.Y. The
panel said that it appeared that the developers paid Mr.
Wilson $25,000 for obtaining a critical waiver of federal
regulations for the project. Last year, Dennis Penman, one of
the partners in the project, denied in an interview with The
Wall Street Journal that Mr. Wilson was involved in the
project.
   Mr. Wilson, who became a millionaire and Wall Street
investment banker, was a partner in many development projects
that received HUD rent subsidies.
   Battle Fowler and attorneys for Messrs. Pierce and Wilson
all denied any wrongdoing. Robert Plotkin, an attorney for
Mr. Pierce, said that the special prosecutor already had the
authority requested by the House panel, which he said was
seeking publicity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Daimler-Benz Unit's Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.AEG G.DAI G.PRS G.SPS G.SZG
</CO>
<LP>
   BONN -- AEG AG said it obtained a 30 million mark contract
($18.5 million) from Stahlwerke Peine-Salzgitter AG, a unit
of Salzgitter AG, to modernize part of its steel works.
   AEG, the electrical unit of West German auto maker
Daimler-Benz AG, said the contract involves modernization of
the electrical system of a hot-rolled steel mill including
the fundamental automation of the unit. Work is scheduled to
be completed by the end of 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Salzgitter steel and engineering group is a subsidiary
of Preussag AG, a West German energy, metals, trading and
engineering concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Little Restitution
   From S&amp;L Fraud
   Is Expected by U.S.
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Taxpayers shouldn't hold their breath
waiting for restitution from savings-and-loan crooks, nor for
fast sales of giant packages of assets from failed thrifts
taken over by the government, officials said.
   Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, testifying before the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said it is difficult to get funds
from individuals convicted of S&amp;L fraud and ordered to pay
restitution. Of $2.5 million in restitution ordered by courts
this year, Mr. Thornburgh said $50 had been coughed up so
far. Of $3.1 million ordered in 1989, $2,700 has been paid.
The department has fared better with the $5.8 million in
restitution that courts decreed in 1988: $21,000 has been
paid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Thornburgh noted ruefully that while he expects the
Justice Department to successfully prosecute hundreds of S&amp;L
executives, the department is unlikely to win back sums that
will make a dent in the cost of the taxpayer-financed
bailout, estimated at up to $500 billion with interest.
   Mr. Thornburgh also said he expects it will take five
years for the department to handle the bulk of the S&amp;L cases
and "perhaps begin winding down and transferring some
resources to other areas."
   Meanwhile, real estate seized from defunct
savings-and-loans probably won't be sold in the planned $500
million chunks before next year, the Resolution Trust Corp.
said.
   Prospective buyers will need a lot of time to examine the
big packages of real estate and loans, said Lamar Kelly, the
official in charge of asset sales for the S&amp;L cleanup agency.
The agency must hire investment advisers as well as firms to
prepare and evaluate the bids.
   The RTC will provide up to 85% financing for the packages,
which will include hard-to-sell loans and real estate. The
sales of three bulk packages, part of a pilot project, aren't
expected to close until the first quarter of 1991.
   The agency also is in the midst of selling $716 million of
loans in four packages. The sales don't require government
financing and are expected to be completed soon, the agency
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hewlett-Packard Resale Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Hewlett-Packard Co. said it signed a
three-year, $40 million agreement, with Visionary Design
Systems to resell its HP workstations and computer-aided
design software. Visionary Design Systems, a closely held
custom software firm based in Mountain View, Calif., will
also provide consulting, training and custom software
services to Hewlett-Packard, a maker of computers and testing
and measurement equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honest Money for Europe
   ----
   By Graham Bishop
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The ideas of "1992" and the "single market" have caught
the European imagination and forced the rest of the world to
pay attention as the world's largest economic superpower
takes shape.
   Four freedoms are central goals of the 1992 agenda: free
movement of people, goods, services and capital. These are
the freedoms that constitute a market. Some fear a single
currency will serve as a mechanism that cedes the sovereignty
of independent nations to unaccountable Brussels bureaucrats.
But it also can be argued that the four freedoms will return
powers to individuals -- powers that they surrendered,
perhaps inadvertently, to national governments. (In any case,
the events changing Eastern Europe are tipping the scales
decisively in favor of the market and against the
bureaucrats.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the power to print money is ceded to a European central
bank, while the power to spend remains largely with the
governments of member-states, a natural system of checks and
balances will start to function. National governments will no
longer be able to print money to finance unwise expenditures
that create inflation. As long as this separation holds --
and the European Central Bank sticks to a wise monetary
policy -- Europe has a chance for great economic growth.
   The financial part of 1992 amounts to no more than
governments trusting people with their own money. Controls
will no longer prevent citizens from investing inor borrowing
from -- any part of the European Community, or anywhere else
in the world. Citizens will vote with their money. They will
do so more easily and continually than they will vote with
their feet, although the single market also makes the latter
an easier prospect.
   Market forces will soon drive Europe to monetary union.
The more expectations of exchange-rate changes diminish, the
greater the incentive for borrowers (householders,
corporations and governments) to borrow in low-interest-rate
currencies and savers (individually or through financial
intermediaries) to seek lending opportunities in
high-interest-rate currencies.
   Exchange rates will lock, creating an effective monetary
union; interest rates will converge, until only credit
differentials remain. Indeed, this is already happening --
the spread between the interest rates for the French franc
and the Deutsche mark is now the narrowest in decades.
   This future raises a large question: Who has the authority
to spend? Money creation, taxation and borrowing are all
parts of that question, and the proposals for monetary union
affect all three of them.
   With monetary union, the power to create money would no
longer reside with individual central banks, but with a
European central bank, or Euro-Fed. It would have one
priority task: the maintenance of price stability. Europe's
economics and finance ministers appear to already have agreed
that this bank must not engage in monetary financing of
member-states' deficits. In my view, that characteristic
should be particularly attractive to British voters, who
might prefer the 2%-3% inflation rates that a Euro-Fed would
target to their current 9% rate.
   As borrowers, national governments will no longer
represent the perfect credit risk. The power to avoid formal
default by printing more currency will have been removed from
national central banks, and the latest plans for monetary
union have made it absolutely clear that there will be no
Community bailout of the profligate borrower. Individual
member-states will be forced to balance their own budgets in
just the way individual people have to balance their own
household budgets. The member-states will have the choice
between spending only what their income -- their tax revenue
-- allows, or facing eventual default. The ability to borrow
will depend on a state's creditworthiness.
   In other words, the market will control supplies of new
credit, cutting them off when it is time. That is the moment
when the voter -- or the intermediary financial institution
-- is no longer prepared to risk further hard-earned savings.
   One way of maintaining creditworthiness is with taxation.
However, if a country's tax regime is seen as oppressive,
then its citizens will have the freedom to vote with their
feet and move their businesses and residences to a lower-tax
country. Thus, the single market will put an effective cap on
oppressive taxation.
   The success of such a European Community zone of stable
prices -- a "hard money" union -- depends on something else:
that member-states are not irresponsible with public debt.
This approach leads to the need for a set of rules for both
the issuer and the investor, especially the financial
institutions that are the intermediary for the bulk of
savings. Neither group can be ignored, because they are
simply the two sides of the same coin.
   For the issuer of public debt, the guiding principle must
be that the public finances of member states should be
sufficiently sound that they cannot destabilize the Common
Markets's financial system. If this principle is not
respected, a profligate country may threaten default, and
perhaps cause a domino-style destruction of the EC's
financial system -- unless it is bailed out by the taxpayers
of the rest of the Community.
   A hypothetical example: If Italy alone decided to reduce
its debt burden, through default, from about 100% of GNP to
the rough average of the other major countries, then the cost
of a bailout would be about $1,500 for every person in the
Common Market. The growing storm in the U.S. over the cost of
the savings and loan bailout provides a model for the kinds
of political passions such a European bailout would arouse.
Therefore, there must be a provision in the treaty that
creates a EuroFed preventing the bailout of member states.
   Other provisions are necessary: The market must have full
and timely information on member-states' overall financial
positions; the results of surveillance by the peer group of
finance ministers must be published; there must be no "market
privileges" for public authorities that compel savers to hold
their debt; the new European central bank should be
prohibited from holding public debt and offsetting these
vital credit differentials; and public debt portfolios should
have a minimum average life to prevent a sudden liquidity
crisis that would prevent orderly fiscal adjustment.
   Financial institutions that are the buyers of public debt
must be subject to sufficient regulation as well --
regulation to ensure that they can withstand the default of a
public issuer. Otherwise, the no-bailout provision in the
treaty will be a paper tiger. Normal principles of asset
diversification should be applied to ensure a smooth
adjustment.
   This should ensure that a country with burgeoning debts is
subject to discipline and is progressively frozen out of the
credit markets.
   The financial institutions of Europe will be looking for
good quality public bonds to diversify their asset
portfolios. This process could yield a surprising result for
some local regions within individual countries. If they move
toward economic independence, fiscally sound regions could
find their flexibility rising, not falling, as many fear.
Growing regions that have long born the burden of their less
successful neighbors will now be able to raise and spend
money independently. With 1992, the 19th-century-style nation
may lose sovereignty, but regions can return to the kind of
power they enjoyed in earlier centuries.
   ---
   Mr. Bishop, a vice president of Salomon Brothers, is based
in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Niagara Exchange Halts Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NIEX BKLY
</CO>
<LP>
   BUFFALO, N.Y. -- Niagara Exchange Corp. said it has
rescinded an agreement under which W.R. Berkley Corp.,
Greenwich, Conn., had purchased 970,000 shares of Niagara
preferred stock for $8.2 million.
   The agreement was disallowed by the New York Department of
Insurance. Niagara sought the investment to replace funds
paid out last year by a Niagara subsidiary on claims arising
from Hurricane Hugo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Niagara and W.R. Berkley are both property and casualty
insurance holding companies. The companies said they are
continuing to discuss a possible investment in Niagara by
Berkley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Economics and Enterprise:
   For Small Business, Forecast Is Foggy -- but Not Frigid
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Grade the economic outlook for small business with a C --
as in cloudy and confusing.
   Economists specializing in small business are detecting
mixed signals. "One week the outlook looks good, the next it
doesn't," says William C. Dunkelberg, chief economist for the
National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business
trade group. Most economists continue to foresee no recession
soon -- but some economic sectors dominated by small business
are sluggish all the same.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Donald Valley, for one, can attest to the confusion. Mr.
Valley, a Mazda auto dealer with showrooms in Santa Barbara
and San Luis Obispo, Calif., says his monthly sales chart
this year looks like a roller coaster. Mr. Valley says he
hasn't experienced anything like it before, in 10 years in
business. "There's no rhyme or reason for the ups and downs,"
he says.
   In the NFIB's latest monthly survey of more than 700 small
businesses, owners in June indicated they were less
optimistic about the future than a month before. They were
less confident about prospects for sales increases and less
likely to make capital outlays, hire new employees or invest
in inventories. Eight of the 10 components of its
small-business optimism index fell, the NFIB reported.
   What's more, Mr. Dunkelberg has turned cautious. He
doesn't foresee any trend strong enough to lift most sluggish
small businesses out of the doldrums this year. His scenario:
Consumer spending won't strengthen enough to give small
retailers a needed boost; auto sales won't recover
sufficiently to help profit-pinched dealers; and a rebound in
construction isn't likely soon to aid small contractors.
   Overall, "things are just slowing down," he says.
   Economists at DRI/McGraw-Hill, an economic-forecasting
concern, also foresee a weakening climate for small companies
this year. "It's not going to be a party," says Scott Aguais,
a DRI analyst who prepares a small-business climate index for
American Express Co.
   The index tracks demand for small-business goods and
services, financing and operating costs, and owners'
attitudes.
   In this year's first quarter, the index achieved its third
consecutive quarterly rise, marking a strong period for small
business. Unusually warm weather gave restaurants,
construction contractors and gas station owners a welcome
assist. But DRI expects the index to post a decline for the
second quarter amid falling demand for retail goods and
housing construction.
   Likewise, contractors see little letup in the construction
slump. Joseph Krusinski, owner of Podcor Construction Co., a
commercial and industrial builder in Westchester, Ill., says
long-term contracts should carry him through the end of this
year, but for next year, he can't rely on established
customers for repeat business and must scout for new ones.
   His competitors are doing the same. He recently approached
a prospect who plans to put up a 70,000-square-foot office
and warehouse building next spring. But he faces five rival
bidders for the job -- two to three more than would have been
attracted a year ago. "While contractors may be busy {now},
they see dark at the end of the tunnel," he says.
   For small retailers, intensifying competition means
slimmer profits this year. Steve Patterson, owner of a
family-operated menswear store in Bemidji, Minn., expects his
revenue will increase 5% to 10% this year. But his costs are
likely to be up even more. His top concern: health-care costs
for his 30 employees. They've jumped 15% to 20% annually for
five years.
   He is also dissatisfied with his revenue growth. Large
discounters are invading his marketplace. K mart Corp. just
expanded its local store. And both Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
the Target unit of Dayton Hudson Corp. have expressed
interest in putting up stores.
   For the most part, Mr. Patterson says, discounters don't
offer the moderately priced menswear he does, except for
Levi's. But they'll be drawing from the same limited pot of
local dollars spent on retail purchases. "It's harder and
harder to be a small independent -- and that's not crying,"
he says. "That's just a fact."
   Auto dealers, too, see only tougher times ahead. The
welter of rebates and other incentives being offered by auto
makers to stimulate sales in a slumping new-car market does
little to benefit dealers, contends Mr. Valley, the Southern
California dealer. Customers now count on rebates for
starters, then insist on negotiating further. As a result,
while Mr. Valley used to rely on new-car sales for most of
his profit, he says he now breaks even, at best, on new cars.
In the meantime, he's working to turn his once-marginal parts
and service departments into profit centers.
   Still, he worries about profit this fall. Mr. Valley
expects auto makers will further confuse customers by larding
on even more incentives in an effort to move 1990 models as
next year's come in. And customers, he maintains, will
continue to spend "too much of their time looking at all the
incentives and not enough time at the car that fits their
needs."
   ---
   DISHEARTENING SIGN: Business failures rise for the first
time in four years.
   But the Belly-up Belt is largely limited to the Northeast.
At least, that's where failures were infrequent enough that
recent failures represent huge percentage rises.
   The number of failed firms, most of which are small,
increased 1.8% during the first four months of this year to
17,944, reports Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. The rise abruptly put
an end to a three-year drop in failures. "We knew the economy
was more under stress in 1990 than in other years," says
Douglas Handler, a D&amp;B economist, but the extent of the
recent rise still surprised him.
   In New England, where failures nearly tripled in the first
part of this year to 829, Massachusetts was the worst off by
far. Its failures nearly quadrupled to 593. Most involved
construction, wholesale, retail, or service companies.
   Other Northeast states -- Vermont, Rhode Island, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, Maine and New York -- ranked among the
nation's 10 hardest hit.
   Still, the rest of the country went largely unscathed. In
the Pacific states, failures fell 20.1% to 2,950. They also
were off in the Mountain and North Central areas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spiegel Earnings Up
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SPGLA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- Spiegel Inc. said second-quarter profit
rose 15% on a 23% increase in revenue.
   The catalog retailer reported earnings of $7.7 million, or
15 cents a share, compared with $6.7 million, or 13 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $403.7 million from
$327.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John J. Shea, chief executive officer, said he sees
"significant opportunities for growth" despite "an extremely
competitive" retail environment that he expects to continue
through the end of the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES AFP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   SEEING IS RELIEVING, as computer displays help IRS phone
aides help filers.
   The accuracy of replies to inquiries on tax law improved
markedly last spring to about 77% from 63% in 1989's filing
season. But that isn't good enough, and the IRS has great
hopes for more gains with a system that helped Boston-area
aides boost their accuracy rate to 79% from 58%. When an aide
feeds in a tax topic raised by a caller's inquiry, the system
displays a series of questions that prompt the aide to probe
for information that will identify the exact issue and lead
to the correct answer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It isn't clear how much of the gain in Boston was due to
this system and how much to other actions. But Assistant
Commissioner Brand says the project was deemed a success and
will be extended next year to Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas
and Los Angeles. It is to be expanded to all areas in later
years. The system also makes it much easier to update files
of technical information for phone assisters, Brand adds.
   The anticipated cost through 1994 of installing the system
throughout the nation is $60 million.
                                                                                                       

   ANOTHER NEW SYSTEM speeds up the not-so-simple job of
verifying names.
   Until April, the 15,000 data-retrieval terminals in IRS
district offices and service centers didn't have direct
access to data from master files. Lacking account data in
local files, workers couldn't immediately verify names,
addresses, and Social Security numbers of people calling for
account information. It could take weeks to correct an error
that delayed or misdirected an IRS reply. Now a system called
OLE lets a terminal operator call up a central file and
compare ID data in seconds.
   OLE is averaging 160,000 queries a day. It also
crosschecks spouses' names and numbers. It soon will be used
in service centers to initiate fast updates of master-file
IDs. Later this year, it will be used to verify IDs on
employers' tax deposits; and ID data from third-party reports
such as Form W-2s will be added. In 1991, the IRS plans to
add more account information from the master files to the
separate OLE files to speed up responses to inquiries.
                                                                                                       

   RED INK TO RED CARPET: An ailing hotel welcomes a New York
state refund.
   A ruling in U.S. Bankruptcy Court bars the state from
applying a 10% real-estate-gains tax to the 1989 sale of New
York City's Stanhope Hotel under court auspices. Judge
Brozman ordered the state to refund a $2.6 million tax that
995 Fifth Avenue Associates paid under protest so that it
could close the $76 million sale to Tobishima Associates of
Japan. The tax hits gains from real-estate sales exceeding $1
million.
   The hotel owners sought Chapter 11 protection from
creditors in 1988 and sold the hotel under a court-approved
plan to pay debts. The gains levy would have to be paid if it
were an income tax. But the judge called it a transfer tax
that can't be imposed in Chapter 11 cases under bankruptcy
law. People selling troubled properties now must consider
whether to go through Chapter 11, says Joshua J. Angel, a
lawyer for the Stanhope's former owners.
   New York officials say they plan to appeal the decision.
                                                                                                       

   NO SHOESTRING STINGS here. A pending illegal-drug bill
would renew through 1991 an expired law that let IRS
undercover operations pay expenses with their sting income
instead of depositing it in the U.S. general fund. The bill
also would make violation of the cash-transaction-reporting
laws a felony instead of a misdemeanor.
                                                                                                       

   IN RE: SAUCES AND GEESE: The Boston Globe supported the
new tax package, including sales taxes on services, to trim
Massachusetts's deficit. Now it is suing to challenge a
section that, it says, makes newspaper publishing the only
manufacturing industry in the state subject to sales tax on
raw materials and machinery.
                                                                                                       

   A HANDWRITTEN NOTE from his sister confirmed Brent D.
Amundson's 50% interest in their home, although his name
wasn't on the mortgage, the Tax Court said. It let the
Sunnyvale, Calif., man deduct his interest payments on the
mortgage.
                                                                                                       

   LIFE-INSURANCE SELLERS may get a break on business-expense
deductions.
   Self-employed people deduct expenses in full on Schedule C
of personal returns, but employees deduct unreimbursed
expenses on Schedule A only to the extent that all
miscellaneous deductions exceed 2% of adjusted gross income.
Then there are "statutory" employees, who report income on
Schedule C as the self-employed do, but fall in between for
tax withholding: Employers withhold Social Security and
unemployment taxes, but not income taxes, on payments to
them.
   The special category includes full-time life-insurance
salespeople and certain people who do piecework at home,
deliver food or laundry, or travel in sales jobs; employers'
Form W-2 pay reports show this status. According to publisher
Research Institute of America, the IRS now says it will treat
statutory employees as self-employed for the purpose of
letting them deduct business expenses in full on Schedule C.
   The IRS is expected to issue a statement to that effect.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: A House Government Operations panel plans a
hearing today on the feasibility of a tax amnesty, which the
IRS and the Treasury have opposed in the past. . . .
Montana's November ballot will list a citizens'
constitutional initiative to abolish all of the state's taxes
and to replace them with a 1% "trade charge" on all business
and financial transactions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inequitable Equality on Campus
   ----
   By John H. Bunzel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   One of the fringe benefits of living in California is
having the chance to hear the high-flown rhetoric and
excessive claims of Assembly Speaker Willie J. Brown Jr.,
arguably the most powerful political leader in the state
beside the governor.
   In the current efforts of the legislature to oversee and
enforce "comprehensive equity goals in higher education," Mr.
Brown has already mounted the charge: "Freedom may have
embraced Eastern Europe, but California's college and
university systems are still held hostage," he recently
proclaimed. "They are prisoners of racism, and their hostile,
wholly intolerant environment is contributing to a higher
dropout rate among people of color."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To do something about what the speaker calls "this
thriving injustice," Assemblyman Tom Hayden has introduced
legislation that would require all publicly supported
colleges and universities to have by the year 2000 a student
body that is proportionately representative "of the ethnic
composition of recent high school graduates, both in first
year classes and subsequent graduating classes."
   The bill also provides for the continued use of "special
admissions standards" to increase the enrollment proportions
of under-represented minority students whose grades and test
scores are too low to qualify for admission through "regular"
admissions categories.
   In one form or another the Hayden bill is likely to win
legislative approval. And even if it is successfully vetoed
by the governor, there is strong evidence that the 19-campus
California State system and nine-campus University of
California system are prepared to carry out these mandates
with or without legislative action. In its determination to
overcome ethnic underrepresentation, for example, UC Berkeley
is committed to a plan that "enrolls new undergraduates from
all ethnic groups in proportion to their representation among
high school graduates."
   Berkeley law professor Stephen Barnett has noted one
potential consequence of this policy: "If `all' ethnic
groups, including whites, are entitled to proportional
representation, then no ethnic groups -- including Asians --
may be overrepresented. A policy of guaranteeing parity for
every ethnic group amounts to imposing a ceiling, or quota,
on every other ethnic group."
   This is not merely a theoretical observation. Over the
past six years, about 60% of California's high school
graduates -- and 70% of those academically eligible for
admission to the University of California system -- have been
white. Over those same six years, white freshmen enrollments
at Berkeley have dropped to 32% from 58%. Black and Hispanic
high school students, who make up 2.5% and 7%, respectively,
of those academically eligible for admission to the UC
system, are 12% and 23% of those admitted. Asians constitute
20% of high school graduates who are academically eligible
for UC and 23% of the freshman class.
   But Berkeley's white and Asian applicants are not likely
to benefit from racial parity anytime soon. Berkeley
officials regularly assert that its race-specific admissions
policy of granting preference to underrepresented minority
applicants has not "come at the expense of quality." But many
faculty members contend that too many students have been
admitted who are insufficiently qualified to do Berkeley
work. They are concerned that more than 90% of the Asian and
white undergraduates at Berkeley have SAT scores higher than
those of about 90% of the blacks and Hispanics. What is
called the "great accomplishment" of slightly increasing the
mean SAT score of this year's entering freshmen, while
continuing to diversify the student body, ignores the SAT
disparity between Asians/whites and blacks/Hispanics that has
become greater in the past decade.
   "The administration has simply traded off larger gains
among Asians and whites -- larger because one is selecting
them from further out along the curve -- for smaller ones
among blacks and Hispanics," notes Berkeley anthropology
Prof. Vincent Sarich. And, he adds, it is simple statistics
that "as you get more and more selective among Asians and
whites, the competitive gap necessarily increases." When 94%
of Asians and whites have gotten better test scores than the
average black freshmen, is it any wonder that black
graduation rates are only about half that of whites?
   One of the most disturbing developments in the current
equalitarian assault on the university occurred in April at
Baruch College, the nation's largest business school, and one
of the institutions of the City University of New York. The
Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools deferred
renewing the school's accreditation for several months
because the minority representation on Baruch's faculty was
deemed inadequate and its rate of graduating minority
students too low. The reaccreditation went through only late
last month, after the college submitted an "action plan."
   The implicit assumption that white faculty members cannot
teach minority college students as well as minority
professors can is unfounded. (Nobody makes the reverse
argument.) Nor do white or black students perform better
academically if they are taught by persons of the same race
or color. We are told that minority students need role
models. Perhaps so. But they won't reduce the dropout rates
of blacks and Hispanics.
   However, the criticism that too few minority students are
graduating from Baruch College is new and alarming. One
wonders how many other institutions will be threatened by
Middle States because they do not have the "right" racial
proportions among their graduates. Are other accrediting
organizations now devising their own racial graduation quotas
that colleges and universities across the country will be
required to meet?
   A more serious concern is that accrediting agencies will
no longer put pressure, as they have in the past, on
institutions if they are too lax in their academic
requirements. It now appears that institutions will be
threatened with disapproval if their requirements are too
rigorous, a course of action that would undermine
long-established standards when they produce unacceptable
graduation rates for minorities.
   Educators and legislators need to confront some difficult
problems they have too often sidestepped. They could begin by
dropping the faulty notion that mere numbers are the true
measure of equity. If they did, they would then discover that
even if affirmative action were a science, as Asian Week
columnist Arthur Hu has observed, "the law of equal
proportions reflects racial equality about as well as the
flat world theory explains geography." Then, perhaps, they
would understand why there cannot be both equal proportions
and equal standards.
   ---
   Mr. Bunzel, formerly president of San Jose State
University and a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil
Rights, is now at Stanford's Hoover Institution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greenspan Says
   Inflation Rate Is
   Still a Concern
   ---
   Fed Chairman's Testimony
   Suggests Further Easing
   Of Credit Isn't Imminent
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Policy makers at the Federal Reserve Board
are still dissatisfied with the U.S. inflation rate, Chairman
Alan Greenspan told Congress, but he said he is confident
that the Fed's policies will bring inflation down.
   Mr. Greenspan's testimony to a House subcommittee, like
remarks he made to the Senate Banking Committee last week,
suggested that further easing of credit by the central bank
isn't imminent. Earlier this month, the Fed allowed a key
interest rate to slip for the first time since December in an
effort to "offset" banks' increasing caution in lending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But yesterday, responding to questions on the overall
state of the economy, Mr. Greenspan said, "The inflation rate
is higher currently than we would like." He explained: "We
don't like to see it where it is because it's very easy to
accelerate from here."
   The past 12 months have seen a 4.7% increase in the
consumer price index, perhaps the most widely used measure of
inflation. That is about the same as in each of the past
three years, and it is an improvement from the rate earlier
this year, when a cold wave drove up food and energy costs
and caused a jump in the overall inflation rate.
   Last week, however, the Labor Department reported that
consumer prices rose 0.5% in June, their biggest increase
since March. Mr. Greenspan told the House Banking Committee's
domestic monetary policy subcommittee yesterday that the
latest price report added "a note of caution" to the
inflation outlook. A continuation of inflation at that pace
"clearly would be very troubling," he said.
   Partly because of that report, renewed worries over
inflation have spread through the financial markets recently.
A number of investors cited those concerns as one factor
behind the stock market's fall Monday.
   In testifying before the Senate Banking Committee last
week, Mr. Greenspan referred only briefly to the consumer
price report, which came out that morning. He said the
figures were "higher than we'd like to see" but added that
"the core of inflation in consumer prices . . . has moderated
in recent months." His statements led some financial analysts
to suspect that the Fed was losing some resolve to fight
inflation. His comments yesterday appeared to be an attempt
to end such speculation.
   Responding to questions from subcommittee chairman Stephen
Neal (D., N.C.), who has introduced legislation that would
require the Fed to pursue policies to virtually eliminate
inflation, Mr. Greenspan insisted that the Fed remains
committed to bringing about full "price stability."
   At the same time, he told the committee that the most
recent inflation figures are in many respects "history," and
he called the current inflation rate "a lagging phenomenon."
   Mr. Greenspan's remarks come at a time when the economy
is, by his own words, "very sluggish." Nevertheless he
expressed no grave concern that the nation is in danger of
falling into a recession.
   In fact, he said he is "feeling somewhat more comfortable
about the underlying base of the economy," noting that some
of the excesses spawned in the 1980s, such as massive
leveraging, have abated.
   "We've come a long way without tilting into a recession
and I think in doing so we have ameliorated some of the
imbalances engendered during the mid-1980s," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abitibi-Price to Idle Three Mills
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   T.A ABY
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Abitibi-Price Inc., a forest products concern
78.9%-owned by Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., said it is
shutting temporarily three of its printing-paper mills, two
in Quebec and one in Ontario, for eight to nine days each
this month and next month, to scale down inventories. The
company said idling the mills will remove 10,000 tons of
uncoated groundwood grades and 4,000 tons of coated papers
from the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No, It's Not a Mistake, and Yes,
   You Do Have to Pay for Tickets
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Weary travelers may need coffee, an aspirin or
just some quiet time to themselves when they board an
airplane. But do they really want a bank economist's lecture
or a stand-up comic's routine?
   Like it or not, this live entertainment is just what
they'll get on Continental Express flights between Detroit
and Cleveland for one week beginning Aug. 6. During the
"Express Yourself" program, business writers and economists
will lecture in the morning, while comedians will perform on
the afternoon flights.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both will have to be brief: The flying time between
Detroit City Airport and Cleveland Hopkins Airport is 17
minutes on the 30-passenger commuter planes.
   One featured speaker will be David L. Littmann, senior
economist and a first vice president of Manufacturers
National Bank of Detroit, a unit of Manufacturers National
Corp. "Economic Revelation While at Peak Elevation," is the
title of his 10-minute talk. It "will be a tale of two
cities, if you will," says Mr. Littmann, a discussion of the
local economies of Cleveland and Detroit. Mr. Littmann says
he has made many presentations before, but never while
airborne. Deadpan, he says: "My career must be taking off."
   The business experts won't be paid for their services,
says Continental Express, but the comedians will receive a
yet-to-be-determined fee. Comedy auditions will be held in
Detroit on Monday and in Cleveland on Tuesday.
   Business-travel experts aren't sure just what to make of
all this. "I've heard of news on a screen," says Linda
Marion, travel manager at GAF Corp. "But live entertainment
on the plane? I've never heard of that before."
   The Detroit-Cleveland flights cost $220 round-trip, while
restricted-fare tickets can be purchased for as low as $124.
Why not simply cut the price instead of resorting to
gimmickry? Continental Express, the commuter unit of
Continental Airlines Holdings Inc., says it wants to "build
awareness" of its service. If the idea catches on, a
spokeswoman says, it might be tried on the carrier's other
routes.
   Refunds won't be given if the lecture is boring or the
comedian is a dud. Mr. Littmann, however, says he plans to
offer a sort of flight insurance to passengers on his trip.
"I will provide cotton wads," he says, for passengers to use
as earplugs should they so choose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Reuters Expects
   Slower Growth
   In Second Half
   ---
   Stock Falls 15% on Forecast
   Despite 23% Profit Gain
   For the First Six Months
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Reuters Holdings PLC said first-half pretax
earnings rose 23% from a year earlier, but Reuters stock
plummeted 15% as the news and financial information company
said it wouldn't match that performance in the second half.
   Reuters attributed its forecast to an increasingly high
rate of customer cancellations of its services and to the
adverse impact of the strong pound.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The forecast caused some analysts to lower their 1990
earnings estimates for the company, although they said they
still believed in its long-term growth potential.
   On London's stock exchange, Reuters fell #1.84 ($3.36) to
#10.45 ($19.09) a share on volume of 5.7 million shares. In
over-the-counter trading in the U.S., the company's American
depositary receipts plummeted $10 each, also a 15% drop, to
$56.25.
   The company said pretax profit was #167.1 million ($305.2
million), or 25.9 pence a share, compared with #135.9
million, or 20.6 pence a share. Sales grew 26% to #688.3
million from #548.3 million. Reuters declared a first-half
per-share dividend of 4.4 pence, up from 3.6 pence.
   "The recent stronger trend of sterling and high
cancellation rates will, if they persist, have a negative
impact," Glen Renfrew, chief executive officer, said. "On the
other hand, we have a large backlog of rental business to
install, and prospects remain good for outright sales of
trading-room systems. On balance, we expect continued good
growth but don't think growth rates for the full year will
match those of the first half."
   Company officials at a news conference declined to provide
figures on cancellations, but the company did report that the
number of customer teleprinter terminals declined to 4,161
from 4,956 during the first half. The number of video
terminals increased to 198,021 from 194,750.
   A strong pound makes British goods and services more
expensive and generally cuts demand by overseas customers.
   "Conditions in financial markets remain difficult, and
cancellations of Reuter services, which were already high,
have recently risen further, reflecting office and
departmental closures and economy drives by major clients,
including U.S. organizations with international networks,"
Mr. Renfrew said.
   He said cancellations were heaviest in Britain, the U.S.,
Taiwan, Hong Kong and Australia. "Gross new orders have held
up well, but the net after cancellations, while still
substantial, has fallen below last year's level," Mr. Renfrew
said.
   Brian Sturgess, an analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities Ltd., said he reduced his 1990 Reuters pretax
profit forecast to #324 million from #355 million because of
the currency and cancellation factors and because "staff has
increased as the company builds up to a bigger product base."
The company earned #283.1 million in 1989.
   Reuters said staff increased about 5% to 10,522 persons in
the first half, with most of the increase in the technical,
sales and marketing areas.
   Mr. Sturgess said the expected secondhalf slowdown in
Reuters's earnings growth is "just a pause" in an expected
pattern of long-term growth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Norfolk Southern Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NSC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORFOLK SOUTHERN Corp., a rail and road transportation
company based in Norfolk, Va., increased its quarterly
dividend on common stock 11% to 40 cents a share from 36
cents, payable Sept. 10 to stock of record Aug. 3.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- World's Greatest:
   Civil-Rights Exemption
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Kennedy-Hawkins Civil Rights bill creates a
contingency-fee bonanza by expanding damage awards, a third
or half of which in the course of events go to legal fees, in
job-discrimination cases. The career prospects of lawyers in
the civil-rights lobby may be dimmed by more conservative
courts, but the bill promises to keep them in business. All
they need to do is flood the system with job-discrimination
suits, hoping to bring in a big catch now and then.
   Under the bill's provisions, though, one 38,000-employee
business gets to pick its own judge and jury. If an employee
of the U.S. Congress thinks she has been subject to sexual
discrimination, she could take her complaint to the Senate or
House Ethics Committee. Under the same law but any other
employer, she could go to court, and if she proved
intentional discrimination, she and her lawyer could split
punitive damages. These same rules can't apply to Congress,
New Hampshire Senator Warren Rudman told the World's Greatest
Deliberative Body, because they might encourage "frivolous
lawsuits."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This bill has of course been subject to intensive
negotiation between Congress and the White House. President
Bush doesn't want to veto anything calling itself a
civil-rights bill, but opposes language that, without quite
admitting it, mandates racial quotas. But the Democrats
apparently are playing for a veto instead of a bill. The
Senate passed provisions the White House thought it had
negotiated out, and House leaders say they don't even want to
talk. The President is on record as threatening a veto of the
present version; if he needs any last-minute encouragement,
he should read the Senate debate on whether the law would
apply to Congress.
   There is one Senator, Iowa's Chuck Grassley, who believes
Senators should live by the same laws they apply to everyone
else. Last September, he managed to shame his colleagues into
applying the Americans With Disabilities Act to the Senate,
giving disabled employees the right to sue Senators. This
month, the conference committee report on the ADA bill came
before the Senate for final passage, just as the new
civil-rights act was coming up for debate.
   The House had never followed the Senate in extending
disabilities act protection to its employees, referring
complaints instead to its own in-house committee. In a highly
unusual move, the Senate overruled the conference report, and
gave jurisdiction instead to its ethics committee. The
provision applied as well to the Civil Rights Act, but
Senator Grassley persisted with an amendment that would have
applied its provisions to the Senate. His amendment lost
63-26, but the debate was enlightening.
   Senator Wendell Ford sponsored the provision for Ethics
Committee jurisdiction, but Senator Grassley argued that it
was sweetheart justice to allow this committee to serve as
judge, jury and prosecutor. He asked, "Wouldn't it be nice if
every citizen had the same right? Does General Motors or any
other business on Main Street have the right to be the jury
on whether they have discriminated?"
   "It is absolutely essential that, as to our legislative
employees, we have an absolute right without outside review
by anyone of what we do," replied Senator Rudman. To allow
Senate employees to seek redress in the courts would subject
the Senate "to the whims of a U.S. district-court judge who
under this amendment would have the power to overrule the
considered judgment of 100 Members of this body."
   Senator Rudman then candidly asserted the Senate is above
the law. "This is the Senate, it is not subject to the same
rules and laws of a manufacturing plant in New Hampshire or a
farm in Iowa." He added, "I am not embarrassed to stand here
tonight and say we are not exactly like everybody else. That
is not what Madison aspired to. That is not what Jefferson
aspired to."
   In the Federalist Papers, as it happens, James Madison
wrote that having the law apply to both those who govern and
those who are governed "has always been deemed one of the
strongest bonds by which human policy can connect the rulers
and the people together . . . without which every government
degenerates into tyranny." Madison went on to say, "If this
spirit shall ever be so far debased as to tolerate a law not
obligatory on the legislature as well as the people, the
people will be prepared to tolerate anything but liberty."
   We are now seeing exactly what Madison predicted. An
Imperial Congress, accountable to no one but itself, exempts
itself from the laws it applies to others precisely because
those laws are burdensome and "frivolous." Whatever
Kennedy-Hawkins says about quotas, President Bush ought to
veto it until Congress agrees to live by the laws it
legislates for others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bell Atlantic Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BEL WNEWS AIT
</CO>
<LP>
   BELL ATLANTIC Corp. (Arlington, Va.) -- Thomas C. Burns,
president and chief executive of Bell Atlantic's Chesapeake &amp;
Potomac Telephone Co. of West Virginia, was named senior
executive and chief representative for Bell Atlantic and
Ameritech Corp. in New Zealand. Both companies joined two New
Zealand concerns last month to buy the state-owned
telecommunications company. Mr. Burns will be succeeeded as
president and chief executive of Chesapeake &amp; Potomac in West
Virginia by David E. Berry, currently vice president of human
resources for Bell Atlantic. Mr. Berry, in turn, will be
succeeded by Charles W. Christ Jr., currently vice president
in charge of operations for Chesapeake &amp; Potomac Telephone
Co. of Virginia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sutton Drops Its Bid
   For DeSoto, Citing
   Target's Asset Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   DSO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sutton Holding Corp. dropped its long-running
$50-a-share, or about $200 million tender offer for DeSoto
Inc., after watching its target agree to asset sales that
amount to a near-liquidation.
   The New York investor group, which holds about a 15% stake
in the Des Plaines, Ill., maker of paints, chemicals and
detergents, launched the bid in November. DeSoto fought the
bid as too low, and the parties eventually reached a Delaware
court. In February, after a Chancery Court judge ordered
DeSoto to "maximize shareholder value," the company responded
by putting all its operations on the block.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Throughout the winter, spring and summer, Sutton
repeatedly extended its bid, which was conditioned on receipt
of at least 90% of the company's outstanding shares. But
DeSoto's stock traded at a substantial discount to Sutton's
offer price, indicating investors had significant
reservations about the offer's viability.
   Earlier this month, DeSoto announced agreements to sell
its biggest operations for a total of $280 million. It
expects to distribute to shareholders the net proceeds from
those sales, along with excess funds tapped from its pension
plans -- together representing about $42.81 a share. DeSoto
has yet to sell certain minor proprietary technology rights;
it plans to retain only its detergent business, which had
1989 revenue of about $72 million.
   Sutton said it is "disappointed" DeSoto "didn't pursue our
offer," adding that the investor group will "continue to
review the situation and determine what actions, if any are
appropriate."
   Sutton also said that three of its designees, including
Chairman William Spier, were named DeSoto directors, boosting
board membership to 13. The board representation comes out of
an April agreement between DeSoto and Sutton, the group said.
It added that as part of that agreement, "Certain litigation
between Sutton and DeSoto pending in the Delaware courts has
also been dismissed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Firms' New Orders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian manufacturers registered a 1.2% rise in
new orders in May from April and a 0.6% decline in
inventories, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   May was the second consecutive month in which new orders
increased. They went through a sharp drop earlier in the
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manufacturers' shipments rose 0.1% in May as a result of
an 8.8% increase in shipments by transportation equipment
industries. For January through May, manufacturers' shipments
were down 2.9% from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Arguments Heard on WPPSS Settlement
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TWX CHL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TRUCKING (TRK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Arizona heard arguments on how to
allocate money paid in the settlement of litigation stemming
from Washington Public Power Supply System's $2.25 billion
bond default in 1983.
   Plaintiffs who bought WPPSS bonds before June 1983 and
Chemical Bank, trustee for the estimated 24,000 bondholders,
reached approximately $700 million in settlements with the
defendants last year. The defendants include WPPSS, several
utilities in six states in the Northwest, the Bonneville
Power Administration, the state of Washington and various
professional firms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, U.S. District Judge William Browning of Tucson
heard arguments in New York on how the money should be
divided between the various bondholder factions, some of whom
oppose the settlements. Plaintiffs' lawyer Melvyn I. Weiss
said that by June 1991, when the money is tentatively
scheduled to be distributed, the total pot available will be
$825 million or more, including interest and money from other
pending claims.
   Under an allocation plan proposed by Chemical Bank and
plaintiffs' lawyers earlier this year, $93.5 million will be
put into a fund to be distributed by Chemical Bank to all
bondholders. The remainder will be used for attorney's fees
and reimbursement of litigation expenses and then distributed
to plaintiffs who bought bonds before June 1983.
   At the hearing, the main opponents of the allocation plan
were bondholders who bought the WPPSS bonds after June 1983,
when the Washington State Supreme Court ruled that many of
the municipal utilities that were backing the WPPSS bonds
didn't have the legal authority to execute their contracts
with WPPSS and thus didn't have to pay the debt. They argued
that the money allocated to the fund for all bondholders is
too small.
   Mr. Weiss, of the New York law firm of Milberg, Weiss,
Bershad, Specthrie &amp; Lerach, said that those who purchased
bonds after the court's June ruling were speculators who knew
the risks involved in that decision. "They took a risk and
made an investment that didn't pan out. But it's not a total
loss for them," he said.
   But Robert M. Sedgwick, a lawyer for bondholders who
bought bonds after June 1983, said his clients were unhappy
with the representation they received from Chemical Bank and
feel that all bondholders should be treated the same under
the allocation plan.
   "They ran risks, but the risk they didn't expect is that
the bank would settle this without their consent and agree to
a small settlement for their claims," said Mr. Sedgwick of
the New York firm of Holtzmann, Wise &amp; Shepard.
   But Harold Tyler of the New York law firm of Patterson,
Belknap, Webb &amp; Tyler, a lawyer for Chemical Bank, countered:
"I don't consider $93 million a bad deal. The fact is we got
them money. Better a penny or two than nothing."
   Buyers of the WPPSS bonds also have filed a $7.5 billion
state-court lawsuit against the state of Washington
contending that it's liable in the default because its
auditor was negligent in approving the bond sale. Washington
contributed $10 million to the settlements in order to
resolve the state-court litigation. The plaintiffs in the
state-court case and Mr. Sedgwick's clients have filed
separate appeals of Judge Browning's approval of the
settlements.
   The judge said he will decide shortly whether to approve
the allocation plan. He hasn't yet ruled on awarding legal
fees.
   Plaintiffs' lawyers have requested fees of $110 million
and reimbursement to Chemical Bank of about $52 million spent
on the litigation.
   ---
   THE RICO CASE against the Teamsters has cost the union $12
million.
   The government's suit and its court-ordered supervision of
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters has cost the union
as much as $8.9 million in legal fees alone, according to the
July issue of International Teamster, a union publication.
   Among the expenses are about $6 million billed by the New
York law firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, Alexander &amp; Ferdon,
which represents the union; $2.9 million for "other legal
fees and expenses"; $1.7 million for the salaries and
supplies of three court-appointed officers and their staffs.
   The oversight began in March 1989 as part of the union's
settlement of civil racketeering charges brought by the
Justice Department to purge the union of alleged mob
domination.
   Under the terms of the settlement, the Teamsters agreed to
broad reforms, including the first democratic election of top
officials and the court appointment of an administrator, an
investigator and an elections official to oversee the union.
The union also agreed to pay the salaries and expenses of the
three court-appointed officers and their staffs.
   Teamsters in-house attorney James T. Grady said $2.9
million had been spent on legal expenses for defendants in
the suit. He added that U.S. District Judge David Edelstein
had ordered the union to publish in the International
Teamster all reports of the court-appointed officer and all
of the judge's opinions in the case. The extra pages for the
magazine cost about $1.5 million.
   In the recent article -- which bears the headline "Civil
Rico Costs Top $12 Million]" -- the leadership appears to be
critical of the costs of the court-appointed officers. But,
says Edward T. Ferguson, the assistant U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan in charge of the case, "The expenses of the
court-appointed officers comprise only a very small part of
the total expenses the IBT claims."
   Lawyers and union members skeptical of the union's leaders
say their criticism of the court-appointed officers' costs is
largely meant to distract the membership from the high legal
fees.
   "They've spent $9 million on attorneys' fees in legal
efforts to either stop the election or cripple the powers of
the election officer," said Ken Paff, a national organizer
for the Teamsters for a Democratic Union, a reform group
within the union.
   Mudge Rose attorney Jed Rakoff said the Teamsters union
"has felt that the government and the court officers had
departed from the spirit and language of the settlement."
   ---
   TIME WARNER INC. WINS BATTLE in its crusade to stop Batman
knockoffs.
   A federal judge in New York ordered Bobtron International
Inc., a Los Angeles-based importer of watches, to pay Time
Warner $40,000 in damages for infringing the company's rights
to the Batman character. Time Warner's DC Comics Inc. unit
has owned the copyright to Batman for more than half a
century.
   Judge Michael B. Mukasey also permanently barred Bobtron
from selling watches that bear the Batman logo, character or
costume. According to the ruling, Bobtron sold 1,400 Batman
watches.
   Saul A. Mifhaan, attorney for Bobtron, said the company
didn't know whether it would appeal.
   Time Warner's 1989 hit movie "Batman" proved to be a boon
for knockoff artists who have sold T-shirts, sneakers,
watches and other items that carry the caped crusader's bat
logo, his costume and other Batman characters.
   Time Warner's attorney, Joseph Bainton of the New York law
firm of Shea &amp; Gould, estimates that his client has lost at
least $10 million from sales of unauthorized Batman
merchandise. He says he has reached settlements in about 75
of the 250 copyright infringement cases his firm has brought
on Time Warner's behalf.
   The Bobtron case is the first that Time Warner has taken
to trial. Mr. Bainton says he expects that within nine months
all of the remaining cases will be resolved.
   ---
   OBSCENITY INDICTMENTS THWARTED by federal court in
Washington, D.C.
   U.S. Judge Joyce Hens Green yesterday barred the
Department of Justice's National Obscenity Enforcement Unit
from seeking multiple indictments against a major North
Carolina distributor of sexually oriented magazines and
videotapes.
   The distributor, Philip D. Harvey, president and principal
owner of a concern called Adam and Eve, markets magazines and
videotapes that show adults engaging in sexual acts. None of
these involve rape or sexual violence, according to Judge
Green's memorandum opinion.
   Mr. Harvey sued the Justice Department in March. According
to his lawyer, Bruce Ennis, the Justice Department had been
threatening for four years to prosecute Mr. Harvey in several
jurisdictions for distributing obscene material. According to
Mr. Ennis, the agency informed his client in December that
indictments were imminent in Utah and Kentucky.
   "My client is perfectly happy to stand trial to one case,"
Mr. Ennis said. "What he can't stand is a nationwide war of
attrition." Mr. Harvey couldn't be reached for comment on the
ruling.
   Justice Department spokesman Doug Tillett said multiple
indictments are "an effective means for law enforcement" that
the department intends to defend before Judge Green when the
matter receives a full hearing in September.
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes and Timothy Noah contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hawaiian Air Gets U.S. Job
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   HA TXT LK
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hawaiian Airlines, a unit of HAL Inc.,
received a $56.8 million Air Force contract for long-range
airlifting.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bell Helicopter Textron Inc., a unit of Textron Inc., got
a $12.9 million Navy contract for attack helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   Lockheed Corp. was awarded an $11 million Navy contract
for aircraft electronics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GATX Purchase From Exxon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GMT XON
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A GATX Corp. unit said it completed the
purchase of a 1.6 million-barrel petroleum terminal in
Paulsboro, N.J., from Exxon Corp. Terms weren't disclosed.
   GATX Terminals Corp., which entered into the agreement
late last year, said it has been leasing and operating a
portion of the facility since the beginning of this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GATX has interests in rail car leasing, maintenance and
management as well as capital goods leasing, financial
services, real estate, bulk liquid terminal storage and
pipelines and shipping.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yields Fell on CDs
   From Big Institutions
   In Weekly Survey
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms fell slightly in the week ended
Tuesday.
   The average yield on six-month small-denomination CDs sold
directly by banks slipped to 7.55% from 7.62%, according to a
nationwide, 18-bank survey by Banxquote Money Markets, a New
York information service. The average for two-year consumer
CDs fell to 7.81% from 7.88%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker dealers were also down. The average yield on a
one-year CD fell to 7.93% from 8.10%, while the average for
two-year CDs fell to 8.08% from 8.13%, according to
Banxquote.
   Average yields for most large-denomination CDs, which
typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, declined. The
exception was the average yield on five-year jumbo CDs, which
edged up to 8.21% from 8.19%. The average yield on one-year
jumbo CDs eased to 7.79% from 7.81%, while the average for
two-year maturities slipped to 7.97% from 8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management:
   Minority Women Feel Racism, Sexism
   Are Blocking the Path to Management
   ----
   By Keith L. Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Minority women, suffering discrimination on two fronts,
are making little headway breaking into management ranks of
corporate America.
   While white women complain about the glass ceiling that
keeps them from the very top ranks, women of color are hardly
present in the management pipeline. Faced with both racism
and sexism, they're still struggling to land
middle-management jobs. And they've made few inroads in
entrepreneurial jobs, the refuge for those shunned in the
corporate world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Black women made up just 2% of managers in companies with
100 or more employees in 1988, compared with black men who
accounted for 3% of this group and white women who totaled
23%, according to the latest data available from the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. Not one black woman was
among the top 25 black managers in corporate America when
Black Enterprise Magazine ran an article naming them in 1988.
   Women of color -- who accounted for 10% of the work force
in 1988 -- complain they are bypassed for promotions and
relegated to staff positions that aren't on the fast track
and are vulnerable to corporate streamlining. Moreover, they
suffer from isolation, lack of mentors and stereotyping.
Personnel executives sometimes call them "twofers" because
they fulfill two equal opportunity employment obligations,
and that label undercuts their credibility on the job.
   Being a "twofer" helps some minority women get hired by a
company. But "being a twofer doesn't give you legitimization,
doesn't give you a voice or power and doesn't move you up,"
contends Ella Bell, a University of Massachusetts professor
who is studying more than 100 black and white women managers
in companies throughout the U.S. "You're a showpiece," she
says, and that "won't get you to be a general manager."
   Those who do land management jobs find themselves
constantly trying to prove that they can perform. "They feel
they have to be 20 steps ahead in terms of being the best,"
Ms. Bell says. "They feel they have to outperform, outshine
and outthink."
   Consider 40-year-old Charleyse Pratt, who recently left
Hyatt Legal Services to form her own consulting company in
Cleveland after working at a number of Fortune 500 companies.
"I've never been embraced in corporate America with open
arms," she says.
   At corporate meetings in previous positions, Mrs. Pratt
was often the only minority woman -- and the victim of sexual
as well as racial slurs. She says she learned early in her
career to develop a tough skin.
   As an assistant personnel director at a Midwest
electronics company, she gave seminars to senior executives
on sexual and racial harassment. One day, after a four-hour
presentation to 20 white male senior managers, one of the
men, whose last name was pronounced "coon," stood up and
said, "Do you mean the coons can't stick together?" All the
men, including her boss, broke into laughter.
   "I was speechless," recalls Mrs. Pratt. "It was the first
time I was ever referred to as that." She coolly ended her
presentation -- and later "cried all the way home." (She
reported the incident to a vice president, who temporarily
suspended the executive who made the remark.)
   More recently, at a Midwestern manufacturer, she was told
outright that she was hired to meet affirmative action goals.
And not long ago, she found herself teaching her job to a
white man who had been promoted over her. "He told me,
`You're going to have to learn to subordinate yourself to
me,'" says Mrs. Pratt.
   Companies may be forced to promote more minority women
into management in coming years, however, as the composition
of the work force changes drastically and more minority women
enter the labor market. By the year 2000, the number of black
women in the work force is expected to total 8.4 million, up
from 6.5 million in 1987, while the number of Hispanic women
is projected to increase to 5.8 million from 3.4 million,
according to Harbridge House, a Chicago consulting company.
   Some companies are already making efforts to promote
minority women into management. Companies making strides in
placing minority women in these jobs include Corning Inc.,
Xerox Corp., International Business Machines Corp. and
Digital Equipment Corp.
   "Right now there's a tremendous effort in corporate
America to look at multiculturalism," says Bea Young, vice
president of Harbridge House. Yet, many companies resist
promoting minority women to positions of authority, she says,
"because of the myth that no one will work for them."
   Marriam Gonzales, manager of ethnic marketing and
advertising for Kraft General Foods Inc. in Chicago, believes
race is a bigger barrier than sex is in business. She has
little difficulty, she says, establishing a rapport with
customers and clients on the telephone. The problem occurs
when they meet her in person. "They become standoffish," she
says.
   "I think some white people find it easier to deal with
light-skinned Hispanics than darker-skinned Hispanics like
me. I just wish we could be judged by our work and not our
skin color," she says.
   One of the success stories, Dorothy Turrell started at
Digital Equipment Corp. as a management development manager
in the Westminster, Mass., plant in 1976. Five years later,
after holding several staff positions, she was promoted to a
much more visible, senior job as plant manager at DEC's
Boston plant.
   "I wanted that job," says the 45-year-old Mrs. Turrell,
who says she has learned the importance of "being upfront"
about her ambitions. But some companies are also more
receptive to advancing women of color than others, she notes.
"I realize I could be at another company and not be where I
am now," she says.
   Getting promoted, however, is only a small part of the
battle. As a new plant manager -- and the only black female
to hold that job at DEC -- Mrs. Turrell had to work hard to
gain the loyalty of subordinates. Among other things, she
elicited workers' opinions and relied on team management
"instead of having all the answers myself." She still had to
contend with some employees who felt she should have an
advanced technical degree -- rather than her liberal arts
diploma -- along with "20 years experience."
   But for the most part, she won their support and respect
-- and another promotion. She's currently plant manager at
DEC's Cupertino, Calif., computer plant, overseeing 800
workers.
   As a black woman, she says, "it's inevitable that you're
going to be challenged and observed. In some cases, it's
going to feel like every time you walk through the door, you
have to be on." But she says she attained enough inner
confidence so "I don't have to be perfect all the time."
   While Ms. Turrell has advanced steadily through the ranks
of DEC, other minority women say the only way they've been
able to get ahead is by zigzagging from company to company.
Thirty-eight-year-old Jacquelyn Gates, a personnel executive,
started her career at J.C. Penney and has since worked at
such companies as PepsiCo, Paramount, Revlon and Time. She is
now manager of employment for New York's Nynex Mobile
Communications Co.
   She admits to being a "twofer" and says when she began her
career, she used that label to get her foot in the door. "I'm
certain I've received extra consideration because I was a
black female," she says.
   Once in the door, however, Mrs. Gates found herself with
only a handful of minority women peers -- and no mentors. The
dearth of top black managers -- let alone female black
managers -- makes it nearly impossible to find a savvy ally
who has both faced the same difficulties and blazed a trail.
   "White women have to worry about penetrating the male
network in corporate America. Black women have to worry about
that and the white network," says Mrs. Gates. As president of
the National Association of Negro Business and Professional
Women's Clubs Inc., based in Washington, she herself serves
as a mentor to younger minority women as they enter
management jobs.
   Will the twofer ideology ever end? Only slowly, says
Harbridge House's Ms. Young. "I still hear jokes about hiring
the black women to get two points," she says. "That's so
demeaning -- to hire someone because of her race and gender
and not her qualities."
   ---
            Few Managers Among Growing Minorities
                                                                                                       

   Percentages of management jobs* held by black and Hispanic
women vs. others, 1988 data
                                                                                                       

   White men ................................... 67.4%
   White women ................................. 23.2%
   Black men ...................................  2.9%
   Black women .................................  2.0%
   Hispanic men ................................  1.0%
   Hispanic women ..............................  0.8%
   Other** .....................................  2.7%
                                                                                                       

   Source: U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
                                                                                                       

   Percentage increase in the number of workers between 1987
and 2000
                                                                                                       

   Hispanic women .............................  71%
   Hispanic men ...............................  60%
   Asian women*** .............................  65%
   Asian men*** ...............................  58%
   Black women ................................  29%
   Black men ..................................  22%
   White women ................................  20%
   White men ..................................   8%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Harbridge House
                                                                                                       

   *At companies with 100 or more employees
   **Includes Asian-American and Native American men and
women
   ***Includes Native Americans and Pacific Islanders
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hadco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HDCO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HADCO Corp. (Salem, N.H.) -- Patrick Sweeney, vice
president and chief financial officer, was named to the new
post of chief operating officer of this maker of printed
circuit boards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcan Aluminum Sets
   Tentative Labor Pact
   After a Strike Begins
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AL T.AL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   KITIMAT, British Columbia -- Alcan Aluminium Ltd. and the
Canadian Association of Smelter and Allied Workers reached a
tentative three-year contract yesterday, hours after about
1,600 workers struck the company's smelter and related power
plant near here.
   Union members are scheduled to vote on the proposed pact
early today and could be back to work immediately, averting a
halt of output at the smelter. The plant, which at capacity
produces about 260,000 metric tons of aluminum annually, is
temporarily being operated by management personnel, an Alcan
spokesman said. Montreal-based Alcan has significant aluminum
operations in the Quebec province as well as in British
Columbia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new pact would replace a two-year contract that
expired at midnight PDT Monday. The proposed accord provides
for annual wage increases of about 6% in each year of the
pact, plus other increases, including immediate signing bonus
payments, a union official said.
   The average hourly wage at the smelter under the previous
pact was $19.48 Canadian dollars (US$16.86), Alcan's
spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Albania South?
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   The temperature's rising in Fidel Castro's Cuba. On
Friday, a young couple with an infant burst into the Spanish
Embassy compound. "They were yelling and screaming
hysterically, things like `We can't go on living in this
country,'" a Spanish diplomat said. Nine more Cubans entered
the Spanish Embassy on Sunday, bringing the total there to
18. Other Cubans are holed up in the Swiss, Czech and Italian
missions.
   The last time we saw this in Cuba it ended up in the mass
exodus known as "Mariel." On April 5, 1980, 12 Cubans
commandeered a city bus and crashed it into the Peruvian
Embassy in Havana, killing a guard. Once inside they demanded
asylum. By April 8, more than 10,000 Cubans had squeezed into
the Peruvian Embassy. Fidel opened the floodgates, also
sending thousands of jail and mental-institution inmates to
Miami with the genuine dissidents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This time Fidel is determined to stem the flow before it
gets out of hand. Cuba's deputy foreign minister announced
Tuesday that none of the 25 Cubans sheltering at the Havana
embassies would be allowed to leave Cuba. Fidel is already
hard pressed by dwindling assistance from East European
economies, and he may have become upset by a new round of
embassy refugees. Most recently in Albania, and before that
in Erich Honecker's East Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Portney's Complaint
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your July 13 lead editorial, "Environmental Balance,"
you correctly summarize some of my conclusions about the
likely benefits and costs of the clean-air legislation now
before Congress.
   In doing so, however, you refer to me as "a leading
environmentalist." While I do care deeply about the
environment, the term "environmentalist" is almost always
reserved for members of environmental-advocacy organizations.
I believe your editorial creates the impression that I speak
for those groups, and that is quite unfair to them since they
may disagree strongly with my conclusions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paul R. Portney
   Vice President
   Resources for the Future
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITT Net Jumps 63%
   In Quarter, Aided By
   Sale of Alcatel Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- ITT Corp. reported second-quarter earnings of
$397 million, or $3 a share, a 63% increase over the
year-earlier figure of $244 million, or $1.70 a share.
   Net income for the quarter included an after-tax gain of
$139 million, or $1.07 a share, on the June sale of 7% of
Alcatel N.V. to Compagnie Generale d'Electricite in Paris.
ITT retains a 30% stake in Alcatel N.V., a Paris-based
telecommunications firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The reason ITT outperformed most of its peers is its
international exposure. It generates 50% of its operating
profit outside of the United States," said Theresa Gusman, an
analyst at Salomon Bros. in New York.
   For the first six months, ITT earned $650 million, or
$4.88 a share, compared with $444 million, or $3.10 a share,
for the first half of 1989.
   Excluding the after-tax gain from Alcatel and a
first-quarter after-tax gain of $47 million from the sale of
2 million shares of Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, ITT
earnings were $3.45 a share for the first six months.
   The company said operating results at the ITT Hartford
unit rose as a result of higher investment income and
improved life insurance operations, offsetting the continued
depression in North American casualty underwriting. Income at
ITT's defense segment declined during the quarter because of
reduced volume in some contracts and a strike at one unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Warm Reminder
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In summer bliss,
   At beach or hills,
   You forget
   The heating bills.
   These bits of paper,
   Please remember,
   Come again
   In late September.
   -- Robert Gordon.
   ---
   High Style
                                                                                                       

   Though I'm not ready for thousand-dollar suits,
   I might give one a chance --
   But my question to the haberdasher is:
   Will I get two pairs of pants?
   -- Bud Stiller.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   White House Seeks to Arrange Takeover
   Of Troubled Student-Loan Guarantor
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, rushing to calm
financial market fears, said it's trying to negotiate a
friendly takeover of Higher Education Assistance Foundation,
the financially troubled guarantor of federal student loans.
   Education Department officials said the government has
opened discussions with United Student Aid Fund, another
large but profitable guarantee agency, about taking over $9.3
billion of HEAF's guaranteed student loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We have had some discussions" with the government, said
Susan Macey Thompson, an assistant to the chairman of the
student aid fund. But she said that "the characterization of
taking over the HEAF portfolio is an extreme one. . . .
Everything is really preliminary at this point. The
department is looking for some suggestions about what to do."
She said that the student aid fund also was talking with
other guarantee agencies about HEAF. "We're all trying to
sort fact from fiction," she said.
   HEAF, a nonprofit corporation based in Overland Park,
Kan., recently told the government that it has serious
financial problems because of high default rates on some of
the loans it has guaranteed. A report of HEAF's difficulties
in Monday's Wall Street Journal triggered fears of spreading
defaults among the $51 billion of guaranteed student loans
outstanding and contributed to Monday's 56.44 point stock
market drop.
   At a news conference yesterday, Education Department
officials went out of their way to lay such fears to rest.
"We don't believe that HEAF is the first in a long string of
failures of student-loan guarantee agencies," said Ted
Sanders, undersecretary of education. He said that five or
six of the 55 guarantee agencies may be facing difficulties
because of defaults but that their problems were smaller and
more manageable.
   Officials sought to assure both students and banks that
they would continue to have access to the guarantees. "This
situation will not affect the ability of students to obtain
loans, of lenders to make those loans, or of guarantors to
insure those loans," Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos said.
Mr. Sanders added, "We intend to seek a solution that does
continue to guarantee those loans."
   Under the program, when a student borrows from a bank, one
of the nation's 55 guarantee agencies insures the loan and
the Education Department reinsures the loan.
   In most cases, the Education Department pays the guarantee
agency 100% of the balance on defaulted loans. But that rate
can drop as low as 80% if the guarantee agency's payments on
defaulted loans exceed 9% of the agency's insured loans.
   At issue in HEAF's case is $300 million in payments to
banks for defaulted loans. Because HEAF has a high default
rate on the loans it has guaranteed, it stands to receive
only 80% of that amount, or $240 million. One question is how
much, if any, of this $60 million the government will pay as
part of an effort to work out an orderly transfer of HEAF's
assets.
   "This is not a big federal bailout," said Thomas Scully,
an associate director of the Office of Management and Budget.
"The liability to the taxpayer is very narrow. It's not a
huge budget problem."
   A team of investigators from the Education Department and
the OMB arrived at HEAF's St. Paul, Minn., computer facility
Monday to review the agency's records. It's unlikely that any
organization will take over HEAF's assets until the
examination is complete, and that could take several days,
officials said.
   In a statement, HEAF said it's cooperating with the
government and "pursuing on its own additional options that
would enable us to restore confidence" to the guarantee
program. In a separate statement, the Student Loan Marketing
Association, one of HEAF's largest creditors, reasserted its
belief that it faces "no material risk of loss or other
adverse effects as a result of HEAF's financial situation."
   HEAF has guarantees outstanding on $9.3 billion of loans
that aren't in default, although some of these loans are
expected to go sour. Over the years, HEAF aggressively
marketed its guarantees to proprietary schools for
hairdressers, truck drivers and others that subsequently
proved to have high default rates.
   The government must decide how much protection it's
willing to provide the United Student Aid Fund or others
against loss on this portfolio. If the student aid fund
doesn't take the entire portfolio, it could be split among
other guarantee agencies.
   The government also must decide what to do with $2 billion
of defaulted loans on which the government has reimbursed
HEAF over the years. If a guarantee agency collects from the
students, the agency gets to keep 30% of the total. If the
government collects, the government gets to keep 100%. The
Education Department, which collects 65% of the defaulted
loans it goes after, is considering taking over the entire $2
billion.
   Student-loan defaults have been a problem for years,
despite efforts to tighten the program. For fiscal 1990, the
government has budgeted $2 billion to cover the cost of
defaults, up from $1.4 billion two years ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sundstrand Offers
   $28 a Share to Get
   All of Milton Roy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MRC SNS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKFORD, Ill. -- Sundstrand Corp., as expected, offered
to acquire the 85% of Milton Roy Co. that it doesn't already
own, for $28 a share, or about $126.4 million.
   Earlier this month, Sundstrand disclosed that it had
accumulated about a 15% stake in Milton Roy, a St.
Petersburg, Fla.-based maker of instrumentation and control
equipment, and said it would seek to acquire the company.
Milton Roy has about 5.3 million common shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Sundstrand shares closed at $33.875, unchanged. Milton Roy's
shares rose $3.50, closing at $26.875.
   Last year, Milton Roy had sales of $125 million.
Sundstrand, which makes aerospace and industrial equipment,
had 1989 sales of $1.60 billion.
   In a letter to Milton Roy, Sundstrand said its all-cash
offer will remain open until the close of business on July
30, unless extended by mutual agreement.
   The proposal, which isn't contingent on financing, is
subject to the approval of Milton Roy's directors, and a due
diligence review of Milton Roy by Sundstrand as well as the
negotiation of a definitive merger agreement.
   Sundstrand's president and chief executive officer, Harry
C. Stonecipher, requested that Milton Roy's board avoid using
certain anti-takeover provisions and warned that failure to
do so would impair Milton Roy's ability to complete a
negotiated merger.
   Milton Roy said the proposal would be considered by its
board and "given proper evaluation in due course."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No Sale:
   Visions of Prices Past
   Haunt Home Sellers
   Caught in Soft Market
   ---
   A Unique House in Rye, N.Y.,
   Not Bringing What It
   `Should,' Sits for 2 Years
   ---
   The Rigors of an Open House
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   RYE, N.Y. -- When it comes to houses, Frederick and Joyce
Schenker believe in love at first sight.
   The Schenkers were instantly smitten in 1976 by a
low-slung white house on a finger of land dipping into Long
Island Sound, here in affluent Westchester County north of
New York. "I love this house -- the setting, the feeling, the
room. It just flows," rhapsodizes Mr. Schenker, a 52-year-old
pharmacist.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The house features slope-ceiling rooms linked by lower
hallways, surrounding a small courtyard. It was built by a
widow as a kind of "coping" cottage behind the big colonial
she had shared with her husband. The architect, Russell
Cecil, recalls that what was then called a pavilion house was
meant to have "a quaint, farm-housey" feel, as well as
"crisp, contemporary detail to get an interesting mix of
period forces coming together."
   The Schenkers love the house so much they can't fathom why
no one else seems to: The place has been on the market for
two years.
   The couple, who raised two daughters in the home and now
want to move on to the next stage of their life, paid
$107,000 for the house in the '70s. But they put it on the
market in 1988 for $1.5 million, the price they feel it
"should" sell for. After much agent jawboning, the Schenkers
have cut the price four times, most recently to $895,000.
Only this summer did they finally get a nibble -- from a
real-estate firm that might be more interested in the acre
and a half of prime land than in the house.
   Like many home sellers these days, the Schenkers are
caught in a peculiar period in the real-estate market,
clinging to recent memories of surging prices while facing a
vengeful buyer's market.
   Real-estate agents in many parts of the country say one of
their biggest problems is that sellers still have their eyes
on the grand prices they saw a couple of years ago.
Unprepared for the reality of today's sluggishness, they're
digging in their heels on asking prices determined by
history, hearsay and hope.
   Some agents are getting tough on them. In June, syndicated
real-estate columnist Kenneth R. Harney surveyed three dozen
brokers, agents and lenders and found new tactics to combat
inflated hopes, including turning away sellers with
unreasonable expectations, refusing to extend some
longstanding listings, and placing time limits on prices.
   Real-estate markets are local, but Rye's sluggishness
afflicts plenty of other places too. Choice Chicago suburbs
like Winnetka, Wheaton and Highland Park face slow markets
for the first time in years, says Joel Zegart of the firm of
JBS &amp; Associates, who plans an auction this fall of
Chicago-area homes that he thinks are priced 25% or 30% too
high. In the Northeast, the median price of homes sold in
June was off 0.8% from a year earlier, says the National
Association of Realtors. June's median price was up 5.1% from
May's, though, as sales were concentrated in the high-end
houses. Volume was off.
   The median-price figures measure only homes actually sold;
they don't take account of the many for-sale houses that
languish on the market or get rented out because sellers
can't bear to lower prices any further.
   Mr. Schenker in Rye, for one, feels sure that the days of
double-digit appreciation will return. "Nowhere on my chest
does it say I have to be Santa Claus" to some lucky buyer in
the meantime, he says.
   The Schenkers concede they have benefited mightily over
the past 14 years, even with the current slump. In defense of
his asking price, Mr. Schenker notes that he and his wife
will also face appreciated prices when they finally sell this
home and start looking for another one.
   In the New York area, this pattern has contributed to a
house-and-garden gridlock stretching from this little city
scented by sea air and peonies southward 30 miles to
Manhattan's maze of unsold co-ops. "People can't buy until
they sell their own homes," says Mrs. Schenker, sipping
coffee in her beige-and-white living room in front of a
pottery collection featuring some of her own work. Her
husband finishes the thought without a pause: "It's a vicious
circle."
   But with many markets glutted with for-sale signs, home
buyers don't have to hurry. And in this coveted area, they
don't. Westchester County houses sold during the second
quarter had been on the market an average of 181 days. Sales
numbered 8.1% fewer than a year before. Breaking the logjam
may require price cuts greater than the 2% or 3% of late,
says the president of the county board of realtors, Henry W.
Fries: "Sellers still have not confronted the reality that
prices overshot the real market during the last few years of
the 1980s."
   Rye city manager Frank J. Culross figures that home sales
in his city are off about 30% from a year ago. And last year
wasn't great: 177 homes were sold in Rye. In 1986, the peak
year, 244 were.
   All this makes for the most popular parlor game around
these days: guessing how much one's home is worth. It's
particularly interesting in Rye, birthplace of Barbara Bush
and home to top-notch schools, a half-dozen country clubs,
several beaches and a tasteful art deco amusement park.
   Everyone's playing. Susan Morison, director of the Rye
Historical Society, who has no intention of selling her
stone-front colonial, says: "In my mind I think we'd get
$150,000 less than at the peak." But she adds: "I don't think
we'll ever lose money on it except in a depression."
   Meanwhile, property taxes are rising. City assessor Philip
McGovern is so incensed about county-imposed increases that
he's toying with the idea of retiring in nearby Connecticut.
   Robert Paris, an investment banker who lives in an
eight-room Tudor house near the Rye Golf Club, plays the
house-price game with bravado: He is asking $450,000 for the
house -- 17% more than records show he paid for it just two
years ago. Barbara Arnold finds this "amusing." She grew up
in what's now his house and says her mother bought it in 1944
for $5,000.
   National demographics are working against many of these
sellers. Fewer young adults mean fewer home buyers, while a
growing elderly population means more homes on the market.
"As baby boomers move into their 40s," says Edward Yardeni,
chief economist at Prudential-Bache Securities, "their asset
of choice is more likely to be a fixed-income security than
real estate."
   Historically, a "fair return" on a home was something
better than the inflation rate. But that was before "basic
shelter became part of the go-go financing of the '80s," says
Mr. Culross, the city manager. "I didn't understand why
property was appreciating 30%" in some recent years. "I
didn't object, but I didn't understand."
   The American tradition of "trading up" is shaky right now,
says Cynthia Latta, an economist with DRI/McGraw Hill,
Boston. Newly fearful lenders mean "this isn't the kind of
economy where you decide you're going to buy that big house
across town," she notes.
   If the Schenker home had been sold in the Rye average of
181 days, the couple would have been out by January 1989 and
now well into the next stage of life as transplanted
empty-nesters. Instead, they've endured months and months of
last-minute showings. "It's like living in a fishbowl. It
puts a strain on everybody," says Mrs. Schenker.
   So it was with some reservations that the Schenkers asked
their real-estate firm, Country Properties of Rye-Harrison,
to advertise another open house. Public open houses, as
opposed to showings for screened clients, aren't high on
real-estate agents' wish lists, either.
   Brokers say home showings were much more genteel until the
arrival of big firms like Weichert Realtors, which bought out
a local agency about seven years ago. Weichert, based in
Morris Plains, N.J., has 200 offices in five states, and
favors open houses as a marketing tool. Other firms did the
same, whether they wanted to or not. Now, each weekend
brokers spread open house sandwich signs over Rye with some
distaste.
   On a recent Sunday, agent Rosalyn Feldman parked at the
foot of the Schenkers' long gravel driveway, lugged a Country
Properties open house sign out of her car and wrestled it
into the rocks. She was up against formidable odds: The sunny
day itself was competition. Serious lookers had already had
ample viewing opportunities.
   Then there was the house itself, which, as the brokers
say, isn't for everyone. The design includes an expensive
roof of terne, a tin and lead alloy. Perhaps as a reminder of
her former life, the widow who commissioned the house
insisted on a reproduction wood fireplace for the sleek
living room.
   Mrs. Feldman is only too well aware of the odds today as
she hustles along the hallways, snapping on lights and
yanking open shutters. Darce Davis, a veteran Country
Properties agent with a veteran smile, arrives to help keep
an eye on things.
   During the two-hour open house, there are eight visitors:
two foreign couples, a woman from the neighborhood in beach
togs, a man and a surly woman who says she missed the
broker-only open house (two years earlier), and Donald
Goveia, who is selling his own home across town and is
checking out the competition.
   Perhaps understandably, the walk-through provided by the
agents is a far cry from the loving tour provided by the
Schenkers, punctuated with little stories about the
fireplace, the specially designed door frames, pipe-dream
plans for the courtyard, and a seamless addition.
   Mrs. Davis, in contrast, speeds along a hallway lined with
built-in closets, ticking off "storage, storage, storage,"
then breezes into a bedroom, and so on.
   Her interest piques only at the entrance of Joan Mark, the
neighbor in beach togs, who seems like a serious prospect for
the future. Although Mrs. Mark finds the Schenker house "not
appealing" and is out the door in minutes, she is a broker's
dream: Someone who already lives in one of the best parts of
town and is seriously looking for another house.
   Mrs. Feldman has never shown the house before. One of the
husbands seems startled by the mention of electric heat.
Another exclaims no fewer than a half-dozen times about the
home's "very unique design" and wants to know the architect's
name. Mrs. Feldman squints at the tiny type on the flier in
an effort to be helpful and leads the couple outside for a
look at the grounds. Now the wife is startled by the size of
the property. "Too much land?" Mrs. Feldman asks, sensing the
woman's dismay. She gamely points out that all the property
doesn't have to be landscaped.
   Mr. Schenker notes the very same thing on a stroll with a
visitor, adding how much he enjoys the natural stand of trees
beyond the lawn and how there's enough room for a swimming
pool or a tennis court, with lawn left over. Mrs. Schenker
adds: "This year, there's a real boom in the pheasant and
brown bunny population."
   Do the Schenkers have a deadline in mind by which they
absolutely must sell the place? Mrs. Schenker levels one of
those is-this-person-crazy-or-what looks at her husband and
says: "It passed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   David Souter, Bush's UnBorkable Nominee
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   With mystery nominee David Souter, conservatives get a
high-stakes test of the judicial philosophy that what counts
is not who wins and who loses in cases but how the judges
play the game. His empty file on the hot-button legal issues
should make no difference to anyone so long as he passes the
litmus test of reasoning by law and not by politics.
   A review of Judge Souter's New Hampshire court opinions
suggests he is a practitioner of classic judicial restraint.
He does not legislate from the bench or make up new parts of
the Constitution. Indeed, several of his cases feature what
might be called a Thrifty Yankee view of the Constitution:
Use it sparingly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Souter's supporters cite one case in particular to
show the importance of how a judge reaches his decision. New
Hampshire v. Valenzuela (1987) was a run-of-the-mill appeal
by drug dealers caught with 65 pounds of cocaine, almost a
ton of marijuana and weapons. The defendants tried to invoke
the exclusionary rule to suppress the evidence.
   The police had used what's called a pen register to record
the telephone numbers dialed by one of the drug dealers. To
the defendants' argument that this was an unreasonable
search, Judge Souter did not wade in to make new
search-and-seizure law. Instead, he ruled that unlike a
wiretap attaching this device to a subscriber's telephone
line was not a search at all.
   He dismissed the view that "any effort to gather evidence
should be treated as a search." Otherwise, he reasoned, the
police would also have to get a warrant before they could use
information given to an agent or informer. Judge Souter thus
gave the Constitution the frugal reading it often deserves
but rarely gets from judges more eager to add their
footprints to the head of a jurisprudential pin.
   Civil libertarians and separation-of-powers cognoscenti
will also be cheered by this opinion. Judge Souter chastised
a magistrate in the case who had advised the police that
evidence would be suppressed if they denied one of the
arrested defendants his request to make a phone call. Judge
Souter wrote that "legal advice to police officers ought to
come from city or county attorneys or from the attorney
general's office, not from judges." Giving advice "places
neutrality at risk, with potentially appalling consequences."
He warned that "all of us in the judiciary should take care
to avoid occasions for any more litigation about judicial
detachment."
   Judge Souter also criticized judges for adopting
multipronged balancing tests as a hidden way of creating new
legal rules. The straightforward question in City of Dover v.
Imperial Casualty &amp; Indemnity (1990) was whether the city was
immune from liability when a woman slipped on a public
sidewalk. Somehow this tort case led to a majority opinion on
the wrinkles of the Constitution's equal protection clause.
In his dissent, Judge Souter warned that the court's
"middle-tier equal protection scrutiny . . . and accompanying
questions as yet unanswered will provide fodder for a good
many opinions."
   Judge Souter's dissent in New Hampshire v. Ballou (1984)
is strict constructionism at work. The state extended the
period of new committals to mental hospitals for criminal
defendants who plead guilty by reason of insanity.
Recommittals would last five years instead of two years. The
defendant claimed this violated the prohibition against ex
post facto laws for the punishment of criminal offenses.
   But Judge Souter noted that the insanity plea is not an
admission of a crime. Instead, the purpose of the plea is to
avoid criminal liability. "A statute regulating commitments
of dangerous defendants following findings of insanity does
not deal with criminal offenses and, by definition, could not
do so," he wrote. Therefore, the ex post facto clause does
not apply.
   These cases help explain why -- proprieties aside -- the
Bush administration does not need to ask potential nominees
their views on substantive issues. Put it this way: If you
have to ask a nominee his views after analyzing his opinions,
you probably shouldn't nominate him. It is highly unlikely
that a judge who will parse the ex post facto prohibition to
distinguish between criminal defendants and the criminally
insane would then fail to take seriously other statutes or
the Constitution.
   It's worth noting that litmus-test questions on
substantive issues were put to judicial candidates during the
Carter administration. This makes sense. It is obviously
important to know the policy views of an activist judge whose
legal methodology could well be determined by the result to
be reached.
   President Bush may well have found an unBorkable nominee.
Judge Souter has apparently never written a law-review
article or given a memorable speech. The liberal lobbyists
will have a hard time making much of his opinions likeliest
to attract their attention. He has written on abortion, but
in a medical malpractice case and only to say that doctors
don't have to perform abortions themselves when they advise
patients that there may be a birth defect. In another case,
he was part of a court that ruled New Hampshire could
prohibit homosexuals from adopting children, but also said
the state could not exclude them from working in day-care
centers.
   So if a fight develops against Judge Souter, it probably
won't be the smear and misrepresentation campaign that worked
so well against Robert Bork. The lobbyists instead might have
to debate the role of judges. We already hear liberal voices
testing the waters by dismissing the distinction between
judges interpreting the law and legislating from the bench as
nothing but a "cliche."
   Anyone tempted to push this notion might think twice. For
one thing, it is a problem for liberals to dismiss the
existence of judicial activism even as they erect monuments
to its champion, William Brennan. Justice Brennan had to
ignore whole tracts of the Constitution to find a prohibition
on the death penalty.
   If liberal Senators defeat a judicial nominee because he
believes too strongly in judicial restraint, they legitimize
activist judging at their peril. After all, most federal
judges were appointed by President Reagan or Bush. No one has
seen a right-wing activist judge in many decades, but a new
breed is possible to imagine. Such a judge might ignore the
16th Amendment in order to invalidate income taxes or dismiss
the Clean Air Act as patently irrational and refuse to hold
defendants liable.
   More likely, Judge Souter will become Justice Souter in
time for the next term of the Supreme Court. His close
analysis of statutes and the Constitution will put him in the
conservative camp of justices. His willingness to ask whether
all issues are necessarily legal issues could help nudge the
court back to its more modest practice of avoiding
essentially political cases. It is a tribute to the influence
of Justice Brennan that even his replacement by David Souter
would mean only that the new conservative intellectual
jurisprudence will be off to a healthy infancy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Composite Drops 0.5%; Reuters
   Plummets on Outlook for Slower Growth
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors again picked their way through the carnage of
the over-the-counter market as anemic earnings outlooks
continued to bleed individual stocks.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.08 to 442.56, a 0.5%
drop, compared with the 0.6% gain in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. Volume fell to 160.5 million shares from 168.9
million shares Monday. The gap between declining and
advancing stocks narrowed, as 1,035 issues fell and 916 rose.
However, 161 stocks hit new lows and only 30 climbed to new
highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The day's most active issue, American depositary receipts
of Reuters PLC, plummeted 10 to 56 1/4 on 9.1 million ADRs
after the London publishing and information concern said it
doesn't expect its growth rate for the remainder of the year
to keep pace with the first half.
   Technology shares crumbled amid nervousness about future
earnings and gross profit margins. Microsoft tumbled 2 1/2 to
69 1/2; Maxtor slid 3 5/8 to 10 3/4, and Intel fell 1 1/8 to
43 3/8. The Nasdaq Industrial Index fell 2.34 to 477.02, a
0.5% decline.
   "People are taking profits, but new investors are very
hard to find," explained Peter Da Puzzo, co-head of
world-wide equities for Shearson Lehman Hutton. Portfolio
managers pleased with their first-half gains in technology
and growth stocks are taking their profits and investing them
in the new-issues market and fixed income instruments, he
said. "The easy money is out of the market now," said Mr. Da
Puzzo. "It will take a lot of work by analysts and portfolio
managers to make money."
   The remainder of this quarter will be "a difficult
environment" for OTC investors, he added. Another heavy round
of selling triggered by program trading, a string of bad
earnings reports or a slight increase in interest rates could
set off yet another plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, he said.
   Yet the brokerage firm's analysts continue to estimate
that technology and selected emerging growth stocks will
outperform the market by year end, he said. "We haven't
changed our tune yet," he said, adding that opportunities are
being created by the broad scale pressure on those shares.
   Intel, the day's second most active stock, fell 1 1/8 to
43 3/8 on more than seven million shares. Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said that analysts attributed
the decline to a Reuters report that executives of the Santa
Clara, Calif., semiconductor maker told analysts in a meeting
they were concerned that its currently high gross profit
margins from microprocessors weren't sustainable "in the near
future."
   However, an Intel spokeswoman said that the report
incorrectly gave the timetable for the expected profit margin
decline, which had been discussed previously with analysts.
Alan G. Rieper of Cowen &amp; Co. and Thomas A. Thornhill III of
Montgomery Securities said they continue to recommend
purchase of Intel shares.
   Shares of Maxtor, a San Jose, Calif., maker of disk
drives, tumbled after several analysts lowered their earnings
estimates for the remainder of the year, according to
Professional Investor Report. Maxtor reported late Monday net
income for the first quarter ended June 30 of 30 cents a
share, up from 10 cents a year earlier. Analysts said those
results were on the low end of their expectations and added
they were even more concerned by the erosion of Maxtor's
gross profit margins during the first quarter.
   Investors didn't spare software leader Microsoft, which is
expected to report earnings for the fourth quarter, ended
last month, this afternoon. Traders and analysts attributed a
more than four-point intraday fall in Microsoft shares to
nervousness about guidance the company might give analysts in
a conference call scheduled for tomorrow morning. Thomas A.
Galvin, a Smith Barney, Harris Upham analyst, told
Professional Investor Report he doesn't expect any
disappointments and is estimating earnings of 64 cents a
share, up from 40 cents a share a year earlier.
   Shares of two other technologies companies, which reported
earnings after the market closed, fared slightly better, but
traders said they weren't sure how the stocks would perform
this morning. Chips &amp; Technology was unchanged at 17 1/2. The
San Jose, Calif., maker of microcomputer chips reported net
income for the fourth quarter ended June 30 of 41 cents a
share, down from 65 cents a share a year earlier.
   According to First Call, a Thompson Financial Networks
service, average analysts' estimates for the company ranged
from 40 cents to 44 cents a share.
   Seagate Technology eased 3/8 to 12 3/8. After the close,
the Scotts Valley, Calif., maker of computer magnetic disk
drives reported net income for the fourth quarter ended June
30 of 46 cents a share was flat with a year earlier. Analysts
estimates ranged from 51 cents to 54 cents a share, according
to First Call.
   Urcarco slid 2 to 11 7/8 on 1.9 million shares after the
Fort Worth, Texas, seller of used cars said it expects July
car sales will be down 10% to 15%.
   Positive earnings shored up a few stocks. Cognex jumped 2
1/4 to 32 1/4 after the Needham, Mass., maker of machine
vision systems reported net income for the second quarter
ended July 1 rose to 36 cents a share from 22 cents a share a
year earlier.
   Medical Graphics gained 7/8 to 4 3/8 after the company
reported net income for the second quarter of seven cents a
share, compared with a loss of 10 cents a share a year
earlier.
   ---
   Phillip E. Nalbone contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Chemical Net
   Slumped by 50%
   In Second Period
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dow Chemical Co. said second-quarter profit fell an
unexpectedly steep 50% from a year ago, sending the company's
stock into a skid.
   Although the second quarter is typically the strongest one
for the Midland, Mich., chemicals company, unit volume sales
were flat in comparison with the first quarter, and overall
prices fell from first-quarter levels as well as from a year
ago. In addition, manufacturing costs rose despite lower raw
material and energy costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income dropped to $364 million, or $1.34 a share,
compared with $728 million, or $2.70 a share, a year ago. The
year-earlier per-share figure was restated to reflect a stock
split in November. Sales were $4.81 billion, up 4.5% from
$4.6 billion.
   Wall Street had expected Dow Chemical's profit to fall,
given a slump in the commodity chemicals business, but
analysts' per-share projections ranged from $1.75 to $2.13,
according to Zacks Investment Research Inc. After a delay in
trading because of an order imbalance, Dow Chemical closed in
composite New York Stock Exchange at a 52-week low of
$52.375, down $5.75 on about six times normal volume of 3.4
million shares.
   Enrique C. Falla, Dow Chemical's chief financial officer,
noted that the latest quarter compares with a strong quarter
a year ago, adding that the company still expects record
annual sales in 1990 and the third-highest annual profit. But
he said Dow Chemical expects seasonal slowdowns and continued
low prices to reduce profit in the year's second half below
that of the first.
   Some analysts said the weak results by an industry leader
like Dow Chemical signal prolonged troubles for others,
particularly companies with big interests in basic plastics
and industrial chemicals.
   Pretax operating profit in the plastics segment fell 40%
from a year ago to $279 million, largely reflecting a price
slump on product lines like polyethylene and polystyrene.
   In the chemicals and performance products segment, profit
plunged 63% to $177 million. Dow Chemical noted declining
demand for chlorinated solvents, used in dry-cleaning and
metal-cleaning products and in making chlorofluorocarbons,
refrigerants being phased out for environmental reasons.
   Manufacturing costs rose 3% from first-quarter levels as
maintenance shutdowns in Europe took longer than expected,
electric power outages knocked out two plants in North
America, and a strike idled a plant in Brazil.
   The declines in Dow Chemical's traditional businesses were
partially offset by gains from the consolidation of results
from Marion Merrell Dow Inc., a drug company 67%-owned by Dow
Chemical, and for Dow Elanco, a venture in agricultural
chemicals with Eli Lilly &amp; Co. Profit for the consumer
specialties segment including these units rose 48% to $268
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   C EUROP J.RCH R.OKB J.NFC BRG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York City -- $1.1 billion of general obligation tax
anticipation notes, Fiscal 1991 Series A, due June 28, 1991,
was won by eight underwriting groups, city officials
announced. The 6 1/4% notes, rated MIG-1 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and SP1-Plus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. will be
reoffered to yield 5.90%. The following groups won the deal:
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Carmona Ferrand Montes Securities
Corp., $675 million; Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities
Corp., $100 million; Lehman Brothers, $100 million; Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co., $50 million; First Boston Corp., $50 million;
Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp., $50 million;
PaineWebber Inc., $50 million; First Albany Corp., $25
million. A total of 76 bids were placed from 24 firms, city
officials said. The net interest costs ranged from 5.89% to
5.994%, with the average net interest cost at 5.9688%.
   Minnesota Public Facilities Authority -- $71 million of
water pollution control revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, due
March 1, 1993-2003, and 2012, with capital appreciation bonds
due 2004-2006, were tentatively priced by a Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co. group to yield from 6.10% in 1993 to 7.15% in 2012.
Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from
6.10% in 1993 to 6.95% in 2003. There are $22.8 million of
7.10% term bonds priced at 99.50 to yield 7.15% in 2012.
Capital appreciation bonds are priced to yield to maturity
from 7.05% in 2004 to 7.10% in 2005 and 2006. The bonds are
rated double-A-plus by S&amp;P.
   Alaska Energy Authority -- $61 million of power revenue
bonds, Bradley Lake Hydro Electric Project Issue, Second
Series, due July 1, 1992-2015, 2013 and 2021, with capital
appreciation bonds due 2006-2010, were tentatively priced by
a John Nuveen &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to
7.30% in 2021. Current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.15% in 2005. There are
$7.5 million of term bonds priced at par to yield 7.20% in
2013. There are $29.8 million of 7 1/4% term bonds priced at
99 3/8 to yield 7.30% in 2021. Capital appreciation bonds are
priced to yield to maturity 7.10% in 2006-2010. The bonds are
insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Dade County, Fla. -- $55 million of aviation revenue
bonds, Series T, due Oct. 1, 1992-2005, were priced by a
Lazard Freres &amp; Co. group. The bonds are priced to yield from
6.15% in 1992 to 7.22% in 2005. There are no term bonds. The
bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
Interest on the bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that may be
imposed on certain investors.
   Richmond, Va. -- $50 million of general obligation revenue
anticipation notes, Series 1990 B, due June 28, 1991,
apparently were won by a Chemical Securities Inc. group. The
6 1/4% notes, rated MIG-1 by Moody's and SP1-Plus by S&amp;P,
were priced for reoffering to yield 5.90%.
   New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority --
$48.8 million of revenue bonds, Holy Name Hospital Issue,
Series B, due July 1, 1994-2004, 2010 and 2020, were
tentatively priced by a Dillon Read &amp; Co. group to yield from
6.10% in 1994 to 7.07% in 2020. Current interest serial bonds
are priced to yield from 6.10% in 1994 to 6.90% in 2004.
There are $10.8 million of 7% term bonds priced at 99 1/2 to
yield 7.05% in 2010. There are $18.1 million of 6 3/4% term
bonds priced at 96 to yield 7.07% in 2020. The bonds are
insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

   Rural Housing Trust 1987-1 (FHA) -- $540 million of
regular subordinated mortgage pass-through certificates is
being offered with a pass-through rate of 3.33% at a price of
70 5/8 to yield 10.15%. The securities, through Salomon
Brothers Inc., were priced at a yield spread of 1.75
percentage points over the interpolated yield on five-year
and seven-year Treasury notes. The expected ratings are
single-A-3 by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                        ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler Auto Receivables Co. -- $1 billion of securities
backed by retail installment contracts on new or used autos
and light trucks with a coupon rate of 8 3/4% at 99 23/32 to
yield 8.856% through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The
offering, through U.S. Auto Receivables Trust 1990-2, was
priced at a yield spread of 0.77 percentage point over the
Treasury's two-year note. Expected final maturity is July 15,
1993. Legal final maturity is Aug. 15, 1995. The securities
have a 1.57-year average life, assuming prepayments at 1% of
the original loan balance. A triple-A rating is expected from
S&amp;P and Moody's based on the quality of the underlying loans
and a subordinated class that now equals 9% of the senior
securities. The underlying loans are being serviced by
Chrysler Credit Corp., a unit of Chrysler Corp.
   Towers Healthcare Receivables Funding Corp. -- $56.5
million of two-year 1990 bonds backed by third party
health-care receivables at par to yield 10.20%. Towers
Healthcare Receivables Funding is a unit of Towers Financial
Corp., which underwrote the deal and is servicing the
underlying loans. The offering is rated double-A by Duff &amp;
Phelps Inc. Anthony DiNicolas, senior vice president,
finance, at Towers Financial said the "private placement
two-year note is the first time health-care receivables have
been used as exclusive collateral in a note transaction."
Funds paid to health-care facilities from insurance companies
after a person seeks health care are third party health-care
receivables.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Ricoh Co. (Japan) -- $300 million of bonds due Aug. 9,
1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with the coupon fixed at
4 3/4% and par issue price, via Nomura International Ltd.
Each $5,000 bond carries one warrant, exercisable from Aug.
23, 1990, through Aug. 26, 1994, to buy company shares at an
expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing share price when
terms are fixed Tuesday.
   Osterreichische Kontrollbank (Austria) -- $200 million of
9% bonds due Aug. 28, 1995, at 100 1/4 via J.P. Morgan
Securities Ltd. Guaranteed by Austria.
   Nachi Fujikoshi Corp. (Japan) -- $150 million of bonds due
Aug. 9, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 4
3/4% coupon at par via Yamaichi International Ltd. Guaranteed
by Tokai Bank. Each $10,000 bond carries two warrants,
exercisable from Aug. 23, 1990, through Aug. 2, 1994, to buy
company shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the
closing share price when terms are fixed Monday.
   KFW International Finance Inc. Delaware (West German
parent) -- 150 million Canadian dollars (US$129.8 million) of
11 3/4% bonds due Aug. 22, 1995, priced at 101.125 via
Dresdner Bank AG. Guaranteed by Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaubfau.
   British Gas International Finance (United Kingdom parent)
-- 100 billion lire ($84.3 million) of 12 1/4% bonds via
Banca Commerciale Italiana. Maturity date Aug. 24, 1994,
issue price is 101.40, yield 12.32% less fees annually. Fees
1 5/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitel Files Claim
   Against AT&amp;T
   In Florida Court
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MLT T.MLT T BTY
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Mitel Corp. said it filed a claim in a Florida
court against American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. for
allegedly spreading "misleading information" about the
company.
   The value of the claim wasn't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John Jarvis, Mitel president, told a shareholders' meeting
here that AT&amp;T suggested in letters to Mitel's U.S. customers
that British Telecommunications PLC's plan to sell its 51%
interest in Mitel was "a cause for concern" about Mitel's
future. Mr. Jarvis said the AT&amp;T letters offered Mitel
customers a trade-in allowance if they exchanged Mitel's
telephone switching system for an AT&amp;T product.
   A spokesman for New York-based AT&amp;T said he had just
learned of the Mitel claim and couldn't comment on it until
it was examined.
   Mr. Jarvis said AT&amp;T's "aspersions" about Mitel's
"viability" were "without foundation." He said it was too
soon to assess what negative impact the "misleading
information" would have on Mitel. Mr. Jarvis said the company
was concerned that its "future business prospects and
reputation" could be damaged.
   Mr. Jarvis told shareholders that a "number of very
impressive companies" have expressed interest in buying
British Telecommunications' stake in Mitel. He said British
Telecommunications is talking to some of the companies.
   Mitel also reported yesterday that the company had a net
loss of 3.1 million Canadian dollars (US$2.7 million) on
revenue of C$100 million in the first quarter ended June 29.
In the year earlier, Mitel had net income of C$4.2 million on
revenue of C$102.7 million.
   Mitel shares closed at C$2.45 a share on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, down 15 Canadian cents.
   Mr. Jarvis said Mitel's first-quarter loss was in line
with the company's expectations. He said Mitel's forecasts
and advanced bookings had indicated a slow start in the year,
but he said there are some early indications that the Kanata,
Ontario, company has increased its market share in Britain in
the second quarter.
   "It is clear that these two facts taken together, slow
sales and market share increases, indicate the difficult
nature of the market and the appropriateness of our strategy
to become a more broadly based telecommunications company,"
he said.
   Mr. Jarvis said Mitel's sales outside North America were
down more than 8% in the first quarter from a year earlier.
Mr. Jarvis said he was confident that Mitel will have a
"positive performance" in these markets as the year develops.
   Mr. Jarvis said orders in markets outside North America
have been "quite strong" in recent weeks. He predicted the
company would have an upturn in sales in the second quarter.
   Mr. Jarvis also said Mitel plans to launch a major
advertising campaign in the fall "aimed at increasing
awareness of the company" in the U.S. and Britain. He said it
will help "counter the misleading information" distributed by
AT&amp;T.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Cap Cities/ABC
   Profit Edged Up
   In 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Capital Cities/ABC Inc. posted a lackluster
1.5% rise in net income in the second quarter despite robust
results at the ABC network and warned that earnings in the
current quarter may fall below those of a year ago.
   The company's bleak forecast sent its common shares
tumbling by almost 9%. Capital Cities/ABC shares plunged
$55.50 to close at $533 in composite trading on the New York
Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Capital Cities/ABC blamed the lukewarm second-quarter
results and the possible decline in third-quarter net on
sluggish ad sales at its television and radio stations and on
losses on the new baseball contract at its 80%-owned cable
channel, ESPN.
   Capital Cities/ABC posted second-quarter net of $142.3
million, or $8.19 a share, compared with $140.2 million, or
$7.83 a share, a year ago. Revenue rose 11% to $1.36 billion
from $1.23 billion.
   In last year's third quarter, the company earned $80.8
million or $4.56 a share; a decline in the current period
would mark the first year-to-year earnings drop for the
company since the first quarter of 1986.
   ESPN and the stations had been the company's two strongest
segments in recent years. Last year, ESPN earned well over
$100 million in pretax operating profit, and the eight
company-owned TV stations boast the highest profit margins in
the business. But in the second quarter, profits dropped
sharply at ESPN and other cable operations as the baseball
contract produced a $20 million loss. At the TV stations,
meanwhile, profits were up only modestly, and radio-station
profits fell below year-ago levels.
   Those two areas now look troubled just as Capital
Cities/ABC seems to have managed a turnaround at the two
major trouble spots of the past year or so: the ABC network
and some parts of the magazine-publishing business.
   ABC, now No. 2 and riding a turnaround in prime-time
ratings and well-ensconced in the No. 1 position in ratings
for the nightly news, posted a strong 15% rise in both sales
and earnings in the second quarter. The publishing business,
which makes up about 20% of total company revenue, had a 10%
rise in profits, the best performance for that segment in
more than a year. Those bright spots, however, weren't enough
to offset the other difficulties.
   Wall Street analysts had recently lowered their estimates
for the company, but the actual results came in below even
the revised expectations. David Londoner of Wertheim Schroder
&amp; Co. had expected $8.75 a share in net instead of the $8.19
the company turned in for the second quarter. For the third
quarter, he had first projected $5.80 a share in earnings,
then had lowered it to $5.30 a share vs. the year-earlier
period's $4.56 a share. "Now it looks as though it will be
$4.10 or $4.20," he said.
   Capital Cities/ABC executives are known for their cautious
outlook and for trying to avoid surprising Wall Street with
unexpected earnings problems. "They like to tell you the bad
news in advance, which I think everybody appreciates," said
Mr. Londoner. "Except on a day like this. They really took
things apart."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senators Are Facing Knotty Problem
   Of How to Tackle Souter on Abortion
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush's choice of Judge David
Souter, whose views on abortion and other contemporary legal
controversies are largely unknown, rekindles a decades-old
debate over what questions are appropriate for senators to
ask Supreme Court nominees.
   In political terms, the debate is simply put: Will the
senators ask Judge Souter directly for his views on the
constitutional right to abortion, or will the questions
circle around the issue? In legal terms, the question is:
Should they ask him at all?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Judge Souter's hearing is held, probably in
September, Democratic and Republican senators are likely to
be under pressure from groups on both sides of the abortion
debate to pose questions, directly or indirectly, that shed
some light on the 50-year-old nominee's views on abortion.
   "It would be naive to think," Sen. Patrick Leahy (D.,
Vt.), a member of the Judiciary Committee, observed, that Roe
vs. Wade, the 1973 decision recognizing the right to
abortion, "in one way or another isn't going to be part of a
number of questions . . . with the drive coming from both the
right and the left."
   The problem is how to raise the issue. It is a problem
that has confounded the Senate Judiciary Committee for some
50 years, since Felix Frankfurter became the first high-court
nominee to appear and answer questions. Supreme Court
nominees generally must decline to answer questions about how
they would rule in specific cases, and when they have served
as judges they are reluctant to talk about their past
decisions.
   This conundrum so frustrated the late Sen. Sam Ervin (D.,
N.C.) in a 1968 hearing that he complained that nominees
"cannot tell us anything about the future, and they cannot
tell us anything about the past, which means they cannot tell
us anything."
   In Judge Souter's case, some abortion-rights groups want a
direct answer. Eleanor Smeal, president of the Feminist
Majority, urged senators "to demand to know his position on
abortion rights."
   Nevertheless, there is a good chance he will never be
asked the ultimate question -- whether he would vote to
overrule Roe vs. Wade.
   If the question is asked directly, Philip Kurland, a
University of Chicago law professor, says Judge Souter
shouldn't answer it. "It's appropriate for him to testify
about everything, except what they really want to ask him,"
Prof. Kurland says, arguing that a nominee shouldn't discuss
cases, past or future, or judicial philosophy.
   Even some conservative Republicans, who in the past have
been quite blunt in asking nominees about abortion, may
refrain this time, taking President Bush at his word that
Judge Souter believes in judicial restraint. Sen. Charles
Grassley (R., Iowa), a Judiciary Committee member, says he
has made little progress in past nominations asking about
abortion and this time "may ask about something that's more
productive."
   Prof. Kurland argues that the Judiciary Committee should
conduct its own, thorough investigation and call witnesses
who know the nominee, but should limit the inquiry to the
nominee's "character."
   Walter Dellinger, a Duke University law professor, favors
a hearing much broader in scope. "Just as the president took
political and judicial philosophy into account, the Senate
does too and has a right to consider every aspect of a
nominee," Prof. Dellinger says. But he, too, says it isn't
appropriate for senators to ask directly about Roe vs. Wade.
   Inability to ask about abortion directly doesn't end the
matter. There are broader questions senators could pose about
whether Judge Souter recognizes a constitutional right to
privacy generally, or for reproductive decisions
specifically. An even broader approach, Prof. Dellinger says,
is to ask the nominee whether he views the "liberty" and "due
process" guarantees of the 14th Amendment as encompassing an
array of individual rights.
   Some Republican senators find themselves in an unfamiliar
posture, having grown accustomed to defending, instead of
questioning, President Reagan's Supreme Court nominees.
Because they, too, know relatively little about Judge Souter,
their approach may be "a combination of both" asking and
defending, says Sen. Orrin Hatch (R., Utah), a committee
member.
   But, Sen. Hatch adds, "You can count on some tough
questioning" by the Democrats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks Rise,
   Reclaiming
   Part of Loss
   ---
   Oil Stocks Deliver
   Fuel to Shares; Bonds
   Ease, Dollar Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Again the stock market was a killing field for
companies delivering bad profit news, but buoyant oil stocks
pushed many stock-price barometers higher.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 17.82 to close at
2922.52 in active trading, regaining less than a third of
Monday's 56-point loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices eased in light trading, with little economic
news to guide traders. For much the same reason, the dollar
ended mixed.
   Investors pounded shares of companies with negative
earnings news, which were spread randomly across most
industry groups. Dow Chemical, Morgan Stanley and Capital
Cities/ABC all fell more than 5% because of profit
disappointments.
   While investors continue to be unforgiving on poor
earnings, said Joseph DeMarco, head of equity trading at
Marinvest, "people are still looking for places to go to.
Today it was energy."
   Oil stocks indeed fueled the market's afternoon advance,
said Christopher Pedersen, director of trading at
Twenty-First Securities. "Without the oils, the Dow did
nothing."Chevron, Exxon and Texaco -- all in the Dow average
-- rose sharply on renewed prospect of armed conflict in the
Mideast.
   The most interesting aspect of yesterday's stock action
was the ease with which traders took Monday's volatility in
stride. "The professionals are getting used to knowing how to
handle these one-day blips," Mr. Pedersen said.
   The bond market was affected by selling left over from
Monday, as traders unwound positions developed in response to
the stock market decline. Roberta D. Olson, fixed-income
portfolio manager at Banc One Asset Management Corp., said,
"Too many people were wounded. They are sitting back and
assessing the situation. It's completely related to the stock
market."
   Bond investors had been focusing on inflation, what the
Federal Reserve was saying, and the prospect of more bonds
coming to market; then stocks suddenly took center stage. "It
has forced a lot of people to reassess what fundamental
issues we should be looking at now," Ms. Olson said. In major
market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose on volume of 182 million shares in New
York Stock Exchange trading, with declining issues edging
advancers, 755 to 753.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell 3/8 of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond rose to 8.58%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6215 marks and 148.78 yen, compared
with 1.6220 marks and 148.20 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Will Raise
   $2.3 Billion in Cash
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $2.3 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of a record $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.1 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Nov. 1 and Jan. 31, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR ETN UFN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Airlines Inc., a unit of AMR Corp., offering of
$288 million of equipment trust certificates, via Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets and Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Community Health Systems Inc., offering of 1.8 million
common shares, via J.C. Bradford &amp; Co. and Bateman Eicher,
Hill Richards Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Eaton ETN Offshore Ltd., a unit of Eaton Corp., shelf
offering of $100 million of debt securities and warrants to
purchase debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Leslie's Poolmart, offering of 2.4 million common shares,
1.9 million will be sold by the company and 500,000 shares by
holders, via Montgomery Securities and Robertson, Stephens &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

   Mexico Capital Growth Fund Inc., initial offering of five
million common shares, via First Boston Corp., Bear, Stearns
&amp; Co. and Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
                                                                                                       

   Unicare Financial Corp., secondary offering of 1.5 million
common shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. and Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   In Illinois, We Follow
   The Law of the Land
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Your June 25 article "Thompson Issues Order on Patronage
in Illinois" (which appeared in some editions) correctly
reported that I issued an executive order directing all
agencies under my control to follow the U.S. Supreme Court's
ruling in Rutan v. Republican Party in Illinois.
   However, the article goes on to say that the "spoils
system" may not be dead in Illinois and attempts to support
that allegation with my explanation that when job candidates
are equally qualified, "We'll hire the Republican."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The quote is correct, but it was made in reference to
hiring practices before the Rutan decision.
   My executive order makes it clear to everyone in Illinois
government that the U.S. Supreme Court decision is the law of
the land and must be followed.
   James R. Thompson
   Governor
   State of Illinois
   Springfield, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Stocks and Bonds Are Losing
   Their Allure to Global Investors
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN JAPAN EUROP FREST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the scramble for global investment funds, the U.S. is
coming up short.
   Foreign investors sold a net $4.2 billion of U.S. stocks
and bonds in the first quarter -- the latest for which data
are available -- according to the Securities Industry
Association. It was first time foreigners pulled money out of
the U.S. securities markets since the third quarter of 1983.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, evidence since then points to a continued lack
of appetite on the part of foreigners for U.S. stocks and
bonds, analysts said. Traditionally, foreign investors have
had a bigger influence on U.S. bond markets than on stocks,
but the British and Japanese sometimes affect share prices.
   The consequences can be significant for the deficit-ridden
U.S., which faces increasing competition for investment
funds. West Germany and Japan -- the big surplus nations --
have turned inward, and Eastern Europe, with enormous capital
needs to finance economic and industrial restructuring, is a
new competitor for global cash. Moreover, analysts say
Thailand and Malaysia, and eventually possibly even Mexico
and Brazil, are emerging as new lures for international
investment capital.
   "We have become very dependent upon foreign investors in
all of our markets. Since we now have less demand for U.S.
securities than in past years, this explains why we have not
had better and more sustained bond market rallies following
positive economic news," said Brian J. Fabbri, chief
economist for Midland Montagu, a U.S. securities unit of
Midland Bank PLC.
   U.S. bond yields, he added, "are too high considering
economic growth has slowed and the Fed has eased. Yet, bond
yields are much higher now than they were in December. That's
because we have had sparse demand for our securities."
   What's more, David G. Strongin, director of international
finance at the SIA, said these high U.S. rates could damage
U.S. economic growth, raise the cost of funding the federal
budget deficit and reduce the competitiveness of U.S.
corporations.
   Led by Japanese investors, who sold a net $3.9 billion of
U.S. Treasury securities, foreigners in aggregate unloaded
$900 million of all U.S. bonds (Treasurys, agency issues and
corporate bonds) in the first quarter after buying a net
$19.9 billion in the last quarter of 1989. Overseas investors
grew more negative on U.S. stocks, selling a net $3.3 billion
following a selloff of $400 million in the last quarter of
1989. Swiss, British and Japanese investors were the major
dumpers of U.S. stocks in the first quarter.
   Behind this retreat are rising nominal and
inflation-adjusted interest rates abroad, falling U.S.
interest rates and lately a weakening dollar. At the same
time, there's rising interest in European and smaller Asian
economies and stock markets.
   On a semiannual compound yield basis, 10-year U.S.
government bonds currently yield 8.53%. That compares with
11.46% for equivalent British bonds, 8.33% for West German
and 6.96% for Japanese bonds. At shorter maturities, foreign
fixed-income securities become even more appealing.
   "Looking at these factors, an investor abroad has to ask
himself: Why invest in the U.S.? There are better
opportunities abroad," said Nicholas P. Sargen, an
international economist at Salomon Brothers Inc. "Since the
beginning of the year, I haven't spoken to a long-term
overseas investor who is interested in substantially
increasing his dollar bond holdings."
   In many ways, the supply and demand for international
capital is the reverse of what it was in the 1980s. In the
last decade -- especially in the first half of it -- foreign
investors were drawn to high U.S. interest rates, an
expanding economy, a soaring dollar and a booming stock
market.
   During the 1980s, the U.S. pulled in more than $800
billion from foreign investors, including direct investment,
on relatively favorable terms, said Mr. Sargen. "Japan and
Germany were generating huge surpluses, and the funds that
used to go to the less developed countries weren't because
they weren't creditworthy." That left the U.S. as the prime
recipient of foreign cash.
   But it's a different world in the 1990s. Bond yields are
mostly higher in Europe and rising in Japan, and their
currencies are climbing. Several European stock markets have
suffered recent setbacks after earlier runups. Still, many
long-term investors are attracted to them because of the
planned 1992 abolition of trade and investment barriers in
the 12 countries of the European Community, and because of
the opening of Eastern Europe.
   Europe is experiencing its biggest spending boom in two
decades. Added to that are the financing needs for German
unification -- and more broadly for the reconstruction of
Eastern Europe. "At the margin, Europe is the buzzword," said
John Morosani, managing director in charge of U.S. equities
at S.G. Warburg &amp; Co. in New York.
   "You'd think that with the dollar soft, foreign investors
would want to buy U.S. equities. From a value perspective,
you'd think it would make our stuff look cheaper," he said.
But "the observed reality is that foreign investors tend to
be more interested in a U.S. market when the dollar is
rallying."
   William M. Brachfeld, an executive vice president at the
U.S. unit of Daiwa Securities Co. in New York, said that "as
rates have come down here and Japanese rates have inched up,"
Japanese sales of U.S. bonds have continued. He added that
lately foreign investors' confidence in the Federal Reserve
had weakened because of the central bank's apparent policy
switch toward attempting to bolster U.S. growth with an
easier monetary stance rather than combating inflation.
   In fact, the SIA's data show that the biggest buyers --
$2.9 billion -- of U.S. Treasury securities in the first
quarter were members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Most of them don't take a currency risk
when buying U.S. securities, because their major income
earner, oil, is priced in U.S. dollars.
   Foreigners won't abandon U.S. securities markets. Analysts
say they can't afford to, because the U.S. still represents
the world's largest single capital market and is regarded as
a "safe haven" in times of international tension.
   Still, Mr. Sargen of Salomon Brothers said: "There's no
doubt the U.S. is going to be hustling for funds with
countries that we once didn't have to face as competitors in
world capital markets. And surplus countries like Japan and
Germany have more investment opportunities in their own
backyards."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Congress Spurns
   Easing Supports
   For Sugar Prices
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Farm-bloc lawmakers beat back attempts to
trim sugar price supports in both chambers of Congress, but
they couldn't muster enough votes in the Senate to save
beekeepers' honey subsidies from a four-year phase-out.
   The sugar and honey votes were early tests of strength in
a farm-policy struggle between members of the Agriculture
committees and a group of lawmakers who are trying to
overhaul or eliminate several farm-subsidy programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Senate voted 54-44 to keep the government's sugar
support price at 18 cents a pound for the next five years,
brushing aside arguments that the proposed two-cent cut would
save U.S. consumers $600 million a year and put sugar growers
more on a par with producers of other, less heavily
subsidized crops. Two hours later, the House spurned an
identical measure by an even wider margin, 271-150.
   But in a Senate showdown over the $54 billion, five-year
farm bill, farm-program critics regrouped to win a close
procedural vote 52-46 on the future of the 50-year-old honey
program. The Senate then adopted by unanimous consent a
proposal by Sen. John Chafee (R., R.I.) to eliminate all
honey price supports by 1994.
   Mr. Chafee contended that the honey program has outlived
its usefulness and benefits only 1% of the nation's 210,000
beekeepers. It cost taxpayers a total of $385 million over
the past five fiscal years, he told colleagues. The House is
expected to vote on a similar provision this week.
   Yesterday, opponents of the sugar program invoked the
environment and the war on drugs in their appeals for votes
-- but to little avail. Sen. Bill Bradley (D., N.J.), chief
sponsor of the two-cent cut in the sugar support price,
argued that the U.S. policy of curtailing imports of low-cost
sugar has deprived sugar-producing countries of export
earnings and driven Peruvian farmers into coca production. He
and other critics also said that subsidized expansion of
sugar cane production is polluting the Florida Everglades.
   Defenders of the sugar program mocked the notion of a
cocaine-sugar connection. "The only connection between the
two is that they both happen to be a white powder," asserted
Sen. John Breaux, a Democrat from Louisiana, a major
sugarcane producing state.
   Pleas in behalf of the consumer failed to carry the day.
Propping domestic sugar prices above the world-market price
"inflicts a hidden tax on food," asserted Rep. Silvio Conte
(D., Mass.). "It's regressive. It smacks the poor harder than
anybody."
   But House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la Garza
(D., Texas) and other pro-sugar members countered that the
sugar program ensures consumers of a stable supply at
reasonable price. They hotly contested assertions that food
processors would pass on to consumers any savings from a cut
of two cents a pound.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Jordan Stands Fast,
   As Always, for Peace
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Gerald F. Seib in his June 18 Washington Insight story
referred to Jordan as "once-moderate Jordan . . ." thus
joining a certain chorus of the Western media that recently
have been marketing the idea of a radicalized Jordan.
   The complications facing the Bush administration peace
efforts begin and end with Israel. The attempt to introduce
the false notion of a "once-moderate Jordan" and to describe
King Hussein as spouting anti-American, anti-Israeli rhetoric
amounts to nothing more than an attempt to dilute Israeli
rejectionism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No single person has warned of extremists and extremism as
much or as long as King Hussein has. No single country
throughout the years of the Arab-Israeli conflict
demonstrated and advocated a course of moderation,
pragmatism, realism and reason as Jordan has. No single
people shouldered responsibilities that heavily outweighed
their capabilities for the cause of peace in our region as
have the Jordanian people.
   Only recently and on more than one occasion, King Hussein
reiterated Jordan's commitment to continue the search for a
just and lasting peace in our region. It is this that counts
and not the misguided interpretations and utterances directed
against Jordan, which only play into the hands of those who
seek to derail the chances of peace in our region.
   Fouad Ayoub
   Spokesman, King Hussein
   Amman, Jordan
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Three Medco Research Insiders Sold
   $1.8 Million of Company Stock in June
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDR LOW PWN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Three insiders at Medco Research Inc. sold
$1.8 million of its stock last month, filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission show.
   The largest sale was by Dr. Rudolph Nisi, chairman of the
Los Angeles-based pharmaceutical research firm. He sold
75,000 shares June 27 and 29 for a total $928,750, or $12.38
a share. The shares represented 34% of his stake in the
company, according to SEC filings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Medco's president, Manfred Mosk, has filed with
the SEC his intention to sell 40,000 shares, or 12% of his
holdings in the company, valued at $560,000.
   The sales come at a time when Medco Research stock has
been buoyed by hopes for Federal Drug Administration approval
of the company's Adenoscan heart drug, takeover rumors and a
positive article in Business Week magazine. Medco's shares
closed yesterday at $14.125 bid in over-the-counter trading,
at the higher end of its 52-week trading range of $6.88 to
$20.25.
   Neither Mr. Mosk nor Mr. Nisi could be reached for
comment, but Sanford Hillsberg, a director and one of Medco's
two vice presidents, said, "I don't view this as a bailout,
but orderly liquidation."
   Mr. Hillsberg, one of the three insider-sellers, sold
45,000 shares in several sales in June, shares representing
19% of his holdings, SEC filings show. "I've never been more
bullish on the company, but, on the other hand, if you have
all your eggs in one basket, it may be prudent to diversify,"
he said. He added that he chose last month to sell the shares
because he plans to exercise options to buy more Medco stock
in December. Under SEC rules, he wouldn't be able to sell
shares six months before and after an options exercise.
   Hemant K. Shaw, analyst with HKS &amp; Co., Warren, N.J., said
the company has generally been popular with the medical
community because of the prospects for its cardiac drug. But
Medco hasn't been as popular with investors, he said, chiefly
because the company has never been in the black. Mr. Shaw,
who said he once worked as a consultant to Medco, recommends
the stock because of the likely success of Adenoscan.
   The third insider-seller, Medco's former head of research,
William C. Govier, sold 15,000 shares between June 4 and 8 at
an average price of $14.22 each, or a total of $213,300. He
retains 88,628 shares, SEC filings show. The company
dismissed Mr. Govier in May, but he is considered an insider
by the SEC for filing purposes because of his large stake in
the firm. Mr. Govier couldn't be reached for comment.
                                                                                                       

   LOWER EXPECTATIONS: Eight insiders at Lowe's Cos. sold
$1.5 million of stock in May and June, SEC filings show. The
insiders trimmed their holdings in the North Wilkesboro,
N.C., building-materials company by a total of 32,293 shares,
according to SEC filings. For four insiders, who each sold
less than 1,000 shares, the sales liquidated their entire
holdings in the company.
   The sales took place from May 18 through June 13 at an
average price of $45.11. Lowe's share price has since fallen
sharply. In composite New York Stock Exchange trading, the
stock closed yesterday at $34.875, down 25 cents.
   According to W. Cliff Oxford, spokesman for the company,
an exceptionally strong 20% sales gain in the first quarter,
which ended in April, led to unreal expectations by both
analysts and stockholders. While sales in the current quarter
are running 11% ahead the year-earlier period, he said, that
won't be enough to meet analysts' earnings expectations, and
a "nervous" market has penalized the company. He added that
the insider selling was part of the "normal course of
business."
   The largest sale was by Pietro Kulnych, a director. SEC
filings show he sold 12,000 shares in May, 3% of his
holdings. (Mr. Kulnych has since sold another 3,000 shares,
the company said, that aren't yet reflected in the SEC
files.) Mr. Kulnych couldn't be reached for comment.
   Company president Leonard B. Herring sold 10,000 shares at
$48.25 a share on June 1, SEC filings show. The sale
represented 2% of his holdings. Mr. Herring declined to
comment.
                                                                                                       

   CASHING OUT: In one of the larger insider sales of stock
reported to the SEC last week, Jack R. Daugherty, chairman of
Cash America Investments Inc., a Fort Worth, Texas, owner and
operator of pawnshops, sold 20% of his stake. He received
$1.1 million for the 65,000 shares, which were sold in
several sales in June, the filings show.
   Mr. Daugherty declined to comment, but a spokeswoman said
he sold "for personal reasons." Mr. Daugherty's shares
fetched an average price of $17.65. On the American Stock
Exchange yesterday, Cash America shares closed at $17.25,
unchanged.
   ---
   Anne Newman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tonka Reports Loss
   Totaling $19 Million
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNETONKA, Minn. -- Tonka Corp. reported a second-quarter
loss of $19 million, or $1.30 a share, reflecting declines in
its maturing Ghostbusters line and its discontinued Sega
video game line.
   A year earlier, the toy maker earned $100,000, or two
cents a share. Revenue fell 23% to $146.3 million from $189.4
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, which earlier this year predicted a
"significant" second-quarter loss, also cited disappointing
early sales of "certain" promotional products, which it
didn't name. It added that revenue gains at its Parker
Brothers and Tonka International divisions only partly offset
declines at its Kenner and Tonka Products units.
   On a pretax basis, the loss was at the pessimistic end of
analysts' expectations. But the company said it adopted a
conservative approach for its first-half tax accrual,
resulting in "only limited tax benefits" from the
second-quarter pretax loss.
   The announcement came after the market closed, and
analysts were still reviewing their full-year forecasts late
yesterday. Carol Palmer of Duff &amp; Phelps Inc. said she
expects Tonka to scale back its marketing plans in Europe
somewhat in an attempt to control expenses.
   In the first six months, the loss widened to $29.3
million, or $2.01 a share, from $6 million, or 76 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 20% to $282.2 million
from $351.6 million.
   Tonka Chairman Stephen G. Shank said he was "disappointed"
by first-half results but continues "to expect a profitable
second half." He described as "excellent" the early retail
results of the company's Batman action figures and vehicles,
adding that they could become a "significant contributor" to
revenue in the second half. He also said he is "very
encouraged" by early retail sales of Kenner's Baby Alive doll
and preliminary test-market results of Tonka Products' new
line of stuffed toys called Wrestling Buddies.
   However, the company said it is "uncertain whether
second-half results will be sufficient to offset the
first-half deficit, and there is a real possibility that
Tonka will not be profitable for the year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Continental AG:
   General Tire Unit Extends
   Price Jump to Wholesalers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   G.CGU
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Tire, an Akron, Ohio-based unit of Continental AG
of West Germany, said it is raising prices on private-brand
tires by 2% to 4%, effective Sept. 4.
   Most U.S. tire makers, including General, previously
announced similar price increases on replacement tires that
they sell under their own brand names. General's increase
becomes effective Aug. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new move by General extends that increase to tires
sold to major wholesalers, mass merchandisers and other
concerns that contract with tire manufacturers to produce
tires for them under private brands.
   Replacement tire prices have been discounted more than
usual this year because the auto production slowdown created
a tire surplus.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Budget Negotiators Hope to Exchange
   Deficit-Reductions Proposals This Week
   ----
   By David Wessel and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Negotiators at the bipartisan budget talks hope to trade
deficit-reduction packages this week, a sign the talks may be
about to get more serious, participants said.
   Participants cautioned that differences on taxes and
spending cuts remain wide and that it will be difficult to
bridge them before Congress leaves for its August recess.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But an exchange of plans between the Bush administration
and congressional Democrats could be a significant step
forward. Negotiators also agreed to "a code of conduct" that
forbids them from talking publicly about the details of their
discussions, another hint that the talks may finally be
changing character after more than two months.
   Democrats and Republicans both warned there has been no
breakthrough yet. House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D.,
Mo.) said negotiators were making "incremental progress." His
Republican counterpart, Rep. Robert Michel of Illinois, said:
"I thought I was a patient person. But I'm getting awfully
impatient. Nothing's happened."
   President Bush and top congressional Democrats, meanwhile,
negotiated a cease-fire in an attempt to save the budget
summit, but Mr. Bush promptly took to the campaign trail to
criticize Democrats as big spenders.
   "There is a general consensus that we need to concentrate
on reducing the partisan comments," House Speaker Thomas
Foley (D., Wash.) said after meeting with Mr. Bush and other
congressional leaders. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
confirmed that both sides agreed "that they would try to keep
the rhetoric under control and really try to make this a
productive week."
   But within hours, in remarks prepared for delivery to New
York Republicans, Mr. Bush said that "to deal with a Democrat
Congress is to often face government by gridlock -- with
spending skyrocketing out of control, good legislation thrown
aside for pork and a budget deficit looming over our
children's children."
   Earlier in the day, speaking to Pennsylvania Republicans
in Philadelphia, the president alternated between his roles
as party leader and head of state. In his prepared text, he
declared that when the two parties' philosophies on taxes,
spending and education are compared, "our side wins."
   "As long as spending runs out of control in Congress," he
added, "the American people will pay the price."
   But he inserted more conciliatory remarks, some written
and some ad libbed, expressing hope that the budget deadlock
can be broken. "I salute those Democrats in the leadership
who are now working with me . . . trying to achieve a
bipartisan agreement that we all can live with that would be
good for our country."
   Mr. Bush is to meet with congressional leaders again this
morning, and summit negotiators plan to reconvene this
afternoon. The two sides are seeking a package of tax
increases and spending cuts to shrink the deficit by $50
billion for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rona to Leave Post
   At Industrial Bank
   Of Japan Ltd. Unit
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.IBJ
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Peter Rona, president and chief executive
officer of IBJ Schroder Bank &amp; Trust Co., a unit of
Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd., will resign today, according
to people close to Mr. Rona and the bank.
   Succeeding Mr. Rona on a temporary basis will be Edward
Hamway, an executive vice president and head of IBJ
Schroder's credit committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Rona, according to people familiar with his plans,
intends to set up his own firm, which will specialize in
Hungarian investments and acquisitions. The 48-year-old
executive was born in Hungary and emigrated to the U.S. as a
teenager after the Hungarian uprising in 1956. Reached at
home last night, he declined to comment.
   Mr. Rona is an Oxford-educated lawyer who graduated first
in his class and then joined Arnold &amp; Porter, a Washington,
D.C., law firm. He later became general counsel of J. Henry
Schroder Bank &amp; Trust Co., and was named chief executive when
IBJ purchased the bank in late 1985 from Schroder Group PLC,
a British merchant bank.
   IBJ Schroder is a small commercial bank specializing in
serving middle-market U.S. companies, as well as some major
international corporations. IBJ also has used the bank to
advise its Japanese clients on U.S. mergers and acquisitions,
in which Mr. Rona played a leadership role.
   During Mr. Rona's tenure, IBJ Schroder purchased Aubrey G.
Lanston &amp; Co., a primary dealer in U.S. government
securities. The U.S. bank also advised Nippon Mining Co. in
its $1.1 billion acquisition of Gould Inc. and Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. in its recent purchase of Subaru of America
Ltd.
   Mr. Rona, people close to him said, has maintained strong
feelings for his former homeland and now plans to take his
merger expertise to the Hungarian market. He has advised
several U.S. corporations on investing in Hungary, including
Samsonite Corp., which decided to set up a luggage
manufacturing operation in Hungary to serve the European
market. The company had originally considered building its
operation in Taiwan.
   Bankers said Mr. Rona's fluency in Hungarian and close
relations with senior officials in the new government should
give him a competitive edge in advising U.S. firms on
investments in eastern European countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Four Large Media Companies Report
   Declines in Second-Quarter Earnings
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TMC WPO TRB KRI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Four major media companies reported sizable drops in
second-quarter earnings.
   Net income fell 45% at Times Mirror Co. and 7.5% at
Washington Post Co. because of weak newspaper advertising.
Tribune Co.'s profit decreased 25% as its New York operations
continued to struggle, while Knight-Ridder Inc.'s earnings
dropped 65% after large one-time gains in the year-earlier
period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Los Angeles, Times Mirror said the lower results
stemmed from depressed advertising revenue at its Northeast
newspapers and higher circulation costs at the Los Angeles
Times.
   Net fell to $47 million, or 36 cents a share, from $85
million, or 66 cents a share, a year earlier. Last year's
per-share earnings included a pretax gain of $23.1 million,
or 11 cents a share after tax, from sales of timberlands.
Revenue increased 5.3% to $906.6 million from $861.3 million.
   Operating profit from newspaper publishing fell to $51.7
million from $88.3 million a year earlier. Increased revenue
at the Los Angeles Times was offset by higher operating costs
resulting from a circulation increase, to a record 1.2
million daily and 1.5 million on Sundays.
   Led by increased sales at the company's legal publishing
and flight information businesses, Times Mirror's book,
magazine and other publishing segment showed an increase in
operating profit to $30.1 million from $24.6 million. Cable
television operating profit climbed to $17.4 million from
$16.1 million, while profit from broadcast television fell to
$10.6 million from $13.2 million.
   In the first half, net fell 40% to $93 million, or 72
cents a share, from $153.8 million, or $1.19 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose 4.3% to $1.78 billion from $1.71
billion.
   Washington Post Co. said second-quarter net fell to $55.9
million, or $4.60 a share, from $60.5 million, or $4.72
share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 1% to $379.6 million from
$374.5 million.
   In the first half, earnings fell 7% to $95 million, or
$7.76 a share, from $102 million, or $7.94 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose to $720.5 million from $716.3 million.
   The company said results continue to reflect a weak
advertising climate. Revenue in the newspaper division fell
2% in the quarter and 1% in the half; advertising linage in
the flagship Washington Post fell 9% in the quarter and 8% in
the half.
   Revenue for Newsweek was up 6% in the quarter, with one
additional magazine issue published in the period. First-half
revenue was essentially flat, also with an additional issue
compared with last year's number.
   Broadcast division revenue fell 4% in the quarter and 6%
in the half. But cable division revenue rose 11% in both
periods. And revenue for its Stanley H. Kaplan Educational
Center and Legi-Slate businesses rose 13% in the quarter and
15.5% in the half.
   The per-share profit declines were smaller than the
overall dollar amounts, reflecting fewer shares outstanding.
   In Chicago, Tribune Co., still hampered by losses at its
New York Daily News operation and declining profits from its
newsprint-manufacturing interests, said second-quarter net
fell to $56.1 million, or 78 cents a share, from $75.3
million, or 98 cents a share, a year earlier. The per-share
figures reflect a decrease in common shares to 66.4 million
from 73 million.
   Tribune said operating profit at its newspaper publishing
group fell 33% to $54.6 million from $81.7 million,
"primarily due to operating losses at the Daily News." The
company's big Chicago Tribune saw higher earnings, but its
"other daily newspapers were flat or down slightly" because
of soft retail and classified advertising. The company also
said the group's results were hurt by the write-down of a
minority investment in the Sunday Correspondent, a British
newspaper launched last fall. A spokeswoman declined to
provide the size of the write-down; the initial investment
was between $7 million and $10 million.
   Earnings at Tribune's broadcasting and entertainment
operation increased 22% to $49.4 million from $40.5 million.
The comparison with the year-earlier figures is skewed,
however, by a $10 million pretax charge taken by the company
to write down certain TV broadcast rights.
   Tribune's newsprint operation, being hurt by a softer
market and the effect of a stronger Canadian dollar, saw
operating profit plunge 83% to $3.1 million from $17.6
million.
   In Miami, Knight-Ridder said second-quarter net fell 65%
to $44.6 million from $126.8 million a year earlier -- a
period that included big one-time gains from the sale of a
newspaper and discontinued broadcast operations.
   The company said per-share profit fell to 88 cents from
$2.44, based on 50.8 million shares outstanding in the latest
quarter, compared with 51.9 million a year earlier. Revenue
rose 2% to $591.7 million from $578.7.
   Shorn of one-time gains in the 1989 second quarter, the
company said earnings from continuing operations rose 14%.
The year-ago per-share figures include a gain of 58 cents
from the sale of the Pasedena Star-News and a gain of $1.09
from the sale of discontinued TV operations.
   In the first half, net fell 52% to 70.4 million, or $1.37
a share, from $147.3 million, or $2.82 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose to $1.14 billion from $1.11 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Ray Scalice was named to the newly created
post of vice president, administration, for Buena Vista
Visual Effects, a division of Walt Disney Co.'s Walt Disney
Studios.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ryder System Inc.:
   Transport-Services Company
   Posts Flat 2nd-Period Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   R
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ryder System Inc. posted nearly flat earnings for its
second quarter, breaking a yearlong string of steep declines
in profit and signaling that the company might be poised for
a turnaround.
   Ryder reported second-quarter net income of $32.1 million,
or 39 cents a share, compared with $32.4 million, or 40 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue inched up to $1.31 billion
from $1.29 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   M. Anthony Burns, chief executive officer of the
Miami-based transportation-services concern, said Ryder
expects to show a solid profit in the third quarter, compared
with a net loss of $27.6 million, or 38 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period, including a $57 million after-tax
charge.
   The second-quarter results, analysts said, offered
evidence that a seven-point "profit improvement plan"
initiated by the company last year is starting to pay off.
   In line with its plan to slash costs, Ryder has sold eight
businesses in the past year and a half, Mr. Burns said.
Further divestitures are possible.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Investors' No. 1 Problem: Deciding Exactly When to Sell
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eighteen months ago, High Hopes Investment Club of
Fremont, Calif., bought PepsiCo Inc. shares. Now, with a 110%
paper profit, club members are trying to decide whether to
sell.
   "You don't want to bail out when it's still going up, but
you don't want to lose your profits if the market plunges
like it did in 1987," says club member Mary Lyn Pelican, a
sixth-grade teacher. "Selling is the trickiest part of all."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lots of investors are facing the same dilemma these days.
As the stock market moved higher and higher in recent weeks,
their anxiety about a sudden downturn grew stronger. And
Monday's plunge, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average sank
more than 100 points in the first hour of trading, proved
that their fears weren't just an idle concern.
   "We're in the late cycle of a narrow market, so people
should be vigilant on combing through their portfolios
regularly" to consider selling certain stocks, says Robert
Farrell, chief technical analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   Unfortunately, many investors find that it's a lot harder
to sell a stock than it is to buy one. "Most people have no
idea when they should sell," says Phillip J. Roth, chief
technical analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "It's the
biggest mistake that investors make."
   Brokerage houses give investors far more advice on when to
buy a stock than when to sell it. "Brokerage firms have a
built-in conflict," says Eugene Lerner, a finance professor
at Northwestern University. "They want to do underwritings
for companies, and it's hard to build good will if their
analyst is telling investors to dump the company's stock."
   Nonetheless, investment professionals have come up with
some tips on when to sell. They caution, however, that
investors have to apply any guidelines judiciously.
Otherwise, they risk selling too often and paying too much in
brokerage commissions and taxes. Any decision to sell also
depends on an investor's time horizon and goals.
   One big problem is that most investors don't have a
specific price objective, says Mr. Roth. "When you buy a
stock, you should decide at what price you will sell it," he
says. "If the stock hits that price, sell it unless you can
legitimately come up with a higher price target" for the same
risk.
   Brad Perry, chairman of David L. Babson &amp; Co., a
Cambridge, Mass., investment firm, says it's time to sell
when a stock appears substantially overvalued by fundamental
historical measures. For example, assume that a stock's
price/earnings ratio (share price divided by per-share
profit) has usually been 20% above the price/earnings ratio
of the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stocks. If it's now 40% above,
"you have to conclude that it's overpriced," says Mr. Perry.
Unless the company's business prospects or its industry's
outlook have vastly improved -- which is rarely the case --
it may be time to sell, he says.
   By Mr. Perry's standards, PepsiCo is a candidate for
selling. During the past 10 years, the stock has traded at an
average 10% premium to the price/earnings ratio of the S&amp;P
500, he says, while today it trades at a 33% premium.
   But a long-term investor might reach a different
conclusion. "PepsiCo is a reliable, stable growth stock that
is overbought on an immediate-term basis, but there is no
reason to disturb an investment position," says Dean Witter's
Mr. Roth. "This is the kind of stock investment clubs should
hold for the long term."
   Just yesterday, PepsiCo reported second-quarter earnings
that showed a 10% gain from the year earlier.
   Academic research by Northwestern's Prof. Lerner published
in 1987 concluded that investors could boost their long-term
stock performance by selling a stock when the company's
earnings for any 12-month period declined from the previous
12 months. His computer simulation focused on certain stocks
in the S&amp;P 500 from 1973 to 1985 and included the effect of
commissions.
   Prof. Lerner says, however, that his three-year-old rule
may not work as well in the current market. There is so much
emphasis and publicity on "negative" earnings surprises for a
quarter, that waiting for a 12-month actual earnings downturn
may be too late, he says. "Many stocks react so violently
these days."
   Merrill Lynch's Mr. Farrell says his rule of thumb is to
sell when there are two disappointing earnings surprises in a
row. "You sell when the stock no longer responds to good
news. You watch a stock over a three to four-month period and
then make your decision."
   Some say to move even faster. Claudia Mott, quantitative
analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., uses the first
quarterly "earnings disappointment" as the trigger to sell
the over-the-counter growth stocks she follows. This doesn't
mean a declining earnings report -- only a quarter that
doesn't live up to analysts' expectations.
   But others use a more cautious approach. Many investment
pros disagree with the quarterly earnings surprise strategy.
"The greatest source of poor moves has been selling stocks
after a disappointing earnings performance and later seeing
the companies get back on track, causing a large rebound in
stock prices," says Mr. Perry. "We have to keep reminding
ourselves that hitherto successful firms usually do resolve
their difficulties."
   Jim Collins, president of Insight Capital Research &amp;
Management Co., Moraga, Calif., uses a decline in relative
strength as his "early warning signal." Relative strength is
the comparison of a stock's price performance with that of
all other stocks in the market. "It measures investor
enthusiasm, and if this number breaks down, it's often a
forecast of future earnings problems," he says. Individual
investors can chart relative strength by charting the price
of their stocks and comparing them with the price of the
market.
   The decision to sell isn't easy no matter which guideline
you follow. "Selling a stock is an ego thing," says Mr.
Collins. "If the stock has gone down, you have to admit you
made a mistake. For most people, this is the most difficult
thing to do."
   So most investors end up holding on to their losers "to
get even," says Mr. Farrell. And they sell their winners
quickly to make a small profit, ending up with "a portfolio
of dogs."
   In contrast top investors take a lot of small losses and
let their winners run. "Most successful investors have more
losing trades than winning trades but they keep their losses
small," Mr. Roth says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alberta Government Telephones:
   Telephone Utility to Sell
   50% of Novatel to Bosch
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA G.BOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alberta Government Telephones, Edmonton, said it agreed to
sell 50% of its Novatel Communications Ltd. unit, a maker of
cellular telephones, to Robert Bosch G.m.b.H. of West
Germany, an international manufacturing concern.
   Terms weren't disclosed, though the price was said to be
about 150 million Canadian dollars (US$129.8 million). An
Alberta Government Telephones spokesman wouldn't confirm this
estimate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Calgary, Alberta-based Novatel, which has about 1,200
employees in plants in Alberta, is expected to generate
revenue this year of about C$400 million, the spokesman said,
up from C$300 million last year.
   Alberta Government Telephones is owned by the province of
Alberta, which is preparing to take the big telephone utility
public later this summer. The spokesman said the partnership
with Bosch would expand Novatel's opportunities globally.
   The proposed sale is subject to various regulatory
approvals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Computer Associates:
   Company Reports 66% Drop
   In First-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Computer Associates International Inc. said earnings for
its first quarter ended June 30 plummeted 66% on a 16%
decline in revenue.
   The results were roughly in line with expectations,
revised July 12 when the Garden City, N.Y., software concern
said that revenue would fall significantly and that earnings
would probably decline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Computer Associates shares closed at $9.125, up 50
cents, but still 45% lower than their July 11 closing price
of $16.50.
   When Computer Associates announced its expected revenue
decline, Wall Street analysts said they weren't convinced by
the firm's main explanation -- that the sales force spent too
much time explaining a new software strategy called CA '90s
and not enough time selling software.
   But Anthony Wang, president, reiterated that explanation,
calling the decline "a near-term disappointment."
   Net income fell to $3.6 million, or two cents a share,
from $10.7 million, or six cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue fell to $255.1 million from $303.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CalMat Co.:
   Company Posts Lower Net
   For Quarter and 1st Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CZM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CalMat Co. reported lower second-quarter and first-half
earnings and said it expects 1990 earnings to be lower than
last year's $78.1 million, or $2.52 a share.
   The Los Angeles-based producer of construction materials
cited a decline in construction activity in many of its
market areas and a significant reduction for cement and
ready-mixed concrete in Southern California.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the quarter, net income fell 31% to $11.8 million, or
40 cents a share, from $17.1 million, or 55 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue declined 8% to $162.4 million from
$176.6 million. First-half net decreased 27% to $22.2
million, or 74 cents a share, from $30.3 million, or 98 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue slipped 5.6% to $310.6
million from $329.2 million.
   CalMat also declared a one-time dividend of 10 cents a
share payable Sept. 6 to stock of record on Aug. 10. It said
it declared the payout to fulfill a commitment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines
   Says It Expects
   To Be Indicted
   ---
   Plea-Bargaining Talks End
   Over Charges Employees
   Faked Maintenance Data
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines said it expects, as early as today, to be
indicted by a federal grand jury on charges that some
employees falsified aircraft maintenance records at New York
area airports a few years ago.
   The announcement in New York by Martin R. Shugrue Jr.,
Eastern's court-appointed trustee, is a clear attempt by the
carrier to limit any possible damage with prospective Eastern
fliers. The carrier's announcement evidently was aimed at
rebutting the government's arguments before the U.S. could
make them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is unclear, however, whether the indictment, which has
seemed probable for months, will have much impact on
Eastern's current struggle to attract more passengers.
Industry officials say many fliers choose carriers more on
the basis of ticket prices than on safety concerns.
   Mr. Shugrue said weeks of negotiations over a plea bargain
on the charges had collapsed. He said Eastern had been
willing to plead guilty to charges that several years ago,
some employees engaged in "pencil whipping," or signing off
on work that wasn't actually performed, at Eastern's
maintenance bases at John F. Kennedy International Airport
and La Guardia Airport.
   The company balked when federal prosecutors insisted on
including in the pending indictment one count of conspiracy,
a charge Mr. Shugrue said would call into question Eastern's
current maintenance practices.
   "We cannot, and will not, plead guilty to that," said Mr.
Shugrue. "A conspiracy finding such as the U.S. attorney is
seeking would cause us to admit to systemic problems with
maintenance that I don't believe exist." The JFK maintenance
base has since been closed, and several supervisors were
disciplined.
   Mary Jo White, the assistant U.S. attorney in charge of
the investigation, declined to comment.
   The inquiry centers on practices at the two airports
before the March 1989 machinists strike. According to
allegations first made by the International Association of
Machinists, some maintenance foremen, general foremen and
managers signed worksheets certifying that certain tasks had
been completed when, the machinists claimed, the work wasn't
done at all. Maintenance records are filed with the Federal
Aviation Administration and are considered federal records.
   Last September, Eastern agreed to a $1.9 million
settlement with the FAA that included charges that Eastern
failed to comply with requirements for making, retaining and
monitoring records at Kennedy Airport. Earlier, the FAA
determined that Eastern didn't routinely falsify records,
although the agency found "minor problems" with the airline's
records.
   Leonard Garment, an attorney for the bankruptcy judge in
the Eastern case, said plea-bargain talks broke down after
prosecutors put forward a proposed "bill of information" that
included accusations against management officials. "It
reached a point where Mr. Shugrue said, `this far and no
farther,' " Mr. Garment said.
   In two meetings he attended with representatives of the
U.S. Attorney's Office in New York, Mr. Garment said, he and
others present were told that Eastern had been targeted
because prosecutors believed the case could serve as an
example to the airline industry.
   Yesterday, Mr. Shugrue reiterated that the faulty
maintenance practices occurred some time ago when Eastern was
under different management. Mr. Shugrue took control in April
after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland ousted the
parent, the former Texas Air Corp., from day-to-day
management of the airline. Texas Air has since changed its
name to Continental Airlines Holdings Inc.
   "Eastern has many problems, {but} flying a safe airline
isn't one of them," Mr. Shugrue said. He called the
maintenance offenses "historical events" that have been
addresssed by the company and the FAA and that "bear no
resemblance and {have} no impact on Eastern today." Sixteen
months ago, Eastern sought bankruptcy court protection from
creditors after being practically grounded by labor strife.
   Mr. Shugrue said Eastern has terminated or reassigned
employees involved in "wrongdoing" and has closed the JFK
base. He added that in 1988, Eastern underwent two vigorous
inspections overseen by the FAA and the Department of
Defense. "If we weren't in compliance today, this company
wouldn't be flying," he said. Mr. Shugrue said that he hasn't
seen the list of those to be indicted but said any current
employees would be relieved of their duties pending
resolution of any charges. He didn't elaborate.
   ---
   Suein L. Hwang contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Turbo Resources Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TBR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TURBO RESOURCES Ltd., a petroleum refining and marketing
concern based in Calgary, Alberta, said it proposed a
1-for-10 consolidation of its common shares, subject to
regulatory and shareholder approvals. A special shareholders
meeting will be held in Calgary, at a date that has yet to be
specified, to vote on the proposal, Turbo said. The number of
shares outstanding wasn't immediately available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allied-Signal Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Profit Fell
   By 27% at Technology Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allied-Signal Inc. said second-quarter earnings fell 27%,
primarily because of losses in its Brazilian automotive
operations and a one-time gain a year earlier.
   The Morristown, N.J., advanced technology company, with
aerospace, automotive-product and engineered-material
businesses, reported earnings fell to $121 million, or 88
cents a share, from $166 million, or $1.11 a share, a year
earlier. The year-earlier results included a gain of $23
million, or 16 cents a share, from an insurance settlement
for Union Texas Petroleum Holdings, of which Allied-Signal
owns 40%. Sales were about flat at $3.2 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said automotive operations were "hit hard" by
a two-month production interruption in Brazil, caused by the
government's anti-inflation measures. It also cited continued
weakness in the U.S. car and truck market for after-market
products.
   In the first half, net fell 14% to $250 million, or $1.78
a share, from $292 million, or $1.96 a share. Sales rose to
$6.2 billion from $6.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Heritage Entertainment Inc.:
   Movie, TV Production Firm
   Projects `Significant Losses'
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HHH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Heritage Entertainment Inc. said it expects to post
"significant losses" for the fiscal year ended March 31,
although it didn't quantify them.
   Heritage also said it has received a proposal from an
entity it didn't identify to provide "substantial equity
capital" primarily to expand Heritage's theater chain.
Heritage didn't disclose the size of the potential
investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it is also talking with several other
parties regarding possible debt or equity financing, "and is
exploring other alternatives" through an independent
committee of its board.
   The Los Angeles movie and television production company
said its losses relate primarily to the re-evaluation of
certain unamortized film costs and an increase in its expense
to cover bad debt.
   In fiscal 1989, Heritage had a net loss of $5.3 million,
or 99 cents a share, on revenue of $6 million. The company
said results for fiscal 1990 won't be completely comparable
because it didn't acquire the Landmark and Seven Gables
theater chains until last June. For the first nine months of
fiscal 1990, the company had a net loss of $1.2 million, or
17 cents a share, on revenue of $18.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Honeywell Inc.:
   Defense and Marine Systems
   Spinoff Is Closer for Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   HON
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Honeywell Inc., inching closer to a spinoff of its defense
and marine systems business, said holders would receive one
share of the new company for every four shares of Honeywell
common owned.
   The Minneapolis-based electronic controls and components
concern said that while directors aren't expected to formally
approve the spinoff until late this quarter, the proposed
company would be called Alliant Techsystems Inc. And it would
seek a listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Honeywell also announced a senior management slate for
Alliant Techsystems, led by Toby G. Warson, formerly chief
executive officer of Honeywell's U.K. unit. Last year, the
defense and marine systems business reported sales of $1.1
billion.
   Honeywell said it still is awaiting a ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service that a spinoff would be tax-free to
its holders.
   Spinning off its weapons business, at a time of
anticipated decline in government military spending, is part
of a Honeywell strategy to increase shareholder value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan Stanley
   Stock Plunges
   On Profit News
   ---
   Firm Posts Decline of 48%
   In 2nd-Quarter Earnings;
   Salomon's Net Falls 53%
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MS SB PIPR ABSB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc. stock was hammered
as the big securities firm posted a 48% drop in
second-quarter earnings, its weakest quarter in nearly two
years.
   Salomon Inc. reported second-quarter profit that was
halved from record yearearlier results. Two regional brokers
posted mixed results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morgan Stanley, dragged down by a 27% drop in investment
banking revenue, reported net income of $58 million, or $1.44
a share, down from $112.1 million, or $2.83 a share, a year
earlier. The year-earlier results were bolstered by a
one-time merchant banking gain.
   With some analysts expecting Morgan Stanley to earn as
much as $2 a share, the firm's stock was pummeled, falling
$6, or 8.3%, to $66.50 in heavy New York Stock Exchange
trading. The drop highlights how Wall Street recently has
punished companies -- even its own -- for earnings
disappointments, analysts said.
   "It's a sign of the times," said James Hanbury, an analyst
at Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. Wall Street was thrown, he said,
because until now, Morgan Stanley "had always delivered the
goods."
   Revenue at Morgan Stanley fell 5% in the second quarter to
$1.45 billion from $1.52 billion. Trading revenue -- a big
earnings driver in the first quarter -- fell 11% to $201.6
million from $226.5 million. Asset management revenue and
stock commissions rose modestly.
   In a statement, Morgan Stanley officials said operating
performance "was affected by the continuing decline in
overall volume of investment banking business" and attributed
the trading drop largely to "decreased volatility in the
foreign exchange market." Much of the firm's first-quarter
trading gains stemmed from international stock markets.
   The last time Morgan Stanley earned less was 1988's third
quarter, when its net was $52.5 million.
   For the six months, Morgan Stanley earned $140.2 million,
or $3.51 a share, down from $193.3 million, or $4.86 a share,
a year earlier. Six-month revenue rose 3.2% to $2.84 billion
from $2.75 billion.
   Salomon earned twice as much as Morgan Stanley in the
second quarter, although it fell far short of its record
earnings in the 1989 second quarter. Salomon's net in the
most recent quarter slumped 53% to $120 million, or 89 cents
a share, from $253 million, or $1.89 a share. Revenue fell
10% to $2.1 billion from $2.33 billion.
   Earnings at Salomon's securities unit, Salomon Brothers
Inc., were bolstered by trading gains and an improvement in
investment banking revenue, particularly from stock
underwriting and advisory fees from a handful of merger
deals. The securities unit earned $211 million before taxes
in the quarter, compared with record pretax profit of $364
million a year earlier.
   Salomon Inc.'s Phibro Energy unit rebounded a bit,
reflecting stronger refinery margins. Phibro earned $49
million before taxes in the second quarter, a 47% drop from
$92 million a year earlier but far above $4 million in this
year's first quarter.
   Salomon's Philipp Brothers commodity unit continued to
perform poorly; analysts say the unit soon will be sharply
cut back. Philipp reported a $62 million pretax loss for the
second quarter, far wider than the $3 million pretax loss a
year earlier. Salomon said "adverse trading results" in
agricultural commodities hammered the unit's performance. In
past quarters, the villain was nonferrous metals trading.
   As a result, Salomon has told analysts it will drastically
cut back its commodity inventory and will restructure the
unit, resulting in significant layoffs. "If it doesn't
completely disband, lots of heads will be rolling," said one
analyst who was briefed by the firm. Salomon declined to
comment.
   For the six months, Salomon reported net of $239 million,
up 6% from $225 million in the year-earlier period. Revenue
jumped 15% to $4.45 billion from $3.87 billion. Salomon
shares closed unchanged at $24.50 in Big Board composite
trading.
   Two smaller regional firms posted mixed results.
   Alex. Brown Inc., Baltimore, reported a 6.7% increase in
second-quarter net to $4.5 million, or 29 cents a share, from
$4.3 million, or 26 cents a share. Earnings at Piper Jaffray
Inc., Minneapolis, fell 8.6% in the second quarter to $3.1
million, or 74 cents a share, from $3.35 million, or 83 cents
a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Expats, Leftists, Skateboard Symbolism
   ----
   By Bruce Bawer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Paul Micou is American, but the antecedents of his very
entertaining first novel, "The Music Programme" (Birch Lane,
240 pages, $16.95), are exclusively English. If his
understated satiric manner recalls the Evelyn Waugh of
"Decline and Fall" and "Black Mischief," and if his dramatis
personae remind one of the academics in David Lodge's novels,
his tale of privileged white folks stationed in a Third World
backwater -- where they drink too much, work too little and
live and love with exceptional superficiality -- brings to
mind Noel Coward's witty (though little read) novel "Pomp and
Circumstance."
   The "programme" of Mr. Micou's title is an international
organization headquartered at a wilderness compound in the
sweltering, strife-ridden African nation of Timbali. Its
putative mission is to unite the world through music, but its
real purpose is to perpetuate its own existence -- and, of
course, the high-paying jobs of its mostly indolent
employees. Among these are Dan O'Connor, a randy young
speechwriter, and Dr. Humphrey Lord, a Bach devotee who's at
work on a book proving that his hero was an atheist. ("He
found the going really rather tough," Mr. Micou writes, "but
he was dogged.")
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then there's Ludvik Kastostis, the egomaniacal Czech
composer-in-residence who dismisses Mozart and Beethoven as
"nincompoops" and writes "music with an agenda" -- loud,
painfully dissonant avant-garde symphonies that call for
amateur pianists and animal noises.
   Kastostis and his colleagues lead a cushy life until a
determined young U.S. congressional aide, Charles "Crack"
McCray, comes to Timbali seeking evidence that the program's
American subsidy is being wasted. The evidence presents
itself immediately -- at Timbali's airport bar, in fact,
where a bibulous program employee, unaware of McCray's
mission, brags that he never goes into the office yet gets
promoted frequently anyhow.
   Mr. Micou, who has worked in Africa for a U.N. agency,
writes with an unfailing comic sense about the hypocrisies of
cultural bureaucracy and about the inconveniences and
corruptions of Third World life. He has a smart, brisk style
and does a first-rate job of introducing the characters and
milieu, so one is a bit disappointed by the way the plot
works itself out: One expects it to be cleverer, more neatly
orchestrated. Yet the book often is hilarious, and never less
than engaging.
   ---
   The same can't be said for Bob Katz's debut novel, "Hot
Air" (Birch Lane, 220 pages, $17.95). Danny Frank, the
"mildly progressive" proprietor of an ailing Washington,
D.C., speakers' bureau, tries to resuscitate the firm by
acquiring as a client a popular Latin American revolutionary
leader named Zapatu and taking him on a lecture tour of
American colleges.
   It's a promising satiric premise. But Mr. Katz makes only
mild, halfhearted stabs at satirizing Danny's
"progressivism," Zapatu's Marxism and the American academy's
fondness for south-of-the-border radicals. The fact is, Mr.
Katz finds all these things admirable; when Danny holds up
Zapatu as a moral exemplar and rants about "the religion of
capitalism" Mr. Katz apparently agrees with him.
   Where, then, is the humor in "Hot Air"? Well, Mr. Katz
tries to amuse us by disguising dreary leftist cliches about
the U.S. and capitalism as jokes. He doesn't do this very
successfully, since he's the sort who thinks the mere mention
of Gerald Ford's name is good for a laugh. Yet there are some
chuckles here, as when a Zapatu follower offers a bad-movie
eulogy of his leader: "When it is time for action, Zapatu is
the lion. When it is time for planning, Zapatu is the owl."
   ---
   Lewis Shiner's third novel, "Slam" (Doubleday, 233 pages,
$18.95), may be the first book to employ skateboarding as its
dominant symbol. Set in Texas, it's the story of Dave, who
has "never lived anywhere where people's cars started on the
first try." He's bitter about the six-month jail term he's
just served for tax evasion, but things seem to be looking
up: He's landed a job as caretaker of a recently deceased old
woman's manse and of the 23 cats to which she left her
fortune.
   Yet his orderly new life is soon disrupted by a host of
wackos, among them a sex-happy fundamentalist, an unruly
former cellmate and a local "UFO pastor." Dave soon realizes
that the house is just another prison and that the closest
he's come to real freedom is seeing a young skateboarder
momentarily suspended in midair. (The word "slam" is both a
synonym for jail and the term for what happens when
skateboarders wipe out.)
   Mr. Shiner means to do more than tell a story. Among much
else, he wants to illuminate the nature of individual
responsibility and the relation between the laws (civil,
social and natural) that we live by and the soul's need for
transcendence.
   "Slam," alas, is too slight a vehicle for so heavy a
thematic cargo. Yet Mr. Shiner's prose is very fine -- fast,
sharp, vivid, unsentimental -- and "Slam" has its funny and
touching moments.
   ---
   Mr. Bawer is a literary critic living in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Mixed as Profit-Taking Helps
   Stabilize U.S. Currency; Pound Declines
   ----
   By Charles Tenny
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Profit-taking helped the dollar stabilize
yesterday after the slide it suffered on a 56.44-point drop
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average the preceding day.
   As the industrial average rebounded to post a 17.82 point
gain, the U.S. currency finished mixed. Dollar trading was
eclipsed by activity in the pound, which dropped unexpectedly
against all major currencies, especially the mark.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.6215 marks, down slightly from 1.6220 marks late Monday in
New York. The U.S. currency was also changing hands at 148.78
yen, up from 148.20 yen in New York late Monday. Sterling was
trading at $1.8133, down from $1.8255 late Monday.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was trading at 148.95 yen
soon after the opening; it closed at 148.70 yen in Tokyo
Tuesday. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about
1.6258 marks, up from Tokyo's Tuesday close of 1.6260 marks.
   The pound's fall, which began shortly after noon in New
York, only minutes after the end of the trading day in
London, dominated traders' attention on a suddenly busy
afternoon.
   "The primary activity has been in cross-rate trading,"
said Richard Witten, vice president and foreign exchange
trader at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. in New York. He said the
market in particular focused on the pound and mark.
   Dealers have watched the pound hover mostly between 2.96
marks and 2.99 marks for several weeks, believing that the
British government wants to drive the currency to the
three-mark level before entering it into the fixed exchange
rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   The pound fell decisively out of that range yesterday,
slipping well below 2.93 marks before finding support at
2.9275 marks. Late in the U.S. day, sterling had recovered
somewhat to 2.9403 marks.
   The suddenness of the pound's decline surprised traders
because no special news had reached the markets after
sterling's close in London at 2.9541 marks. It had finished
in New York Monday at 2.9610 marks.
   "Fundamentally, there are no real reasons why the pound
should fall," said David Jaques, senior corporate trader at
Barclays Bank in New York. But he and others noted that the
pound has been attractive only for the high U.K. interest
rates that the government has used against inflation.
Overall, the country is besieged by high inflation and
unemployment and by low productivity, he said.
   "A decline like this overall isn't something that should
be a surprise" in light of the economy's troubles, said Mr.
Jaques. "But the actual timing of this move didn't have any
explanation."
   Goldman's Mr. Witten noted that the pound's easing against
the mark actually began last week, as dealers were drawn
toward the German currency on fears of a drop in interest
rates in the U.S.
   Yesterday, when the pound began to slide in New York,
trading volume became "quite, quite heavy," noted Ty Tan, a
dealer with Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank in New York.
   The dollar ended European dealings weaker against major
currencies. One dealer said the Federal Reserve might be
tempted to lower interest rates in the wake of Monday's sharp
drop in the U.S. stock market.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $367.90 an ounce, down $1.20. Estimated
volume was a moderate four million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold opened for trading at $366.45
an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Releases
   Study Involving
   Purchasing Arm
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nynex Corp. released a study it contends shows no
correlation between its purchases and attendance by certain
suppliers at annual "perverts conventions" organized by a
Nynex purchasing executive.
   The study showed that from 1985 to 1988, companies
represented at the weeklong Florida gatherings experienced a
compounded annual growth rate in sales to Nynex of 11.3%,
compared with 9.9% for other Nynex suppliers, excluding
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nynex's New York Telephone unit commissioned the study as
part of its $1.4 billion rate-increase request in New York
state. The company submitted the study to state regulators
yesterday. It hired Miles O. Bidwell of National Economic
Research Associates in White Plains, N.Y., to critique
evidence presented by Scott Rafferty, a former executive at a
small Nynex software unit. Mr. Rafferty, who has intervened
in the rate case, found a 67% compounded annual growth rate
in sales to Nynex for convention attendees compared with
about 3.5% for Nynex suppliers overall.
   Mr. Bidwell faulted Mr. Rafferty's analysis for "improper
calculation and improper data selection." He criticized Mr.
Rafferty's exclusion of companies that did no business with
Nynex's purchasing arm, Materiel Enterprises Co., and Mr.
Rafferty's decision to start tracking a supplier's sales
growth to Nynex beginning with the year the supplier began
attending the Florida gatherings. In calculating the growth
rate for companies that weren't represented at the
conventions, Mr. Bidwell excluded AT&amp;T, a leading supplier
whose sales to all of the Bell companies was declining
following the 1984 breakup of the Bell system.
   Nynex has refused to release any of the underlying
statistics or names of companies whose employees attended the
conventions. The company has claimed that much of the
testimony in the rate case is a trade secret, citing the need
for confidentiality in its business deals and relationships.
   Mr. Rafferty said Mr. Bidwell "complicates a simple issue
and doesn't show his work." By including companies that did
no business with Nynex but whose owners or employees were
personal friends of convention organizers, Mr. Bidwell
"dilutes the statistics," Mr. Rafferty said. The New York
Attorney General's office supported Mr. Rafferty's
conclusions. "I haven't seen anything so far that makes me
change my mind as to the Rafferty analysis," said Charlie
Donaldson, a lawyer in the attorney general's office.
   The parties, nicknamed the "perverts conventions," were
organized by a vice president of the regional phone company's
purchasing unit who was fired in 1988. One other Materiel
Enterprises employee was fired and seven others were
disciplined because of their participation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Howard Savings Taps
   First Fidelity's Tuggle
   As Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HWRD WNEWS FFB
</CO>
<LP>
   LIVINGSTON, N.J. -- Howard Savings Bank named William P.
Tuggle III chairman and chief executive officer, succeeding
Donald F. McCormick, who resigned in January after the bank
posted a wider-than-expected fourth-period loss of $85.3
million, or $5.94 a share.
   The 57-year-old Mr. Tuggle currently is president and
chief executive officer of First Fidelity Bank of New Jersey
and senior executive vice president and a director of its
parent, First Fidelity Bancorp., Lawrenceville, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leo J. Rogers Jr., 54, who continues as Howard's
president, had acted as chief executive while the bank sought
a new top officer.
   Anthony Terracciano, 51-year-old chairman and chief
executive at First Fidelity Bancorp., will assume Mr.
Tuggle's responsibilities on an interim basis. "Bill will be
missed at First Fidelity, but we wish him all good fortune
with the challenge that lies before him," Mr. Terracciano
said.
   Howard had $4.9 billion in assets at June 30. Like many
banks and thrifts, the bank's non-performing loans -- those
not paying interest for 90 days -- have grown as real-estate
markets have softened in the Northeast.
   Monday, Howard reported a second-quarter net loss of $15.7
million, or $1.09 a share, after adding $25 million to its
loan-loss reserves. Non-performing loans climbed 25% from
March 31 to $503 million at June 30.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Howard
shares fell 25 cents to $3.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senator Seeks Compromise
   On Shift of Duties to SEC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The head of the Senate Securities
subcommittee said he hopes a compromise can be reached on a
Bush administration-backed plan to shift some power from
commodity regulators to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   Sen. Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.) said that if discussions
on a compromise collapse, the legislation will become "a jump
ball on the {Senate} floor." The focus of the bill would move
regulation of stock-index futures from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission to the SEC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite support from the securities industry, the proposal
appears to be headed for defeat. Backers of the bill are
looking to other areas to find a compromise. The primary
target, Sen. Dodd confirmed, is oversight of futures margins,
which currently are set by the commodities exchanges and
can't be overruled by a regulator except in emergencies.
Senate aides said any compromise would create a provision for
federal oversight of margins, or good-faith money that must
be put up in order to trade.
   At a Senate Banking Committee hearing, the heads of the
futures exchanges urged Congress to keep marginsetting
authority at the exchanges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Rise 17.82 on Strength
   Of Oil Stocks; Many Issues Plunge
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Energy shares lifted the stock market, but
beyond the world of oil there was blood.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 17.82 higher at
2922.52. New York Stock Exchange volume was a hefty
181,920,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Exxon, Chevron, Texaco and USX were the stilts for the
industrial average, providing about 14 points of the overall
gain. Driving these and other energy-related stocks was the
price of oil; the September futures contract closed six cents
higher at $20.56 a barrel yesterday in reaction to signs of
renewed conflict in the Mideast.
   Energy issues also supported broad averages: Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.48 to 355.79.
   Earnings disappointments and dimmer third-quarter
projections again triggered heavy institutional selling in
favored, high-priced growth stocks such as Capital
Cities/ABC, which tumbled 55 1/2 to 533, a 9% decline.
   Capital Cities/ABC reported second-quarter net income of
$8.19 a share, about six cents shy of conservative estimates,
according to Dennis McAlpine, senior vice president at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co. Additionally, the broadcast concern said
third-quarter profit may be down from the year-before period,
a message heard from many other companies these days.
   "The sin of Capital Cities is the sin of anybody who says
something about down earnings," said Mr. McAlpine. "And you
don't have to say much these days."
   Even stocks favored by bargain hunters took their hits:
Dow Chemical fell 5 3/4 to 52 3/8 on 3.4 million shares after
reporting earnings and tempering analysts' estimates for the
second half of the year. Ingersoll-Rand tumbled 3 1/2 to 53
7/8; the company reported second-quarter earnings of $1.03 a
share, about six cents below expectations.
   "The bottom line is that investors will not tolerate
earnings disappointments," said Joseph DeMarco, managing
director in charge of equity trading at Marinvest. "The glue
of the market has been energy stocks -- they are in the only
industry that is reporting good earnings."
   Again, traders were astonished by the sell-offs because
few buyers seemed to step up after stocks were down as much
as 10%. Earnings disappointments lately haven't resulted in
mere corrections to fairer valuations, but in assassinations
of stocks where institutional buyers walk away and never come
back. Paul Hennessey, vice president of trading at Boston
Co., said he was contacting portfolio managers yesterday to
see whether they wanted to buy some stocks that had fallen
sharply.
   They didn't. "They fear it will be dead money; the past
indicates that the performance isn't there for months" after
a stock is taken down, he said.
   Despite the carnage, Stefan Abrams, chief investment
strategist at Kidder Peabody, said he thinks the growth-stock
rally is still in place. What will lead the market higher are
a group of consumer non-cyclical shares, such as Procter &amp;
Gamble and Coca-Cola Co. Mr. Abrams said investors soon will
begin looking at the value of these stocks compared with 1991
earnings estimates and prices will move up.
   He said these stocks will have sponsorship from mutual
funds that are experiencing a giant inflow of money from
investors now. "They will buy what's working," he said. "In
the consumer non-cyclical group, the rally is essentially
intact."
   Exxon rallied 2 1/8 to 50 in Big Board composite trading
of more than two million shares. Dean Witter boosted the
stock's investment rating to "buy" from "accumulate"; among
other things, analyst Eugene L. Nowak cited prospects for a
dividend increase in the next six to 12 months and a better
performance in U.S. refining and marketing operations.
   Texaco jumped 2 3/4 to 62 1/2. Although the company
reported that second-quarter earnings dropped 3.6% from a
year earlier, the latest results were better than analysts
had generally expected. Chevron went up 1 7/8 to 78 3/4; the
company reported that earnings climbed 60% in the second
quarter.
   USX, the parent of Marathon Oil and another of the 30
issues in the industrial average, gained 7/8 to 34 3/8. Mobil
rose 2 to 67, Amoco added 1 1/2 to 54 7/8, Royal Dutch
Petroleum advanced 2 1/8 to 81 5/8, British Petroleum gained
2 3/8 to 74 5/8, Unocal tacked on 7/8 to 31 and Phillips
Petroleum rose 5/8 to 28 3/4.
   Baker Hughes rose 7/8 to 29 7/8 on 1.7 million shares, and
other oil-services issues turned in even stronger showings.
   Schlumberger gained 1 3/8 to 64 7/8, Halliburton jumped 2
3/8 to 53 5/8, McDermott International rallied 2 1/8 to 31
3/4 and Helmerich &amp; Payne went up 1 to 32.
   Mesa Limited Partnership rose 1/8 to 4 1/8 in trading that
included a block of 2,270,000 units, which represented 2.9%
of the partnership's units outstanding. The block accounted
for most of the 2.6 million units to change hands.
   Student Loan Marketing Association fell 1 3/4 to 48 1/8 as
2.7 million shares changed hands, reflecting ongoing concern
about the financial difficulties facing Higher Education
Assistance Foundation, a major loan guarantor. Sallie Mae is
among the major creditors of the foundation, which broke off
merger discussions with another guarantor.
   The technology sector, which has stumbled amid several
earnings disappointments in recent sessions, extended its
downturn. International Business Machines fell 1 1/8 to 114
3/4, Compaq Computer eased 5/8 to 57 3/8, Digital Equipment
lost 2 3/8 to 75 1/2 and Motorola dropped 2 to 77 5/8; among
smaller issues, Silicon Graphics was unchanged at 32 1/2,
Stratus Computer lost 1 to 22 7/8, Network Equipment
Technologies went down 3/4 to 8 1/8 and Digital
Communications Associates dropped 1 1/8 to 23 1/4.
   TCBY Enterprises tumbled 1 3/4 to 13 1/2. The company
acknowledged telling analysts that sales for stores open at
least one year, which fell 10% for the three months ended in
May, remained weak in June, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report. Based on the same-store sales
trend, J.C. Bradford and Robinson-Humphrey both lowered
investment ratings on the stock and reduced earnings
estimates for fiscal 1990 and 1991.
   Wellman advanced 2 1/4 to 24 3/8. Prudential-Bache
Securities upgraded its investment rating on the stock to
"buy" from "hold," based on its recent decline in price.
   Milton Roy added 3 1/2 to 26 7/8 following news that
Sundstrand, which holds a 15% stake in the company, submitted
a $28-a-share takeover offer.
   Bank of New England gained 5/8 to 2 7/8 after rejecting
offers for its Maine National Bank unit. The company said it
had been unable to reach agreement with potential buyers of
the subsidiary on an acceptable price.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.59
to 355.51. Volume totaled 14,430,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial-Paper Rates
   Fall at Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 7.944% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.01% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $420 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.94% to 7.948%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate fell to 7.8495%
at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
7.9647% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.849% to 7.85%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM, Consortium to Build
   1,000 Natural Gas Trucks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM PCG SDO ATO ENE BR PET ALG ENS SUG
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- General Motors Corp. said it plans to build
a fleet of 1,000 low-polluting natural-gas-powered pickup
trucks next year in a joint effort with a consortium of 10
California, Texas and Colorado utilities.
   General Motors' GMC Truck division will produce the
natural gas trucks and sell them through selected GMC
dealers, with particular emphasis on fleet buyers in
California and Texas, a company spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consortium members plan to use the vehicles in their work
fleets. For example, San Francisco-based Pacific Gas &amp;
Electric Co. intends to buy 30 to 50 of the vehicles at an
expected cost of $15,000 each. PG&amp;E also will sell the gas
for the trucks for about 57 cents a "compressed therm" --
equivalent to about a gallon of gasoline -- at a pumping
station in Concord, Calif., and 13 others set to open this
year.
   PAS Inc. of Troy, Mich., will develop and install the fuel
system.
   The consortium is providing $935,000 to help cover the
costs of design and production of the vehicles.
   Other members of the energy consortium include: San Diego
Gas &amp; Electric Co., San Diego; Southern California Gas Co.,
Los Angeles; El Paso Natural Gas Co, El Paso; Energas Co.,
Midland, Texas; Enron Corp. and Entex, both of Houston; Lone
Star Gas Co., Dallas; Southern Union Gas Co., Austin, Texas,
and Natural Fuels Corp., Denver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arbitration Cases Soar
   In Franchising Industry
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FRANCHISING disputes are busting out all over these days.
   The American Arbitration Association says it was called in
to help with 401 such disputes last year, more than five
times the 73 cases in 1981.
   New York City accounted for nearly a fourth of the total,
with 98 cases filed last year. Los Angeles followed with 45
and Orange County, Calif., with 30.
   Robert Coulson, the group's president, attributes the rise
in the caseload to growth in franchising generally and
franchisers' increased use of contracts that require
out-of-court resolution of conflicts. He predicts the volume
will keep rising as the service economy grows and certain
types of franchises reach market saturation. These include
fast food, printing and auto repair.
   Disputes in the franchise industry typically involve such
issues as contract termination, unpaid fees and territorial
rights. Franchisers often prefer arbitration to open-court
airing of disputes, for privacy reasons.
   But arbitration has disadvantages for franchisees, says
San Francisco lawyer Patrick Carter. For instance, he notes
that franchising contracts often require arbitration hearings
to be held in the franchiser's hometown. That means, he says,
out-of-town franchisees may be hard pressed to afford the
trip to make a case.
                                                                                                       

   Entrepreneurs Benefit
   From U.S. Privatization
                                                                                                       

   ENTREPRENEURS have been big winners in the federal
government's privatization campaign.
   A recent study for the U.S. Small Business Administration
shows that 70%, or 552, of the federal contracts awarded in
privatizing efforts from 1985 to 1987 went to small
companies. However, they got just 42% of the $1.7 billion
dollar amount awarded.
   "Small businesses were very aggressive in bidding on these
contracts," says Raymond Marchakitus, an economist with the
SBA's Office of Advocacy. The study shows that small
businesses could, in fact, beat not only the federal
government's costs of doing the work itself but also bigger
companies' bids, he says. To win the contracts, companies
must be able to provide a product or service for at least 10%
less than what it would cost the government.
   The study, performed for the SBA by Research Dimensions
Inc., Alexandria, Va., also indicates that the government
saved at least $189.1 million by contracting to small firms
in the period.
   The SBA is studying how small business participates in
privatizing programs on state and local levels. The study
should be completed by the end of summer.
   One beneficiary of the federal campaign: E C Corp. of Oak
Ridge, Tenn., a supplier of repair, maintenance and other
services to the military, which achieves most of its annual
$17 million of sales through business the government started
contracting out. E C completed contracts for hospital upkeep
at Fort Stewart, Ga., and janitorial work at the Merchant
Marine Academy in New York.
   The chief drawback? Red tape. "The government has the
right ideas about cutting costs" through privatization, says
Michael Randolph, director of E C's services division. But
the bureaucracy makes it "so difficult" to do the work, he
adds. He says some contractors have become so frustrated that
they are shying away from government business.
                                                                                                       

   Small High-Tech Firms
   Hiring at a Rapid Pace
                                                                                                       

   EMPLOYMENT at small high-tech businesses is growing at a
much faster rate than among businesses generally.
   While national employment rose 1% in the past 12 months,
employment at small technology companies increased 6%, says
Corporate Technology Information Services Inc., a Woburn,
Mass., business-data publisher. The firm annually surveys
over 30,000 technology firms, including 18,000 with fewer
than 1,000 employees each. In the past 12 months, a total of
22,498 jobs were created at the high-tech firms surveyed, the
company said.
   Small makers of computers and computer systems increased
their work force by more than 7%, the survey says. Meanwhile,
employment at some of the country's biggest computer makers
continued to shrink, it says.
   "Smaller computer systems," made mostly by smaller firms,
"are growing at the expense of larger systems," says Richard
Shaffer, editor of Technologic Computer Letter.
   The most rapid growth among the technology companies came
from software makers. The 1,500 computer software companies
in the survey grew at over 10% and added more than 8,000
employees in the past 12 months.
   "Software is becoming increasingly important (for all
companies) -- from running businesses to designing products,"
says Lou Mazzucchelli, a co-founder of Cadre Technologies
Inc., a software concern with offices in Providence, R.I.,
and Beaverton, Ore. Cadre, whose revenue rose nearly 150% to
$50 million last year, increased its staff 30% to 230.
   Demand for new computers and other high-tech products will
continue to fuel rapid employment growth in high-tech firms,
Corporate Technology predicts.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   UNIVERSITIES aren't tapped for help by small firms as
often as by large businesses, says a recent University of
North Carolina study. One reason: Small companies simply
aren't as aware of ways a university can aid them in areas
such as research, production and computer systems. . . .
Seat-of-the-pants: About a third of 2,500 entrepreneurs
recently surveyed run their companies without a financial
plan, says Mid-Atlantic Cos., a New York financial
consultant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CPA Group Guides to Lack
   Consent of Financial Board
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- The American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants plans to start issuing guidelines on
financial accounting issues without Financial Accounting
Standards Board agreement.
   In the past, the AICPA, the field's major professional
organization, has advised the FASB whenever it chose to issue
guidelines on financial accounting and reporting standards.
Although the FASB didn't control the AICPA decisions, any
FASB objections offered were taken into account.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FASB is the accounting profession's chief rule-making
body, while the AICPA guidelines tend to focus on more
technical matters.
   Both groups aired their views at the FASB headquarters
here. Thomas P. Kelley, group vice president, professional,
for the AICPA, said its board's action gives it an explicit
ability to issue guidelines. "There is a feeling that we
should become more active in the accounting standards area,"
Mr. Kelley said. He said the AICPA wanted to speed up the
process, noting that the FASB sometimes has difficulty
reaching agreement.
   But some critics fear the policy change will prove
confusing to accountants. P. Norman Roy, president of the
Financial Executives Institute, said the change would be
"extremely divisive."
   The FASB plans to draft a response.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kellogg's Buckland
   Leaves European Post
   To Head British Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   K WNEWS U.UNI
</CO>
<LP>
   BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- Kellogg Co. said Ross Buckland
resigned as director of its European operations to head
another food concern.
   Mr. Buckland, 47 years old, was responsible for Kellogg's
lines in Europe, its largest overseas market with nearly $1
billion in sales, since 1985. He also was a corporate vice
president and chairman of Kellogg Co. of Great Britain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said he was leaving to become chairman and
chief executive officer of Unigate PLC of Britain, a milk,
meat and other food-products company. A successor at Kellogg
wasn't named.
   Kellogg also said Carlos M. Gutierrez, 36, was named
executive vice president, sales and marketing, at its U.S.
Food Products division, succeeding William H. Weintraub, who
was named vice president and assistant to the chairman. Mr.
Weintraub had held the marketing post since last September.
   Mr. Gutierrez, who also was named a corporate vice
president, will retain responsibility for product
development. He joined the company in 1975.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Fall as Fed Chairman's Promise
   To Fight Inflation Fails to Convince Investors
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE FNM C X.TMP MZ JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market ended lower again after
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan failed to convince
investors that the nation's central bank remains tough on
inflation.
   In part-two of his semiannual economic report to Congress,
Mr. Greenspan said the Fed has no intention of backing away
from its goal of zero inflation and that central bank
policies will eventually bring prices down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But his words weren't enough to inspire confidence in the
battered bond market, which turned overwhelmingly bearish on
July 13 when the Fed cut the federal funds rate by 1/4
percentage point to 8%. The rate is what banks charge each
other on overnight loans.
   "Barely a week after announcing an easing in the face of
bad inflation numbers, he's trying to convince us he's
shooting for zero inflation. You don't have to be cynical to
raise your eyebrows at that," said Robert Brusca, an
economist at Nikko Securities Co.
   In the view of Mr. Brusca and many other economists, the
Fed chairman never fully explained why the central bank cut
rates. But the markets interpreted the move -- rightly or
wrongly -- as a sign that the Fed is abandoning its fight
against inflation and instead wants to stimulate economic
growth. And nothing he said yesterday convinced analysts
otherwise.
   The Fed chairman, "got so much criticism last week for not
addressing inflation that he tried to make up for it this
time by making a special effort to say that the Fed is still
fighting inflation. But the bond market didn't care. They
expected him to say that," said Charles Lieberman, a managing
director at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Inc.
   Norman Robertson, chief economist at Mellon Bank Corp.,
said that investors' fears of inflation were heightened
somewhat yesterday after the Department of Labor reported
that its employment cost index, a broad measure of wage
inflation, rose 5.4% in the 12 months that ended in June.
   "The report shows that while inflation is not getting any
worse, it's not getting any better," said Mr. Robertson.
"It's really rather startling to realize that the inflation
rate has been stuck at {current levels} for the several
years," even while "we've had monetary restraint and sluggish
economic growth."
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended about 3/8
point lower, a loss of about $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, rose to 8.58%.
   Bond prices opened lower in the wake of selling by
investors in Tokyo and London. Traders attribute that selling
in part to concern that oil prices might soon rise due to
heightened tensions between Iraq and Kuwait, both members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   Those concerns were underscored by an article in the
Washington Post that said Iraq moved 30,000 troops to its
border with Kuwait and the U.S. ordered its warships in the
Persian Gulf on alert.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of Treasury securities ended lower again. The
benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a price of 101
21/32, down from 102 on Monday. The latest two-year notes
ended slightly lower at 100 14/32, down from 100 15/32 on
Monday. The yield on the two-year note ended at 8.10%, up
from 8.07% Monday.
   Treasury bill rates rose yesterday. The discount rate on
three-month bills ended at 7.58% to yield 7.81% while the
rate on six-month bills rose to 7.45% to yield 7.83%.
   Today, the Treasury will sell a record $11.25 billion
two-year notes. Most analysts expect the sale to proceed
smoothly. In when-issued trading yesterday, the yield on the
two-year notes was about 8.11%, up from 8.06% late Monday in
New York.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended off as much as 3/8
point in quiet trading.
   Among secondary issues for August delivery, 9.5%
securities issued by the Government National Mortgage
Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and the
Federal National Mortgage Association were all off 11/32.
   In the asset-backed market, a unit of Chrysler Corp.,
Chrysler Auto Receivables Co., sold $1 billion of securities
backed by retail installment contracts on new or used autos
and light trucks. The offering was priced by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets and was completely sold. A Merrill official
said the issue will begin trading today in the secondary
market.
   The offering was priced at 8.75% at 99 23/32 to yield
8.856%. Expected final maturity is July 15, 1993.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of Trump Taj Mahal Funding Inc. were
knocked sharply lower yesterday on speculation that the
Atlantic City casino's operator, Donald Trump, may be forced
to pay hefty legal claims related to the 1988 sale of Resorts
International to Merv Griffin.
   Resorts is currently restructuring under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code. As reported in this newspaper
Tuesday, a novel feature of Resorts' reorganization plan
provides for a trust to be established and funded to pursue
for the benefit of Resorts' creditors "all claims the debtors
and their affiliates may have against Donald Trump, Trump Taj
Mahal Associates L.P.," and other Trump affiliates.
   Trump Taj Mahal's 14% first mortgage bonds fell 2 1/4
points to 48 1/4 on the American Stock Exchange while Trump
Castle Funding Inc.'s 13.75% first mortgage bonds slipped 7/8
point to finish at 59 5/8.
   The junk bonds of R.H. Macy &amp; Co., which managed to
outperform the broader market Monday, weakened on
profit-taking. The retailer's 14.5% senior subordinated
debentures lost 1 1/2 points to end at 74 1/2 while Macy's
14.5% subordinated debentures fell 2 points to end at 63.
   In the broader junk bond market, most high-yield
speculative-grade securities stabilized after slipping Monday
in the face of a sell-off in the stock market.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues ended unchanged to 1/8 point lower.
   In the primary market, a total of 76 bids from 24
underwriting firms were placed for an issue of $1.1 billion
New York State general obligation tax anticipation notes sold
this session.
   All of the notes carry a 6.25% coupon and will be
reoffered to yield 5.90%. The notes are rated MIG-1 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and SP1-Plus by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp.
   Underwriters at several of the firms that purchased the
notes reported good institutional interest in the notes,
along with a smattering of retail buying.
   The institutional demand is attributed to the high ratings
and the size of the issue.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% of 2018 are off 1/8 point at 99 1/4 to
yield 7.25%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese government-bond market staged a modest
recovery yesterday, but dealers said that sentiment remains
fundamentally bearish.
   Dealers said the market initially was supported by the
Bank of Japan buying commercial paper at 7.41%, lower than
Monday's commercial paper rate of 7.44%.
   That was the second consecutive day that Japan's central
bank purchased commercial paper. The market didn't respond
favorably when the Bank of Japan purchased commercial paper
on Monday, but yesterday's purchase did support the market.
   Still, dealers say underlying sentiment remains bearish.
"Short-term rates are still high," said a dealer at a
Japanese securities firm. "Investors aren't buying in the yen
bond market."
   The overnight unsecured call money rates rose slightly
yesterday to 7.56% and rates on new three-month certificates
were unchanged at about 7.7%.
   Dealers said reports that Iraq moved several thousand
troops close to its border with Kuwait, escalating their
dispute over oil policy, caused Japanese bonds to fall
temporarily. But the market soon recovered.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
price of the benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was 85.86, up
0.11 point, to yield 7.445%. (Japanese bond yields are quoted
here in local terms and therefore differ from yields
calculated for these markets by U.S. investment firms, which
tend to use the semiannual compound measure to compare yields
across markets.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Airlines Scraps
   Plan to Levy Airport Fees
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- American Airlines backed down from
its plan to impose special surcharges on passengers flying
out of five U.S. airports.
   The AMR Corp. unit had announced earlier this month that
it would collect the special fees because of what it claimed
were higher costs -- such as landing and gate fees --
associated with those airports. The surcharges were to become
effective Aug. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The airports and the surcharges were: New Jersey's Newark,
$4; New Orleans International, $1.50; New York's La Guardia
and Florida's West Palm Beach and Fort Myers, $1. American
would have realized revenue of about $4 million as a result.
   American said it was unable to implement the surcharges
because of unspecified "competition." No other airline
matched American's fees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   European Firms Still Finding Resistance
   To Efforts to Enter West German Market
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- A few months ago, the strategic thinkers at
Credit Commercial de France had a bright idea.
   Why not swap one of their small, unneeded banking
subsidiaries for a West German bank's small subsidiary? Each
bank could gain a foothold in the other's country, in
preparation for the post-1992 lowering of European Community
internal trade barriers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CCF sent out feelers, but the answer came back loud and
clear: No West German banks were for sale, and certainly not
to foreigners.
   Over the years, many others have found West German
acquisitions difficult, if not impossible. Air Liquide S.A.,
for example, has acquired 25 U.S. companies in the past 20
years -- but just one across the Rhine River in West Germany.
   Lafarge Coppee S.A. and Societe des Ciments Francais, two
of the world's largest cement groups, also have grown through
steady acquisition abroad. Lafarge Coppee managed to acquire
a small West German cement plant in the 1970s, and it has
lately bought into some East German companies. But both
companies' interest in acquiring West German cement companies
in recent years has been rebuffed.
   France, West Germany's largest neighbor, may be the most
frustrated, but it isn't alone. British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher has warned that the difficulty of arranging
West German takeovers could hamper the creation of a truly
common European market.
   All countries set up some barriers against foreigners.
France is notorious for it, and even the U.S. Congress is now
talking of limiting foreign investment.
   Acquisitions by outsiders are possible in West Germany. In
fact, last year was a record one for foreign takeovers of
West German businesses, although this was in large part
because sales completed by the end of 1989 fell under a
favorable tax provision.
   But change in the West German takeover market is coming
slowly, and obstacles remain formidable. In Britain, whose
economy is 50% smaller than West Germany's, the total value
of acquisitions by outsiders last year was about four times
as great. This year, with the tax advantage gone, foreign
takeovers in West Germany are down.
   While most countries use government intervention to keep
foreigners out, West Germany -- like Japan -- also has an
extensive set of unwritten cultural and business practices.
Government barriers will fall with EC integration, but West
Germany's cultural barriers won't.
   "It is a closed country, very nationalistic, without a
takeover market," says Pierre Conso, chairman of Ciments
Francais. "The context isn't very favorable for development."
   West German bankers and officials, who pride themselves on
favoring free trade, generally reject accusations of
protectionism. "I think Germans have learned to open
themselves to cooperation and financial deals," says Hans
Dahm, who heads mergers and acquisitions activity at
Westdeutsche Landesbank. But he acknowledges that the German
system is hard for outsiders to understand.
   Only about 500 West German companies, for example, are
traded on stock exchanges, one-fourth as many as in Britain,
according to Deutsche Bank. And most of those are controlled
by families or institutions, including Deutsche Bank itself,
the country's largest bank. Deutsche Bank estimates that
friendly companies and banks alone hold 56% of all shares in
West Germany's listed companies and that family holders
account for still more. That concentration of control, along
with a variety of anti-takeover mechanisms, makes takeovers
in West Germany almost impossible, even for German raiders.
   "A few years ago, we reached a preliminary agreement to
buy a West German family-owned company," says one French
industrialist. "Then the family patriarch got a call from a
local competitor who said, `You can't let that company fall
into French hands.' The patriarch worried that he wouldn't be
able to hold his head up in town if he sold to us. He sold to
his competitor -- at the same price he had agreed with us.
They didn't even go through the cosmetic exercise of boosting
the price."
   Acquisition specialists say that West Germany isn't as
hard to penetrate as Japan. But as in Japan, companies in
West Germany tend to be viewed by both owners and local
authorities as a part of the community, with obligations that
go beyond making profits.
   "The German entrepreneur isn't just selling for money,"
says Mr. Dahm of Westdeutsche Landesbank. "He has a close
relationship with his company, with the community. We
regularly see American, Japanese and British companies being
frustrated because their targets won't sell out, even though
they are waving a large amount of money."
   Europeans who have managed to gain strong footholds in
West Germany sometimes see themselves as exceptions. "We have
been in Germany since 1865," says an official at the French
glassmaker Cie. de Saint-Gobain, which owns extensive West
German factories. "We have key Germans on our board,
including Deutsche Bank. Things are different for us."
   The close intertwining between big companies and their
banks also makes it hard for outsiders to get a foot in the
door. Bankers often are asked to sit on their customers'
supervisory boards, which gives them both special influence
and advance notice of company plans. Foreigners simply don't
benefit from that.
   Some companies hope to enter the West German market by the
back door, by setting up joint ventures in East Germany and
expanding west after unification. But so far, non-German
companies are well behind their West German rivals in East
Germany as well. In June, statistics indicated that of the
1,900 joint ventures created in East Germany since the end of
January, 95% had been set up by West German concerns.
   The EC already has told West Germany that it must open its
businesses -- notably banking and insurance -- to broader
competition. More recently, EC Competition Commissioner Sir
Leon Brittan has warned that mergers of East and West German
companies arranged behind the backs of non-German companies
will be subject to rejection by EC authorities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Houston's Judge Jones Was
   A Top High Court Prospect
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Before picking Judge David Souter of New Hampshire to fill
a vacant seat on the Supreme Court, President Bush
interviewed another candidate, administration officials said.
   The president's other top candidate was federal appeals
court Judge Edith Jones of Houston, the officials said. They
said Mr. Bush summoned both Judge Jones and Judge Souter to
Washington and talked to each in the White House Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   About 4:15 p.m., two hours after completing the
interviews, Mr. Bush called Judge Souter into the private
presidential study and told him he had been chosen. Mr. Bush
then announced the decision at a 5 p.m. press conference.
   Other top contenders, the officials said, were federal
appeals court Judge Laurence Silberman of Washington and
Solicitor General Kenneth Starr. The disclosure of the other
candidates may be significant, because it could give clues
about Mr. Bush's preferences if another seat opens on the
Supreme Court.
   Separately, the White House said that it has enlisted
Kenneth Duberstein, who was former President Reagan's chief
of staff, to devise a strategy for shepherding the Souter
nomination through the Senate confirmation process. Mr.
Duberstein, who also is a former White House legislative
liaison, has extensive contacts with Republicans and
Democrats on Capitol Hill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Arco Shifts Managers,
   Taps Environmentalist
   For Added Board Seat
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Atlantic Richfield Co. made several
management changes and elected a new director of the oil, gas
and mineral concern.
   Named senior vice presidents were Harrell E. Bilhartz Jr.,
E. Kent Damon Jr., Anthony G. Fernandes and William C.
Rusnack.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bilhartz, previously president of Arco Coal Co.,
became president of Arco Alaska Inc., succeeding William E.
Wade Jr., a senior vice president, who became president of
Arco Oil &amp; Gas Co. Mr. Wade succeeded James A. Middleton, who
became head of West Coast petroleum operations.
   Mr. Damon, previously vice president and investment
officer, became senior vice president, planning and control.
   Mr. Fernandes, previously vice president and controller,
succeeded Mr. Bilhartz as president of Arco Coal.
   Mr. Rusnack, previously vice president, corporate
planning, became president of Arco Transportation Co.,
succeeding Harold C. Heinze, who resigned to pursue other
interests, Arco said.
   Also, Steven J. Shapiro, assistant treasurer, was elected
vice president, corporate planning, succeeding Mr. Rusnack.
Marie L. Knowles, vice president, financial, control and
planning, at Arco International Oil &amp; Gas Co., succeeded Mr.
Fernandes as vice president and controller.
   Frank D. Boren was elected a director, increasing board
membership to 16. Mr. Boren is a lawyer, a real estate
developer and former president of the Nature Conservancy. He
is the first professional environmentalist named to the
board, Arco said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Consolidated Edison Co.:
   Utility's 2nd-Period Profit
   Fell 25% to $49.1 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ED
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Consolidated Edison Co. reported second-quarter net income
sank 25%, reflecting higher operating expenses and interest
charges and lower earnings from investments.
   The New York-based utility's profit fell to $49.1 million,
or 18 cents a share, from $65.7 million, or 24 cents a share,
a year earlier. Revenue rose 3% to $1.26 billion from $1.22
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating expense rose 4.4% to $1.16 billion, reflecting
particularly a 15% jump in the costs of fuel Con Ed uses and
of power it buys from outside sources. Investment earnings
dropped 38% to $15.6 million, while net interest charges rose
8.7% to $61.6 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Con Ed's shares closed unchanged at $23 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Melville Corp.:
   Retailer's 2nd-Quarter Net
   Rose 27% on Higher Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MES
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Specialty retailer Melville Corp., Rye, N.Y., reported
second-quarter earnings rose 27% on a 16% sales increase,
noting that the strong, Easter-week selling period occurred
in the quarter.
   Net income rose to $78.3 million, or 72 cents a share,
from $61.3 million, or 56 cents a share, a year earlier.
Sales rose to $1.95 billion from $1.68 billion. The 1989
Easter week was in the first quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first six months, earnings were flat at $86
million, or 76 cents a share, compared with $85.9 million, or
78 cents share, a year ago. The company cited softness in the
apparel and footwear businesses in New England and
larger-than-expected markdowns in leather apparel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Wall Street's Monday Slump Fails to Register
   With Most Markets in Asia and Pacific Region
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wall Street's tremors left Asian-Pacific markets largely
unscathed yesterday.
   And in London, stocks finished narrowly mixed in modest
trading as an anticipated early advance on Wall Street failed
to materialize.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors in Asian and Pacific markets were mostly
unperturbed by Monday's volatile trading in New York, which
sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 100
points soon after the market opened.
   Although the industrial average ended with a 56.44-point
loss, regional markets for the most part followed their own
local influences.
   Only Hong Kong and New Zealand had sharp falls yesterday.
Hong Kong's decline of nearly 2%, the largest drop in the
region, was cast in a relatively positive light. The chief
explanation was that a correction was overdue after the
market's prolonged rally.
   "This is a rather useful buying opportunity," said Peter
Everington, investment director at Thornton Management
(Asia).
   New Zealand shares slid 1.6%. Investors were worried not
only by the cloud over Wall Street but by the impending
disclosure of the Wellington government's budget. Singapore
stocks fell 0.7%.
   Illustrating its isolation from foreign events, Taiwan's
stock market rebounded strongly after plunging the previous
day. Its Weighted Price Index surged 5.6%. Likewise, South
Korean shares responded to internal influences, falling
slightly amid continuing concern over political instability.
   In Tokyo, high long-term and short-term interest rates
dried up buying interest, traders said.
   Prices finished well above midday lows, however, after
fluctuating widely at lower levels throughout the day.
Traders said thin volume permitted index-linked trading --
including that by arbitragers -- to sway stocks more widely
than normal.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index eased another 22.72
points to close the morning session at 31679.74.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index
rebounded 143.44 points to 31845.90.
   Reports Tuesday that U.S. warships in the Persian Gulf
were on alert as Iraq moved 30,000 troops to its border with
Kuwait pressured Tokyo stock prices, traders said. They
explained that stocks fall because of weakened bond prices
resulting from a belief that the situation might strengthen
the dollar.
   By the end of the day, most investors concluded that the
tension is unlikely to worsen, said Yoshihiro Ito, general
manager of stock trading at Okasan Securities. He said Iraq's
move appeared to be aimed at pressuring Kuwait to agree to
oil-production cuts at the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries meeting that starts in Geneva tomorrow.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 350 million
shares, up from 302 million Monday. Decliners outnumbered
advancers 774-205, with 144 issues unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index posted a sharper decline than
the Nikkei index, falling 25.33 points, or 1.09%, to 2304.59.
   The Second Section Index dropped 30.88 points, or 0.71%,
to 4329.23. Volume was estimated at 15.6 million shares, up
from 13.5 million Monday.
   "All the market attention is focused on interest rates,"
said Hiroyuki Murai, general manager of stock trading at
Nikko Securities.
   While a broad range of sectors declined, resource shares
such as petroleum and mining companies firmed, as they often
do when the market loses its focus of trade, traders said.
   In addition, petroleum shares attracted investors on
expectation that OPEC nations will agree on an oil production
cut, traders said.
   Nippon Oil gained 40 yen to 1,480 yen (27 cents to $9.97).
Mitsui Mining &amp; Smelting was the day's most active issue,
finishing at 858, up 30.
   Sony and Kyocera, which have been bought heavily this
month, received blocks of sell orders from institutions,
traders said. Sony was down 80 at 8,720, while Kyocera fell
140 to 8,860.
   In London, stocks shot higher from the outset, bouncing
back from day-earlier losses that dealers said were overdone.
But the gains were scaled back on an uninspired Wall Street
start, the dealers added.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index ended
up 1.2 points at 2360.9 after hitting a midmorning peak of
2378.1 and a midafternoon minimum of 2351.8.
   The Financial Times 30-Share Index eased 0.4 point to
1866.7. Volume was a mild 385.7 million shares, little
changed from 369.8 million Monday.
   Reuters Holdings plummeted #1.84 to #10.45 ($3.36 to
$19.09) on volume of 5.7 million shares.
   Although the news and financial information group reported
interim results just below the best of market expectations,
the stock was clobbered by the company's disclosure that
"conditions in financial markets remain difficult and
cancellations of Reuter services, which were already high,
have recently risen further."
   "In the market's current frame of mind, it's in no mood
for more setbacks, particularly in regard to service
industries," one market professional said. The stock has been
a good performer lately and was prone to a setback on any
earnings disappointment, he said.
   Oil issues rose across the board. British Petroleum gained
7 pence to 340 pence, Enterprise added 14 to 676, Lasmo
advanced 14 to 448, Shell Transport &amp; Trading rose 7 to 489,
and Ultramar gained 4 to 343.
   Water stocks continued to perform well. Against a
background of uncertainty over profits, corporate downgrades,
currency fluctuations and erratic movements on Wall Street,
the sector was seen as one of the most secure and stable in
the U.K. market, traders said.
   The market's package of 10 water stocks rose 65 to #22.58,
Thames Water gained 6 to 228, Anglian Water advanced 7 to
228, Severn Trent added 6 to 210, and Southern Water rose 8
to 207.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Paris and Madrid, lower
in Frankfurt, Milan, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Zurich, and
mixed in Brussels. South African gold stocks closed firmer.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                   Jul 23   Jul 20   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ..........................  329.4    335.2   + 1.3
   Britain .......................  700.1    712.1   - 2.9
   Canada ........................  391.8    395.4   - 9.4
   Japan ......................... 1291.5   1310.9   -22.0
   France ........................  554.2    565.6   - 2.2
   Germany .......................  313.3    313.8   + 9.8
   Hong Kong ..................... 2660.9   2643.5   +26.9
   Switzerland ...................  225.4    228.4   + 2.1
   Australia .....................  329.9    330.1   - 0.4
   World index ...................  526.0    532.9   - 7.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Deutsche Bank, Currently in the Doldrums,
   Seen Benefiting Big From German Unification
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Mention a reunified Germany, and a company that
springs to mind as a likely beneficiary is Deutsche Bank. As
West Germany's largest bank, it already is aggressively
forging ties with East Germany that are expected to lead to
profitable business for years.
   "Deutsche Bank is a proxy for the West German stock
market," says Rod Barrett, analyst at Goldman Sachs
International, adding: "If you want to be in Germany, you buy
Deutsche Bank. If you want to get out, you sell it first."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank's stock recently spurted 10% in a month, as
German currency reunification got off to a smooth start. But
the shares have subsided in recent days, falling 6.50 marks
($4.01) yesterday in Frankfurt to 814.50 marks ($502.62).
   Some analysts say that now isn't the best time to buy
Deutsche Bank stock. They advise investors to wait for a
correction in the recently revived West German market --
which, they say, may come soon -- and use the opportunity to
buy Deutsche Bank on temporary weakness.
   Yesterday, the bank's American Depositary Receipts were
quoted in the U.S. over-the-counter market at $503 bid.
   "Currency reunion didn't turn out to be as inflationary as
many people believed," says Heino Ruland at Julius Baer
(Deutschland) in Frankfurt. "That led to a bond market rally,
which led to a stock market rally. But I'm expecting a
{negative} reaction in the stock market, and that's the time
to pick up Deutsche Bank shares -- on the dip. Medium to long
term, it's quite an attractive investment."
   Why should the market drop? The costs to West Germany of
reunification haven't disappeared. "If anything, capital to
East Germany will need to be increased," Mr. Baer says,
perhaps boosting West German interest rates.
   Robert Grant at Nomura Research Institute in London says
that if interest rates rise, "bank stocks will come under
pressure," presenting an opportunity to pick up Deutsche Bank
shares. "I can't see the stock really going far below 800,"
he says.
   The bank will post first-half earnings next week. Analysts
expect a healthy 15% to 25% rise from the year earlier's
operating profit of 1.87 billion marks. In line with German
custom, the reported figure won't reflect the bank's own
substantial trading for its own account.
   "It should be a very good performance," says Thomas
Albrecht, German bank analyst at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew, a unit
of Union Bank of Switzerland. "Interest margins are under
less pressure; an increase in long-term rates recently has
enabled banks to charge customers higher rates. The bank's
commission business {in West Germany, banks are the major
securities brokers} could be revived again, with the stock
market in overdrive and volume coming back."
   Deutsche Bank's East German ventures officially began this
month. The bank says it expects to open 100,000 East German
retail accounts by next Tuesday. It will soon take control of
Deutsche Kreditbank, the commercial-bank offshoot of East
Germany's central bank. The operation -- already 49%-owned by
Deutsche Bank -- has 120 branches, to go with about 30 more
that Deutsche Bank is planning.
   Analysts seem more curious than concerned about the cost
of East German expansion. "The question for Deutsche Bank is
how fast these operations are put to optimum size," says Mr.
Albrecht. Both Julius Baer's Mr. Ruland and Susan Sternglass,
who tracks the bank for Goldman Sachs, predict that in East
Germany the bank can exceed the 5% retail market share it has
in West Germany.
   "The long-term potential by being there from scratch is
huge," says Mr. Ruland, adding: "It also enables Deutsche
Bank to establish ties with the former Russian satellites and
Russia itself."
   Analysts expect Deutsche Bank to capitalize many of its
East German costs, but Mr. Ruland estimates that in the
second half such costs will penalize earnings by at least 100
million marks. A bank official indicates that labor and
equipment costs attributable to East Germany will total at
least 300 million marks on an annual basis in the first year.
And Deutsche Bank announced this week that it will provide
700 million marks to increase its stake in Deutsche
Kreditbank -- where it already has a 150 million mark
investment -- to 84.7% from 49%.
   Mr. Albrecht, for one, calls the stock a bargain now. "I
doubt whether interest rates will go more than plus or minus
half a point {from just under 9% currently}," he says. "The
stock now is at its average value of the past 10 years. It
has the potential of beating its all-time high of 910 marks
in 1986."
   Others are less upbeat. Deutsche Bank "on a short-term
basis is slightly overvalued," says Goldman's Ms. Sternglass.
Because German bank portfolios are heavily loaded with stocks
of domestic corporations, Goldman's analysis strips away from
a bank's market capitalization 50% of the value of the bank's
portfolio. The 50% deduction is meant to reflect
capital-gains taxes if the portfolio were sold. On this
basis, Deutsche Bank currently would be valued at about 715
marks a share, Ms. Sternglass says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Stops Selling
   Dollar-Denominated
   Japan Warrant Issues
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Merrill Lynch International Ltd. has stopped
making a market in U.S. dollar-denominated Japanese
equity-warrant issues, a spokesman for the firm said.
   "We were unable to make a sufficient return on our capital
as the market is suffering from excess capacity and increased
competition," said the spokesman for the Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   About 30 staff members have been laid off, including
traders, salespeople and administrative employees. Merrill
has a staff of about 2,100 across Europe, with more than
1,400 based in London.
   The firm entered the business in November 1988, and was a
market maker in 250 to 300 issues, representing roughly
three-quarters of all liquid issues oustanding.
   Merrill will continue to make a market in Swiss-franc
denominated equity-warrant bond issues by Japanese companies.
It is a market maker in about 150 Swiss franc issues, the
official said.
   The official added that Merrill will continue to be
involved in customer agency business and will also continue
to trade in U.S. dollar equity-warrant deals in connection
with its arbitrage and derivative activity.
   The cuts are part of Merrill's current business
rationalization process. According to the spokesman, the firm
now intends to concentrate on the equity derivatives
business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Digital Sound Holder
   Sues Over Initial Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DGSD
</CO>
<LP>
   CARPINTERIA, Calif. -- Digital Sound Corp. said a
shareholder filed a lawsuit in federal court in Los Angeles
against the company, which designs, makes and sells products
for voice messaging, interactive voice reponse and other
applications.
   Digital Sound said the complaint, which seeks class-action
status, alleges omissions and misstatements in connection
with the company's initial public offering Feb. 27, and
subsequent public statements. The suit doesn't specify any
amount of damages sought, the company said. The plaintiff
wasn't identified.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that it believes the lawsuit is without
merit, and that it intends to contest the action vigorously.
   Digital Sound went public at $8.50 a share. The stock
plunged $4.25 on July 2, after the company said it expected
to report a loss for the second quarter, citing a
slower-than-anticipated order rate from certain major
customers. Digital Sound shares closed at $4, down 50 cents,
in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sun Microsystems to Unveil
   Least Costly Color Model
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW MICA INEL NYN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAINVIEW, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems Inc., turning up
the heat on its competitors in the workstation business, is
set to unveil today its least expensive color computer.
   Aimed at engineers and scientists, the workstation will
cost about $8,000, industry observers said. It will run at
speeds faster than Sun's new $5,000 SCL computer but slower
than its $9,000 Sparcstation 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sun also is expected to disclose plans to sell some of its
products through personal-computer retailers for the first
time. The company initially has tapped three retailers for
the task, Tempe, Ariz.-based MicroAge Inc., Exton, Pa.-based
Intelligent Electronics Inc., and New York-based Nynex
Corp.'s retail arm.
   The move represents a continuation of Sun's efforts to
expand its distribution. It now sells its products directly
or through specialists in the sale of high-end systems.
   "Sun has a large-enough installed base that many customers
really just want to expand their networks by adding more
machines," said Seymour Merrin, a computer retail analyst in
Palo Alto, Calif. He said personal-computer retailers should
be able to handle those customers, giving Sun "a place on
store shelves that will be hard for competitors to take
away."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deutsche Bank Unit Plans to Purchase
   Equity Stake in Gleacher's Mergers Firm
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DBK U.MGF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Grenfell Group PLC, a unit of Deutsche
Bank AG of West Germany, plans to buy an equity stake in the
mergers advisory boutique of Eric Gleacher, former head of
mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   The new firm will be called Gleacher Morgan Grenfell Inc.,
and both Mr. Gleacher and the Deutsche Bank unit will share
expenses evenly, according to people familiar with the
transaction. Mr. Gleacher last night confirmed the equity
stake, but wouldn't give financial or other details.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the investment, C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc.,
the U.S. investment banking arm of London-based Morgan
Grenfell, will close its corporate finance and merger
departments here. Late yesterday, 36 people in those
departments were told they would be out of jobs in two weeks.
   People familiar with the transaction said that the
investment in Gleacher &amp; Co. was negotiated by Morgan
Grenfell's chief executive officer, Michael Dobson, and
chairman, John Craven, without the advance knowledge of top
executives at C.J. Lawrence here.
   The investment in Mr. Gleacher's firm is the latest in a
series of alliances between overseas securities firms and
U.S. merger advisory boutiques in the past few years.
   Nomura Securities Co. of Japan has purchased a 20% stake
in Wasserstein Perella &amp; Co. for $100 million, Nikko
Securities Co. of Japan paid the same amount for a 20%
interest in Blackstone Group, and Yamaichi Securities Co. of
Japan paid $101 million for a minority stake in Lodestar
Partners.
   A veteran of Lehman Brothers, Mr. Gleacher was head of
mergers and acquisitions throughout the late 1980s at Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. He led the firm to a bonanza in high-profile
takeover advisory business during the heyday of corporate
raiders' hostile bids for blue-chip U.S. firms. But he left
the firm early this year to form the small boutique.
   Mr. Gleacher has since disavowed any interest in expanding
to a size that would rival the Wasserstein or Blackstone
firms. So far this year, his only major deal as an
independent has been to advise ConAgra Inc. on the $1.3
billion acquisition of Beatrice Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ivaco Inc.:
   Canadian Steelmaker to Sell
   2 Units to BTR of Britain
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   IVA.A U.BTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ivaco Inc., a Montreal-based steelmaker, said it agreed to
sell two wholly owned subsidiaries to a unit of BTR PLC, a
British holding company, in a transaction that would reduce
Ivaco's long-term debt by about 125 million Canadian dollars
(US$108.2 million).
   Ivaco declined to disclose terms of the transaction, but
reports from London said BTR agreed to pay US$112 million.
The two Ivaco subsidiaries operate plants in the U.S. and
Canada that make fabrics used in the paper-making industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction, which requires approval by U.S. and
Canadian regulators, would result in a pretax gain of about
C$30 million, Ivaco said. Ivaco had 1989 profit of C$12.9
million, after a C$19.8 million one-time charge and a C$4.3
million loss on discontinued operations. On Dec. 31, it had
long-term debt of C$550.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Grand Jury Returns
   Indictment for Fraud
   Against Houston Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FYBR
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   TRENTON, N.J. -- A federal grand jury returned a
four-count indictment for wire fraud against a Houston
distributor of asbestos-removal equipment.
   According to the indictment, Critical Industries Inc.
fixed prices for respirators and filters used by workers who
remove asbestos from schools, restaurants and other public
buildings. Also charged in the indictment was Paul Burns,
president of Critical Industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since February of this year, Critical Services Inc., a
unit of Critical Industries, has been one of two companies
marketing respirators and filters manufactured by Mine Safety
Appliances Company Inc., Pittsburgh, in certain markets. The
indictments charge that Mr. Burns phoned an executive of the
rival distributor, Asbestor Control Technologies Inc.,
Pennsauken, N.J., in an unsuccessful attempt to fix prices.
   Company spokesman J. Gordon Beittenmiller said that Mr.
Burns and Critical Industries "continue to believe that no
crime has been committed and intend to defend themselves
vigorously" against the indictments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- BellSouth Corp.:
   Unit Seeks License to Study
   Wireless Telephone Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BellSouth Enterprises, a unit of BellSouth Corp., said it
has applied to the Federal Communications Commission for an
experimental radio license to conduct a personal
communications network trial in Atlanta, Ga.
   The trial, which is to take place in two phases, is
intended to test the market for wireless telecommunications,
such as radio telephones. BellSouth said it wants to look at
how such services meet consumer needs and how they change the
consumer patterns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BellSouth is already conducting a nationwide study of
broad-based marketing opportunities for personal
communications networks. This study is intended to build on
the results of the first study, particularly in the way
potential business customers would use the networks.
   Results are expected in two years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepsi-Cola to Sell Franchise
   To Earvin `Magic' Johnson
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pepsi-Cola Co. is selling its Washington, D.C., bottling
franchise to a partnership headed by basketball star Earvin
"Magic" Johnson and Black Enterprise magazine publisher Earl
Graves, individuals familiar with the transaction said.
   Mr. Johnson, of the Los Angeles Lakers, had told Pepsi of
his interest in owning such an operation when he signed a
multi-year endorsement contract with the soft drink firm last
year, according to industry executives. In recent years,
Pepsi has generally been acquiring bottling franchises from
independent owners, rather than selling them. Pepsi-Cola is a
unit of PepsiCo, Purchase, N.Y.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Washington franchise sells about four million cases a
year, according to Beverage Digest, a trade newsletter.
Individuals close to Pepsi said the Johnson/Graves
partnership is not acquiring a stake in the plant that
services their franchise area.
   "For Pepsi it isn't so much good will with minorities,"
said Paine Webber Inc. analyst Emanuel Goldman of Pepsi's
motivation for the deal. "It's having Magic Johnson, who
appeals to a wide segment of the population."
   Although Pepsi officials declined to comment, they are
expected to announce details of the transaction at a
Washington news conference today. Mr. Johnson's business
representatives could not be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Unit Says
   Lloyd's of London
   Is Suing the Company
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. -- McDonnell Douglas Space
Systems Co. said Lloyd's of London filed a $6 million suit
against the company for alleged negligence in the failed
launch of a satellite last year.
   The suit stems from an accident at Cape Canaveral, Fla.,
in June 1989, when a crane hook smashed into an $80 million
communications satellite on a Delta rocket. The satellite,
built by Ford Aerospace Corp. and insured by Lloyd's, was
repaired for around $10 million and launched later. Lloyd's
wants to recover part of the costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit alleges that the McDonnell Douglas Corp. unit,
which was responsible for launching the satellite,
"negligently and carelessly planned, simulated, trained for
and conducted the handling and removal procedure," causing
the crane cable to break while loading the satellite onto the
rocket.
   The McDonnell Douglas unit said it has requested that the
suit, filed last month, be transferred to federal court in
Orlando, Fla., from Brevard County Circuit Court in Florida,
as the accident occurred on federal government property.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   STOCKS REBOUNDED somewhat from Monday's plunge, as the Dow
Jones industrials rose 17.82 points to 2922.52. Oil stocks
fueled the advance amid renewed prospects of armed conflict
in the Mideast. But investors continued to pound shares of
firms with negative earnings news. Bonds fell and the dollar
was mixed.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eastern Airlines expects to be indicted by a federal grand
jury on charges that some employees falsified aircraft
maintenance records at New York area airports several years
ago.
   ---
   Chrysler plans to raise prices on its restyled 1991
minivans by as much as 12%, but lower prices on some of its
less popular car lines. That differs from the approach of
Ford, which plans boosts on most models.
   ---
   The administration is trying to negotiate a takeover of
Higher Education Assistance Foundation, a financially
troubled student-loan guarantor, by another big guarantee
agency.
   ---
   Greenspan said Fed policy makers are still dissatisfied
with the inflation rate, but expressed confidence that Fed
policies will bring inflation down.
   ---
   Budget negotiators hope to exchange deficit-reduction
packages this week, a sign that the talks may be about to get
more serious, participants said. But they added it will be
difficult to bridge their differences before Congress
recesses in August.
   ---
   Mobil's profit jumped 24% in the second quarter, while
Chevron had a 60% rise. Texaco net eased 3.6%, and Phillips
Petroleum's fell 47%.
   ---
   Deutsche Bank's Morgan Grenfell unit plans to buy a stake
in the mergers boutique of Eric Gleacher, ex-M&amp;A head at
Morgan Stanley.
   ---
   The Bank of Japan said it isn't tightening credit. The
statement came following further declines in Japanese stock
and bond markets as nervous investors feared the central bank
intended to raise interest rates.
   ---
   The CFTC charged four New York Mercantile Exchange traders
with fraud in handling customer orders, the first government
charges from a probe of New York futures exchanges.
   ---
   Morgan Stanley's earnings skidded 48% in the second
quarter, sending its stock price tumbling $6 to $66.50.
Salomon Inc. said its profit fell 53%, Piper Jaffray had an
8.6% decline and Alex. Brown posted a 6.7% increase.
   ---
   Congress rejected an effort to trim sugar price supports.
The Senate, however, approved phasing out honey subsidies
over four years.
   ---
   Reuters Holdings reported a 23% rise in first-half pretax
earnings, but its ADRs plunged as the news and information
firm said it wouldn't match that performance in the second
half.
   ---
   Sears Roebuck profit fell 39% in the second quarter
because of higher insurance claims and lower results at its
core U.S. retailing business.
   ---
   Short interest leaped 18.5% for smaller over-the-counter
stocks in the month ended in mid-July while rising 1.2% for
larger OTC stocks.
   ---
   Worker compensation rose 1.3% in the second quarter, less
than the 1.6% first-quarter rise but high enough to worry
inflation-minded economists.
   ---
   PepsiCo net income rose 10% in the June quarter, sparked
by strength in its fledgling overseas markets. Net would have
risen 19% had it not been for several extraordinary items.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 181,920,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2922.52, up 17.82; transportation 1137.96, up 1.83; utilities
200.39, up 0.19.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3420.03, off
9.21.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 130.93, up 0.24; spot
index 131.79, up 0.01.
   Dollar: 148.78 yen, up 0.58; 1.6215 marks, off 0.0005.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN MDEST F.ABI FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   FIGHTING MALARIA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The World Health Organization called for the "urgent
acceleration" of research into anti-malarial drugs and
vaccines.
   WHO said its appeal followed the recent discovery that
malarial parasites had developed resistance to the
anti-malarial drug mefloquine at the Thai-Cambodian border.
That discovery was "particularly disturbing as we have some
evidence that these (malaria) parasites are also resistant to
other drugs not yet used in the area such as halofantrine,"
said Tore Godal, a WHO official involved in tropical-disease
research.
   WHO estimates that there are 110 million new malaria cases
a year but that about 270 million people may be carrying the
malaria parasite; from one million to two million people die
each year from malaria and its complications.
   Dr. Godal said there is some cause for optimism. "A
vaccine blocking the transmission of human malaria is under
development," he said. "What we now need is to scale up the
production, complete toxicological studies and start studies
in human volunteers and in the field."
                                                                                                       

   DROP IN AIRBUS ORDERS
                                                                                                       

   Airbus Industrie said it recorded new firm orders for 118
of its commercial jets during the first half of 1990, down
sharply from 252 planes in the corresponding year-earlier
period. The European aircraft group said the year-earlier
total reflected a period of exceptionally brisk sales and
interpreted the 1990 first-half result as a sign of
"continuing strong demand for civil aircraft, albeit at a
more reasonable level for the industry."
                                                                                                       

   RADIO CONTROVERSY IN ISRAEL
                                                                                                       

   An Israeli state planning board approved construction in
the Negev desert of a Voice of America radio transmitter that
environmentalists had fought against. Conservationists, who
say the radio emissions could be harmful and disorient
millions of migratory birds, threatened to appeal to the
Supreme Court. The U.S. plans to use the transmitter to carry
programs of Voice of America and Radio Liberty to Eastern
Europe, Central Asia and Africa in 28 languages.
                                                                                                       

   ADVICE FOR AMERICANS ABROAD
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. State Department unveiled an "Americans Abroad"
brochure. Under the heading "What To Do If There Is an
Incident," the brochure's suggestions for dealing with
terrorists include: "Do not engage in political discussions"
and "Do not try to be a hero." A "Getting Ready" section
covers such topics as passports and insurance. The brochure
also suggests ways to avoid becoming a crime victim and warns
about harsh foreign laws. It is available, free, by writing
to: Americans Abroad, Pueblo, Colo. 81009.
                                                                                                       

   TRANS-SOVIET PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   South Korea will participate in a $500 million
trans-Soviet telecommunication-cable project, the state-owned
Korea Telecommunication Authority said. The consortium behind
the project now consists of 11 agencies from 10 nations,
including the Soviet Union, the U.S., Japan and the United
Kingdom. The project will link South Korea and Japan to
Western Europe via the Soviet Union.
                                                                                                       

   PACIFIC PROTEST
                                                                                                       

   Pacific island leaders and environmental groups are
raising concerns about the U.S. Army's plan to move chemical
weapons from West Germany to Johnston Atoll, 800 miles
southwest of Honolulu. "Transporting the European stockpile
halfway around the world inescapably increases the risks,"
said the Federated States of Micronesia. The Marshall
Islands, Cook Islands, New Zealand and the U.S. territory of
American Samoa also have expressed reservations about the
plan. The Army said moving the weapons and destroying them at
Johnston Atoll would have minimal public-health, safety and
environmental effects.
                                                                                                       

   EC AND MONETARY UNION
                                                                                                       

   The wide economic differences between European Community
members could make it necessary for economic and monetary
union to be phased in at different speeds within the EC, a
growing number of EC officials believe.
   The EC's monetary committee presented this view in a
report to a meeting of EC finance ministers. The idea's
supporters include EC Commission President Jacques Delors,
according to EC sources.
   Mr. Delors insisted such an approach wouldn't mean the
creation of a "two-speed Europe," a prospect opposed firmly
by Britain, among others. "There is no question" of a
two-tier approach, said Italian Finance Minister Guido Carli.
   The approach in the committee's report calls for all EC
countries to agree simultaneously to the creation of a single
EC currency and central bank. But it would give some of them
a longer time to move toward that goal.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Boy Scout and Girl Scout programs are reviving in Eastern
Europe after decades of repression, the World Organization of
the Scout Movement said yesterday, after readmitting Hungary
and Czechoslovakia. . . . A student who threw a wet T-shirt
at Queen Elizabeth II during the British monarch's February
visit to New Zealand was sentenced to five months of
detention, which she will serve after school hours and on
weekends. Henearoahuea Tepou, a 27-year-old Maori, told a
district court that she had been protesting New Zealand's
treatment of its indigenous Maori population.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merger Cleared for Sovran
   And Citizens &amp; Southern
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SOV CTZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Citizens &amp; Southern Corp. and Sovran Financial
Corp. said their plans to merge were approved by the Federal
Reserve Board.
   Moreover, the two bank holding companies said they decided
to abandon the name they had chosen -- Avantor Financial
Corp. -- in favor of the more prosaic C&amp;S/Sovran Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies began using Avantor when they announced
plans for the merger in September. But since then, they have
heard from "our customers, employees, communities and
shareholders," said Albert B. Gornto, Sovran's chairman and
chief executive officer. "Their input," he said in a prepared
statement, "reinforced the value of retaining and
incorporating into our new name the names under which we have
historically operated so successfully."
   Bennett A. Brown, Citizens &amp; Southern's chairman and chief
executive, who will hold both those posts in the new company,
said he expects the merger to be completed by Aug. 31,
pending a 30-day review by the Justice Department. Citizens &amp;
Southern is based in Atlanta; Sovran is in Norfolk, Va.
   With $50 billion in assets and more than 1,000 banking
offices in seven states and Washington, D.C., C&amp;S/ Sovran
will be the 12th largest bank holding company in the nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. CONDUCTED a naval exercise in the Persian Gulf
amid rising tensions.
   Citing concern over an oil dispute between Iraq and
Kuwait, the Pentagon said U.S. warships had begun a
"short-notice" exercise with gulf forces of the United Arab
Emirates. Navy Secretary Garrett told a congressional panel
that U.S. ships were put on alert in the gulf. The Emirates
have been an implicit target of Iraq's complaints that some
of its Arab neighbors have been undercutting oil prices by
exceeding their OPEC production quotas. Kuwaiti sources said
Iraq had massed 30,000 troops and over 200 tanks along its
border with Kuwait. OPEC ministers gathered in Geneva for a
strategy session.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Egypt's President Mubarak visited Baghdad and Kuwait,
seeking to help defuse the situation. He said the mission was
successful, but the Iraqis played down his mediating efforts.
   ---
   A HOUSE PANEL URGED a prosecutor to widen the HUD probe of
Pierce.
   The House subcommittee asked the special prosecutor, Arlin
Adams, to investigate whether the former HUD secretary, his
old law firm and a onetime top aide violated federal bribery
and conspiracy laws. The panel said its own 14-month inquiry
had uncovered "widespread abuses, influence peddling, blatant
favoritism, monumental waste and gross mismanagement" during
Pierce's tenure under Reagan.
   The panel said Pierce didn't tell "the full story," adding
that some of his statements were "at odds with the sworn
testimony of other witnesses."
   ---
   Souter was briefed at the White House on the Senate
confirmation process. The Supreme Court nominee was described
by Bush as having "a great legal mind and an impartial
quality that will serve the court well." Bush warned against
a "litmus test" on the nominee. Hearings should begin in
September.
   ---
   East Germany's small Liberal Party quit the seven-party
coalition government of Premier de Maiziere, and the Social
Democrats threatened to follow in a dispute over the timing
of all-German elections. The Liberals control a total of 21
seats in the 400-member East German Parliament.
   ---
   The Khmer Rouge guerrillas asked for world support to end
Cambodia's war, saying they must have a role in any peace
accord. They were reacting to last week's U.S. decision to
withdraw Washington's recognition of the U.N. seat held by a
guerrilla coalition that includes the Khmer Rouge, which the
U.S. is attempting to isolate.
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. action was criticized by Southeast Asian foreign
ministers on the first day of an annual meeting. The
ministers said efforts to change Cambodia's U.N. seat "would
set back the search for a comprehensive political solution."
Secretary of State Baker is planning to meet with the Asean
group in Indonesia next week.
   ---
   The White House will use a last-minute lobbying blitz to
try to salvage its defense budget in the House, where even
senior Republicans appear ready to give up their fight for
the Air Force's B-2 bomber, advanced Navy submarine programs
and other embattled weapons.
   ---
   An Ariane rocket was launched successfully from a facility
in French Guiana, five months after a similar European rocket
exploded after takeoff. The rocket carried two television
satellites. Ariane launches were suspended after the Feb. 22
accident, which officials said was caused by cloth clogging a
line carrying water coolant to an engine.
   ---
   A bomb killed a Roman Catholic nun and three police
officers when it blew their cars off a road on the outskirts
of Armagh in Northern Ireland. An anonymous caller to a
Belfast news organization claimed responsibility for the
bombing on behalf of the Irish Republican Army, which in
recent months has escalated its terrorist attacks.
   ---
   Liberian loyalist soldiers repelled a rebel attack and
appeared to be in control of Monrovia after an ambush.
Insurgents also attacked from the sea, firing at Doe's
mansion and then speeding away in an unidentified vessel,
witnesses said. The president was believed to be inside the
mansion.
   ---
   Gorbachev warned developing nations that aid the Kremlin
provides them will be reviewed to take into account "the real
capabilities of our country." The Soviet president's
statement, reported by the Tass news agency, was viewed as a
signal to Cuba, one of Moscow's biggest aid recipients.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Sapporo Breweries Ltd.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For First Half Rose 2.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SAP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sapporo Breweries Ltd., Japan's second-largest beer
brewer, reported that its unconsolidated pretax earnings for
the first half rose 2.3% to 5.69 billion yen ($38.4 million)
from 5.56 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income climbed 18% to 2.83 billion yen, or 8.48 yen a
share, from 2.41 billion yen, or 7.21 yen a share, as
Sapporo's extraordinary losses tumbled 31% to 640 million yen
and extraordinary gains totaled 31 million yen from sales of
securities. In the year-earlier period, there were no such
gains; extraordinary losses stemmed from disposal of some
fixed assets and the dismantling of a unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First-half sales rose 2.5% to 220.29 billion yen from
214.99 billion yen.
   Sapporo officials said demand for beer in the domestic
market expanded about 8% from a year earlier, as a result of
new products. Beer sales, by far Sapporo's largest line of
business, rose 4% to 202.19 billion yen. Sales of soft drinks
slipped 5% to 9.71 billion yen, partly because of slumping
demand for carbonated soft drinks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sears Roebuck
   2nd Period Net
   Declined 39%
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. said second-quarter profit
fell 39% because of higher insurance claims and lower results
at its core U.S. retailing business.
   The company said it earned $237.9 million, or 69 cents a
share, compared with $391.2 million, or $1.11 a share, a year
ago. Earnings from continuing operations in last year's
second quarter were $334.9 million, or 95 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue in the period rose 4% to $13.85 billion from
$13.28 billion a year ago.
   The results were slightly better than the grim projection
the company issued earlier this month, which prompted
analysts to lower their forecasts. Consequently, the results
had little impact on Sears stock. In composite trading
Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange, Sears closed at
$33.75, up 12.5 cents.
   Still, some analysts found cause for concern. Expenses at
the Sears merchandise group jumped almost 10% because of what
analysts described as higher advertising costs and increased
reserves for uncollectible credit card balances, but revenue
rose only 2%. "This is the second quarter in a row where
expenses have been a problem," said Wayne Hood of
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "They have to demonstrate
that they can drive better revenue growth during the
back-to-school season."
   Sears said merchandise group earnings, which include
international and Sears credit card results as well as its
core U.S. retail business, fell 32% to $110 million from
$161.6 million. But profit at the U.S. retail operation
plunged more precipitously -- by 78% to $17.3 million from
$78.4 million a year earlier.
   Profit at the company's Allstate insurance unit fell 29%
to $142.2 million from $199.8 million because of underwriting
losses, including claims from recent fires in California.
   Earnings at the Dean Witter financial services unit rose
31% to $58.2 million from $44.5 million, reflecting better
Discover credit card results.
   Earnings at the Coldwell Banker real estate unit fell to
$7.3 million from $46.4 million a year ago. Last year's
results included $56.3 million in earnings from discontinued
operations.
   For the first half, Sears said its net income declined 47%
to $344.2 million, or $1.00 a share, from $648.9 million, or
$1.81 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 4% to $26.46
billion from $25.44 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Johnson &amp; Johnson:
   Net Income Increase of 19%
   Posted for Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Johnson &amp; Johnson said net income for the second quarter
rose 19% on strong performance by pharmaceutical and
professional-equipment segments.
   Net income was $353 million, or $1.06 a share, compared
with $297 million, or 89 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period. Sales rose 18% to $2.83 billion from $2.39 billion in
the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ralph S. Larsen, chairman and chief executive officer of
the New Brunswick, N.J., company, said sales in the
pharmaceutical and professional-equipment segments rose 26%
and 21%, respectively. The latter includes medical, surgical
and diagnostic equipment. Particularly successful was Ortho
Diagnostics, the company said, which achieved record results
after successfully introducing a hepatitis C test in the U.S.
during the quarter. Consumer products sales rose 11%.
   Net income for the first half fell 2.8% to $597 million,
or $1.79 a share, from $614 million, or $1.84 a share, in the
year-earlier period, because of a first-quarter non-recurring
charge for the permanent impairment of certain assets and
operations in Latin America. Without the charge, six-month
net would have risen 18% to $722 million, or $2.17 a share.
Sales for the first half rose 17% to $5.66 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Alan Bond Fails to Win
   Extension on Stock Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON U.GAA U.PSO U.REE F.CHG U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The four major shareholders in British Satellite
Broadcasting Ltd. (BSB) refused troubled Australian
businessman Alan Bond any further extensions to sell his
stake in the television company, the shareholders said
yesterday.
   Granada Group PLC, Pearson PLC, Reed International PLC and
Chargeurs S.A., of France, said the latest extension ran out
July 19 for Mr. Bond's company, Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The effect of the expiration is to lower Mr. Bond's stake
in the second satellite television network for the U.K. to
7.4% from an original 37%, said BSB.
   The major shareholders had given Bond a number of
extensions on time limits in which to sell his stake without
it being diluted after a #450 million ($821.9 million) rights
issue in January. If the deadline had been met, the buyer
could have taken up a position in rights issues that would
have maintained the higher stake in BSB.
   Now analysts suggest Mr. Bond's stake is worth about #30
million at market value, against his total original
investment of #155 million.
   A number of potential buyers of the Bond stake had been
mentioned by analysts. Robert Maxwell, chairman and chief
executive of the media conglomerate Maxwell Communication
Corp., was considered the favorite, despite a potential
conflict in cross-media ownership.
   Mr. Maxwell wasn't immediately available for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Northern Telecom Ltd.:
   Company Posts 27% Increase
   In Second-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   NT T.NTL BCE T.B
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Northern Telecom Ltd., buoyed by lower costs and strong
orders, posted a 27% rise in second-quarter net income and a
12% increase in revenues.
   Net income at the Canadian telecommunications equipment
manufacturer was $95.7 million or 37 cents per share compared
with $75.3 million or 29 cents per share in last year's
second period. Revenues in the quarter were $1.7 billion
versus $1.52 billion last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first six months, revenues rose 13% to $3.27
billion from $2.9 billion in last year's first half. Net
income rose 37% to $174.8 million or 67 cents per share from
$127.9 million or 49 cents per share last year.
   "I'm reasonably pleased by our results," said chairman
Paul G. Stern. "The growth performance was across the board
in all our markets, U.S., Canada and overseas. And we
benefited from lower interest expenses and our cash is
strong."
   Order input for the quarter was $1.71 billion, a 7.5%
increase over the $1.59 billion recorded in last year's
period. Order backlog for the period was $1.85 billion, a 9%
increase from last year's $1.7 billion.
   Order input and backlog growth failed to match the 16%
growth in last year's second quarter. But Mr. Stern said, "We
have not seen a slowdown. Orders tend to fluctuate from
quarter to quarter. . . We're going to have a respectable
year, barring a disaster, which we don't see."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Oakbridge Ltd.:
   Elders Lifts Bid for Firm
   To Match Competing Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   A.ELD A.OAK J.TMN J.NPO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Elders Resources NZFP Ltd. raised its bid for Oakbridge
Ltd. to 88 Australian cents (69 U.S. cents) a share, matching
an offer made Monday.
   Australian coal miner McIlwraith McEacharn Ltd. is leading
a consortium with Toyo Menka Kaisha Ltd. and Nippon Oil Ltd.,
both of Japan, in a bid for control of Oakbridge, another
Australian coal company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Elders is a New Zealand-based natural-resources company.
   The McIlwraith consortium is trying to pressure Elders to
sell it the 85% of Oakbridge that Elders holds.
   Elders said it raised its bid to 88 cents a share from 86
cents. That offer will be raised to 90 cents if Elders wins
90% of Oakbridge.
   John Cornelius, Elders secretary, said in a statement to
the Australian Stock Exchange that the McIlwraith bid is
"highly presumptuous." He added: "We are buyers of Oakbridge,
not sellers. Elders Resources has made no decision to sell
Oakbridge or any other assets for that matter."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Weyerhaeuser Co.:
   Firm Reports 26% Decline
   In Second-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   WY
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citing a 40% decline from a year ago in its pulp and paper
sales, Weyerhaeuser Co. reported a 26% drop in its
second-quarter earnings to $114.3 million, or 54 cents a
share, from $154.9 million in the year-earlier period. The
second quarter ended July 1.
   Sales of the forest products, real estate and financial
services concern declined 10% to $2.39 billion, from $2.64
billion for the year-ago quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale of the company's gypsum, wood paneling and
nursery and garden units have "obviously had an impact on our
sales," said a company spokesman. The final stage of the
company's refocusing effort will be completed by the third
quarter, he added.
   The Tacoma, Wash.-based company also said weaknesses in
several areas contributed to the poor earnings results.
Forest products results were flat year-to-year, and its
Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Co.'s earnings were off
substantially from year earlier. However, the company said
its financial services units were strong.
   For the six months, earnings dropped 19%, to $244.3
million, or $1.15 a share, from $303 million, or $1.43 a
share, a year ago.
   Sales declined 6%, to $4.67 billion, from $4.97 billion
for the six months period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Car Sales Fell
   For Mid-July
   After Two Gains
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The minirally in the U.S. car market fizzled in
mid-July, as sales of domestic cars and light trucks plunged
13% from year-before levels.
   The Big Three U.S. auto makers all suffered double-digit
sales declines. Chrysler Corp. had the worst overall
performance, as its total sales of cars and trucks dropped
19%. But Ford Motor Co. did little better as its total
vehicle sales fell 18.5%, largely because of a 24.6% plunge
in sales of its domestic cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, most major Japanese auto makers continued to
boost sales of their North American-built models. The
exception was Nissan Motor Corp., which saw combined sales of
its U.S.-made cars and trucks slip 1% in the period.
   Overall, sales of domestic cars fell 13.3% to 191,779
vehicles. That amounts to a seasonally adjusted annual
selling pace of 6.9 million cars, down from a strong 7.7
million-car pace a year earlier. The latest results put a
damper on a market that had seen two consecutive strong
periods. Early July sales hit a healthy 7.3 million annual
rate, while late June sales surged to an eight-million-car
selling rate.
   Dealers and company officials speculated that consumers
may be balking because of confusion about recent pricing
moves by the Big Three. General Motors Corp., Ford and
Chrysler all recently announced midyear price increases, and
this week began signaling even stiffer price increases for
the fall.
   "We have people come in and say, `There's a $2,000 rebate,
but they raised the price 3%. What's the real price?'" said
Longview, Wash., dealer Jim Clary, who has Chevrolet,
Jeep-Eagle and Chrysler franchises.
   Ford's weak performance in the passenger-car market was
largely the result of poor sales of two bread-and-butter
models. Sales of the subcompact Ford Escort tumbled 34% from
the year before, while sales of the midsized Ford Taurus
plummeted 35%. A Ford spokesman said the company saw a sharp
reduction in sales to high-volume fleet customers during the
period because its U.S. plants were closed for their
traditional two-week summer vacation.
   But Ford continued to surge in the off-road vehicle
business. Ford's new Explorer and its predecessor, the Bronco
II, together outsold Chrysler's rival Jeep brand by 10,977
vehicles to 10,152 vehicles during the first 20 days of July.
Jeep sales fell 31% during the July 1-20 period.
   At GM, total car sales fell 12.5% in mid-July, while
light-truck sales dropped 13.7%. Chrysler, meanwhile,
suffered a 19.1% drop in car sales and an 18.9% decline in
sales of its Jeeps, minivans and other trucks.
   Among Japanese auto makers, Honda Motor Co. boosted sales
of its domestically produced Accords and Civics 3.2%. Toyota
Motor Corp. increased sales of its domestically made Corollas
and Camrys 62.6%, in part because of increased production.
   Mazda Motor Corp. posted a 70.6% gain in sales of its
Michigan-built models, and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. improved
sales of the sporty models it builds at its joint-venture
plant with Chrysler in Normal, Ill.
   ---
          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                              1990         1989      x-%
                           Jul 11-20    Jul 11-20     Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles ......   144,726      166,209     -12.9
   Domestic car .........    91,235      105,307     -13.4
   Imported car .........     5,689        5,514     + 3.2
     Total car ..........    96,924      110,821     -12.5
   Domestic truck .......    47,789       55,068     -13.2
   Imported truck .......        13          320     -95.9
     Total truck ........    47,802       55,388     -13.7
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles ....    96,121      117,963     -18.5
   Domestic car .........    50,803       67,374     -24.6
   Imported car .........     2,937        3,265     -10.0
     Total car ..........    53,740       70,639     -23.9
   Domestic truck .......    42,381       47,324     -10.4
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh .....    47,359       58,461     -19.0
   Domestic car .........    20,052       24,419     -17.9
   Imported car .........     1,758        2,528     -30.5
     Total car ..........    21,810       26,947     -19.1
   Domestic truck .......    25,295       30,377     -16.7
   Imported truck .......       254        1,137     -77.7
     Total truck ........    25,549       31,514     -18.9
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car .....    13,593       13,175     + 3.2
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA domestic car ....     9,318        5,729     +62.6
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles ..     6,370        6,432     - 1.0
   Domestic car .........     2,857        2,901     - 1.5
   Domestic truck .......     3,513        3,531     - 0.5
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ...........     1,057          992     +6.6
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car ....       588            0      ....
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ...       184            0      ....
                                                                                                       

 Total cars .............   202,163      232,538     -13.1
   Domestic .............   191,779      221,231     -13.3
   Imported .............    10,384       11,307     - 8.2
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks ...........   119,429      137,757     -13.3
   Domestic .............   119,162      136,300     -12.6
   Imported .............       267        1,457     -81.7
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh .....   310,941      357,531     -13.0
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles .........   321,592      370,295     -13.2
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 9 selling days in the most recent period and
9 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Crop Genetics Offers Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HANOVER, Md. -- Crop Genetics International Corp. said it
began an offering of 2.5 million in 9 1/2% convertible
exchangeable preferred stock priced at $10 a share.
   The company said it granted managing underwriters Lehman
Brothers, a unit of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Piper,
Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc. an option to purchase an additional
375,000 shares to cover over-allotments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crop Genetics, an agricultural biotechnology firm, said it
will use proceeds to finance research and development of
various commercial products.
   The company currently has 4.6 million shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Amgen's Chief, Binder,
   Adds Chairman's Post
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. -- Gordon M. Binder, 54-year-old
chief executive officer of Amgen Inc., a biotechnology
company, was elected to the additional post of chairman,
succeeding George B. Rathmann.
   Mr. Rathmann, 62, was re-elected to the board and will
serve as chairman emeritus. A chemist, Mr. Rathmann joined
Amgen as president and chief executive in 1980, and was
elected chairman in 1986. In October 1988, he resigned as
president and chief executive but remained chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said the election of Mr. Binder "completes the
transition in management that began two years ago."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tambrands Inc.:
   Net Rose 21% in Quarter
   At Personal-Products Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   TMB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tambrands Inc. said second-quarter net income rose 21%,
reflecting improved margins, work-force reductions and the
divestitures of its home diagnostics and cosmetics businesses
this year.
   The maker of personal-care products said second-quarter
results were records; net rose to $31.8 million, or $1.49 a
share, from $26.2 million, or $1.17 a share; sales rose 1.9%
to $169.3 million from $166.1 million. There were about one
million fewer average shares outstanding in the latest
quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tambrands, of Lake Success, N.Y., said the fact that sales
rose despite the divestitures reflected a product
introduction in the U.S. and increased shipments in Europe.
   For the six months, net rose 22% to $53.8 million, or
$2.50 a share, from $44.2 million, or $1.98 a share. Revenue
rose to $328.5 million from $296 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Central Bank Roils the Markets
   ---
   Fears of Rate Rise
   Hit Stocks, Bonds
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's central bank is spooking world financial
markets, in the process sending Japanese interest rates
climbing and the Tokyo stock market falling.
   Essentially, top monetary policy makers in Tokyo want the
financial markets to believe that the Bank of Japan is ready
to raise interest rates further to fend off inflation in
Japan before this becomes a problem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until last week, the financial markets had considered the
central bank's tough stance mere posturing, the necessary
bluster of a good watchdog. But as interest rates in Tokyo's
credit markets began creeping higher, stock and bond markets
in Japan and elsewhere started to panic. Then the Bank of
Japan retreated, explaining that it isn't tightening credit,
rather just holding firm.
   "They really backed off," Patricia Kurayama, J.P. Morgan
Trust Bank Ltd.'s chief economist in Japan, said. "They're
trying to compensate for the fright they gave people."
   The fright was real enough. Since Friday, the Nikkei
average of 225 stocks has lost 1,353.16 points, or 4.1%, its
steepest drop since it came out of a three-monthlong nose
dive in early April. On Tuesday, the index closed at
31702.46, off 192.33 points from Monday.
   Japanese bond yields are hovering at their highest levels
in more than six years. The No. 119 10-year government bond
rose 0.12 to 85.83, to yield 7.445%, its first gain in six
trading sessions. (This yield is eqivalent to a 6.95%
semiannual compounded yield to maturity.)
   "Interest rates are almost the entire picture" in the
markets, Christopher Taylor, head of sales at Baring
Securities (Japan) Ltd., a British brokerage house, said.
"There's a lot of confusion in the market," Russell Jones, an
analyst at UBS Philips &amp; Drew Securities Ltd., said.
   The jitters aren't confined to Tokyo. The steep drop in
stocks and related futures in the U.S. on Monday was ascribed
at least in part to worries that Japan might raise interest
rates. The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 56.44 points
to 2904.70 Monday, and at one point was off 105 points.
   Many analysts fear that an increase in the Bank of Japan
official discount rate, the amount it charges on loans to
financial institutions, could trigger an international round
of credit tightening -- a cycle Japanese officials
desperately want to avoid.
   Yet this could be the embarrassing outcome of a formal
increase in Japanese rates just now. In the U.S., the Federal
Reserve has been allowing interest rates to slide slightly in
recent weeks, and Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has hinted at
further easing. But if Japan raises its rates, economists
said, the difference between U.S. and Japanese rates, after
adjustment for inflation, might widen sufficiently to
discourage big Japanese investors from buying U.S. Treasury
bonds.
   After deducting the effects of inflation, Japanese
government bonds already yield about 0.3 to 0.4 of a
percentage point more than comparable long-term U.S. Treasury
bonds. "It's obvious," a bond-market analyst in Japan said.
"You can make more on a Japanese bond and not take a
foreign-exchange risk."
   With the U.S. Treasury planning a $31.5 billion bond sale
in the second week of August, an increase in Japanese rates
now could be especially damaging. To entice Japanese
investors, analysts said, U.S. rates would have to rise.
   In large measure, the financial markets' case of nerves
can be ascribed to traumatic memories of the last formal
credit tightening by the Bank of Japan. The Tokyo stock
market had managed to ignore three increases that brought
Japan's discount rate from its historic low of 2.5% in May to
4.25% at the end of last year, when the Nikkei average of 225
major stocks stood at a record high of 38915.87.
   But the Japanese stock market started coming unglued early
this year. By the time the Bank of Japan boosted the discount
rate a fourth time, to 5.25%, on March 20, the stock market
was plunging. Before it stabilized, the Nikkei index plunged
more than 27% from its peak. Memories of the stock market
turmoil are still fresh, analysts said.
   "One of the things that has stayed the Bank of Japan's
hand recently is the Japanese stock market," Aaron M. Cohen,
senior financial economist at Daiwa Securities Co., said.
"The stock market's weakness is the one big deterrent to
raising official rates."
   Economists and central-bank watchers are divided on the
question of whether the Bank of Japan really needs -- or
intends -- to raise rates. The Japanese economy grew at a
rapid 10.4% annualized rate in the first quarter and isn't
slowing down noticeably. The Bank of Japan on Friday said the
second quarter was unexpectedly strong, too. But inflation
has been tame; June's wholesale prices increased only 0.9%
from a year earlier.
   Still, Robert Alan Feldman, an economist at Salomon
Brothers Inc.'s Tokyo office, believes the Japanese central
bank already has painted itself into a corner by allowing
money market rates to reach such high levels. Some rates, he
noted, are certain to rise; Japan's long-term credit banks
are negotiating to raise their prime lending rate this week,
with most market participants expecting an increase of 0.3
percentage point. This would mean Japanese companies would
pay a minimum of 7.9% on long-term loans, the same as they
paid in May.
   With other interest rates rising, the Bank of Japan has
"very little choice now" but to raise rates, "because the
economy is not slowing down," Mr. Feldman said. "It's just a
matter of timing." He speculated that the central bank might
wait until after the U.S. government's August bond sale -- or
even until after German monetary authorities succumb to the
financial pressures of reunification and raise their official
interest rates.
   Nobuyuki Ueda, senior economist at Long-Term Bank of Japan
Ltd., agrees that because of the feverish first-quarter
growth rate, an increase in Japanese interest rates within
the next four or five months is inevitable. "I don't think
the timing is important, but the future trend of interest
rates is definitely up," he said.
   But other analysts said it isn't clear that the Bank of
Japan will raise rates. The central bank openly sought to
play down its own credit-tightening moves in the markets
Friday and early this week, with its governor, Yasushi Mieno,
even stating publicly that the moves were misread by the
market.
   And at a meeting last week of the central bank's branch
managers, only a handful of the regional chiefs favored
another discount-rate increase. The consensus, according to
participants, was that the central bank should wait longer
before judging the effects of the last discount-rate increase
and the ensuing increases in market rates.
   For Japanese policy makers, these are delicate times.
Officials would like to avoid an interest-rate increase that
could choke off the nation's 44-month-long economic boom.
   Yet partly as a result of the central bank's decision in
February 1987 to reduce its discount rate to 2.5%, stock and
land prices in Japan soared. The vast sums generated by this
so-called asset inflation continue to slosh around Japan --
and are the chief target of the current efforts by the Bank
of Japan to crimp spending.
   In addition, the Japanese government is looking ahead at a
decade of relatively generous fiscal policy. As part of a
major economic agreement reached last month with Washington,
the Japanese government has agreed to pump 430 trillion yen
($2.902 trillion) into public works projects over the next
decade. The aim is to reduce the Japanese public's savings.
The effect, though, will be to pour fresh money into the
economy, at a time when the central bank is trying to curb
spending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fussy Grandmother:
   Sophie Masloff Has
   A Domestic Agenda
   ---
   She Presides Over Pittsburgh
   And Spices Up Its Politics;
   Bruce Bedspring's Concert
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- The stocky, 72-year-old woman with the
bouffant hairdo marches to the back of the butcher shop and
demands a cut of steak.
   "Sorry, Sophie," the butcher apologizes. "I don't have
porterhouse. Is strip steak OK?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All right," she barks. "But make sure it's good, or I'll
have the department of health down here."
   The butcher might dismiss that as an idle threat from a
fussy grandmother who looks as if she might spend her days
playing Bingo or feeding stale bread to pigeons.
   But she is the mayor of Pittsburgh.
   Master of the malapropism and patron of pickled herring,
Mayor Sophie Masloff has brought a new flavor to Pittsburgh
politics. She goes bargain-hunting with her staff in the
wholesale market. She instructs aides in Yiddish expressions.
And when Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Bubby Brister throws
a touchdown pass, she cheers for "Bobby Brewster."
   People here love her antics. In this age of colorless
politicians, Sophie -- as everybody calls her -- proves that
being outspoken and ethnic works in this meat-and-potatoes
city. Many Pittsburghers take pride in a mayor who wheels
like a Mack truck and defends their turf.
   When Beazer PLC of Britain took over a local chemical
company, Sophie said that if she ever met the company's
chairman, Brian Beazer, she would "scratch his eyes out."
Hearing that, Councilwoman Michelle Madoff, a current
supporter of the mayor, complained that Sophie had "set the
women's movement back 50 years."
   Criticism of that sort hardly matters to Sophie, whose
style is entirely her own. She wears thick red lipstick and
heavy round glasses that make her eyes look funny. She sticks
her chin out defiantly and walks with short, choppy steps.
Her hair has been likened to an auburn helmet. Jack Scheffo,
her hairdresser of 31 years, says he tried something more
contemporary with her a few years ago, but "it was a
disaster. She couldn't handle it."
   Sophie's arrival on the mayoral scene was something of a
fluke. She was on the city council for 12 years. (The
Democrats ran her as a reward for three decades' service as a
petty clerk in a county court.) Despite an unspectacular
council record, she ran for council president in January
1988, on the advice of then-Mayor Richard Caliguiri, and she
won. Mr. Caliguiri died unexpectedly in May, leaving Sophie
his job.
   Last year, she won a four-year term of her own. At first,
no one thought she had a chance: She didn't even have the
Democratic endorsement. But the two frontrunners attacked
each other and self-destructed. Sophie sneaked in with just
28% of the primary vote. And she ran unopposed in the general
election.
   Her tenure has been quite a trip for Pittsburgh. When
Bruce Springsteen came to town for a concert, Sophie called
him "Bruce Bedspring." When the Grateful Dead played Three
Rivers Stadium, she insisted the "Dreadful Dead" had no
business being here, and neither did their notorious
"hangerers on-ers," whom she called "Deadenders."
   Some of this word play clearly is deliberate; it simply
could not be otherwise.
   Finally, she did her answer to an Abbott and Costello
routine when she appeared at a stadium concert committee
meeting asking when "the How" were coming to town.
   "Not the How, the Who," an official advised her.
   "The who?" she asked.
   "Yes," he said.
   "Is there a Who group and a How group?" she persisted.
"Somebody asked me the other day if the How was coming here."
   "Who the hell is the How?" demanded a state senator.
   Sophie's casual relationship with details goes beyond rock
music to matters even more mundane. Like how old she is. When
KDKA-TV reporter Paul Martino asked Sophie her age during
last year's campaign, she told him she was born in December
1918, and was 70 years old. But Mr. Martino, the Sam
Donaldson of local television, informed her that she was 71.
Hours later, her office issued a statement that indeed she
was born in 1917, which made her 71 after all.
   The press actually has found it hard to be tough on
Sophie. "People don't like you picking on a nice, 70-ish
woman, however old she is," says Mr. Martino, who was
"resoundingly booed," he says, for pressing the mayor on the
age gap.
   The mayor does endearing things, such as keeping photos of
Mr. Martino's children (along with dozens of others) behind
her desk, next to her "Happiness Is Being a Grandmother"
plaque. (She has two grandchildren of her own.) "I can't
stand him, but I love his kids," she says of Mr. Martino.
   Sophie's agenda is equally domestic. She dwells on the
city's appearance as if Pittsburgh were an unkempt child.
Driving through a seedy downtown area, she brags that the
streets are swept two or three times a night. "I insist on
cleanliness," she says.
   One of her biggest triumphs as mayor has been to cut the
city's wage tax. She wants to lure younger families back from
the suburbs by shifting some of the load to real-estate taxes
-- a tactic that enraged her senior-citizen constituency.
When she discovered that Pittsburgh banks weren't making many
small mortgage loans, she told them the city wouldn't do
business with them unless they stepped up such lending.
   "She's very motherly, and she isn't into oratory," says
Don Stone, professor of public affairs at Carnegie Mellon
University. "She's just a plodder with very good motives and
principles."
   Though nobody seems to question her motives, some wonder
whether she has the vision the city needs to come to grips
with a population hemorrhage in the 1980s and a jolting shift
from manufacturing to a service economy. She limits her
involvement in policy-making to choosing from among options
her staff presents. And she hasn't been able to maintain the
close relationships her predecessors had with Pittsburgh's
business leaders.
   "She's doing a fine job, and the city is running well,"
says state Sen. Tom Murphy, the second-place finisher in last
year's mayoral primary. "But there's some concern about the
future. She has no vision."
   An awkward public speaker who suffers from stage fright,
she has trouble not just getting words right but facts
straight. In a Chamber of Commerce breakfast this year, for
example, she boasted about a nonexistent reconstruction of a
downtown street.
   Her staff, to manage the damage of spontaneity, now has
her read prepared statements, a la Ronald Reagan, then ushers
her off the stage before she can respond to questions. When
she speaks, she relies heavily on notes.
   In an editorial-board meeting with a local newspaper
during the campaign, the mayor came in with the word
"aspirations" written in three-quarter-inch red letters on
the back of her hand, presumably to remind herself of her
campaign slogan: "Grandmothers have no ambitions for
themselves, only aspirations for their children and
grandchildren."
   By her own admission, she is more interested in people
than in policy. She spends a lot of time among her
constituents -- working the crowds on city streets, greeting
people with a high-pitched "Hi, how are ya?" spoken, of
course, with a Pittsburgh accent.
   "I don't want the appearance of getting away from the
people," the mayor says between bites of crabcake at a
stand-up lunch in a wholesale fish market. "I want to be one
of them. I want them to feel I belong."
   Her aides say they are astounded by her energy, as she
drags them along on one of her weekly shopping trips through
the Strip District, Pittsburgh's answer to New York's Lower
East Side. Of her aides, she says, "They told me, `I'll do
anything you want, but I won't carry your purse.' But they
carry my purse."
   Her staff calls that "the handoff." It occurs whenever she
spots a baby or a nice cut of meat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Camera Maker Loses
   Bid for New Barriers
   On Imported Models
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KYC TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Keystone Camera Corp. lost its bid for
higher tariffs and import quotas on fixed-focus cameras using
35-millimeter and 110-type film.
   The U.S. International Trade Commission ruled 4-0 that
such imports, which totaled about $689 million last year,
aren't injuring a domestic industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Keystone's petition had been opposed by Eastman Kodak Co.,
Rochester, N.Y., and other camera manufacturers and
importers.
   ITC Chairman Anne Brunsdale said that Keystone Camera, a
subsidiary of Keystone Camera Products Corp., Clifton, N.J.,
had failed to show that imports supplied by Eastman Kodak and
foreign-owned companies have been a "substantial cause" of
injury to Keystone.
   David Rohr, another ITC member, said the economic
difficulties cited by Keystone in its petition resulted more
from a "failure" of that company's marketing strategy than
from import competition.
   Keystone had told the ITC that it had tried to meet stiff
import competition in the marketing of its fixed-focus
cameras, but would be forced to shift production to foreign
plants if the government turned down its bid for import
restrictions.
   The imports come primarily from Japan and other Asian
countries but have been coming in growing volume from Brazil
and cross-border assembly plants in Mexico.
   Although Eastman Kodak was identified during the ITC
inquiry as an importer, Chairman Brunsdale noted that the
company is a major domestic camera manufacturer even though
it assembles fixed-focus cameras in foreign plants for
eventual sale in the U.S.
   The ITC will send a report on its investigation to the
White House later, but yesterday's unanimous decision against
import restrictions means President Bush won't be required to
take any follow-up action under U.S. trade laws.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE will halt trading for one hour
if the Dow Jones Industrial Average falls 250 points. The Big
Board delays program traders' use of its automated order
system by five minutes only if stock-index futures fall
enough to trigger trading limits at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Yesterday's edition misstated the Big Board
restrictions.
   (See: "Trading Halt Braked Steep Stock Slide" -- WSJ July
24, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   BOEING Co.'s stock was off $4.75 a share at its lowest
point in Monday's composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. A table in yesterday's edition misstated the amount
of decline because of a database error.
   ---
   ALLIED-SIGNAL Inc. had completed all its stock buy-back
programs as of the end of 1989. In January 1990 it authorized
a new 25 million-share buy-back, under which six million
shares have been purchased. A table in Monday's edition
misstated the status of these purchases.
   (See: "Abreast of the Market: Stock Market Loses Vital
Corporate Crutch --- Dip in Buy-Backs, Takeovers Cited" --
WSJ July 23, 1990)
   ---
   BB&amp;T FINANCIAL Corp. is a commercial bank based in Wilson,
N.C. Yesterday's OTC Focus column incorrectly identified the
company.
   (See: "OTC Focus: Market Plunges as Sell-Off Continues;
Intel Falls 5/8 to 44 1/2 on 3.1 Million Shares" -- WSJ July
24, 1990)
   ---
   ANGELES Corp. said its agreement to acquire a three-year
option to buy 22% of its common and other securities from
certain former owners of Quinoco Cos. involves an exercise
price for the option of $30 million. Monday's edition
incorrectly said Angeles agreed to pay $30 million for the
option.
   (See: "Business Brief -- Angeles Corp.: Pact Set to
Acquire Option to Buy Back a 22% Stake" -- WSJ July 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Resources Measure
   That Cuts Timber
   Sales Advances
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House Appropriations subcommittee approved
a $12.8 billion natural-resources bill that would cut federal
timber sales in the Pacific Northwest in fiscal 1991 while
increasing funding for the Indian Health Service by nearly
27%.
   Total sales of timber from federal lands would be cut to
about 9.26 billion board feet nationally. Within the
Northwest, the new 3.2 billion board foot level is an
estimated 20% reduction from the current ceiling.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Forest Service road funds would be cut to $151.6 million,
and though timber-industry allies blocked deeper reductions
sought by the subcommittee chairman, Democratic Rep. Sidney
Yates, the action reflects strong environmental pressure to
better protect forests and threatened wildlife.
   Mr. Yates had proposed cutting sales in the Northwest by
300 million more feet. But the new 3.2 billion-foot level is
more than 1.1 billion feet below the annual level of only two
years ago.
   The northern spotted owl, which the U.S. recently declared
"threatened" under the endangered species law, is the most
visible symbol of a pitched fight over the fate of the
forests, and the bill would provide an estimated $2.2 million
to protect the bird, including research and law enforcement
funds.
   The measure includes none of the $175 million sought by
the Bush administration for its "America the Beautiful"
tree-planting program. But elsewhere, the bill significantly
exceeds President Bush's budget in funding continuing
programs to protect natural resources.
   Funds for the management of Western range land and other
renewable resources under the Bureau of Land Management would
be increased by almost 25% from fiscal 1990 levels, for
example, and the bill is supportive of a White House
initiative to end timber sales entirely in eight so-called
below-cost forests where receipts don't match the cost of
running the program.
   Always a battleground for industry and environmental
interests, the underlying measure has drawn increased
interest in recent years for its role in providing public
funding for the arts. The National Endowment for the Arts
would receive an estimated $180 million, and more than $36
million is provided for the Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts here, including $15 million for what amounts to a
subsidy to help erase the center's deficit.
   Both decisions are sure to provoke controversy. The
endowment has become a favorite target for conservatives, who
have sought to attach restrictions to its federal grants. In
the case of the Kennedy Center, the bulk of the money would
still be in the form of a Park Service appropriation to
maintain the building and grounds. But critics argue that
including the $15 million to ease the current deficit sets a
precedent of having the government subsidize operating costs
that ought to be met by ticket sales and private donations.
   The eclectic nature of the bill makes for an extraordinary
array of alliances, and when lawmakers went behind closed
doors to resolve their differences, the agenda ran from
timber sales to arts to a ban on offshore oil exploration.
"Any national security involved?" asked Massachusetts Rep.
Silvio Conte, the ranking Republican on the full panel.
   "Just personal security," answered Illinois Rep. Yates.
   Political security is a factor, too, in construction
accounts laced with back-home projects. Park Service
construction funding would grow to $225 million, or more than
twice the president's request, and an estimated $153.4
million is provided for land acquisition and state grants, an
increase of more than 75% over the current fiscal year, which
ends Sept. 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Mixed-Up-Media: The Same New Thing
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
07/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Venice -- At this year's Venice Biennale you find yourself
fervently wishing that the dismal quality of most of the art
could be blamed on the poor judgment of the organizers.
Instead, the exposition really does reflect some important
international trends and changes in taste. What actually
seems to be taking place is a general move toward a less
demanding notion of what art is and what it can do for the
people who experience it. In particular, there is a broad
sense of confusion between art and entertainment through ever
more mindless repetition and ever more kitsch.
   This slackening of standards seems to be reflected in the
increasing confusion about the already indistinct boundaries
between the various categories for which prizes are given. In
fact, the awarding of the prizes at this year's Biennale was
nothing short of perverse. The painting prize went to the
Italian Giovanni Anselmo, for his elegant but boringly
repetitious series of wall-mounted granite slabs, which most
people would consider relief sculpture. By the same addled
logic, the sculpture prize went to an iterative set of
photographs of industrial buildings by the West German
artists Bernd and Hilla Becher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There was some consolation -- in fact it was a sort of
consolation prize -- in the award for best young artist.
Anish Kapoor's grand and mysterious stone sculptures were the
very best things in the whole Biennale anyway, and deserved
even better from the judges. But the topsy-turvy system
prevailed again, since Mr. Kapoor is not, at 36 years of age,
a younger artist, except in the sense that he is younger than
the artists who are older than he is. Moreover, his work
fills the entire British pavilion instead of being displayed
with the other "youngers" in the Aperto section at the
Arsenale.
   As widely expected, the prize for the best national
exhibit went to the U.S. for the elaborate mixed-media
installation by Jenny Holzer, the first woman to represent
the U.S. at a Biennale. I wish I could wax enthusiastic about
this landmark event, but I found Ms. Holzer's installation
unutterably pretentious. Even the endlessly varied flashing
lights reflected on the impressively shiny marble floors
could not give luster to the embarrassing platitudes they
spelled out. This is not only the most overbearingly
repetitious display at the Biennale, but in its own
middlebrow way it also is a form of kitsch: overwrought,
slick and full of inflated sentiment.
   Back in the days when Ms. Holzer plastered her slogans on
New York City bus stops, they had a certain charm. But what
went over well as ephemera doesn't play at all when carved in
stone. Now that Ms. Holzer has taken this giant step for
womankind, one can only hope she will devote her energies to
mental development and reflection so that her thoughts can
match the complexity of her technical means.
   To a certain extent, the numbing boredom of Ms. Holzer's
pieces and that of the other repetitive artists on display
stems from their decision to work in mixed media. Because
this art lacks intrinsic value, substance, drama, subtlety of
color -- really anything at all that would cause anyone to
linger in front of them, they impose themselves on art-goers
by filling space, and this they do through redundancy, by
reproducing facsimiles of the kernel of banality that defines
them.
   Reinhard Mucha's clusters of little chairs stuffed into
tall glass cases would be lost in the large marble interior
of the West German pavilion if they were not rhythmically
repeated. Similarly, in the Japanese pavilion, Toshikatsu
Endo's tar-soaked logs and Saburo Muraoka's large iron books
and pedestals need the insistence of repetition to give drama
to what are not very exciting individual forms.
   The use of such repeated forms goes back to the very
beginning of modern art and is as much a part of the
modernist aesthetic as it is a part of modern life. Here,
regrettably, that repetition is mostly a kind of filler,
rather than a source of density and strength.
   Kitsch is also one of the characteristic features of
modern life. But only in recent years has it become a direct
presence on the art scene. At this year's Biennale it
achieves a kind of apotheosis, and informs a new
international artistic language based on the cheap, ironic
simulacrum of complexity, the pretense of meaningful
ambiguity in works whose other implications all are painfully
obvious.
   Dutch artist Rob Scholte's slickly rendered pictures of
toy clowns, and of monkeys painting pictures, look as if they
were found in a five-and-10-cent store a decade ago. Antoni
Miralda's installation in the Spanish pavilion, complete with
a large fetishistic shoe and a giant bouquet of pink flowers,
makes a nod toward radical social critique but remains rooted
in kitsch.
   The Israeli-born artist Izhar Patkin sculpts gaudy
cowboy-like renderings of Don Quixote that would be
appropriate on the most vulgar theme-park carousel.
   Leading this pack, the U.S. artist Jeff Koons, reigning
king of art-kitsch, has brought to Venice a sort of homage to
Italy and Italian womanhood. Mr. Koons's large wooden
sculpture and five even larger paintings portray the artist
having sex with the Italian politician and ex-porn star known
as La Cicciolina.
   Although Mr. Koons no doubt meant this to be the most
shocking piece in the Biennale, he was upstaged by the
American group known as Gran Fury. It is exhibiting posters
on the subject of AIDS and related issues. What made the
Italians truly "furioso" was not Gran Fury's sloganeering
about sex and contraception, but a poster in which a picture
of the pope was garlanded with propaganda he officially
deplores. Local feelings against this sacrilegious lampoon
ran so high that the poster almost was removed. Almost. The
Biennale gets no money from the NEA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900725-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900725-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TYSNA LIZC ORX CUM NSS TWX BEC CTC SRA AN N LYO ASH BT ARC
IBP DTE LZ LADF BV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Inco Ltd              $1.94  $1.10  (3) $ .91  (7)   76.36
  Lyondell Petro         1.93   1.47  (4)  1.23  (7)   31.29
  Ashland Oil            1.79   1.41  (6)  1.39 (10)   26.95
  Bankers Trust NY       2.06   1.83  (5)  1.80 (11)   12.57
  Atlantic Richfield     2.36   2.23  (7)   ...         5.83
  IBP Inc                 .34    ...        .24  (3)   41.67
  Detroit Edison          .74    ...        .62  (6)   19.35
  Lubrizol                .92    ...        .79  (6)   16.46
  Ladd Furniture          .18    ...        .16  (4)   12.50
  Blockbuster Ent         .19    ...        .17  (5)   11.76
  Tyson Foods Cl A        .51    ...        .47  (6)    8.51
  Liz Claiborne           .40    ...        .38  (7)    5.26
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Oryx Energy          ($ .03) $ .02  (6) $ .09 (12)    ...
  Cummins Engine          .15    .39  (3)   .44  (7)   61.54
  NS Group                .24    ...        .34  (3)   29.41
  Time Warner           (3.29)   ...      (2.72) (4)    ...
  Beckman Instru          .30    ...        .34  (3)   11.76
  Contel Corp             .27    ...        .29  (6)    6.90
  Stratus Computer        .34    ...        .36 (13)    5.56
  Amoco                   .75    ...        .79 (16)    5.06

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
