<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Soviet Rescue Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boris Yeltsin's supporters in Russia are calling the new
economic plan that he has shepherded onto the Soviet agenda a
major victory. Power, they assert, is devolving away from the
center and toward the republics.
   The program is called the Shatalin plan, after the
principal economic adviser to Mikhail Gorbachev, who
apparently has given his tacit approval to the proposal while
seeking some way to save face for his prime minister, Nikolai
Ryzhkov. Mr. Ryzhkov has clung to the notion that the Kremlin
should retain major control over the direction of the
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Quite possibly, Mr. Gorbachev felt compelled to yield
ground to restore some order to a system in crisis. Bread has
suddenly disappeared from Moscow, despite a record grain
harvest this year of perhaps 260 million tons. The
all-too-familiar problems of equipment and distribution
breakdowns are cited as culprits. Bread rationing had shown
up in outlying areas weeks ago.
   The Gorbachev government had problems enough even before
the volatile issue of empty bread shelves hit Moscow. The
republics are demanding control of economic policy and state
properties. Mr. Yeltsin's Russian Federation, for example,
recently declared itself owner of all of Russia's natural
resources. Mr. Yeltsin has threatened to start printing his
own ruble. Mr. Gorbachev has tried to blunt such efforts, but
to little avail. The resulting disputes have contributed to
the Soviet Union's worsening case of economic paralysis.
   Mr. Yeltsin's backers believe the new plan marks the end
of central planning. The republics, they claim, now will make
major economic policy decisions on matters ranging from
privatization of industry and property to creating stock
markets. Ukraine will regulate its own agriculture and
Uzbekistan its gold mines, in theory. Gosplan, the
stultifying planning bureaucracy, will become redundant.
   If all this is true, it would indeed mean that Mr.
Gorbachev has given up on his efforts to conduct economic
reform from the Kremlin. The reform package his government
brought forth last spring -- a product of many vying factions
-- apparently has collapsed under its own contradictions. Mr.
Gorbachev and most certainly the Communist Party he heads are
losing favor with the people, who are turning to local and
republic-level leaders in hopes that they can relieve
shortages and prevent a breakdown in civil order.
   Perhaps Mr. Gorbachev thinks the deal with Mr. Yeltsin
will buy him time. By ceding economic independence, he may
hope to preserve political union. Presumably he thinks that
the Baltic States, Georgia, Ukraine, Armenia and the others
will focus on economic policy and not wrest away additional
powers, such as the right to raise their own armies, or to
make their own foreign policy.
   This may be a forlorn hope. Economic autonomy, if that is
what is afoot, is a big step toward political autonomy. All
over the Soviet Union, political muscles are being flexed:
   The Armenian government recently declared two Soviet
presidential decrees invalid, one of which ordered Armenian
nationalist troops disarmed. Five Baltic states are sending
their own delegates to a global environmental congress in
Sweden, independent of Moscow. The Ukrainian and Lithuanian
governments are among those drawing up laws to set up their
own military.
   In the Georgian city of Tbilisi, more than 100,000
Georgians have renounced their Soviet citizenship, though
independently issued Georgian passports have been
confiscated.
   Quite possibly, Mr. Gorbachev has acknowledged the shift
toward republican independence because he feels he cannot
master it. Short of a Unionwide military crackdown, an
extremely problematical undertaking, he has lost the ability
to control events. Control is increasingly in the republics
or in the streets. Every day it seems more likely that the
nation will break apart. If that happens, the West had better
fasten its safety belts.
   At the opening yesterday in Moscow of the party congress
of the Russian republic, a worker called for "returning the
nation to 1985." This, of course, was the year the country's
leadership fell to Mikhail Gorbachev, who sat stonily on the
platform listening to this and other attacks. The Mikhail
Gorbachev who meets with President Bush in Helsinki this
weekend is a man sitting atop a large and terribly unsettled
nation. While he may appreciate the chance to exchange views
on various foreign matters with the American President, Mr.
Gorbachev clearly has more than enough to handle in the 15
Soviet republics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP SPC J.UDN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Security Pacific Corp. -- $100 million of notes due Sept.
15, 1993, priced at par to float quarterly at 25 basis points
above the London interbank offered rate. The initial coupon
rate will be set Friday. The noncallable notes will pay
interest quarterly, with the first interest payment being
made Dec. 19. Rated single-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by First Boston Corp.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Capstead Securities -- $100 million of collateralized
mortgage obligations offered in six classes by Morgan Stanley
&amp; Co. The securities, which carry coupon rates of 9.60% to
9.90%, were priced Thursday. The offering, through Capstead
1990-2, is backed by 30-year whole loans with a weighted
average coupon rate of 10.782% and weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 29.83 years. Yield spreads and other
details weren't available.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Nationwide Anglia Building Society (U.K.) -- #75 million
of fungible 13 5/8% Eurobonds due March 8, 1994, priced at
102.10 via Samuel Montagu &amp; Co. Yield, less full fees, is 106
basis points over comparable gilt, or British government
bond. Fees 1 5/8.
   Uniden Corp. (Japan) -- $120 million of Eurobonds due
Sept. 20, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 5
1/8% coupon at par, via Nomura International Ltd. Guaranteed
by Sanwa Bank Ltd. Each $5,000 bond carries one warrant,
exercisable from Oct. 4, 1990, through Sept. 13, 1994, to buy
shares at an expected 2 1/2% premium over the closing price
when terms are fixed Tuesday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Starts Corp. (Japan) -- 63 million Swiss francs of
privately placed convertible notes due Dec. 31, 1994, with a
fixed 4 3/4% coupon at par via Nomura Bank Switzerland. Put
option Dec. 31, 1992, at 108.50 to yield 8.25%. Each 50,000
Swiss franc note convertible from Oct. 18, 1990, to Dec. 16,
1994. Final conversion terms to be fixed Monday. Fees 1.38.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Entergy Expands Repurchases
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ETR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Entergy Corp. said it will spend as much as
an additional $135 million on its stock repurchase program.
   The utility holding company said it has purchased about
13.8 million shares, or roughly $275 million of its common,
since initiating the program in November 1989. Entergy has
about 190.8 million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   When the Cat Died,
   The British Sat Up
   And Took Notice
   ---
   Animals and Peers of Realm
   Find English Food a Bit
   On the Poisonous Side
   ----
   By Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Even in a country that loves a good whodunit,
the House of Lords seems an unlikely site for a poisoning.
Consider, then, the case of Baron Hooson, distinguished Welsh
barrister and politician.
   On the afternoon of May 5, 1988, the baron lunched on a
salmon-and-mayonnaise sandwich in the members-only Bishops
Bar at the House of Lords. "I was amazed the next day when I
felt very ill," he recalls. Suffering from severe nausea,
vomiting and diarrhea, Lord Hooson managed to travel home to
Wales by train. "It took me three weeks in all to recover,"
he says. "I lost a stone {14 pounds} in less than a week."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Telephoned by sheepish Westminster officials, the baron
learned he was one among some 120 peers poisoned at the House
of Lords. The culprit: "Salmonella enteritidis," contained in
the eggs used to make mayonnaise in the Lords' kitchen. "I
was astounded," Lord Hooson says.
   The baron may be a peer of the realm, but his experience
is all too common. Scarcely a month seems to pass in Britain
without a new food-poisoning scare. Over the past two years,
a series of outbreaks -- some resulting in deaths -- has made
many here wonder if anything is safe to eat.
   Red meat? "Mad cow disease" has scratched beef off many
menus. Chicken or eggs? A huge outbreak of salmonella in
poultry led to the slaughter of more than one million
infected hens. Soft cheese? Listeria poisoning from
unpasteurized varieties has been linked to miscarriages.
Don't eat the shellfish from Britain's sewage-contaminated
North Sea coast. And don't drink the water in Hampshire: It's
infested with tiny shrimps, some of them alive.
   In the old joke, hell is where the chefs are British. But
British food has gone one step beyond the merely bad. Now, it
is dangerous.
   "We've got our just deserts," declares Richard Lacey,
professor of microbiology at Leeds University and an expert
on food poisoning. British food, he says, "is cheap and nasty
-- it's basically unsafe."
   Last year, England and Wales reported nearly 30,000 cases
of salmonella, including 61 deaths. The U.S., with a
population nearly quintuple that of England and Wales, had
about 40,000 reported cases.
   A recent survey of 5,000 eateries in England and Wales
found that nearly one in eight presents a "significant or
imminent health risk." Fish-and-chip fanciers should take
particular care; 19% of "takeaway" restaurants posed a health
hazard. Oxford University's Keble College recently was fined
$1,900 for selling food deemed unfit for human consumption.
   All this isn't so surprising, given that Britain has never
protected its citizens from their own worst food habits.
Loath to coddle tummies, the Nanny State has no national
equivalent of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
   The result is a catalog of lackadaisical management from
farmyard to dinner plate. Pigs and poultry are given feed
made from ground-up carcasses of other, possibly diseased,
animals. Once in stores, food isn't always properly
refrigerated. Some items languish on open shelves; others sit
in "chill cabinets" with temperatures as high as 68 degrees
Fahrenheit. Restaurants aren't licensed. They aren't even
inspected before opening.
   Stung by its record on food safety, the Thatcher
government just passed a new law aimed at tightening
regulations. David Maclean, the government minister in charge
of food safety, insists the law will give health inspectors
"all the powers they need" to fight food poisoning. "We'll
not let any filthy, scruffy little takeaways damage the
reputations of our excellent restaurants," he says.
   Of course, this being Britain, the food scares also have
been fodder for merriment and finger-pointing. When soft
cheese was implicated in listeria poisoning, tabloid
newspapers dubbed the uproar "listeria hysteria" -- and
blamed the French.
   At the height of the salmonella-in-eggs scare last fall,
nuns at a rural convent in the Midlands refused a government
order to slaughter their infected flock. Led by their
82-year-old Mother Superior, six sisters locked themselves in
their henhouse for three hours while a government
veterinarian hammered on the door.
   But it was the death of Max that really caused a stir.
Last May, this five-year-old Siamese cat from Bristol
succumbed to the ravages of mad cow disease, or bovine
spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), which makes cows' brains go
spongy and causes the animals to stagger and foam at the
mouth.
   The government insists there isn't any proof humans are at
risk from eating contaminated beef; yet Max had been fed
beef, and his demise prompted fears that BSE can, indeed,
pass among species.
   British beef consumption plunged 25%. Italy, West Germany
and France banned imports. To bolster confidence, members of
Parliament staged a televised tasting of steak tartare (raw
beef and raw egg), and Agriculture Minister John Selwyn
Gummer was photographed coaxing his 4-year-old daughter to
eat a hamburger. Eventually, import bans were lifted and beef
sales rebounded. But the European boycott cost the beef
industry $57 million.
   Beginning in January, the food-safety rule will, for the
first time, require training for anyone who handles food. It
will strengthen inspectors' powers to close flagrant
offenders. Food outlets will have to register their existence
with local officials.
   As a borough health inspector, Samy Sinniah has seen the
food horror-show up close. For seven years, he has waded
through the grime of middling restaurants. During one recent
inspection, he found such basic problems as food kept in open
cans, an uncovered garbage pail and a food-storage shed that
wasn't "vermin-proof."
   On his scale of one-to-10, with 10 being the best, the
place merited a five. "Six is bad," he says. "I give a lot of
sixes." Though Mr. Sinniah can bring flagrant or persistent
violators to court, his powers generally fall short of health
inspectors in the U.S., who can close unsafe restaurants
faster.
   Even under new laws, food premises won't be licensed, so
health officers can't prevent a scuzzy place from opening.
"It's crazy," says Bob Tanner, a former public-health
official. "It's like taking a car onto the highway and saying
to the authorities: `Look, guys, I'm driving this thing now;
if you want to catch up with me later to see if it's safe, do
so.'"
   Britons have now faced up to the fact that nothing sacred
is free of taint -- not the House of Lords, not Oxford
University, not the henhouse of a religious order. Even
home-cooking is suspect.
   One problem here is that women have joined the work force,
and they, like many other workers, want easy-to-prepare
dinners. In Britain, these are found on "chill displays" at
grocery stores. These displays are stacked with prepared
potato salads doused in mayonnaise, vivid orange and green
cole slaw, creamy "roule" cheeses, as well as Indian-style
chicken kabobs and Italian-style lasagna.
   Often these foods aren't chilled -- or they are just kind
of chilled, making them breeding grounds for germs. New
government regulations will require shops to lower the
thermostats.
   But that isn't enough to save British consumers from their
own ineptness, say British food experts. They fear Brits
can't be trusted to properly cook the "chill display" items
that need to be reheated. Says Mr. Lacey, the professor:
"It's all part of the convenience revolution, and the use of
microwave ovens. Food is reheated, but never cooked through.
The food industry is producing what it thinks the public
wants -- instant meals -- and the public is not cooking them
as thoroughly as they should."
   Quite a change from days of yore, says Stephen James, head
of chemical engineering at the Institute of Food Research in
Bristol. "Ten years ago in England, everyone went home to a
roast cooked by a housewife," he says. "There's very little
danger in something cooked for four hours in a 200-degree
Celsius oven. But it's a different attitude altogether now."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Grappling With Women's Evolving Roles
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM IPG WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The full-time homemaker of the '50s gave way to the
superwoman of the '70s. The woman of the '90s, however, is
more difficult to peg.
   Marketers are becoming more aware of the growing
complexity of women's work and home roles, and of the risks
of alienating one group of women by appealing strictly to
another.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For a deep-pocketed marketer such as American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph, the answer is to pitch different messages to
different segments of the female market. One recent print ad
for AT&amp;T, for example, shows a professional woman chatting on
a cellular phone. Her unlikely setting: the bleachers of her
child's little league game. Another print ad, however, leaves
the child question alone, simply showing a woman with a bag
of groceries. And the telecommunications giant also runs
plenty of homey TV ads that show mom in the kitchen, talking
on the phone. "Our ads should represent the the broad
spectrum of the American public," says a company spokesman.
   "The problem is how to reach women when the roles are so
mixed up," says Joel Weiner, formerly senior vice president
of marketing at Kraft General Foods Corp.
   Complicating that problem is the tension that exists
between mothers who work and those who stay at home: Many
working mothers feel guilty about leaving their kids all day;
women who stay home feel slighted by society. "You can't talk
to all women in the same way," says Judsen Culbreth, editor
in chief of Working Mother magazine. "By targeting one group,
you can alienate the other."
   Few companies are willing to risk alienating working women
to pitch traditional housewives. Some 65% of all mothers
bring home a paycheck these days, including more than 50% of
mothers with children under the age of one, according to the
latest figures available from the Census Bureau. And not
surprisingly, the average yearly income of a two-income
household is some $13,000 higher than than households with a
single breadwinner.
   Good Housekeeping magazine thought it had found the key to
the woman of the 1990s with its well-known "new
traditionalist" campaign, created by Jordan, McGrath, Case &amp;
Taylor. All the women in the first three ads -- photographs
of women and their children accompanied by a text exalting
the traditional values of home and family -- stayed home
full-time. One had never worked.
   The striking black and white visuals got the attention of
the trade, but the message drew the ire of women nationwide
who resented the implication that professional success was no
longer an appropriate goal. "We got a lot of criticism from
women who thought new traditionalism meant a return to the
kitchen," says Malcolm MacDougall, who created the ads. "We
modified the campaign in order to overcome any possible
misunderstanding."
   Nearly every Good Housekeeping ad since the initial flap
has shown a woman who is formally employed. One recent ad
depicts three obstetricians surrounded by their own children.
The text proclaims "They delivered over 300 babies last year.
Yet they still had time to help their kids with homework,
enjoy family vacations, go out with their husbands on
Saturday night." Another ad features a single mother who
makes her living repairing high voltage power lines in the
Blue Ridge Mountains.
   Other marketers continue to emphasize mom's role in the
family but put a contemporary twist on it. In a new TV
commercial created for McDonald's by Leo Burnett, a little
girl waits for her mother to return from work on a rainy
night. When the woman -- apparently a single mom -- finally
arrives looking exhausted, the child reminds her of a
promised meal at McDonald's. On the way to the restaurant,
the daughter listens to an account of her mother's trying day
at the office.
   McDonald's, like AT&amp;T and others, has a big enough budget
to depict women in a variety of roles. More frequently,
however, advertisers don't have the resources to keep both
camps happy. In those cases, some wary marketers say the
solution is to emphasize what they have in common: stress.
"The bridge between the woman at home with babies and the
woman at the office is that we're all too busy," says Laurel
Cutler, vice chairman of New York advertising agency
FCB/Leber Katz Partners.
   A current print ad for American Cyanamid's Pine-Sol
Spruce-Ups (pre-moistened cleaning towels), for example,
shows a woman with a wipe in one hand and cellular phone in
the other. The model is so busy, in fact, she's also in the
process of throwing on a jacket. But is the woman rushing off
to a job or a social engagement? Her clothes don't give a
clue.
   "It's a convenience product and in our minds, we're
thinking of working women," says Barry Kesten, product
manager for Spruce-Ups. "But it could be the middle of the
day, and she could be on her way to meet friends. We tried to
keep it neutral." (American Cyanamid recently agreed to sell
Pine-Sol to Clorox.)
   A recent campaign done for Borden's Creamette brand of
pasta by Grey Advertising shows a woman walking into the
kitchen just as her husband and kids are about to pop the
pasta into boiling water. One assumes the woman is returning
from work, but the details are left intentionally vague.
"What we've tried to do is identify strategies for coping,"
says Barbara Feigin, Grey's director of research. "The ad
says, `We get what your life is like.'"
   ---
   New Pontiac Campaign
                                                                                                       

   General Motors Corp.'s Pontiac division plans to launch a
revised ad campaign and pricing structure for its 1991
models.
   The campaign, slated to start later this month, has the
theme "Don't settle for less than the ride of your life on
the Pontiac Express," and is targeted at buyers age 35 and
younger. The campaign was created by D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp;
Bowles.
   Dwight Logie, Pontiac's assistant general sales manager in
charge of marketing, said 80% of the division's advertising
budget will focus on its core products: the Grand Am, Grand
Prix, Sunbird and Trans Sport minivan. The division's model
lineup remains much the same as last year. The ads are meant
to appeal to "nonconformists."
   Pontiac also plans to shift money into discounting option
packages from cash rebates. "The focus option packages allow
us to put incentive money where it's right on the sticker,
and it doesn't go up and down from month to month," said John
Middlebrook, Pontiac's general manager.
   Pontiac also will offer the looks of its higher-priced
models as a separate option to buyers of lower-priced
versions of the same car. Thus, the buyer of a $17,000 1991
Grand Prix can pay $2,600 extra for an "aero performance
package" to make that version look like a Grand Prix costing
$26,000, a Pontiac spokesman said. Pontiac officials
acknowledge the risk that consumers may be less willing to
buy the higher-priced version.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: Lintas:New York acquired a 49% stake in GS&amp;B
Advertising, a Hispanic ad agency in Coral Gables, Fla. Terms
weren't disclosed. Lintas, a unit of Interpublic Group, said
it will merge its Lintas:Latina agency with GS&amp;B to form an
agency with billings of $32 million.
                                                                                                       

   EVANS: Evans Communications' Los Angeles office reached an
agreement with Scott Lancaster Mills Atha, a small Los
Angeles agency, under which Evans will acquire that agency's
clients and a number of its top executives. Terms weren't
disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Suzanne H. Gilbert was named executive vice
president, chief financial and administrative officer at
Lintas:Campbell-Ewald, based in Warren, Mich.

   TIME WARNER Inc. named Richard Heinemann, 51, vice
president of advertising for the Time Inc. Magazine
subsidiary, which includes 24 magazines. Also, Stephen J.
Seabolt, 38, was named U.S. ad sales director for Time
magazine.
                                                                                                       

   ASSIGNMENT: Lehn &amp; Fink Products Group, Montvale, N.J.,
awarded its Diaperene ad account to Warwick, Baker &amp; Fiore,
New York. Billings weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Congress Shields Itself
   From Cobra's Bite
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   You reported that many companies are being sued for not
complying with the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Resolution Act
("More Companies Bitten by `Cobra' Lawsuits," Law column,
Aug. 2), but that'll never happen to Congress. Just as it has
with 16 other employee-benefit laws, Congress has exempted
itself from Cobra.
   A young man of our acquaintance was employed by a Southern
congressman to supervise his three district offices. In the
summer of 1989 this young man accepted a position in the
private sector just after he and his wife learned that she
had become pregnant. They didn't worry about health-care
costs because he had excellent insurance benefits with his
job and they assumed that he had the same rights as other
American workers under Cobra: His present coverage could be
continued for up to 18 months by his paying the premium
himself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But they were wrong] They soon found that Congress had
exempted itself from Cobra. His new employer's insurance,
while a good plan, would not cover the pregnancy because it
was a pre-existing condition. The couple became uninsured for
the pregnancy.
   Recently President Bush signed the widely acclaimed
Americans With Disabilities Act. Any complaints filed against
private employers under that bill can go into federal court
for a fair adjudication. But complaints by congressional
employees will be handled by the House and Senate Ethics
committees. Congress, as America's self-appointed privileged
class, will be both judge and jury for charges against its
members.
   In July. Sen. Charles Grassley (R., Iowa) offered an
amendment to the Civil Rights Act of 1990 to give
congressional employees the same access to the federal court
system, but the Senate tabled the amendment, 63 to 26. That
vote, noted Sen. Grassley, "makes equal rights an illusion on
Capitol Hill. It will ensure that Congress will never live
under the same law that applies to the rest of America."
   The situation recalls the story of the Kentuckian
testifying before a hostile Senate committee. A senator
asked: "By the way, Col. Smith, are you a real colonel who
earned his rank while serving our country or are you just one
of those `Kentucky colonels'?"
   "You've got me," laughed the witness. "That `colonel' in
front of my name is just like `the honorable' in front of
yours -- it don't mean a damn thing]"
   James G. Schneider
   Kankakee, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Drifts in Dull Session as Dealers
   Await the August Employment Report
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In directionless trading, the dollar drifted
below its levels in London late Monday against all major
currencies except the Canadian dollar. However, compared with
its late-Friday New York quotes, the greenback rose against
several currencies.
   In the absence of fresh ideas, many dealers said they
would await Friday's release of the August U.S. employment
report before making any big decisions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The market is still trading like a summertime market,"
said Donald Hubbard, a Midland Bank treasury officer in New
York. "It will take a few days to pick up."
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.5815 marks, down from 1.5837 marks late Monday in London,
but higher than 1.5755 marks late Friday in New York. The
U.S. currency was also changing hands at 143.50 yen, below
143.53 yen in London late Monday and 143.79 yen late Friday
in New York.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index plunged another
750.77 points to close the morning session at 24156.87.
   Monday's Labor Day holiday in the U.S. and Canada has
traditionally marked the shift to more intense market
activity, but Iraq's early-August invasion of Kuwait put a
twist in the normal cycle, traders said.
   The eagerness for Friday's U.S. economic data is
understandable. The currency market, which for a month has
bought the dollar on the prospect of war and sold it on
fundamentals, will get its first look at the effect higher
oil prices have had on a weak U.S. economy.
   John Elliott, a Bank of America vice president in Los
Angeles, said the North American market had no intention of
pushing the dollar significantly higher yesterday, but was
poised to send it lower if U.S. stock prices matched losses
of other markets around the world. However, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average ended off less than a point.
   Mark-yen trading continued to be a focus of dealings, but
showed no more decision than dollar activity.
   The mark was quoted in late New York trading at 90.737
yen, above 90.62 yen late Monday in London, but well below
91.266 yen in New York Friday.
   Thomas Benfer, a senior currency marketing representative
in New York for Bank of Montreal, said the mark's decline
from 92.081 yen last Wednesday reflects a gradual reaction to
Japan's decision Thursday to lift its discount rate to 6%
from 5.25%.
   The mark, like the yen, has benefited all summer from
expectations that German interest rates will rise. But
Monday, Karl Thomas, a Bundesbank policy maker, said the
costs of German reunion won't necessarily lead to higher
domestic interest rates. Three-month government paper yields
more than 8% in West Germany, compared with 7% in Japan.
   The Canadian dollar continued to slide from its recent
12-year peak. In late New York trading, it was quoted at
86.18 U.S. cents, dropping from 86.69 cents in London Monday
and 86.42 cents in New York Friday. Only slightly more than a
week ago, the Canadian dollar purchased more than 88.5 cents.
   A report Friday that Canada's gross domestic product
shrank at an annualized rate of 1.6% in the second quarter
intensified a belief that Canada may beat the U.S. into
recession. Given those poor economic prospects, Mr. Benfer
said, "the feeling is that the Bank of Canada will have no
recourse" but to loosen credit some more.
   Sterling, after losing last week most of its 10-cent
August gain, found a little support yesterday. It was quoted
late in New York at $1.8790, compared with $1.8730 late
Monday in London and $1.8905 Friday in New York.
   The dollar ended European trading slightly higher,
supported by technical considerations.
   Activity in the European market was centered around the
European Monetary System, where the lira and the peseta lost
ground against the German currency.
   Milan dealers said the Bank of Italy has recently
increased liquidity in the domestic money market, pushing
short-term interest rates sharply lower. Overnight lira rates
dropped to less than 1% Monday night.
   The dollar finished Asian trading mixed, up against the
yen but lower against the pound and the mark. It was last
quoted in Tokyo Tuesday at 144.05 yen, above 143.55 yen late
Monday.
   Traders said the market experienced a correction following
the yen's strong gains over the last few trading days against
European currencies.
   Separately, on the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold
for current delivery settled at $383.70 an ounce, up $1.40.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $384.60 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Desert Song: Humor on the Home Front
   ----
   By Laura Gramling
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, the U.S. government
halted trade with Iraq and sent out troops. Ten thousand
Westerners in the Middle East discovered they were hostages.
Americans began bracing for a recession -- or war.
   And Jeff Gonzer and Mike Coleman started writing songs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gonzer, the host of the morning show at Boston radio
station WZLX, thought he might try his hand at parody. He
jotted down some lyrics. He showed them to the station's head
of production, Mike Coleman, who wrote some more and set them
to some familiar music. A few days later a new song -- to the
tune of Paul Simon's "Me and Julio Down by the School Yard"
made its debut:
                                                                                                       

   Well we're on the way
   American troops are coming
   We're on the way
   Not takin' our time so goodbye Saddam
   King of Baloney, we'll clean your corona
   Seein' me &amp; Hussein down by the oilfield
                                                                                                       

   Listeners in Boston have also been treated to such
standards as "Please Mr. Postman" -- as the Marvelettes
probably never envisioned it:
                                                                                                       

   Oh yes wait a minute Mr. Hussein
   Kuwaaiit isn't yours Mr. Hussein&amp;
                                                                                                       

   Messrs. Gonzer and Coleman are part of a time-honored
tradition. For as long as wars have threatened nations,
people have longed to, well, lighten up a little. The
Gonzer-and-Coleman idea hasn't yet reached the mighty status
of a "trend." But Iraq parody is definitely catching on. The
folks at Dallas's Magic 102.9 FM, a soft-rock station, are
treating listeners to "Hussein Is Crazy," an opus based on
last year's Fine Young Cannibals hit, "She Drives Me Crazy":
                                                                                                       

   Hussein is crazy, ooh, ooh
   He's making news, ooh, ooh
   Hussein is crazy, ooh, ooh
   Worse than the 2 Live Crew, ooh, ooh
   It would be nice to get Hussein
   Wait 'til the time he meets his fate
   Cause Noriega's getting lonely
   He could use a new cellmate
                                                                                                       

   To be sure, America's radio stations aren't
underestimating the gravity of the situation. New York's
top-40 Z100 FM has played the national anthem at 9 every
morning since the invasion. "Coach" Mike Opelka, Z-100's
producer, says this is the station's "salute to the men and
women serving in the Middle East as well as for their
families back home in the States." Even the patriotic Coach,
though, is indulging in a bit of humor. His parody,
"Iraqity-Raq," is based on "Yakety Yak" by The Coasters:
                                                                                                       

   He's got his tanks and guns and planes
   And he is totally insane
   And his name is Saddam Hussein
   Invading countries is his game.
   Iraqity Raq, don't shoot back.
                                                                                                       

   Listeners, for their part, have called the stations from
all over the world -- including the Middle East -- with
requests for tapes of the parodies. Americans are the kind of
folk who appreciate this type of thing, says Peter Zipfel --
known to fans as "Zip" -- in Phoenix. He and Drew Lane do the
morning show on Mix 101 FM there, featuring their version of
"Horse With No Name" by America:
                                                                                                       

   Now we're sittin' in the desert cursin' Saddam Hussein
   He got too much sun, fried his brain
   In the desert, you know you could go insane,
   When you use mustard gas and your name is Hussein
   Allah, la, la la la . . .
                                                                                                       

   Songs may do fine for now, but fertile DJ-brains all over
America are already expanding their war effort. WZLX, the
Boston station, has already sponsored "Iraqnophobia Day,"
distributing gasoline to listeners for $1 a gallon. Magic
102.9 in Dallas constructed a Texas-sized greeting card.
Citizens spent one enthusiastic Saturday afternoon at the
local mall signing it. "We're thinking about the guys, but at
the same time we're having fun," said Garry D, of the
station's late-night show. As he spoke, the three-piece card,
filled with signatures and messages for the troops, was
already winging its way to our men and women in Saudi Arabia.
   ---
   Ms. Gramling is a news assistant at the Journal's
editorial page.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Johnson &amp; Johnson
   Files Lawsuit to Stop
   Bristol-Myers Ads
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ BMY
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Johnson &amp; Johnson, responding to an aggressive
new ad campaign, filed a lawsuit charging rival Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. with falsely claiming that Aspirin-Free Excedrin
is a better pain reliever than J&amp;J's Extra-Strength Tylenol.
   In the lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan,
J&amp;J, New Brunswick, N.J., asked that Bristol-Myers be ordered
to halt the ads, which began appearing last week, and recall
all copies of the promotional material. Both drugs contain
the same dose of pain reliever, 500 milligrams of
acetaminophen, which Johnson says makes the products
"equivalent pain relievers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charging that Bristol-Myers "has a history of habitual
false advertising," the lawsuit also raises questions about
an additional ingredient in the Excedrin: 65 milligrams of
caffeine.
   The lawsuit, filed by J&amp;J's McNeil division, which makes
Tylenol, criticized Bristol-Myers's claims that the caffeine
makes the pain reliever more effective. Instead, Johnson said
in the suit, caffeine is "a stimulant that has never been
shown to have any analgesic properties."
   The lawsuit added that the Food and Drug Administration
"repeatedly has rejected Bristol's argument and, as recently
as 1988, has reaffirmed its view that caffeine's claim to
effectiveness is unsubstantiated."
   A spokesman for Bristol-Myers, New York, defended the new
ad campaign. "Aspirin-Free Excedrin provides superior
headache relief over Extra-Strength Tylenol. This is fully
supported by clinical studies," he said. He said that
caffeine is also an ingredient in some other Excedrin
products and that the company's research shows that it
increases the effectiveness of acetaminophen.
   Bristol-Myers's spokesman also said that J&amp;J had asked the
major television networks not to run the ads, claiming that
they were false and misleading. "After extensive review, the
networks rejected the challenge and accepted our ads for
broadcast," the spokesman said.
   J&amp;J said in the lawsuit that Bristol-Myers plans to spend
$9 million on the new ad campaign in the next four months. It
said the ads are "expressly designed to lure customers away
from . . . Tylenol."
   J&amp;J accused Bristol-Myers of incorrectly analyzing three
studies in which patients were asked about the effect of
Extra-Strength Tylenol and Aspirin-Free Excedrin.
   "When analyzed using appropriate statistical procedures,
the headache studies show there is no differences in
effectiveness," the lawsuit said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Y&amp;A Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   YGRP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Y&amp;A GROUP Inc. (St. Louis) -- John J. Ekstrom, executive
vice president and chief operating officer of this provider
of engineering services to the electric utility industry, was
named a director, filling a vacancy created by the
resignation of Laura J. Rittenhouse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saddam Takes Eastern Europe Hostage Too
   ----
   By Anne Applebaum
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   "Hard luck never walks in the mountains, but stays in the
valleys among the people." This is how they say, "it never
rains but it pours" in Czechoslovakia, and this was the
response of a Prague official when asked what he thought
about the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. He meant to make a joke,
but he frowned immediately afterward. There is no light way
to talk about the combination of high energy prices and
foreign trade problems that are about to hit Eastern Europe
as a direct result of Saddam Hussein's aggression.
   The energy crisis will come first. Since World War II, the
nations of the former socialist bloc have received virtually
all of their oil and natural gas from the Soviet Union.
Within the framework of Comecon, the East Bloc's trade
organization, prices were set for five years in advance,
according to the average world price of the preceding five
years. This meant that prices were way out of line with the
world market. It didn't matter much though, because Comecon
members paid the Soviet Union not with money but with goods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So, dozens and dozens of bureaucrats in every country were
required to coordinate shipments of shoddy electronic
equipment, outdated machinery, poor quality clothes and food
products to the Soviet Union through centralized, state-owned
foreign trade enterprises. Calculations were made in a
nontransferable "currency" called the transferable ruble,
whose exchange value with the zloty, the crown or the forint
depended on whim and political weather. In retrospect, it is
hard to believe that this elaborate system of comradely
barter kept factories in business as long as it did.
   As of January, though, barter officially comes to an end.
Eastern Europe must buy its oil and petrol from the Soviet
Union for hard currency at world prices. East Bloc newspapers
and governments have been worrying all year what the change
will do to their economies. Now the Iraq crisis means that
those prices are much higher than anyone expected.
   Where will Poland, with its $40 billion debt, or Hungary,
with its $20 billion debt, find the hard currency to buy
energy at world prices? The region's total energy needs could
require between $6 billion and $10 billion next year. No one
can explain where this money will come from. The goods once
sent to the Soviet Union in exchange for energy are precisely
not the things that anyone there, or anywhere else, is going
to use hard currency to buy.
   Consumer goods and light machinery made in the West are
going to be both better and cheaper than the things the
Soviet Union once bought in Eastern Europe. Better, because
technology is higher; cheaper, because the West started
devising ways to save on energy costs long ago. Eastern
Europe's old Soviet markets will shrink, and shifting the
same goods to Western markets will not happen quickly.
   Enormous structural faults on the micro level of
individual firms and the macro level of the entire economy
are in fact Comecon's greatest legacy. Eastern European
companies that designed goods for the Soviet Union never had
any incentive to improve quality or quantity, or least of all
to economize on energy. Whole industrial sectors in East
Europe developed on the premise of cheap oil, cheap raw
materials and infinite markets. Hungary, a nation without
iron ore or major energy resources, possesses a vast steel
industry.
   Mere exposure to competition coupled with changes in
monetary policy, the kinds of economic reform tools which the
West itself uses, will not produce overnight change in
Eastern Europe. The East German products now competing for
the first time with Western goods are the best proof of this
problem. These things, from radios to canned vegetables, are
going unpurchased because they are both lower quality and
more expensive. The factories that make them are not going to
switch quickly to another kind of production. They are going
to close down and fire their workers. Restructuring, quality
improvement and energy efficiency all cost money in the short
term, and there are no resources to keep the plants in
operation until the long term benefits can be felt.
   Massive Western investment and aid for re-training and
re-tooling for every country in Eastern Europe on a scale
much greater than anything discussed so far -- perhaps
something like the $500 billion West Germany, it is
estimated, could soon be spending in East Germany -- is one
solution. But where will Western industrialists, now facing
sudden energy prices rises, find the spare cash to invest in
the Romanian auto industry or Polish textiles? Where will
Western governments, now realizing that even the collapse of
the Soviet Union doesn't make the world a safe place, find
the spare cash to re-train the steel mill workers of a few
tiny, insignificant democracies? The so-called "peace
dividend," the money expected to flow back into national
budgets after deep cuts in defense spending, no longer looks
imminent.
   Less expensive, temporary measures on the part of the
West, like lending money to the Soviet Union for the express
purpose of purchasing East European products, could help.
Reduction in import duties and taxes on East European goods
will also make a difference. But the readjustment to
capitalism will now succeed or fail depending on the speed of
the East European governments themselves: How fast they can
clear up the tangle of ownership problems, what kinds of tax
laws and interest rates are set and how quickly, how long it
takes for new companies, domestic and foreign, to set up
business.
   All of these problems existed before the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait. The crisis, by bringing back higher oil prices and
diverting the energy and the attention of the West, has
simply heightened them. The expected readjustment period and
the accompanying possibility of political instability will
arrive more quickly and with greater severity than expected.
Time for debate has already run out.
   ---
   Miss Applebaum is a free-lance correspondent based in
Warsaw.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Kodak's Stake in Vortech Data
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Eastman Kodak Co. has taken an equity
position in Vortech Data Inc., a Reston, Va., supplier of
medical-image management systems. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The two companies are establishing an alliance that will
include a joint product development and marketing program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eastman Kodak is a leading supplier of medical diagnostic
imaging systems, including electronic products and X-ray
film.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Scary Scenario
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   On Aug. 10, your page-one Washington Wire column reported
that the Washington Institute for Near East Policy had
predicted that the 1990s oil market would be characterized by
"stable or decreasing prices."
   I hope that this Washington Institute for Near East Policy
has no influence on Washington's Near East Policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   David K. Hoffman
   Partner
   The Simulation Group
   Sacramento, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Placer Dome to Buy
   Gold-Copper Tract
   In British Columbia
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDG T.PDG CNTVF T.CNT T.BPC BP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Placer Dome Inc. said it
plans a two-step transaction under which it would acquire a
big gold-copper property in north-central British Columbia,
for about 260.8 million Canadian dollars (US$225.5 million).
   The proposed purchase of the Mount Milligan gold-copper
property would add about 6.2 million ounces of gold and
900,000 metric tons of copper to Placer Dome's existing
reserves. Vancouver-based Continental Gold Corp., which
currently owns 69.8% of Mount Milligan, expected to bring the
property into production by early 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of the transaction, Placer Dome said it agreed
to acquire BP Canada Inc.'s 30.2% stake in Mount Milligan for
C$78.8 million, subject to regulatory approval. Once
completed, Placer Dome said it then plans an offer to acquire
all of Continental's 9.1 million fully diluted common shares
outstanding.
   Placer Dome said it would offer C$20 or one Placer Dome
common share for each Continental share outstanding, for a
total indicated value of C$182 million. A group of
Continental insiders who hold a combined 30% stake in the
company have already agreed to tender their stock to Placer
Dome's bid, it said, provided the offer is made by Oct. 22.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Placer Dome's
shares closed at C$20.375 each, down 12.5 Canadian cents, and
Continental closed at C$19.625, up C$2.625.
   If successful, Placer Dome's purchase of Mount Milligan
would mark the second step by the big gold producer this year
to bolster its North American gold reserves. Earlier this
summer, Placer Dome acquired a minority stake in British
Columbia's rich Eskay Creek gold project.
   Placer Dome has been seeking to expand its holdings in
North America, where gold reserves tend to be more highly
valued than in regions that are viewed by investors as less
politically stable. A sizable chunk of Placer Dome's existing
reserves are in Papua, New Guinea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banks in Michigan Plan Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FMBC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLAND, Mich. -- First Michigan Bank Corp. and
Northwestern Bank Corp. of East Jordan, Mich., said they
signed a letter of intent to merge in a transaction valued at
$16 million to $17 million.
   First Michigan Bank said it will exchange debentures, cash
and common stock for all of the Northwestern Bank shares
outstanding. The acquisition is subject to approval by
various regulatory agencies and Northwestern shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former PaineWebber
   Broker Is Barred
   From Industry, Fined
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A former PaineWebber Inc. broker agreed to be
barred from the securities industry for what the National
Association of Securities Dealers alleged was excessive and
unsuitable trading in two customer accounts.
   The New York broker, Nilda Rubiera Zim, didn't admit or
deny any wrongdoing in the matter. She also consented to a
$125,000 fine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The NASD, the self-regulatory agency for the
over-the-counter markets, also fined the securities firm
$30,000 jointly with Joseph Patrick Tota, who managed the
branch at which Ms. Zim worked.
   Mr. Tota, currently national sales manager at the
PaineWebber Inc. unit of PaineWebber Group Inc., also was
suspended for five days as a principal. The firm and Mr. Tota
neither admitted nor denied the NASD's charges.
   The firm, Ms. Zim and Mr. Tota couldn't immediately be
reached for comment.
   The NASD charged that in March 1985, a customer opened a
PaineWebber account with $190,000 of cash and stock. In the
year that followed, the agency said, Ms. Zim's trades for
that customer generated gross commissions of $203,165 and a
loss of $11,016. Further, the agency charged that Ms. Zim
executed transactions at a rate amounting to the sale of
every security in the account about every 2 1/2 weeks.
   In another case, the NASD said, Ms. Zim handled an
account, opened in June 1985, with $100,000 of U.S. Treasury
securities and $32,000 of certain units. Over the next 26
months, the NASD alleged, the account generated commissions
of $98,218 and a loss of $113,806. (In October 1986, Ms. Zim
left PaineWebber and joined Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
and this account was transferred to that firm.
Prudential-Bache, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of
America, wasn't charged in the matter.)
   In both cases, the NASD said, PaineWebber and Mr. Tota
failed to properly supervise Ms. Zim.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Tax Survey Gets F for Effort
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   So David Littman "High-Tax States Are Low-Growth States"
(editorial page, Aug. 6) believes that states can easily
reverse slow population growth simply by lowering their
taxes. Unfortunately, the statistic on which he based his
conclusion is not meaningful as used, and his analysis
ignores a substantial amount of contrary evidence.
   The index of state "relative tax effort" computed by the
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations measures
not tax levels, but a state's tax collections relative to its
potential tax capacity. "Tax capacity" is an attempt to
measure what collections would be if that state had a typical
state tax structure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tax levels seem more meaningful for people considering a
move. California's "relative tax effort" is below the
national average, even though taxes per person in California
are about 10% above the national average. In contrast, taxes
per person are nearly $300 lower in Iowa than California, but
Iowa is categorized as an above-average "tax effort" state.
For someone comparing $50,000 jobs in California and Iowa
based on taxes, it seems more relevant that taxes for the
average person are $300 lower in Iowa, even though Iowa has
higher "relative tax effort."
   Differences in state taxes per person do not seem to have
influenced state population changes. Of the 10 states
identified as having the slowest relative population growth,
Indiana, Iowa, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West
Virginia actually collected taxes per person below the
national average in 1988. Alaska, California and Washington,
listed as having fast relative population growth, collect
higher taxes per person than average. (Alabama, Arkansas and
Mississippi are perennially low-tax states, but have not
enjoyed substantial relative economic growth.)
   The relevant issue is not whether taxes are higher in one
state than another, but whether a government is providing the
level and type of services desired by its residents. Taxes
are payments for services, and tax differences reflect
differences in demand and cost. The economic principle of "no
free lunch" applies -- people get the services they pay for.
And better services -- particularly for education and
transportation -- can attract both capital and individuals.
As population and incomes increase, increases in the demand
and costs for government services often occur. This requires
states -- even such low-tax states as Arizona, Florida, New
Hampshire and Texas -- to search for new revenues to build
infrastructure and finance those services.
   The realignment of population toward the South and West
continues. This trend has been influenced by the changing age
and ethnic composition of the population, by technological
and infrastructure changes that have reduced the meaning of
distances, and by a desire for warmer climates and
less-crowded areas. Taxes are not the explanation. As long as
governments provide the services demanded by residents as
efficiently as possible, the fiscal differences among the
states reflect what people want and are a desirable feature
of our federal fiscal system.
   Ronald C. Fisher
   Professor of Economics
   Michigan State University
   East Lansing, Mich.
                                                                                                       

   Robert A. Bowman
   State Treasurer
   State of Michigan
   Lansing, Mich.
   ---
   Mr. Littman referred to California as a low-tax state. As
a California taxpayer, I wonder about that. I pay California
state income taxes of 9.3%, one of the highest in the nation.
In my county of Santa Clara, I pay additional sales taxes of
7.25%, also one of the nation's highest. According to a
recent Tax Foundation tax table, in 1988 California had a
per-capita state income tax of $454.34. Only 11 other states
had higher income taxes for that year.
   Anyone who thinks of California as a low-tax haven may be
living in a state of delusion.
   Jack K. Ayre
   Sunnyvale, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Affront to Eurasians?
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Regarding your comment on Actors' Equity's initial
decision to bar Jonathan Pryce from playing the role of a
Eurasian in "Miss Saigon" because it would be an affront to
the Asian community ("Banned on Broadway" editorial, Aug. 9),
I cannot help but think that somebody has gotten something
mixed up. A Eurasian is a person of both European and Asian
ancestry. Hence, if it is wrong for Mr. Pryce, a European, to
play the role, it is equally wrong for an Asian actor to do
so.
   By Actors' Equity's definition, the role should have been
open only to someone of mixed European and Asian ancestry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charles L. Horn
   Bloomington, Minn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP DNY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co. said it completed its
$487.5 million acquisition of Meredith/Burda Cos., a joint
venture owned by Meredith Corp. and members of West Germany's
Burda family.
   Donnelley is the country's biggest commercial printer.
Meredith is a publisher based in Des Moines, Iowa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week the transaction got clearance from a federal
judge, who brushed aside Federal Trade Commission arguments
that the combination would violate antitrust law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PNC Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   PNC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PNC FINANCIAL Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Wilson W. Wyatt Jr.,
formerly vice president of corporate affairs and government
relations of Batus Inc., Louisville, Ky., was named senior
vice president, corporate and public affairs, of this bank
holding company. Mr. Wyatt, 46 years old, succeeds Robert J.
O'Gara, who resigned last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Gets $180 Million Order
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co. said it received an order valued at
$180 million for three aircraft from Lauda Air of Austria, a
private charter airline with some scheduled flights that was
founded by Nicki Lauda, a former champion race car driver.
   The aircraft maker and aerospace concern said Lauda
ordered one 767-300 extended-range jet and two 737-400s. In
addition, Lauda confirmed an order placed this year but never
announced for a 737-400 valued at about $37 million, Boeing
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seat Fetches $301,000
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold
at $301,000, down $4,000 from the most recent sale Aug. 31.
Seats are currently quoted at $280,000 bid and $350,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon $17.5 Million Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED TECHNOLOGY (DTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Raytheon Co. said it expects to report
a $17.5 million one-time charge against third-quarter
earnings related to the closure of a unit's Topton, Pa.,
manufacturing plant.
   Raytheon, an electronics, aircraft and missile concern,
had net income of $137.4 million, or $2.08 a share, on sales
of $2.2 billion for the 1989 third quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit, Caloric Corp., an appliance maker, said it plans
to cease manufacturing by the end of the year, terminating
400 of its 600 employees. It cited slow sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Ukrainian History
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Sonia A. Boyar's Aug. 21 letter to the editor dismisses
the national honor of the Ukraine on the basis of the welcome
given to the invading German army of World War II. Such
dismissal ignores the most critical component of Ukrainian
nationalism, namely the view that the Ukraine was a nation
occupied by Russian imperialism. It is worth remembering
that, prior to Operation Barbarossa, the Russians had
subjected the Ukrainians to severe repression during the
agrarian uprisings, at an estimated cost of more than three
million lives.
   With this history, even a Nazi convoy could be mistaken
for a troop of white knights, under the presumption that the
Ukrainians were being liberated from their Soviet captors.
When this proved to be a false hope, the Ukrainian partisans
put up a heroic fight to expel the Germans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As evidence of Ukrainian fickleness, Ms. Boyar relies on a
single reference to how some Ukrainians acted under the
pressures of concentration-camp life. As one who has never
been subjected to those horrors, I would not judge the
morality practiced by those victims -- and neither should Ms.
Boyar. After all, even the Jewish camps had their kapos.
   Kenneth R. Stone
   Cincinnati
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Pullout by Philips, ICL's Purchase
   Hits Europe's Memory-Chip Study
   ----
   By Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FUT EUROP PHG G.SIE TCSFY
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Jessi, the much-heralded European program
intended to bolster the continent's lagging semiconductor
industry, has started to fall victim to the shakeout hitting
Europe's electronics industry.
   Participants in Jessi, an acronym for Joint European
Submicron Silicon Project, are considering whether to expel
the British computer maker International Computers Ltd.
because of the company's acquisition by Fujitsu Ltd. of
Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, N.V. Philips, the troubled Dutch electronics
giant, confirmed yesterday that it would pull out of a key
Jessi program involving research in advanced memory chips.
Philips said it would stop developing one-megabit static
random access memories, or SRAMs. That and its decision to
reduce participation in Jessi are among the first concrete
steps under a cost-cutting program announced by Philips in
July that involves elimination of 10,000 jobs and
restructuring costs of 2.7 billion guilders ($1.51 billion).
The company expects a loss of two billion guilders for 1990.
   Officials were adamant that the Philips pullout doesn't
signal the death of Jessi. "The withdrawal of one of the
major players in one of the larger (Jessi) projects is a
cause of concern," said an official at Eureka, the agency
overseeing Jessi and other research and development programs
in 18 West European countries and Turkey. The memory-chip
project accounts for one-fifth of total Jessi spending.
   Siemens AG and SGS Thomson, Philips' partners in the
memory-chip project, said they will continue joint research
despite Philips's decision, Jessi officials said. But
Philips's decision strikes at the very heart of Jessi,
because the entire Jessi program started in 1989 as a result
of joint efforts by Philips and Siemens to develop advanced
semiconductors.
   Philips played down its move by pointing out that its
involvement in the memory chip program accounted for only 7%
of total spending planned by all Jessi participants. It
accounted for about a third of the one billion guilders that
Philips expected to plow into Jessi research, company
officials said.
   The Dutch company said it remains involved in many other
Jessi projects, including logic semiconductors,
chip-manufacturing technology, chip materials, computer-aided
design and chips to be used for high-definition television.
   Meanwhile, Jessi's board met yesterday to consider the
implications of Fujitsu buying control of International
Computers on the British company's participation in several
Jessi projects on computer-aided design. The $4 billion Jessi
program wasn't created "to support Japanese companies," said
Jessi program coordinator Michael Gruenewald in Munich. "We
probably will have to come up with a decision (on whether to
expel International Computers) in the very near future," he
said.
   Jessi's board, which represents the companies involved in
the program, hasn't made a final decision. But it agreed to
study "the political issue and strategic issue" connected
with International Computers, said Jessi Office Manager Hans
Meyer.
   International Computers' officials expressed surprise that
Jessi was considering ending the company's participation in
Jessi. Company officials said that a lower Jessi committee
agreed last week to recommend to the board continued
International Computers participation.
   Fujitsu's agreement in July to acquire an 80% stake in
International Computers from STC PLC has fueled question at
other European R&amp;D programs. International Computers is also
a major participant in Esprit, a $1.6 billion program of the
European Community to finance research in information
technology. Mario Pandolfi, the EC Commissioner in charge of
technology and research, has said that it's up to the
companies participating in Esprit to decide whether they want
to continue working with International Computers or not.
   ---
   Bob Hagerty contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hachette's Memories Magazine to Fade
   Next Month, but TV Spinoff Will Live On
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Remember Memories? It's history.
   After months of trying to sell the nostalgia news
magazine, Diamandis Communications Inc., a unit of French
publisher Hachette S.A., said it will cease regular
publication with the October issue of Memories.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement follows weeks of last-ditch efforts to
save the magazine, and a decision by Mortimer Zuckerman,
chairman of U.S. News &amp; World Report and The Atlantic
magazines, to withdraw from negotiations to buy Memories. Mr.
Zuckerman cited a dismal forecast for magazine advertising,
and Hachette said it decided not to wait for other bidders to
emerge.
   Didier Guerin, president of the U.S. unit of Hachette,
blamed Memories's demise on a weak economy and reduced
advertising budgets. "It became clear the potential
profitability of Memories was being pushed years down the
road," he said. "We weren't prepared to suffer all those
losses."
   Mr. Guerin said closing Memories will slightly ease
Hachette's debt burden from its $712 million purchase of
Diamandis. "Not carrying Memories slightly improves the cash
flow," he said. In May, Hachette put Woman's Day magazine up
for sale to relieve debt. Bidders fell short of the estimated
$175 million to $200 million that Hachette sought, and the
women's magazine was pulled off the market.
   Peter Diamandis, president of DCI and founder of Memories,
said the magazine will publish two special issues each year
and that the magazine could be brought back to life "should
the advertising climate improve." Plans for a syndicated TV
show based on Memories are unaffected, DCI executives said.
The first installment of the half-hour news-nostalgia show is
scheduled to air Sept. 15 on NBC. An NBC spokeswoman said the
network is still "excited" about the weekly show.
   The closure of Memories indicates that even seemingly
thriving magazines are at risk in the current bleak
advertising climate. Memories was named "Best New Magazine"
in 1989 by Advertising Age. A little more than two years old,
it grew to an 800,000 circulation rate base, and its ad pages
were expected to double to 325 in 1990. Its last issue, in
October, was to be its first as a monthly; it had been
published bimonthly.
   "We are very disappointed," said Gregory Coleman,
publisher of Memories. Mr. Coleman himself had attempted to
find an outside partner, ideally another large magazine
publisher, to acquire the magazine. "We had a great concept
and things were growing."
   But Mr. Zuckerman was the most realistic suitor. According
to insiders at DCI, Mr. Zuckerman offered to cover the costs
of publishing the October issue, staff salaries, and other
expenses, if Hachette kept the magazine open for two more
weeks, while he worked out financial arrangements. In the
end, Mr. Zuckerman backed out. "It's too tough in this
economy to take on a magazine that doesn't have an automatic
advertising base," he said.
   Hachette's Mr. Guerin said he gave Mr. Zuckerman more than
enough time and information to make a decision. "If we waited
more we would have incurred more losses." Mr. Guerin added,
"if it weren't for Zuckerman, we would have closed Memories
weeks ago."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deep Inside This Big Old Place,
   There's a Mall Trying to Get Out
   ----
   By Gregory L. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Ever since Stalin ordered it built in 1939, the
U.S.S.R. Exhibition of Economic Achievements has been a
showcase for the supposed triumphs of socialism. But now,
answering the call of capitalism, it's a sort of dotty
Disneyland.
   Its 58 pavilions used to run officially sponsored exhibits
on everything from atomic power to zoology. But government
funding has been cut off, and the 11 million tourists a year
no longer come just to admire the magic of Soviet animal
husbandry or to peer at video recorders, designer shoes and
other goods that aren't for sale in the nation's depleted
stores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "When there's nothing in the stores, it bothers people to
show things at the exhibition," says Aidar Valiakhmetov. He's
the exhibition's advertising director, a job once known as
head of propaganda.
   Previously, exhibitors weren't allowed to sell their
wares. But today's visitors to the complex -- which is spread
over a 500-acre park in north Moscow -- can, and do, spend
much of their time standing in line for such trinkets as
magnetized ear clips that are said to relieve headaches.
   The consumer-goods pavilion -- fallen prey to the past,
perhaps -- is closed for repairs. But at the agriculture
pavilion, with its huge, stained-glass views of happy,
toiling peasants, Galina Nazarova offers amateur gardeners a
$4-a-bottle miracle liquid that supposedly kills all kinds of
bugs and beetles without harming the environment.
   Next door at the wheat pavilion, the bushels of grain and
loaves of bread on display go unnoticed. In the back room,
however, an exhibit of glass sculptures by a retired
light-bulb maker is well attended, even though the tickets
cost $1.60, six times what visitors pay to get into the
complex itself.
   Capitalism is also tooling along in the machinery
pavilion, which now rents space to anyone who can pay. Around
its dusty satellite models and spacesuits are a video salon,
which shows pirate copies of foreign movies, and a "UFO
shelter," which welcomes visitors who want to chat about
their encounters with extraterrestrials.
   The pavilion's deputy director, 36-year-old engineer
Sergei Kurbatov, is a firm believer in the profit motive. He
even wants to break up the pavilion into a series of
minicompanies, so that unsuccessful ones will fail and not be
carried along by the others. "We are convinced that a person
who works hard should live much better, and a person who
works less should live considerably worse."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England
   To Sell Rhode Island
   Unit for $75 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB RBSA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. agreed to sell its
Rhode Island subsidiary to Citizens Financial Group, a unit
of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC, for $75 million,
finishing a program of asset sales that has shrunk the
troubled regional bank by 30% in the past eight months.
   The sale will give the bank holding company $25 million in
profit. The company, which now has $23 billion in assets, is
still working for ways to raise much needed capital,
including a major swap of its debt for equity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kent Price, chief financial officer, said the $75 million
is slated for the bank's Massachusetts subsidiary, Bank of
New England N.A., where the combination of low equity and
problem loans, mostly in real estate, has been most serious.
   At the end of the second quarter, the bank's overall
capital ratio, a comparison of equity to assets that
regulators use to measure a bank's health, was 1.64%, well
below the 3% level regulators ordered the bank to meet by May
31, 1990. Healthy banks have levels of 5% or more. The
capital level of the Massachusetts subsidiary, which has been
hovering near 1%, will be raised to about 2% by the infusion
of cash from the Rhode Island deal, according to Mr. Price.
   Bondholders have $706 million in debentures that cost the
bank more than $60 million a year in interest payments. To
induce bondholders to exchange their debt for equity -- a
move that would ease the bank's capital problem -- the bank
needs to offer some cash. With the $75 million from sale of
the Rhode Island subsidiary now spoken for, it is unclear
where that cash could come from. Meanwhile, the bank has an
interest payment of $12.3 million due on Sept. 15.
   The bank, which reported a $1.1 billion loss last year, is
struggling under a huge portfolio of nonperforming assets
that currently total $2.7 billion. Those assets bring no
return while costing the bank about $250 million in interest
payments to customers who deposited that money.
   In the deal announced yesterday , Citizens Financial Group
acquired $900 million in deposits and $600 million in
selected loans from the Rhode Island subsidiary's portfolio.
The Bank of New England will retain about $220 million of the
subsidiary's loans. Mr. Price said some of them were troubled
loans, but he would not specify how many.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Manufacturing
   Index Fell to 47%
   During August
   ---
   Purchasing Managers Data's
   Drop Is Second in a Row;
   Construction Posts Gains
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The manufacturing economy deteriorated for
the second consecutive month, according to the National
Association of Purchasing Managers.
   The group's index, which charts orders, production,
employment and other indicators of manufacturing health, fell
to 47% in August, below July's index and its lowest since
January. The association says that when the index drops below
50% it generally indicates that the manufacturing economy is
contracting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group surveys purchasing executives in only about 300
companies around the country, but many economists and,
especially the financial markets, watch their index closely
because it is usually the first published report of economic
activity for any month.
   Analysts are particularly hungry for data on the economy's
performance in August, since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait
sent oil prices soaring and cast new uncertainty on the
nation's economic outlook.
   Manufacturing has been anemic for months. The Federal
Reserve's efforts to fight inflation by maintaining high
interest rates has hurt makers of automobiles and other types
of large, costly machinery and appliances that often are
purchased by borrowing.
   The purchasing managers' index, however, had recently
indicated that manufacturing was picking up from its slump,
by registering above 50% for three consecutive months in the
second quarter. But in July it slipped beneath that
threshold, to 47.4%.
   According to the survey responses, production declined for
the first time since January. New orders were down for the
second straight month, and manufacturing employment declined
for the 18th consecutive month -- at the fastest rate since
January.
   Export orders, however, continued to grow, the report
said, though at the slowest pace since February.
   In a separate economic report yesterday, the Commerce
Department said that construction spending in July increased
0.4%, the first rise in four months. Spending on private
construction grew 0.6%, but the gain was entirely in spending
on business and other nonresidential construction, which
jumped 2.5%. Private residential construction slipped 0.4%.
   Overall construction spending amounted to a $442.20
billion annual rate in July, the department said.
   The numbers in both the purchasing managers and Commerce
Department reports were adjusted for normal seasonal
fluctuations.
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's figures for
construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally
adjusted annual rates.
                                                                                                       

                                July       June      July
                                1990       1990      1989
                                                                                                       

 Total new construction .....  442.2      440.4      429.0
   Residential ..............  190.5      191.3      196.8
   Nonresidential ...........  107.5      104.9      103.1
   Public ...................  108.6      108.8       95.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Federal Financial Services
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FFSW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOOSTER, Ohio -- First Federal Financial Services Corp.
said it ended its offer to acquire First Federal Savings &amp;
Loan Association of Mount Vernon, Ohio.
   In July, First Federal Financial announced a definitive
agreement to buy the thrift, subject to various
contingencies. At the time, the company reported that First
Federal of Mount Vernon had $77.4 million in assets and a
negative net worth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Federal Financial officials said their due diligence
of First Federal of Mount Vernon disclosed possible loan
losses in the thrift's portfolio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Vernitron Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   X.VER WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   VERNITRON Corp. (Deer Park, N.Y.) -- Mitchell L. Dutton,
41 years old, previously general manager of the AST Bearings
division of this closely held maker of motors and controls,
was named to the new post of president of the division, a
Montville, N.J., importer and wholesaler of bearings for
aerospace, instrumentation and automotive markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Cultural Standards in the Age of the Gonad
   ----
   By Dave Shiflett
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   The Rev. Steve Peters was in Denver the other day, burning
rock album covers and praying for the soul of rocker Ozzy
Osborne, the bat-chomping community's patron saint. Not all
of us are ready to meet the reverend down by the bonfire, but
as Kenneth Cmiel skillfully illustrates in "Democratic
Eloquence" (William Morrow, 351 pages, $24.95), cultural
standards have been a bit higher in the past than they are in
this, the Age of the Gonad. A little pining is in order.
   How much higher were those standards? An 1847 article in
Blackwood's Magazine tells the story of a couple of British
gentlemen who made the mistake of asking an American traveler
a simple question: "Of course you were in raptures with the
Venus de Medici?" To which the Yank responded, "Well, sir, to
tell you the truth, I don't care much about the stone gals."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reaction is instructive: The poor blokes collapsed.
Venus, the author wailed, "a thing Praxiteles might have
touched with his chisel, or Pericles have looked upon, to be
called a `stone gal.' Had he doubted its genuineness, or
spoken of it as a specimen of secondary art, he might have
been deemed critical, hypercritical; but this was classic
impiety, an irreverence, a profanity."
   Sound a little precious? Of course. Think Mr. Cmiel had to
dig deep to find this gem? Then listen to the editors of Good
Housekeeping, who in 1885 editorialized about the impropriety
of saying "thanks." "Thanks is cold, careless, and uncivil,"
they wrote. "It is heartless, meaningless, and harsh to the
sensitive listener." In the same spirit, the New York Times
had editorialized four years earlier about girls from "good
homes" using expressions like, "What a cunning hat."
   Even the author of the Gettysburg Address was not good
enough for some of his contemporaries, one of whom referred
to Mr. Lincoln as "a barbarian, Scythian, yahoo, or gorilla."
Why? Because he mixed slang with his Shakespeare, which
resulted in what Mr. Cmiel calls the "middling style." This
was -- and is -- the language of democracy, and was a clear
affront to the gentlemen who had dominated public life. And
so Emerson sniffed: "Lincoln. We must accept the results of
universal suffrage &amp; not try to make it appear that we can
elect fine gentlemen."
   And so the slide proceeded, helped along by newspapers
only too eager to strip the petticoats off the mother tongue.
While modern editors often spend their days bleeding the life
out of reporters' already anemic prose, Horace Greeley, who
never allowed so-called "editorial dignity" to get in his
way, launched articles with armor-piercing ledes. "We defy
the Father of lies himself to crowd more stupendous
falsehoods into a paragraph," he began one broadside. "Major
Noah]" began another, "Why won't you tell the truth once in a
century, for the variety of the thing."
   Elsewhere in the popular press, the New York Sun's
headline writers asked the right questions -- "Is Secretary
Fish a Fool or a Scoundrel?" -- and made the memorable
observations: "Judge Woodruff's Court -- Air That Would Kill
a Hog." When a murderer repented at the gallows, the Chicago
Times captured the happy ending in this immortal headline:
"JERKED TO JESUS."
   There were stiff papers, of course, among them the New
York Evening Post, the Chicago Tribune, and the stiffest one
of all -- the New York Times. Then, as now, the Times
attempted to lead the world around by the ear, like an
overbearing aunt.
   The editors were quick to hike their pinkies over the New
York Herald's personals column, a development of unsurpassed
vileness. At one time, they lamented, "no respectable woman
of the educated class would be seen reading the paper. Its
contents were such that an avowed taste for them would have
justly tarnished such a woman's reputation."
   But the Times was fighting a rearguard action. The
personals were wildly popular and there was no stopping the
march of the riffraff. Linguistic theory, Mr. Cmiel writes,
gave intellectual credence to popular styles; dictionaries
began including slang; etiquette books tolerated smoking.
Only the King James Bible escaped the sweet kiss of
vulgarity: The Revised Standard Version, 11 years in the
making and designed to replace the old standby, was a flop
(though newsboys, hawking it with their papers, did their
best to move the new merchandise, singing "Here's yer New
Testament, jest out.")
   In the present day, public speech includes rock lyrics,
some of which are said to inspire devotees to commit suicide
(and who knows how many concertgoers have had their brains
lanced by a stray laser beam). The Times has stopped scolding
proper girls for mentioning "cunning hats" and has instead
taken to defending the rappers and their hymns to
gynecological blitzkrieg. And in politics, a woman hailed as
one of the great orators of the day stands before the world
and screeches: "Po George. He caint hep it. He was bone with
uh silva foot in his mouth."
   If we slide much more, we'll all be barking.
   ---
   Mr. Shiflett is deputy editorial editor at the Rocky
Mountain News in Denver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Delays
   Shutting Down
   Its St. Louis Plant
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- In a move that could improve
Chrysler Corp's. strained labor relations, the auto maker
said it will delay until next May the closing of a St. Louis
assembly plant it had scheduled to shut in November.
   The United Auto Workers union, which is currently
bargaining with Chrysler for a new three-year contract to
cover its 60,000 members who work for Chrysler, applauded the
move. But the union said the gesture still fell short of
satisfying their demands for strong job guarantees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a move in the right direction, but it doesn't solve
the issue of job security," said Roy Wyse, the union's top
official in the St. Louis region.
   Chrysler officials said they delayed the closing because
the company needs additional capacity at the plants that were
scheduled to take over production of the Dodge Daytona and
Chrysler LeBaron models currently assembled at the St. Louis
No. 1 plant.
   Chrysler plans to move production of Daytonas to its
Sterling Heights, Mich., plant. That plant currently builds
the Dodge Shadow and the Plymouth Sundance subcompact cars.
LeBaron production was scheduled to move to Chrysler's
Newark, Del., facility, where it builds the compact Dodge
Spirit and Plymouth Acclaim cars.
   But yesterday, Chrysler said it needed the production
capacity in the two plants to meet potential increased demand
for the Spirit and Acclaim and the Sundance and Shadow
models.
   Yesterday's decision marked the second time Chrysler has
delayed the closing of the St. Louis facility since February,
when the company announced it would close the facility this
month. In May, the auto maker extended the closing date until
November.
   Chrysler had planned to begin retooling its Sterling
Heights and Newark plants in December. But yesterday the auto
maker said those plans have been put on hold.
   The news of more work at Chrysler in St. Louis brought a
positive development to the company's talks with the United
Auto Workers, which have been tense since they got under way
in July. The union announced last week that it will set the
pattern for the next three-year contract in negotiations with
General Motors Corp. Thus, talks at Chrysler have been pushed
to the back burner.
   The union's Mr. Wyse said the extension will give the
union more time to press Chrysler to keep the plant open
permanently. Union officials said earlier the plant closing
would figure prominently in their negotiations with Chrysler
this year. They also are angry that Chrysler closed a plant
in Detroit earlier this year.
   Chrysler, whose U.S. automotive profits have been battered
by a sales and market share slump, is seeking to cut benefits
for its UAW employees. Thus far, union leaders have insisted
that Chrysler workers be compensated virtually the same as GM
and Ford workers, who are unlikely to agree to concessions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Analytical Surveys Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   ANLT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANALYTICAL SURVEYS Inc. (Colorado Springs, Colo.) -- Sid
Corder was named president and chief operating officer,
positions previously held by chief executive officer John
Thorpe. Before coming to this geographic services concern,
Mr. Corder was president of Cubic Corp.'s Cubic Western Data
unit, a San Diego-based electronics company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Capital &amp; Research
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   ACRCA
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFAX, Va. -- American Capital &amp; Research Corp. said
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory awarded a subsidiary a
one-year contract for $8 million, with two possible one-year
extensions of $8 million each.
   The subsidiary, ICF Kaiser Engineers, will hire 50 to 65
people to complete the contract, under which ICF will provide
scientific, management and technical expertise to all
Livermore departments. ICF assists several Livermore
departments under previous contracts. Livermore works for the
federal government on projects such as fusion, lasers and
nuclear testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Capital is an environmental, engineering and
professional services consulting concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Math and Pizza-Making
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   This week, America gears up to face its stiffest
challenge. Not in the Persian Gulf. America isn't riding off
to face its future in a C-4 or a destroyer or an aircraft
carrier, but in a little yellow bus.
   All across the country this week, kids are heading back to
school. Unfortunately, their schools aren't making the grade.
Two hundred billion dollars a year is spent on them, but one
of three children will drop out before finishing. Maybe
that's why education has become TV's crisis of the week, with
a whole series of academic-related programming, including two
documentaries: "Learning in America: Schools That Work" (PBS,
tonight, 9 p.m. EDT), and "America's Toughest Assignment:
Solving the Education Crisis" (CBS, tomorrow, 9 p.m. EDT).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now there are some topics that television people refer to
as MEGO -- My Eyes Glaze Over -- and education is one of
them. Documentaries on schooling elicit the spinach response
from most of us ("maybe it's good for me, but thanks, I'll
pass"). But even if education isn't as sexy as drugs or
crime, what could be more important? After all, kids are the
future.
   When TV first tackled public schooling, the mode was doom
and gloom: Tragedy in the schools] The shame] The horror]
This time around, it's interesting to note that both CBS and
PBS have shifted tactics. Gone is the stern fingerwagging of
the past. Although a third of all high schools still are
flunking, today's documentaries are trying to accentuate the
positive, eliminate the negative. Today, we're treated to
less of "why Johnny can't read" and more of "here's what's
working for Johnny's friends and here's what Johnny could
try."
   Yes, there's still plenty of the old jargon, like
"sharing" and "empowering," and old lines like "learning,
imparted with energy and creativity, can be fun." But now we
get reports that are upbeat, peppy, even heartwarming. Both
PBS's "Learning," hosted by Roger Mudd, and CBS's
"Assignment," hosted by Charles Kuralt, are brimming with new
suggestions.
   "Learning" uses the case-study approach, focusing on four
successful schools, from Manhattan, Kan., to Lowell, Mass.
All of these schools are short on funds, but rich on
enthusiasm. Instructors use pizza-making to teach math --
"How many slices green pepper? how much pepperoni?" -- and
the kids, up to their elbows in mozzarella, are loving it.
More than that, they're learning fractions.
   In Lowell's "microsociety school," part of each school day
is spent in a complex reconstruction of a town, with each
elementary student earning (pretend) money, selling goods,
paying taxes, conducting trials, filling all the roles of
society. Some of the truly precocious are learning newspaper
publishing.
   More than any classwork, more than any curriculum, what
comes through in all these schools is an attitude: A lot is
expected of each child, but a lot is given to them. Most
important is a healthy dose of self-esteem, a frequent shot
of the message, "You can succeed." Correct answers are
applauded, and even when a child is struggling to add up
figures, the teacher praises him for not giving up.
   One incident shows a teacher nailing a little girl in
pigtails for daydreaming, telling her if she's not going to
pay attention, she should stay home. She looks stricken. But
later in the day, when the same student comes through with a
correct answer, the maternal teacher stops the class to say,
"You learned from your mistake . . . that makes you a winner
. . . Thank you for the improvement."
   Where the PBS special relies on case studies, CBS's
"America's Toughest Assignment" is organized more as a white
paper, delineating specific suggestions to improve the public
schools. Host Charles Kuralt grandly calls it "a map that
shows the way out of the education crisis." "Assignment" is
in fact an ambitious nine-point policy proposal. The show is
ambitious in its talent, too. Featuring Mike Wallace, Ed
Bradley, Meredith Vieira, Steve Kroft, Erin Moriarty, Harry
Smith, Paula Zahn and Lesley Stahl, it's "60 Minutes" meets
"48 Hours" meets the little red schoolhouse.
   "Assignment" does come up with some interesting proposals.
Several involve restructuring: Dividing big schools into
smaller subschools; combining grades one through four to let
fast starters and slow starters even out; and replacing the
rigid high school structure -- seven blocks of 45 minutes --
with a more free-form day, including interdisciplinary
topics, and shifting hours. (We're told the standard format
comes from a 19th-century "assemblyline" approach to creating
the model citizen.)
   The CBS special comes off as thorough, well-researched,
and, given the all-star lineup, surprisingly dry. Perhaps
because the networks talk so infrequently about education,
when they do, they tend to pontificate. In fact, in a curious
flip, the network program is more earnest and dull, but
packed with more specific suggestions, while the PBS piece is
livelier, yet vaguer on notions for improvement.
   On several key issues, however, both CBS and PBS are in
perfect agreement. First, the power has to be passed down --
from centralized bureaucracies to individual schools, from
principals to teachers and parents, and even from teachers to
students. The point is not to cram the teacher's knowledge
into the student's head, but to give even the youngest
students skills (learning what an index is, for example), and
let them do the cramming. "It's like they're coaches," says
one kid. "They coach us, but it's up to us to play."
   Of course, in the end, education all comes down to
teachers. CBS states that the average teacher comes from the
bottom half of his or her graduating class, which is a pretty
scary fact. But it just tells us what we knew all along: Here
in the land of the free, teaching doesn't rank too far above
garbage collecting when it comes to status. Better pay for
teachers would be a start, but it's really a question of
attitude.
   And that's the true value of these documentaries. They
remind us that in a country that admires commodities brokers
and lawyers and, yes, even newspaper columnists, there should
be no higher calling than teaching.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philippines Logs a Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- The Philippines' trade surplus
with the U.S. for the first half narrowed 16% to $271.2
million from a $324.1 million surplus a year earlier, the
National Statistics Office said.
   Exports to the U.S. rose 17% in the half, and imports
gained at a much faster rate of 29%, the agency said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR FORGN MDEST AFRIC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A BRUSHOFF IN BRUSSELS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A delegation representing small and medium-sized British
enterprises paid a visit to the European Community Commission
in Brussels yesterday to plead for mercy under the EC's
Social Action Program, but all they got was a polite brushoff
from Vasso Papandreou, the EC commissioner in charge of labor
policy.
   The British entrepreneurs said they are worried because
planned EC-wide labor legislation would mean sharply higher
operating costs and drive many out of business. The
legislation is intended to form the basis for common minimum
EC labor standards.
   The officials, who said they represented 750,000 small and
medium-sized firms, said proposed rules on working hours and
part-time and temporary workers would cost "thousands of
jobs."
   According to an EC spokesman, Ms. Papandreou rebuffed the
delegation's call for a special EC study of the impact on
small and medium-sized enterprises. "In short," the spokesman
said, "it's nyet."
                                                                                                       

   MESSAGE FROM THE WORLD'S POOR
                                                                                                       

   Speakers at a United Nations conference in Paris on the
world's 41 least-developed countries voiced concern that the
Persian Gulf crisis would cut the "dividends of peace"
emerging from detente between the superpowers. Delegate after
delegate at the conference painted a grim picture of their
countries' continuing slide into misery since the first U.N.
conference on the least-developed countries nine years ago.
Ugandan President Yoweru Museveni, current chairman of the
Organization of African Unity, called the 1980s "an
unrelenting economic nightmare" for the poorest countries.
                                                                                                       

   ORDER FOR ISRAELI JOURNALISTS
                                                                                                       

   Arye Mekel, director of the Israel Broadcasting Authority,
ordered journalists for Israel's state-run radio and
television to avoid Arabic names for Arab areas of Israel and
the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. "We came to the land
of Israel and not to Palestine so I asked that these places
be called by their Hebrew, biblical names," said IBA
assistant chairman Shlomo Kor, who proposed the change. The
new policy met with criticism from journalists.
                                                                                                       

   CLEANING UP THE BALTIC
                                                                                                       

   Leaders of the seven nations on the Baltic Sea have agreed
to curb the pollution that has killed a third of life on the
sea bed. But the Eastern Europeans said they would need
Western aid for the effort. The agreement, which came at the
conclusion of a two-day conference in Sweden, called for a
cleanup plan to be prepared by the end of next year.
Scientific studies have shown that the Baltic is losing more
and more oxygen as phosphates and nitrates flood the sea.
                                                                                                       

   PAY RAISES IN EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   Garbage collectors, bus drivers, nurses and teachers in
East Germany will receive an immediate increase of 200 marks
($127) in their monthly pay, according to an agreement
hammered out yesterday by a union representing 1.7 million
East German public servants. For teachers, the raise amounts
to about 25%. On top of the 200-mark pay raise, employees
will also receive a 50-mark monthly bonus for each child,
retroactive to July 1.
                                                                                                       

   LIECHTENSTEIN LEGISLATION
                                                                                                       

   Liechtenstein said draft legislation that would make
insider trading a crime is being discussed. The principality,
which has no stock market of its own, intends its legislation
as a judicial means of aiding in international cases.
Liechtenstein and neighboring Switzerland are linked by a
monetary and currency pact, and there has been concern in
Switzerland that Liechtenstein could be misused for dubious
financial transactions that could reflect badly on
Switzerland.
                                                                                                       

   A BAN IN SOUTH AFRICA
                                                                                                       

   Skin-lightening cosmetics, blamed by doctors in South
Africa for disfiguring thousands of black women, have been
banned by South African authorities.
   The government has abruptly brought forward a ban,
originally set for January, on cosmetics containing
hydroquinone -- the key ingredient in creams used by blacks,
especially women, who want a lighter skin.
   "We are ecstatic," said Mary Ann Sher, chairman of the
Dermatological Society. Dr. Sher said hydroquinone, which is
also used in dyes and paints, causes ochronosis -- permanent
ugly dark patches on the face and, in serious cases, grainy
black lumps under the skin.
   While all cosmetics containing hydroquinone are banned,
the substance will still be available in products that are
registered as medicines, such as medicinal creams used by
dermatologists to treat fair-skinned people with birthmarks.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke and eight bodyguards
slept undisturbed as burglars smashed the glass doors of
their hotel in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, and made off
with the equivalent of $100, the hotel manager said. Because
of the country's crime problem, Mr. Hawke took double his
usual number of bodyguards on his visit to Papua New Guinea,
an Australian government spokesman said. . . . In Australia,
Stephen Hawke, the prime minister's 31-year-old son, won his
country's most prestigious nonfiction award for a book about
an Aboriginal community's vain fight to prevent mining on
ancestral land.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mid-American Waste Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MAWS
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANAL WINCHESTER, Ohio -- Mid-American Waste Systems Inc.
said it has reached an agreement with the Campo Band of
Mission Indians to build a landfill on the tribe's land near
San Diego. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The 600-acre site will have capacity for 30 million tons
of waste gathered from San Diego county. Mid-American manages
landfills in six states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Diagnostek Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   DXTK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DIAGNOSTEK Inc. (Albuquerque, N.M.) -- E. Gerald
Riesenbach was named to the board of this health-services and
pharmacy cost-containment company, succeeding Richard
Hatchett, who resigned. Mr. Riesenbach is a senior partner in
the Philadelphia law firm Wolf, Block, Schorr and
Solis-Cohen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dana Corp. Buys Certain Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   DCN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOLEDO, Ohio -- Dana Corp., a maker of drive-train,
chassis and engine parts, said it acquired the machining and
assembly assets of Columbus Auto Parts Co. of Rivers Junction
and Ann Arbor, Mich. The price wasn't disclosed.
   Columbus Auto Parts has annual sales of about $50 million.
Dana had 1989 sales of $4.9 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Tokos Completes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TKOS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Tokos Medical Corp. said it completed
the acquisition of Physiologic Diagnostic Service Inc.,
Atlanta, for 2.7 million shares of Tokos common stock.
   Tokos, which went public earlier this year, said the
transaction would be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Tokos provides specialized home health care for pregnant
women, and said it would integrate its sales, marketing,
research and regulatory functions with Physiologic
Diagnostic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokos's stock closed at $11.675, up $1.675 in national
over-the-counter trading, giving the transaction an indicated
value of $31.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Eaton Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   ETN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
</IN>
<LP>
   EATON Corp. (Cleveland) -- Stanley V. Jaskolski, executive
manager of technology development, has been elected vice
president of technical management. Mr. Jaskolski, 51 years
old, succeeds Warren B. Offutt, who will retire Oct. 1. Eaton
makes engineered products for the automotive, industrial,
commercial and defense markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Composite Gains Marginally;
   Adobe Systems Increases 3 1/8 to 28 1/8
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks held their ground in quiet trading
as doubts about the Middle East and the economy kept many
investors idle.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 0.46 to 381.67, a 0.1%
gain. Volume remained unusually light as only 78.1 million
shares traded, down from 79.9 million Friday. Declining
shares overtook advancers, 1,009 to 789; the number of stocks
falling to new lows swamped those reaching new highs, 104 to
seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OTC trading is likely to remain light during the four-day
workweek as investors await Friday's unemployment data for
August, traders said. "I don't expect anything dramatic in a
short week," said Len Hefter, manager of OTC trading at
Jefferies &amp; Co. in Dallas. Investors also are waiting to see
if interest rates ease in the wake of the unemployment
report, Mr. Hefter added.
   The crisis in the Middle East continues to keep many
investors wary of OTC stocks, said Robert King, director of
OTC trading at Robinson Humphrey Co., Atlanta. "I think
people are going to have to come to a decision as to what
direction the Middle East {crisis} is headed towardwhether it
will be a quick solution or a long, protracted stalemate,"
said Mr. King. "That's the key everyone is watching."
   Fears of a recession also may lead to "tough sledding in
the next couple of months," Mr. King said. But the stock
market could recover by spring if evidence comes through that
the country already has slid into a recession, he added.
   Institutions dominated business at Robinson Humphrey as
large investors tested stocks across the board, according to
Mr. King. The market's largest stocks curried favor; the
Nasdaq 100 Index of large stocks added 2.26 to 389.49 and
posted the strongest gain among the Nasdaq indexes.
   Adobe Systems surged 3 1/8 to 28 1/8 on 1.2 million
shares. Investors embraced the Mountain View, Calif.,
software maker's announcement that it is expanding a
licensing agreement with its biggest customer, Apple
Computer. Countering reports that the two companies have
drifted apart, Adobe and Apple said they will work together
to provide new products based on Adobe's PostScript software
and printer technology developed by Apple. Apple was
unchanged at 37.
   Elsewhere in the technology sector, Conner Peripherals
added 1 to 21 5/8; Sun Microsystems gained 1/4 to 29;
Microsoft rose 3/4 to 62 1/4; and Novell advanced 3/4 to 27
1/4. However, Oracle Systems eased 1/2 to 11 1/8.
   Intel, the day's most active stock, added 1/8 to 33 1/2
after trading as low as 32 1/2. This newspaper reported that
exchange-listed Advanced Micro Devices is poised to unveil a
clone of Intel's lucrative 80386 microprocessor. Intel's
stock, trading near its 52-week low, had already taken a
beating in mid-August after a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. analyst
expressed concern about possible clones of the chip.
   Elsewhere in the OTC market, Nike rebounded 3 1/8 to 68
5/8; MCI Communications was unchanged at 34; and St. Jude
Medical added 3/4 to 30.
   Tokos Medical jumped 1 5/8 to 11 5/8, nearly reaching its
$12-a-share initial offering price of last March. The Santa
Ana, Calif., provider of home-health-care services completed
an acquisition of Atlantabased Physiologic Diagnostic Service
for 2.7 million shares of Tokos stock. The news prompted
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette analyst John Hindelong to repeat
his "buy" opinion on Tokos, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   Mr. Hindelong told DJPIR that if Physiologic Diagnostic
receives Food and Drug Administration approval of a uterine
monitor for home use in high-risk pregnancies, sales of the
device could contribute substantially to Tokos' sales and
earnings beginning in 1991. An FDA advisory panel recommended
approval of the device earlier this year.
   Continental Gold surged 2 3/8 to 16 3/4 bid after Placer
Dome Inc. said it plans to proceed with an offer to purchase
the Canadian company. The previously proposed offer consists
of $20 (Canadian) in cash or one Placer Dome share for each
of Continental Gold's shares.
   Amgen advanced 1/4 to 45 1/2 after trading as low as 44
earlier in the day. The Thousand Oaks, Calif., biotechnology
concern said it bought $15 million of preferred stock of
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., a closely held biotechnology
company in Tarrytown, N.Y. The two companies also signed an
agreement worth at least $11 million to Amgen to develop
agents used in treating nerve disorders.
   Healthco International rebounded in the afternoon to close
at 17 7/8, down 3/8 after falling as low as 17 1/2. The
Boston provider of home-health-care services said it agreed
to an acquisition by an affiliate of Hicks, Muse &amp; Co., a
Dallas investment firm, for $19.25 a share in cash. The news
came just two days before Healthco's annual shareholder
meeting and as Gemini Partners, which owns a 9.6% stake in
the company, is trying to replace the Healthco board in a
proxy fight.
   Healthco traded as high as 21 3/4 earlier this year amid
buy-out speculation fueled by the Gemini Partners stake and a
7.2% position owned by a group including Texas brothers
Thomas, Perry and Lee Bass. As recently as Friday,
arbitragers were speculating that the company could fetch a
price in the lows 20s, according to DJPIR.
   Yesterday, Gemini Partners principal Emanuel Pearlman told
DJPIR the Hicks Muse offer is "ridiculously low." Mr.
Pearlman vowed to continue the proxy fight.
   FNB Rochester fell 3/4 to 8 after the Rochester, N.Y.,
bank holding company halted buy-out talks with investors
Cukurova Group of Istanbul, Turkey.
   M. Kamenstein tumbled 5/8 to 2 7/8, although Monday the
White Plains, N.Y., maker of household products reported
second-quarter net income rose to 10 cents a share from
restated net income of one cent a share a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dean Witter Says
   Connolly Resigns
   As Chief Strategist
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS S
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. is losing its
well-known chief investment strategist John D. Connolly, who
resigned to join a big money-management firm in suburban
Philadelphia.
   As a result of Wall Street's contraction since the 1987
stock-market crash, many stars of brokerage firms' research
departments have migrated to money management, which remains
lucrative.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Connolly, one of Wall Street's most bullish
strategists in recent months, will become a portfolio manager
with Miller, Anderson &amp; Sherrerd, a West Conshohocken, Pa.,
firm that manages about $21.2 billion in assets for 115
clients, mainly pension funds and endowments.
   No successor was named.
   Mr. Connolly is the second high-profile market forecaster
in the past year to leave Dean Witter, a unit of Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co. Last year at this time, John Mendelson -- whose
market comments once rocked Wall Street, before his
persistent bearishness lost him some of his clout -- also
resigned. Dean Witter executives say the two resignations
aren't comparable; even while Mr. Mendelson was around, Mr.
Connolly clearly had the highest profile at the firm.
   Mr. Connolly, in addition to serving as chairman of Dean
Witter's investment policy committee, also had the title of
an assistant director of research. "We're seeking a successor
now," a Dean Witter executive said. He added that Mr.
Connolly will be missed: "It's our loss; it's their gain,"
the executive said.
   Mr. Connolly, who is on vacation, prior to starting work
at Miller Anderson on Sept. 17, couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Manny Korman, Dean Witter's head of research, said in a
letter to the firm's branches that Mr. Connolly, who joined
Dean Witter in 1984, wanted to become a full-time money
manager and "make a change in his personal life style." He
wished Mr. Connolly success.
   In recent months, Mr. Connolly was the most bullish of
strategists at 10 large brokerage firms whose
asset-allocation advice is tracked by The Wall Street
Journal. In mid-October of 1989 he began recommending that
investors keep 85% of their money in stocks, a much higher
allocation than most strategists. And Mr. Connolly held to
that advice until the Mideast crisis recently erupted, at
which time he reduced his recommended stock exposure but
still kept it higher than that of strategists at other firms.
   The bullish advice worked out well in the second quarter,
when Dean Witter's recommended allocation led all firms. But
it is certain that Dean Witter's performance will wane in the
current quarter, given the stock market's large declines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Portec Judgment Is Reduced
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   POR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- Portec Inc. said a federal appeals
court in Denver reduced a judgment in a lawsuit against it to
$1.2 million from $2.2 million.
   Portec, which makes engineered products for various
industries, including railroads, said the judgment resulted
from a jury trial in 1988, in a suit by the British Post
Office. Portec said the suit claimed that certain of its
manufacturing operations weren't properly licensed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Portec said that if the British Post Office refuses the
judgment reduction, the case would have to be retried.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   The New Civil Rights: ACLU vs. Maxine Clark
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- Around the corner and down the street
from Maxine Clark's row house in this poor section of town,
three teen-agers are hanging out on a sunny afternoon. Two
prepare for the Labor Day weekend by fixing their bicycle
tires. The third is otherwise engaged. He has two cellular
telephones, the favorite tool of the drug trade, one in each
hand.
   Just another day in a rough neighborhood, except that this
is a neighborhood with a difference. Black community leaders
here worked three years to get an anti-loitering law to help
the police nab drug dealers. Ms. Clark, a public-school
teacher and head of an area civic group, hopes the law will
help close down several open-air drug markets. She says one
of these is in the parking lot of the local McDonald's, whose
Help Wanted signs are ignored as neighborhood youths count
their profits as foot soldiers in the drug trade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The law, passed in April, hasn't been tested yet. It must
first withstand the obligatory legal challenge by the
American Civil Liberties Union -- which still supports drug
legalization -- joined by the local branch of the NAACP.
Alexandria will defend the constitutionality of its law in
federal court on Friday.
   Virginia law requires that the police actually see drugs
before making an arrest, which is why drugs are passed in
envelopes, often by couriers. Police say an anti-loitering
law would be easier to enforce.
   The ordinance on Loitering for Purposes of Engaging in an
Unlawful Drug Transaction details seven rather convoluted
factors that must be present before a policeman can justify
an arrest: The person must be in the same general location (a
750-foot radius) for 15 minutes, during which time and in a
public place he has two or more face-to-face contacts with
others, contacts that last no more than two minutes, involves
actions or movements "consistent with an exchange or money or
other small objects" where there is an "effort to conceal" an
object appearing to have been exchanged and where the contact
terminates shortly after the completion of the apparent
exchange.
   The reason the statute is drawn so narrowly -- will police
officers have to carry stopwatches to mark two minutes? -- is
that the Supreme Court breezily struck down earlier
anti-loitering laws as overly vague and subject to abuse. In
a 1972 case, Justice William Douglas praised "loafers or
loiterers" and cited Vachel Lindsay's poem "I Want to Go
Wandering." Justice Douglas said the "implicit presumption in
these generalized vagrancy standards -- that crime is being
nipped in the bud -- is too extravagant to deserve extended
treatment." This assertion didn't faze drug dealers who were
not out for a stroll when they made street dealing
commonplace after anti-loitering laws disappeared.
   The one good reason to invalidate these laws was that as
late as the 1960s, some police forces did use anti-loitering
laws selectively, as a way to harass blacks. The ACLU suit,
however, does not explain why many black leaders support this
law. The group's main claim is that innocent activities would
come under the law.
   One example the ACLU gives is that lawyers would violate
the law if they "have business cards which they give to
persons whom they may meet on the street." Aside from the
rarity of lawyers so modest that they act furtively when they
hand out their cards, this objection ignores the law's
specific intent requirement. The seven factors are necessary
conditions to an arrest, but not the only conditions. The law
tells the police to get an explanation of suspicious behavior
before making an arrest. There won't be any convictions on
loitering for drug sales if the only contraband is a business
card.
   "A person who stands around for prolonged periods in a
public space and has frequent and fleeting encounters with
different individuals with whom he exchanges small objects in
a furtive and surreptitious manner is likely engaged," the
city's lawyers say, "either in drug trafficking or in an
effort to simulate drug trafficking."
   The ACLU's kind of endless but what if? arguments look
especially absurd in contrast to the explosion of street
crime that followed the invalidation of anti-loitering laws.
"Come on, guys, give us a break," Ms. Clark says of the ACLU.
"The ACLU is stuck in a time warp. They don't see that drugs
are a problem where the black community is being destroyed
from within, not from Jim Crow or bigoted sheriffs."
   Ms. Clark has spent the past decade getting more cops for
her neighborhood, organizing the removal of abandoned cars
and arranging more garbage collections. Now she worries what
will happen if the anti-loitering law unravels. "We need this
law to send a message that we are not going to put up with
drug use."
   Jesse Jennings, another neighborhood resident, recalls
"with great anger and resentment" how the police harassed him
for loitering when he was younger. Like others sick of drug
dealers on the front lawn, Mr. Jennings says the
anti-loitering law is needed to stop "a condition in areas
where large numbers of blacks live, a condition which would
never be tolerated in a predominantly white community."
   This legal battle may indicate a realignment under the
heading of civil rights. Ms. Clark says her community group
is "all Democrats, all blacks," but delighted with its allies
in the case. These include Roger Conner of the ACLU-dogging
American Alliance for Rights and Responsibilities, the
Washington Legal Foundation and Hager Sharp publicist Steven
Hofman, a former senior Republican staffer. Key Alexandria
legal briefs were written by lawyers donating their efforts,
including former Reagan Justice Department aide Charles
Cooper of the Washington firm Shaw, Pittman, Potts &amp;
Trowbridge and lawyers at Washington's Wilmer, Cutler &amp;
Pickering.
   "The idea was in vogue in the 1960s that anything liberals
did was to save the black folks," Ms. Clark says. "They did
play a role then, but we've got different problems now."
Today's choice is this: Will Ms. Clark prevail over blacks'
self-appointed legal guardians at the ACLU? Or is fighting
anti-loitering laws the next symbol of the liberal-plantation
mentality?
   When Congress returns, President Bush will decide if he'll
veto the Civil Rights Act of 1990, more accurately described
as the Racial Quota and Lawyers Enrichment Act. If he does,
he might instead urge laws to empower black communities. Atop
this list would be anti-loitering laws to help protect people
such as Maxine Clark from drugs and crime in their
neighborhoods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Symantec Completes Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SYMC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CUPERTINO, Calif. -- Symantec Corp., a maker of software
for personal computers, disclosed the completion of its
previously announced merger with Peter Norton Computing Inc.,
a closely held software concern.
   Under the merger, which was completed Friday, shareholders
of Peter Norton Computing received approximately 2.9 million
Symantec common shares and option holders received options to
purchase about 400,000 common stock equivalents. The total
value of the transaction is about $70 million. Symantec's
stock closed at $24.25 a share, up $2.25, in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lauer Gets Goodrich Presidency
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- B.F. Goodrich Co., a plastics, specialty
chemicals and aerospace concern, said John N. Lauer, 51 years
old, was elected president, succeeding Leigh Carter, 65, who
retired last Saturday.
   Mr. Lauer joined Goodrich last year as an executive vice
president and was named chief operating officer in June.
Previously, he was president of the engineering plastics
group at Hoechst Celanese, the U.S. unit of Hoechst AG of
West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   National Medical Enterprises Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NME
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NATIONAL MEDICAL ENTERPRISES Inc. (Santa Monica, Calif.)
-- Nita Puig-Heckendorn, senior vice president of this
health-care services concern, was named executive vice
president, corporate strategic planning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, September 4, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8% low, 8 1/8% near closing
bid, 8 1/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.90% 28 to 44 days; 7.85% 45 to 59 days;
7.75% 60 to 89 days; 7.70% 90 to 149 days; 7.60% 150 to 179
days; 7.55% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8% 30
days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.90% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.78% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8% one month; 8% three months; 8.05%
six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.83% 30 days; 7.76% 60 days; 7.68%
90 days; 7.72% 120 days; 7.66% 150 days; 7.62% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8 1/16% 7 15/16% three months; 8
1/8% - 8% four months; 8 1/8% 8% five months; 8 1/8% - 8% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/16% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Tuesday, Setember 4,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39%, 13 weeks; 7.36%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.19%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.12%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.59%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rockwell International Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL Corp. (El Segundo, Calif.) --
Thomas D. Shepherd, previously regional director, Europe,
Middle East and Africa, at this aerospace, electronics,
automotive and graphics concern, was named vice president,
international market development, a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Healthco Agrees
   To Be Acquired
   By Hicks Muse
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   HLCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Healthco International Inc., in the midst of a
proxy fight, said it agreed to be acquired by Dallas buy-out
specialists Hicks, Muse &amp; Co. for $19.25 a share in cash, or
about $250 million.
   But dissident shareholders -- who are seeking control of
Healthco's board -- immediately criticized the price as
"ludicrously" low.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I am livid at the treatment of the shareholders and the
sale of this company at such a low price," said Emanuel
Pearlman, executive general partner at New York-based Gemini
Partners L.P. Gemini, an investment concern that owns 9.96%
of Healthco's shares, is seeking to elect a slate of seven
directors at Healthco's annual meeting tomorrow.
   A person close to Healthco, noting that the company has
been seeking offers for several months, said the Hicks Muse
offer was the best that was made and that Healthco considers
it fair. In national over-the-counter trading yesterday,
Healthco's shares closed at $17.875, down 37.5 cents.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Gemini has said that Healthco, a dental equipment concern,
should be sold or financially restructured, although it
doesn't intend to make a bid for the company. Gemini holds
770,100 Healthco common shares, bought at an average price of
$13.73 a share.
   Mr. Pearlman added that if Gemini's candidates are elected
to the board, they will "work to get a better price." Mr.
Pearlman wouldn't say what price Gemini would consider
acceptable or whether Gemini plans to vote against the
proposed transaction, which is subject to shareholder
approval. Shareholders won't vote on the acquisition at the
annual meeting tomorrow, but instead at a meeting sometime
this fall, Healthco said.
   Healthco said the acquisition will "significantly benefit
Healthco's future growth and development" and maximize "the
value of our stockholders' investment." The company added
that no management participation was included in the buy-out.
   In the first half, Healthco had net income of $3 million,
or 39 cents a share, on revenue of $115.8 million. A year
earlier, net was $2.8 million, or 36 cents a share, on
revenue of $108.8 million.
   Thomas O. Hicks, chairman and chief executive officer of
Hicks Muse, wouldn't comment on the acquisition. But the
Healthco deal is in keeping with Mr. Hicks' stated goal of
buying $3 billion of companies over the next two or three
years. Mr. Hicks and his partners have already assembled a
war chest of $170 million from institutions, Dallas companies
and wealthy individuals, and are shooting to boost that
buy-out fund to $300 million.
   Before Mr. Hicks split with longtime partner Robert Haas
last year, Hicks, Haas &amp; Co. negotiated a dozen deals in
three years and transformed $90 million of investments into
cash and equity valued at $1.7 billion.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HEALTHCO INTERNATIONAL Inc., a dental equipment company,
had net income of $5.5 million, or 70 cents a share, on
revenue of $223.1 million, for the six months ended June 30.
For the year-earlier first half, the company had net income
of $5.3 million, or 66 cents a share, on revenue of $211.7
million. The figures were reported incorrectly in yesterday's
edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CMS Energy Unit Adjustments
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   JACKSON, Mich. -- CMS Energy Corp. said its Consumers
Power Co. utility unit will refund $29.5 million to its gas
customers from 1987 because of refunds received from natural
gas pipeline suppliers and will recover $11.7 million from
gas customers because of a 1988 underrecovery of gas costs.
   The utility's typical residential gas customer who has
received service since 1987 will receive a net credit of
approximately $11.60 as a result of the adjustments, CMS
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   K mart, Unit Agree
   To Pay $6 Million
   In Fine on Quotas
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   KM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- K mart Corp. and its Taiwanese subsidiary
have agreed to pay a $6 million fine to settle a U.S. Customs
Service complaint that they evaded controls on textile import
quotas in the 1980s, the Customs Service announced.
   Customs Commissioner Carol Hallett described the
settlement as "one of the largest penalties we have ever
collected in a textile case." She said the amount represents
payments for underpaid duties as well as a "mitigated
penalty" negotiated by K mart, the Customs Service and the
Treasury Department. Mrs. Hallett identified the Taiwanese
subsidiary as K mart Taiwan Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Customs Service indicated that it is investigating
other instances of suspected manipulation of textile import
quotas by U.S. merchandising companies and their foreign
suppliers. "This case proceeds from a whole body of work out
there," a Customs investigator said.
   The K mart case arose from allegations that the Troy,
Mich., retail chain between 1982 and 1986 artificially
inflated prices of $24 million in textile goods from Taiwan
and South Korea in order to export more goods under a
"free-quota" system, in which the two Asian governments
provide additional quotas to companies that export
higher-value goods. During the same period, K mart allegedly
understated the value of other textile shipments to the U.S.
to make up for "excess payments," the Customs Service said.
   The Customs Service said this alleged manipulation
deprived the Treasury of more than $2.7 million in import
duties.
   The Customs investigation cast no blame on the Taiwanese
or South Korean authorities. The two countries operate the
free-quota system within the bounds of their bilateral
textile agreements with the U.S.
   A K mart spokesman said the company didn't intend
"wrongful or mistaken activity." He added that the company
has an otherwise "clean record" with the Customs Service.
Further, he said the allegedly violated rules are complex and
easily misunderstood. But he said the agreement by K mart
doesn't admit or deny breaking quota rules.
   A U.S. retail industry spokesman, while declining to
discuss the merits of the Customs investigation, said it
appeared to be strictly a question about duty payments. He
said the alleged manipulation couldn't have increased overall
shipments to the U.S. beyond what the Taiwanese and South
Korean quotas allowed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan's Foods Rights Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   MR CCI
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Morgan's Foods Inc. said it will sell
an additional 600,000 of its common shares under a rights
offering.
   The operator of Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurants said
Whale Securities Co. will act as placement agent for the
shares and any shares not purchased through its previously
announced rights offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offering provides that each shareholder can purchase,
for $1 a share, one common share for every two shares owned.
Morgan's Foods has 11,848,000 shares outstanding.
   In addition, the company said Citicorp North America Inc.,
a unit of Citicorp, has agreed to refinance about $19 million
of its debt. The refinancing agreement is contingent upon the
accumulation by the company of at least $3 million in the
rights offering. The commitment also provides a $3 million
line of credit for remodeling or buying more restaurants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Koreas Move to End Differences
   But Unification Appears Far Off
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PANMUNJOM, South Korea -- The North Korean prime minister
and his delegation crossed the border into South Korea for
the first time and encountered the same problems other
visitors to bustling Seoul face: jostling by crowds, a
traffic accident and restricted access to imported goods.
   But the fact that Premier Yon Hyong Muk and his party of
80 or so aides and journalists made it at all is considered a
major step toward normalizing relations between the divided
Koreas. It was the first exchange between the two countries
in five years and is the highest-level contact the two
governments have ever had.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, analysts don't see a German-style
reunification in Korea any time soon. In fact, the meetings
of the government had all the trappings of a shotgun wedding:
the North Koreans, forced to embrace the South by its allies
in Moscow, and the South, wary, hoping for the best but
resigned to the belief that the future is unpromising. "Even
if there are no specific agreements to come out of these
talks, we hope that they will put our abnormal relations on a
normal track," is the best that South Korean Unification
Minister Hong Sung Chul could offer.
   This week's meetings are meant to build mutual confidence,
and perhaps lead to troop reductions, United Nations
membership and greater economic cooperation. But the
antagonism was clear from the moment the smiling North Korean
government spokesman, Ahn Pyong Su, spoke in the truce
village of Panmunjom.
   He alluded to subjects that irritate the South Korean
government: to the concrete barricades that block part of the
border and to Im Su Kyong, the college student serving seven
years in prison for unauthorized travel to North Korea. She
is a heroine in North Korea and among radical South Korean
students. Later, the North Korean government went even
further, suggesting that it might want to meet with Miss Im.
The South views this as impossible.
   There were other rough spots. On the trip to the
Intercontinental Hotel, where the North Korean premier and
his retinue are staying, a car in the motorcade slammed into
another vehicle as an impatient South Korean driver cut
through. One delegate suffered a minor mouth cut, another
complained of back pains, but no one was hospitalized. One
car caught fire and the windshield on another was broken.
   The premier was almost crushed by the jam of photographers
who tried to get pictures of him accepting a bouquet from a
small Korean girl in native garb. He refused the flowers and
the hapless child was jostled, but uninjured, in the melee.
   The North Korean delegation showed little curiosity about
Seoul. They stayed in their rooms atop the skyscraper hotel
all afternoon. The premier's three-bedroom suite goes for
$1,500 a night.
   Not wishing to offend the straight-laced North Koreans,
the hotel staff removed all the Coca-Cola, Del Monte fruit
juice and other foreign products from the room, even foreign
fresh fruit, such as pineapple. It also shut off the Japanese
television shows received via satellite, although it couldn't
shut off the American TV programs that are broadcast by the
U.S. Army stationed in South Korea. The North Koreans were
left with two closed-circuit television movie choices:
"Avenging Force," about an ex-CIA agent who seeks the
murderer of his best friend, or "Thunder Alley," about a farm
boy who makes it big in rock'n' roll and lives in the fast
lane.
   The rooms do provide vistas of much of the city and, not
by accident, the new government offices of the Soviet Union,
once North Korea's staunchest ally. But so far the delegates
have seen no demonstrations by either radical students or the
anti-Communist groups. Security at the hotel was unobtrusive.
   Official meetings begin today. The North Korean premier,
who holds no real power, will also meet with South Korean
President Roh Tae Woo. The biggest measure of success will be
firm agreement for the two sides to meet again in October in
the North Korean capital of Pyongyang.
   Analysts note that the North Koreans have little to gain
by further contacts, which could hasten unrest in a country
that has been kept under control by strict isolation. The
South's policy is to increase pressure on the North to open
up to the outside, for which it recently enlisted the help of
the Soviet Union, still the North's biggest benefactor.
Diplomats here say that Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze's meetings in Pyongyang Sunday and Monday were
part of the pressure on the North to attend the meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   PETROLEUM PRICES SURGED again, sparked by a jump in
gasoline. Unleaded gas for October delivery climbed 8.34
cents a gallon to 94.52 cents, while October crude gained
$1.80 a barrel to $29.12. In reaction, stocks were mixed and
bond prices fell. Petroleum demand appears to be rising on
fears of a Mideast war, spurring consumers and companies to
purchase supplies now, ahead of potential shortages.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Strategic Petroleum Reserve may not be as easily
tapped as U.S. policy makers hope, according to oil industry
analysts and officials.
   ---
   Manufacturing activity weakened in August in the second
straight monthly drop, according to the purchasing managers'
index.
   ---
   First Boston named Archibald Cox Jr. president and chief
executive, the latest reshuffling of top management at the
big U.S. brokerage firm, which recently has been stumbling.
   ---
   Honda and Nissan announced relatively small price boosts
on some 1991 models, which could help the Japanese auto
makers in their quest for greater U.S. market share.
   ---
   An energy-consumption tax is still being considered by
Democratic negotiators for this week's talks on reducing the
budget deficit, despite the recent increase in petroleum
prices.
   ---
   GM's EDS unit and a group led by investor Jay Pritzker
have agreed to buy the parent of Ticor Title Insurance Cos.,
the large real estate title insurance company. The move gives
EDS a major entrance into a potentially lucrative new market.
   ---
   Fujitsu unveiled a new generation of mainframe computers
that could prove more powerful than a line IBM is expected to
announce today.
                                                                                                       

   Adobe Systems won a partial victory in its battle with
Apple Computer and Microsoft to retain its hold on the market
for desktop publishing.
   ---
   The "payola" case against record promoter Joseph Isgro and
two others was dismissed by a federal judge, who harshly
criticized prosecutors for withholding evidence.
   ---
   CBS Records' Walter Yetnikoff is stepping down immediately
as chief executive of Sony's unit, accelerating his previous
plans to leave.
   ---
   Subaru of America's Harvey Lamm resigned as chairman and
chief executive. Two executives of Fuji Heavy Industries,
Subaru's new parent, succeed Lamm.
   ---
   Europe's semiconductor program is falling victim to an
industry shake out. N.V. Philips is withdrawing from a key
project in the effort.
   ---
   Private placements of securities plunged by one-third to
$55.3 billion in the first half of this year.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 92,940,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2613.37, off 0.99; transportation 896.08, off 5.36; utilities
196.05, up 0.12.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3328.76,
off 14.26.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.52, up 0.06; spot
index 129.54, off 0.58.
   Dollar: 143.50 yen, off 0.29; 1.5815 marks, up 0.006.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Tax on Energy
   Still Considered
   By Democrats
   ---
   Negotiators in Budget Talks
   Discuss Two Alternatives
   Despite Higher Oil Price
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Despite the sharp runup in oil prices,
Democratic negotiators for this week's budget talks are still
considering proposing a tax on energy consumption.
   Congressional aides say higher oil prices have made an
energy tax a somewhat less likely component of a
deficit-reduction package than it was prior to the Iraqi
standoff. But the tax-increase idea is still very much alive,
they add, and is under active discussion in at least two
forms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first plan would impose a tax on energy only when the
price of oil dropped below some threshold amount, certainly
below the nearly $30-a-barrel level at which it stands today.
The rate of the tax would either be a set amount or would
vary with the price of oil -- the lower the price, the higher
the tax.
   The second plan would impose only a tiny tax on energy
initially, but would increase over time. This start-small,
grow-big proposal would have the advantage of bringing in
increasing amounts of revenue in the coming years, an outcome
that fits well with the negotiators' hopes of agreeing to a
relatively compact tax increase for the first year that grows
substantially over five years.
   The Democrats intend to devise their own deficit-reduction
package in private discussions before the full budget summit
reconvenes on Friday and over the weekend at Andrews Air
Force Base near here. Aides say the Bush administration has
made clear that it believes that it is the Democrats' turn to
make a proposal; the Republicans tentatively agreed to one
just as the talks closed down early last month.
   The energy tax is being discussed by Democrats as
potentially one of the fundamental parts of a tax-increase
package that could be as large as $25 billion in the first
year, but probably would be smaller, perhaps $18 billion.
   Other likely components, aides say, would be an increase
in the top personal income tax rate to at least 33% from the
current 28%, which Democratic budget-writers have been
pushing for some time, along with an increase in "sin" taxes
on alcoholic beverages and tobacco, a tax on various luxury
items and the adoption of a variety of fees that were
proposed by President Bush in his own tax-increase proposals
issued early this year as part of his fiscal 1991 budget
plan.
   At least initially, the Democrats aren't likely to propose
a cut in the tax on capital gains, which is one of the
president's most coveted tax proposals.
   The tax-increase package tentatively adopted by Republican
negotiators last month would sharply increase taxes on
alcoholic beverages, limit the deductibility of tax payments
to state and local governments and cut the capital gains tax.
   Democrats are continuing to discuss the energy tax under
the banner of energy conservation. Increasing the cost of
fuels is one way to discourage their use.
   But the variable form of the tax could turn controversial
if it became yet another gimmick to mask the deficit problem.
It could, for instance, allow budget negotiators to claim
substantial reductions in the deficit in future years that
might not really occur.
   Bush administration officials, who have also discussed a
variable energy tax, warn that it would be difficult to
accurately forecast the revenues that would be generated by a
levy that rose and fell with the price of oil because oil
prices are so tough to predict. But by simply assuming that
the U.S. prevailed against Iraq and oil prices fell sharply,
budget negotiators could project a huge windfall from such a
tax in the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kinark Accord Is Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   KIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TULSA, Okla. -- Kinark Corp. said its previously announced
accord to sell its Camelot Hotels to Wilmae Inc. for $12
million was terminated.
   Paul Chastain, Kinark's co-chief executive officer, said
closely held Wilmae, of Santa Rosa, Calif., "had delays in
obtaining financing" and failed to make a required $50,000
deposit. He added that Wilmae will forfeit an earlier $50,000
deposit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kinark, which owns galvanizing plants and chemical-storage
facilities, said it plans to continue efforts to sell the
hotels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   Keep Working to Cut the Deficit
   ----
   By Martin Feldstein
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Now, just as the key administration and congressional
budget negotiators are heading for seclusion to shape a final
deficit-reduction package, political forces are gathering on
Capitol Hill to jettison deficit reduction completely. The
advocates of abandoning deficit reduction argue that the
slowdown of economic activity that has already occurred and
the risk of even greater weakness in the future make it
inappropriate to reduce overall demand further by cutting
government spending and raising taxes. I believe that
argument is incorrect.
   The economic slowdown doesn't mean we should abandon
deficit reduction, but we should alter the pace of its
introduction. A reliable multiyear program of deficit
reduction is now more important than ever.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The economic argument against deficit reduction in a slow
economy is only an excuse for some members of Congress. There
are Democrats who don't want a budget deal because they think
that President Bush has not endorsed a tax increase publicly
enough and loudly enough. There are Republicans who are so
opposed to any tax increase under any circumstances -- for
either political or economic reasons -- that they welcome the
chance to scuttle the whole deficit-reduction process. And
some members of Congress simply don't want to vote for either
higher taxes or reduced benefits in an election year.
   But the economic argument against deficit reduction in the
current economic circumstances is a serious one that deserves
a response. The key fact is that achieving substantial
deficit reduction would raise economic growth over the next
three years and beyond and is compatible with continued
expansion in the nearer term. Even with our relatively weak
economy, Congress should therefore enact a package of $50
billion of deficit reductions for fiscal 1991 and $500
billion of deficit reductions over the next five years.
   It is true that the pace of economic growth has slowed
over the past 12 months, but we still have an unemployment
rate below 5.5% and a capacity utilization rate of more than
83%. Both of these measures reflect relatively tight labor
and product markets. Unemployment is lower now than it was
for any year from 1974 to 1987. And capacity utilization has
been as high as it is today in only six of the past 20 years.
The recent slow rate of expansion reflects the Federal
Reserve's policy of limiting demand to bring down the rate of
inflation. The roughly 1.5% rate of increase during the past
six months has been in line with the Fed's implicit goal for
the current year.
   The rise in the price of oil will reduce growth during the
coming year but is not likely to push the economy into
recession. The current oil price hike is much smaller than
the increases of the 1970s, and the economy starts from a
much more modest overall rate of inflation. Unlike the 1970s,
the Fed is not tightening credit in response to the current
rise in oil prices. If the Fed sticks to its goal of keeping
overall nominal gross national product rising at about 6%
over the coming year, the oil price rise is likely to mean
only about a 0.5% decline in next year's growth and a
temporary 0.5% rise in the price level. Real GNP and
employment should continue to expand.
   The current expansion is, however, a lopsided one in which
output and employment in construction and in many
manufacturing industries are stagnant or declining. These
interest-sensitive industries are the ones that would be
particularly helped by the fall in interest rates that would
follow a substantial reduction in the budget deficit.
   The simplistic Keynesian analysis that argues against
deficit reduction ignores the favorable effect of deficit
reduction on interest rates and interest-sensitive spending.
Instead it reckons that a package of spending cuts and taxes
aimed at slicing $50 billion from the 1991 deficit would
simply cut real GNP by nearly as much, dragging real growth
to zero or even into a slight decline.
   But the Keynesian direct impact on GNP of higher taxes and
reduced government outlays is only part of the story. A cut
in current and future budget deficits would mean lower
interest rates and therefore more spending on construction,
business investment and other interest-sensitive goods. Even
without help from the Fed, medium-term and long-term interest
rates would fall as financial-market participants recognize
that less government borrowing means a reduced demand for
funds both now and in the future. And Alan Greenspan signaled
in testimony earlier this summer that the Fed would actively
assist that decline in rates by increasing the money supply
more rapidly and cutting the short-term money market rates.
   The increase in spending on interest-sensitive goods and
on construction would not only help those industries but, for
the economy as a whole, could fully offset or even more than
offset the contractionary effects of the other spending cuts
that result from higher taxes and reduced government outlays.
Lower interest rates would also help to make the dollar more
competitive, giving a boost to our exports and making
domestic products more competitive with imports. If interest
rates drop far enough in response to the budget package,
total demand and real GNP could be higher in 1991 than they
would have been without a cut in the deficit.
   The size of the interest-rate decline will reflect the
market's expectations of the magnitude of deficit reduction
over the next several years. The bigger the cumulative
reduction in the deficit is expected to be, the greater will
be the fall in interest rates. It's important therefore to
enact a deficit package that specifies credible deficit
reductions over the five-year budget horizon.
   The best way to make those out-year deficit reductions
credible to a financial market that has become skeptical
after years of phony budget projections is to have a
first-year deficit reduction that is both substantial and
real. Scaling back the 1991 reduction from $50 billion and
using accounting gimmicks and temporary changes to meet the
target would reduce the credibility of the entire package.
But a $50 billion deficit reduction for 1991 and an
explicitly articulated set of deficit reductions for the
following four years could bring interest rates down sharply.
   Timing is important in the pacing of the first year of the
deficit-reduction package. Experience shows that lower
interest rates and a lower dollar expand demand only after a
delay of about six months. It takes that long for the fall in
interest rates to be translated into new housing starts,
increased production of investment goods and increased orders
for exports. In contrast, reductions in government spending
and hikes in taxes on households drain demand from the
economy immediately.
   It would be best therefore if the magnitude of the deficit
reduction increased during the year, starting at less than a
$50 billion annual rate in the first few months and rising to
more than a $50 billion annual rate by the end of the fiscal
year. That should be easy enough to engineer by legislating
that the excise-tax increases and some of the other changes
begin part-way through the fiscal year.
   Although the economic debate about cutting the deficit now
may focus on the impact on overall demand and economic
activity during the coming year, the real reason for deficit
reduction is its favorable effect over the years ahead.
Shrinking the budget deficit by $500 billion over the next
five years will give us a balanced budget by mid-decade and
will add more than a trillion dollars to the nation's capital
stock by the end of the decade. That means a stronger economy
and a higher standard of living.
   A political decision to postpone deficit reduction for yet
another year would run the risk that the financial-market
participants will give up hope of ever seeing a fall in
government borrowing. They may well conclude that if
President Bush's willingness to cut defense outlays and raise
taxes is not enough to get a budget deal, nothing ever will
be. If the hope of deficit reduction is lost, the result
could be a sharp rise in long-term interest rates and a
collapse of interest-sensitive spending and of exports.
Abandoning the process of deficit reduction at this time thus
runs the serious risk of pushing the economy into a recession
induced by higher interest rates.
   It would, of course, have been better to start cutting the
deficit several years ago when the economy was growing much
more rapidly. The increase in capital formation and the
reduction in interest rates that would have followed an
earlier deficit reduction would have given us higher
productivity and a stronger economy today. But we cannot turn
back the clock. We can only hope that common sense will
prevail before time runs out.
   ---
   Mr. Feldstein, former chairman of the president's Council
of Economic Advisers, is a professor of economics at Harvard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stake in Aeronautical Support
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American International Group Inc., a
multinational insurer, said its International Lease Finance
Corp. unit, a Beverly Hills, Calif., jet-leasing concern that
American International acquired last week, agreed to acquire
a 19.5% stake in Aeronautical Support Inc., a Deerfield
Beach, Fla., supplier of engines, equipment and spare parts
for commercial aircraft. Terms weren't disclosed.
   International Lease recently agreed to sell more than $10
million of spare parts for Boeing Co. 757 planes to
Aeronautical Support, which has annual sales of about $9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fuji Executives
   To Succeed Lamm
   At Helm of Subaru
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FJH WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan installed two of its
own executives at the helm of its struggling Subaru of
America subsidiary, succeeding Harvey H. Lamm, who resigned
as chairman and chief executive officer.
   Masaharu Masumitsu, a former Fuji official who this year
became Subaru's vice chairman, gets the additional post of
chief executive. Takeshi Higurashi, who began his career at
Fuji in 1954 and most recently served as managing director in
charge of Fuji's Subaru Overseas business, becomes chairman
of Cherry Hill, N.J.-based Subaru. The actions come less than
a week after it completed its acquisition of Subaru for about
$208 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Masumitsu is 54 years old, while Mr. Higurashi is 59.
Thomas R. Gibson, 47, remains Subaru's president and chief
operating officer.
   In a statement, Mr. Lamm said he resigned because of a
"desire to provide a clear path" for the integration of the
manufacturing, product development and sales and marketing
arms of Subaru and Fuji, which makes Subaru cars. Mr. Lamm,
54, is one of the founders of Subaru, which previously had
been an independent distributor of Fuji's cars in the U.S.
   Fuji also said that Marvin S. Riesenbach, executive vice
president and chief financial officer of Subaru, will take
early retirement Oct. 31. Mr. Riesenbach, 59, said he is
leaving to "pursue other interests." A company spokesman said
Fuji plans to fill the position with an American.
   As Subaru's sales continued a three-year slide early this
year, Fuji moved to acquire the 50.4% of Subaru that it
didn't already own.
   Subaru's sales peaked in 1986 at 183,242 cars, which
accounted for 30% of Fuji's total revenue. But sales began to
suffer as Subaru moved outside its four-wheel-drive niche to
challenge such mainstream auto makers as Honda Motor Co. and
Toyota Motor Corp. In 1989, sales dropped to 136,111 cars,
down 26% from 1986.
   Subaru's troubles have hit Fuji hard. The company posted a
net loss of 6 billion yen ($41.6 million) for its year ended
March 31, compared with 6.83 billion yen a year earlier.
Nissan Motor Co., which is Fuji's largest holder with a 4.3%
stake, recently installed one of its former executives at the
helm of Fuji in an effort to help rescue the smaller company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Figgie Buys Southwest Safety
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FIGIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILLOUGHBY, Ohio -- Figgie International Inc., a
diversified consumer, industrial, technical and service
concern, said it purchased Southwest Safety &amp; Supply Co., a
San Diego-based distributor of health and safety products.
Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   From "First Strike," a book about the 1981 Israeli attack
on Iraq's nuclear reactor by Shlomo Nakdimon (Summit, 1987):
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   On January 26, 1976, France was the sole Western country
to support an anti-Israel resolution presented to the UN
Security Council . . . Forty-eight hours later, Premier
Chirac arrived in Iraq . . . for a close inspection of the
site picked for the French nuclear complex. . . . {He} issued
specific directives to remove any administrative obstacle
hindering the swift and flawless implementation of the
contract. . . .
   On March 20, 1980, a London newspaper reported: "Next
year, Iraq will be capable of manufacturing a nuclear bomb --
with the assistance of France and Italy. . . ." {Two days
before} an official {Iraqi} spokesman bitterly attacked the
American "campaign against Iraqi-French and Iraqi-Italian
technological cooperation in the field of nuclear energy." .
. . In another statement, the Iraqi Foreign Ministry
affirmed: "Removal of Zionism from Palestine is a
precondition for the constitution of a nonracist
international community." . . . "We want the whole of
Palestine," declared Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz on
March 24. "We recognize neither the 1967 borders nor the 1948
partition borders."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Portsmouth Bank Shares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   POBS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTSMOUTH, N.H. -- Portsmouth Bank Shares Inc., a bank
holding company, said that it received regulatory approval to
purchase an additional 5%, or 189,638, of its 3.8 million
common shares outstanding, and that it will make the buybacks
in the open market over the next six months.
   During the past 12 months, Portsmouth Bank bought back
161,400 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
INSURANCE (INS)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   PROPERTY TAXES are on the rise -- but so too may be
revolts.
   Despite widely publicized tax rebellions in the late 1970s
and early 1980s, property revenues jumped in the 1980s,
growing 18.3% in 1987 and 1988 alone. One reason: Soaring
real estate values thrust up property assessments during the
long economic expansion. Also, cutbacks in federal aid to
municipalities forced local governments to increase property
taxes, writes Steven Gold of the Center for the Study of the
States.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While some experts predict increasing federal budget
pressures will make property tax revenues more important to
states and localities, they also detect the seeds of some new
revolts. Oregon, South Dakota and Colorado all have ballot
initiatives this fall imposing some form of limitations on
property taxes, reports Scott Mackey of the National
Conference of State Legislatures.
   The District of Columbia experienced the largest increase
in property taxes in the 1980s; Massachusetts, the biggest
decrease.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH BENEFITS for an unmarried partner can be excluded
from income.
   But it depends on the state. The IRS, in a private letter
ruling for a city that recently extended its health plan to
so-called non-spouse cohabitants of employees, says the
recipients of such benefits must live in a state that
recognizes common-law marriages. Otherwise, they must fit the
definition of "dependent" under the Internal Revenue Code,
which requires that they receive over half their support from
the employee.
   The ruling "has much wider implications than health
plans," says Mary B. Hevener of the Washington law firm Lee,
Toomey &amp; Kent. A growing number of employers are offering an
array of benefits, such as retail discounts and dependent
care, to people with whom employees live outside of marriage.
Thirteen states and the District of Columbia recognize such
marriages, according to the Georgetown Law Center.
                                                                                                       

   SMALL BUSINESS hails a Rostenkowski tax incentive package.
   A bill recently introduced by the House Ways and Means
chairman gives a $5,000 tax credit for expenses that small
firms incur in providing access for disabled people. "This
was something we'd been working on for a long time," says
D.J. Gribben of the National Federation of Independent
Business, which had opposed the new Americans with
Disabilities Act, saying it would put a big financial burden
on small firms. The chairman's endorsement gives them
powerful support for the tax credit and increases the
likelihood that it will be included in a budget package this
year.
   But some small-business advocates are more reserved about
the bill. "We're not sure how it plays," says Todd McCracken
of National Small Business United, noting that the bill also
lowers to $15,000 from $35,000 a cap on deductions for
removing architectural and transportation barriers to the
disabled. And despite its support, the NFIB still may push
for changes, such as broadening the bill's definition of
small business.
   The bill also would extend permanently a 25% deduction for
health insurance costs of self-employed taxpayers.
                                                                                                       

   NICOTINE ISN'T ADDICTIVE. At least that was the premise of
an 11-year-old IRS ruling declaring that the costs of
stop-smoking programs aren't deductible as a medical expense.
Now, in response to requests that they reconsider in light of
new medical evidence about the effects of nicotine, IRS
officials are taking another look.
                                                                                                       

   TAX SHELTERS continue to dwindle. Largely because of
changes made in the 1986 tax revision law, shelter
registrations plummeted to 2,476 last year from 21,246
between September 1984 and the end of 1985, the Treasury
says. It is even suggesting eliminating a requirement that
shelters must register with the IRS.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE gather dust at the IRS. A General
Accounting Office study finds that uncollected tax bills
dating back more than one year have grown by $11.2 billion,
to $30.8 billion, between fiscal years 1986 and 1989. Cases
over one year old now comprise 55% of the agency's accounts
receivable, up from 46% in 1986.
                                                                                                       

   PRACTITIONER STANDARDS again engender debate.
   Four years ago the Treasury set off a furor with a
proposal to toughen the rules of conduct governing people who
advise and represent taxpayers before the IRS. One change
would require preparers to advise a taxpayer taking an
aggressive position of the possibility of incurring a
"substantial understatement penalty." Another said preparers
had to disclose an aggressive position on returns. After a
barrage of criticism from practitioners, the Treasury put off
further work on the proposal, waiting for Congress to enact a
penalty reform bill.
   But now that such reform has passed, the IRS has set up a
commissioner's advisory group to review the standards again.
And at a meeting of the group last week, practitioners
presented their own report. For example, they suggested
requiring disclosure of an aggressive position only if
preparers didn't believe there was a "realistic possibility"
of it being sustained.
   The advisory group will review the proposals, says Leslie
Shapiro, IRS director of practice.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Budget negotiators consider a revenue-raising plan
to delay for three to six months the increasing of tax
brackets with inflation. . . . An IRS advisory group member
worries that only half the tax forms sent out are returned;
the rest presumably add to the landfill problem.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Electric Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WX LLEC
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp. received a $93
million contract to build a 312-megawatt natural gas-fired
power generating plant for Commonwealth Atlantic Limited
Partnership, a partnership between a subsidiary of Mission
Energy Co., Fairfax, Va., and a division of Long Lake Energy
Co., New York, N.Y.
   Westinghouse said the power plant will be built in
Chesapeake, Va.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Britain's Official Reserves
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's official reserves rose an underlying
366 million dollars (#692 million) August from July, the U.K.
Treasury said Tuesday.
   This follows an underlying rise of $173 million in July
and a fall of $405 million in August 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Market economists had predicted a rise of $100 million to
$200 million during August.
   The underlying figure excludes official repayments and new
borrowing. Including these transactions, the reserves showed
a rise of $455 million in August, compared with a fall of
$172 million in July and a fall of $423 million in August
1989.
   At the end of August, Britain's reserves of gold, foreign
currency, special drawing rights (SDRs) and European Currency
Units (ECUs) stood at $39.297 billion, up from $38.842
billion in July and down from $43.208 billion in August 1989,
the Treasury said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   L.E. Myers Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MYR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- L.E. Myers Co. said it plans to
purchase as many as 250,000 shares of its common stock, or
about 10.3% of its total shares outstanding.
   The electrical construction concern said the repurchased
shares are for possible use in employee stock option plans.
Myers said it may repurchase the shares from time to time on
the open market or in negotiated transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, the company's stock closed at $14, up $1.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No Panacea:
   Petroleum Reserve Has
   Lots of Oil, but Using It
   Could Be a Challenge
   ---
   Many Refineries Can't Handle
   `Sour' Crude; Distribution
   Might Bring Bottlenecks
   ---
   A New Game for Speculators
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRYAN MOUND, Texas -- In early May, as Phillips Petroleum
Co. moved a tanker-load of oil into a pipeline near here, a
dock employee scrawled an identifying label: "5-2-90 Basra,"
it said. Iraqi crude.
   Iraq might not be pleased with the disposition of that
shipment, but the U.S. is. Today it sits in a huge
underground cavern here, part of America's 590-million-barrel
insurance policy in a global crisis Iraq brought on.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. policy makers take comfort in the confidence that if
the crisis worsens and world oil supplies contract, this
Strategic Petroleum Reserve can be summoned at the stroke of
a presidential pen; its crude oil can be quickly and smoothly
distributed, refined and put to use fueling everything from
cars to home furnaces to factories.
   Or at least that's the theory.
   In practice, getting SPR oil into the hands of consumers
would be a formidable challenge. While strategists often talk
of the petroleum reserve as if it could be turned on like a
water tap, the reality is a vast and enormously complex
system. Nobody says the reserve wouldn't work, but the
current crisis is raising a host of practical questions about
how fast and reliably it could deliver.
   Strategic Petroleum Reserve oil, some of it in storage for
13 years, has been withdrawn and sold only once. That was a
10-week, million-barrel test auction begun in late in 1985
conducted under non-stressful conditions. This worries oil
executives such as Leighton Steward, chairman of Louisiana
Land &amp; Exploration Co. "If you had a potential weapon you
could use -- that's what the SPR is, a weapon -- you wouldn't
go to battle with it never tested," he says. Before there's
any turn for the worse in the Persian Gulf, he and others
suggest, maybe the government should tap into the SPR to "get
out the bugs."
   Among the bugs they see are these:
   -- Two-thirds of petroleum-reserve oil is the wrong kind
for many U.S. refineries. It is "sour" crude containing so
much sulfur that if those plants tried to turn it into
gasoline they could be ruined.
   -- Equipment and physical problems have dogged the reserve
since it was hastily set up in the mid-1970s. At one site,
certain pipes have corroded and ruptured. Another $90 million
facility may collapse inward as soon as oil is withdrawn.
   -- If the SPR is opened, anyone with enough money will be
able to buy its oil, including speculators who could hoard
it, defeating the reserve's purpose.
   -- Up to 10% of the oil can be allocated any way the
Energy Department sees fit, a rule that could spur a
political free-for-all.
   -- U.S. law says only American-flag tankers can move the
oil about the country. So heavy drawdowns could mean a
distribution bottleneck.
   Officials of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve express
confidence that they could handle such problems. Although
"it's predictable we'll have some operational difficulties,"
says the reserve's director, John Bartholomew, "the SPR
stands at its highest state of readiness ever." He says it
has been "exercised" more than 25 times in the past decade.
But Randy Suhl, a crude oil analyst for Lyondell
Petrochemical Co. in Houston, says, "The question is whether
they can pump it at the rate they say they can."
   At the moment, officials ranging from Washington
politicians to Middle East oil ministers are debating whether
or when the ocean of oil buried in the SPR ought to be
tapped. The Iraq-Kuwait crisis and world embargo has
sidelined four million barrels of daily oil production, and
while other producers promise to fill most of that gap, the
SPR could eliminate the rest. It could also offset any spot
shortages in the coming heating season, and some experts say
that release of even small amounts of reserve oil would calm
the volatile petroleum markets. But so far the
free-market-oriented Bush administration isn't buying these
arguments.
   The idea of a strategic oil reserve first popped up before
World War I when Winston Churchill converted the British navy
to oil from coal. But he never set one up, and neither did
the U.S. until after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo. Congress
authorized the SPR a year later.
   The government began pumping oil into it in 1977, but it
took another oil crunch to spur serious buying. In 1981, with
prices soaring to more than $40 a barrel, SPR purchases hit a
one-year record of 122.5 million barrels. Unfortunately, in
that scramble the government bought a lot of the most
affordable oil, and that of course was the lowest grade.
   Now the SPR is heavy on "sour" crude, which is harder to
process than low-sulfur "sweet." It also yields less per
barrel of the most popular products, such as high-octane
gasoline. In fact, about 40% of the reserve is sour Mexican
crude. Some of that was bought for special reasons; a $1
billion oil purchase in the early '80s was part of a
financial rescue of that country.
   Many large refineries, such as Amoco's huge facility in
Texas City, Texas, can process both sweet and sour crudes.
But others can't: a Marathon Oil refinery in the same city
demands almost exclusively sweet crude. So do numerous other
major oil refineries from Odessa, Texas, to El Dorado, Ark.
Overall, about half the 6.9 million barrel-a-day refining
capacity on the Gulf Coast and 50% of Midwest capacity isn't
suited to sour crude, says Thomas Manning of Purvin &amp; Gertz
Inc., an oil industry consultant.
   "I've only found three crudes {in the SPR} we could even
run," says a worried official of the Indiana Farm Bureau
Cooperative. (The reserve contains eight types of crude in
all.) He fears supply problems for his 21,000 barrel-a-day,
1940-vintage refinery. "The metallurgy of our plant requires
a sweet crude. In a short time {sour crude} would eat up the
plant," he says. The co-op supplies 50% of the fuel used by
Indiana farmers.
   Mr. Bartholomew, the director of the petroleum reserve,
concedes that some refineries can't handle sour crude. But he
notes that many are changing equipment, and also says that
the SPR would never be the only source of oil, even in an
emergency. "Sometimes {refiners} think the SPR should be the
answer for anything," he complains.
   SPR oil is stored in Texas and Louisiana in five giant
salt domes and one abandoned salt mine. A typical cavern is
about 200 feet in diameter and 2,000 feet high, or taller
than the World Trade Center in New York. At the facility here
in Bryan Mound, 50 miles south of Houston, 20 caverns have
been hollowed out of a 10-mile-deep salt formation far below
the marshy surface. Engineers make the caverns by drilling a
hole and pouring in fresh water, thus dissolving some of the
salt, and then repeating the process to enlarge the cavity.
Oil, unlike fresh water, doesn't dissolve the salt walls.
   To retrieve stored oil, fresh water would be pumped in
through a pipe leading to the bottom of the cavern. Then oil,
which is lighter than water, would rise to the top and be
piped away. At Bryan Mound, it could be pumped 46 miles to a
terminal on the Houston Ship Channel or four miles back to
the Phillips docks. Currently, this site, like the rest of
the petroleum reserve, is on "Alert Level Two" and poised to
withdraw oil, says Neil Packard, Department of Energy site
manager. "It works beautifully," he declares.
   Apparently not all SPR sites are in such fine fettle. A
facility in Calcasieu Parish, La., was developed in such a
hurry that its three caverns are too close to each other and
to the edge of the salt dome. The first time water is pumped
in to extract oil is also expected to be the last. Though
officials say the oil will come out, they predict the walls
will collapse behind it. The Energy Department has been
hoping to move the oil elsewhere but can't until 1992.
   In fact, structural integrity is a long-term problem for
most of the other SPR caverns. Every time fresh water is
pumped in, it will dissolve more of their walls, too. By
contrast, commercial salt dome facilities that regularly move
oil in and out use brine, which doesn't eat away the salt
walls. But that is expensive and requires huge brine storage
capacity. While not an impediment to the immediate use of the
SPR, the fact that most caverns can only be emptied about
five times is one reason officials have been reluctant to
conduct a sustained test of the system.
   SPR employees are often waging war on corrosion. At Weeks
Island, La., the government pressed an old salt mine into
service instead of carving out a salt dome. Pumps and other
equipment there are deep in the mine, where salt and flooding
are threats, rather than above ground. A backup system is
planned for 1991.
   At a site in Cameron Parish, La., pipe used to carry off
brine formed as the caverns are created has corroded and
ruptured. The General Accounting Office of Congress contends
these failures "may be the forerunners of similar problems at
other sites."
   The SPR's Mr. Bartholomew, acknowledging the need to
constantly inspect and repair pipes and pumps, says part of
the problem was the "mad rush" to store oil in the early
days. "Pipelines were built and protective measures were made
later," he says. But corrosion is a common problem in the Oil
Patch, he says, and "I'm not aware of any corrosion that will
prevent a full-scale drawdown of the SPR."
   If the U.S. did draw down the oil, who would get it?
Energy Department rules permit anyone -- including traders
and speculators -- to bid for SPR oil so long as they can
demonstrate financial responsibility. That would probably
mean a certified check, a cashier's check or a letter of
credit for 5% of the potential contract amount. The buyer
isn't even required to refine the oil. Says Cambridge Energy
Research Associates: "SPR oil might just go from salt domes
to steel tanks."
   "There is essentially no restriction on buyers," agrees
Mr. Bartholomew. "Our job is to get the oil out." But he
doubts traders would bid if the SPR were tapped. "They can
{buy oil} any day they want to," he says, and storing oil
adds a carrying cost. Any such trader would be "running a
great deal of risk," he says. If speculation did become a
problem, presumably the Energy Department could halt it by
changing the rules.
   Others worry about politicians, not speculators. Under
existing rules, the Energy Department can allocate 10% of SPR
oil any way it wants. This could pit one part of the country
(and its politicians) against another in a scramble for
favors. "It could be a problem," says an Energy Department
spokesman, "given the large number of potential recipients
who all believe in good conscience that they are deserving of
it."
   Bharat Patel, for instance. He is an official of the New
Jersey Board of Public Utilities, and he recently traveled to
Houston from Newark for a briefing on the SPR. People in the
Northeast "are the ones who will suffer the inordinate price
hike" in an oil shortage, he said, asking repeatedly about
the 10% special allocation. He finally concluded that "we
don't know how it works and neither do the feds."
   Pumping the oil and selling it aren't the only challenges;
scheduling and loading tankers and moving crude through an
intertwined pipeline system could prove daunting for oil
buyers. For instance, two oil pipelines initially hooked to
the SPR have since become natural-gas pipelines, making it
more difficult to reach the Midwest and other points north.
And there is no good way to get SPR crude from the Gulf Coast
to the West Coast except for the Panama Canal. "It's a really
complex network of distribution," says Margaret Felts, a
California energy consultant. "You can only move the oil so
fast."
   The 1985 test of the SPR required only two tankers. In an
emergency, most transportation experts say, there might not
be enough qualified ships to transfer oil around the U.S.
Under a 1920s law called the Jones Act, only U.S.-flagged
vessels can operate from one U.S. port to another. Last
winter, that kept some badly needed heating oil from getting
to the Northeast from Gulf Coast refineries.
   The Energy Department says it has an agreement with the
Maritime Administration that oil shippers can obtain waivers
of the Jones Act within 48 hours. The key would be the extent
of SPR use. At 500,000 barrels a day, "there should be enough
U.S.-flagged ships," says an Energy Department official. "At
one million it starts to get fuzzy. . . . At three million
there wouldn't be enough."
   A final question is whether the petroleum reserve, meant
to provide energy security, is itself secure. The GAO has
urged greater vigilance against sabotage, citing a 1987 drill
in which make-believe terrorists damaged or destroyed SPR
power substations, pipeline valves, an emergency operations
center and a bridge. The raiders had easily obtained
blueprints, engineering data and diagrams from a local
university. Worse, defenders took 53 "casualties" -- 50% from
friendly fire.
   SPR officials won't say what safeguards they're adding in
the current confrontation with a nation known for its ties to
terrorism. But their concern with security is evident to a
would-be visitor to the Bryan Mound salt domes, who, after
negotiating an unmarked road, is forced to slow to a crawl
and weave between concrete barriers to get to the gate --
only to be turned away by armed guards.
   So SPR officials are annoyed by criticism such as the
GAO's. In the exercise, the mock terrorists "didn't get
beyond the fence line," boasts Paul Plaisance, an Energy
Department manager in New Orleans. Besides, he complains,
"They used mortar attacks against us. That's World War III.
I'm not sure the SPR should be able to defend against World
War III."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Wise Choice
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ("Crocodile teeth are useless for chewing." -- News item)
                                                                                                       

   Oh, crocodile
   With teeth on view,
   Though those dentures
   Cannot chew,
   I'd just as soon
   Not swim with you.
   -- Robert Gordon.
   ---
   Foul Play
                                                                                                       

   When a financial expert
   Gives a "ballpark" figure,
   One thing is certain:
   It's bound to grow bigger.
   -- Bernice Coca.
   ---
   Rhetorical Question
                                                                                                       

   Ever notice that some people prefer a familiar problem to
an unfamiliar solution?
   -- Ivern Ball.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Composers' Groups Try to Call the Tune
   In Battle Over Cable-Television Payments
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It seems that just about everybody is mad at
the cable industry these days. For composers trying to get
paid when their music is heard on cable television,
irritation has escalated into a war with some of cable's
biggest powers.
   If the composers win, cable companies will have to pay
millions more for the music used in their programs. Those
increases could well be passed on in subscriber charges,
leaving consumers singing the blues as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The battle is tangled and extensive, with at least half a
dozen suits and countersuits already filed between the groups
that collect fees for composers and various cable companies.
A judge is scheduled today to issue a ruling in one of the
cases that could hamper cable powerhouse HBO's ability to
operate.
   The critical issue isn't just how much the societies want
to charge cable for music rights -- a lot more -- but whom
they charge. Observing that the biggest share of money in
cable flows from subscribers to local cable franchises, the
composer groups want to charge performance fees to local
operators in addition to the cable channels. The cable
industry is fighting that plan on every possible front.
   Now, the average guy watching a movie in his living room
may only notice the sound track in passing. But someone has
to make sure that John Williams gets paid when "Indiana Jones
and the Last Crusade" is shown on HBO. In that case, the
someone is Broadcast Music Inc., known as BMI, which
represents some 100,000 composers and publishers, from the
estate of Charles Ives to Michael Jackson. The other major
performing-rights society, Ascap, the American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers, monitors performances for
its 45,000 members.
   Both BMI and Ascap have been collecting money for years
from bars, skating rinks, and radio and television networks,
with each new field they enter sparking a major battle. These
days the two are even going after shopping malls and
convention planners for music fees, but cable television is a
much vaster new territory. "Composers can't collect these
fees themselves, and it's our responsibility to protect them
as new technologies arise," says Frances Preston, BMI's
president.
   Although cable giant Home Box Office Inc., a unit of Time
Warner Inc., has paid for music rights for more than a
decade, many cable channels don't have licenses.
   Those that do pay relatively modest rates that reflect
cable's fledgling status when BMI and Ascap started charging
the industry a decade ago.
   "Cable has mushroomed into a giant industry, but it seems
like the cable people are saying: `We paid you a pittance
before, and that's all we want to pay,'" says Richard
Sherman, a Los Angeles composer whose movie scores include
"Mary Poppins" and "The Jungle Book." "I think it's bloody
ridiculous. The upfront money for most composers is modest:
Performance fees are our lifeblood."
   Currently, an average HBO subscriber pays between $100 and
$125 a year to watch the channel: From that, HBO's fee
amounts to about 27 cents per subscriber to BMI and Ascap
combined to cover a year's worth of music performances.
   Still, HBO contends that if BMI gets the rate increase it
wants, the group's revenue from cable will leap to $130
million a year from about $10 million now. That would be well
above the $75 million to $100 million BMI takes in from all
TV broadcasters, both the networks and local stations. BMI
calls HBO's estimates "distorted" and says they are based on
figures meant to be a starting point for negotiation.
   At the moment, the lawsuit generating the most fireworks
is one between BMI and HBO. This will probably be the test
case for whether BMI and Ascap can legally charge local cable
operators separately, in so-called split licenses.
   BMI sued HBO in December in U.S. District Court in New
York as HBO's license was about to expire and the two parties
couldn't agree on a higher fee. One reason HBO refused to
sign is that it disputes the legality of split licenses,
which were demanded by BMI. Under a split license, HBO would
be buying performance rights for the programs only until they
are transmitted to the local operator, not all the way
through to the home viewer -- which HBO says would put it at
a competitive disadvantage to cable channels without split
licenses.
   Wanting to use the case to prove it is legal to charge
operators separately, BMI pulled Manhattan Cable Television
Inc., a local operator and a unit of Time Warner, HBO's
parent, into the same suit as a defendant several months
later.
   To bring the issue to a head faster, BMI asked for an
injunction to prevent HBO from airing any programs containing
music by BMI composers: Since its license expired, HBO has
continued to run such programs without paying fees. The
ruling expected today is on the injunction.
   If Judge John Sprizzo grants BMI an immediate injunction,
its effect on HBO will be drastic. John Redpath Jr., general
counsel for HBO, says that at least half of HBO's September
schedule, about 80 movies, contains music by BMI composers. A
ban would affect movies from "Lawrence of Arabia" to
"Batman," says Mr. Redpath, and make it more or less
impossible for HBO to operate. He says HBO would appeal an
injunction.
   Eventually, perhaps even today, Judge Sprizzo will have to
address the underlying issue of the split license.
   HBO and Manhattan Cable maintain that BMI's demand for
separate licenses for cable channels and local operators
violates antitrust laws. The reason: the logistics involved
dictate only one type of license for local operators, making
it a monopolistic practice. Anybody who gets a license from
BMI or Ascap can choose to get a so-called blanket license, a
flat fee covering all BMI composers; or they can
theoretically negotiate separate licenses for different
programs, composers or songs, in some cases directly with
producers.
   But for a cable operator, which simultaneously carries 30
or 50 different channels, "it is impossible to negotiate
licenses for each program on each channel separately," says
Mr. Redpath, the HBO attorney. Manhattan Cable, for one, says
it airs about 480 programs in a day. "Split licensing,
because it forces an operator to take a blanket license, is
illegal," says Mr. Redpath.
   The contention that split licenses violate antitrust laws
has been backed up by 27 state attorneys general, who filed a
"friend of the court brief" in June.
   BMI lawyers say HBO and Manhattan Cable haven't proved in
court hearings that operators can't negotiate individual
licenses. "The copyright law says that whoever engages in a
public performance of music is supposed to pay for it," says
Robert Sisk, an attorney representing BMI. "Other court cases
have established that the transmission of a program to the
viewer from local cable operators is a separate performance.
Therefore, the operator has a responsibility to get a
license."
   Furthermore, "BMI believes the blanket license is the most
efficient, least costly method of obtaining performance
rights," Mr Sisk says. "This fight is over the fact that HBO
doesn't want to pay a little more for it."
   Ascap is also fighting to make cable operators pay
separately. But rather than sue them, Ascap is going through
a procedure set up in the '50s under a consent decree. All
Ascap rate disputes are settled by a judge in New York's
Southern District, who heard the arguments on the split
license more than a year ago but hasn't ruled yet. That judge
could well be influenced by Judge Sprizzo's decision. (One
goal of the cable industry is a similar arena for rate
disputes for BMI.)
   The cable industry filed a lawsuit in federal district
court in Washington in which two associations of cable
operators, the National Cable Television Association and the
Community Antenna Television Association, joined with the
Disney Channel and Black Entertainment Television to sue BMI.
The suit charges BMI with "unlawful price-fixing activities."
Hearings are scheduled for January.
   If both sides dig in their heels, the lawsuits between
BMI, Ascap and the cable industry may rage on for years. A
suit filed by CBS against both societies in 1969 dragged on
for over a decade; Ultimately, the Supreme Court said blanket
licenses can be legal in some circumstances.
   David Grossberg, an attorney who represents composers,
believes BMI and HBO are likely to reach a settlement. He
adds, "I'd also predict that, no matter what happens, the
cable industry will pay more than they're paying now."
   ---
          Music Makers Go for More of Cable's Money
                                                                                                       

                     The Cable Industry
                                                                                                       

   Estimates for 1990 Revenue
                                                                                                       

   -- Cable programming networks (advertising plus fees from
operators): $2.8 billion
   -- Local operators (subscriber fees plus local
advertising): $17.8 billion
                                                                                                       

                             vs.
                                                                                                       

                            Ascap
                                                                                                       

   -- Organized in 1914 by composers
   -- Represents about three million songs by 45,000
composers and publishers
   -- Annual revenue from licensing fees: about $250 million
                                                                                                       

                             BMI
                                                                                                       

   -- Formed in 1940 by radio broadcasters as Ascap
alternative
   -- Represents about 1.5 million songs by 100,000 composers
and publishers
   -- Annual revenue from licensing fees: about $200 million
                                                                                                       

   Source: Paul Kagan Associates Inc., BMI and Ascap
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                           Week Ended:
                                       Aug. 31,    Aug. 24,
                                         1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a .... 7.96        7.98
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) .. 8.04        8.09
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ......... 8.08        8.30
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b .............. 8.08        8.13
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ......... 7.85        7.93
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ....... 8.33        8.38
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ........ 8.56        8.62
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ......... 8.88        8.92
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c .......... 9.00        9.03
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, August 29, 1990
and Wednesday August 22, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for
constant maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitsubishi to Recall
   About 167,000 Vehicles
   For EPA Violation
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MOT C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Mitsubishi Motors Corp. is recalling about
167,000 cars and light trucks to fix emission problems that
violate federal air-pollution standards, the Environmental
Protection Agency said.
   The automaker is recalling 92,000 1987 model Mitsubishi
Mirages, Dodge Colts and Plymouth Colts -- all with 1.5-liter
engines -- for emitting too much carbon monoxide in the
exhaust because of faulty vacuum-control valves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government said Mitsubishi also began recalling 75,000
light trucks -- with two-liter engines -- for emitting
excessive carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons. Models affected
by the recall are the 1986 two-wheel-drive Mitsubishi truck
and Dodge Ram 50, and the 1986 and 1987 fourwheel drive Dodge
Colt Vista and Plymouth Colt Vista.
   The EPA detected the problems during routine
auto-emissions tests. Mitsubishi will make repairs free of
charge. All the vehicles were built by Mitsubishi, but the
majority were sold by Chrysler Corp. under its Dodge or
Plymouth nameplates. Owners, who are to be notified by mail,
are advised by the EPA to schedule repairs with Mitsubishi or
Chrysler dealers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   CRUM &amp; FORSTER Inc. stopped writing in April all personal
insurance lines, including auto policies. In yesterday's
edition, it was incorrectly stated that the company stopped
writing all insurance lines.
   (See: "Xerox Unit Is Selling Auto Insurer to GM, Puts
Another on Block" -- WSJ Sept. 4, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Are Mixed
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were mixed in the week ended
yesterday.
   Average yields on small-denomination, "consumer," CDs sold
directly by banks rose slightly. The average yield on a
six-month CD edged up to 7.42% from 7.40%, according to an
18-bank national survey by Banxquote Money Markets, a New
York information service. The average yield on a five-year
consumer CD rose to 7.92% from 7.90%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, average yields on small-denomination CDs sold
by leading broker dealers fell. The greatest decline was for
a five-year broker-sold CD, which slipped to 8.47% from
8.62%, according to Banxquote. The average yield for a
one-year broker-sold CD fell to 7.87% from 8%.
   Average yields for large-denomination CDs, which typically
require deposits of $90,000 or more, were flat to down
slightly. The average yield on a one-year jumbo CD eased to
7.72% from 7.77%, while the average for a five-year maturity
remained at 8.27%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Raise
   Total of $1.6 Billion
   With Auction of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.6 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.8 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Dec. 13, 1990, and March 14, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Mass. Exodus
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   States such as New York and New Jersey, whose politicians
are currently playing Russian roulette with their economies,
might consider what it would be like to have the AP run a
headline like this about them: "Poll Finds Many Would
Consider Leaving Massachusetts." Just out in Massachusetts,
the poll found an incredible 47% saying they'd consider
getting out if things got worse. One-third of those polled
say they're cutting back on groceries. Meanwhile, with
Washington budget summiteers reconvening soon, an entire
nation waits to see if it'll be trapped by a tax increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Fell 1.9% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
decreased 1.9% last week to 1,900,000 tons from 1,937,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output rose 12% from the 1,703,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 85.1% of its capability last week,
compared with 86.8% the previous week and 76.6% a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                              Net tons    Capability
                              produced    utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to Sept. 1 ........  1,900,000       85.1%
   Week to Aug. 25 ........  1,937,000       86.8%
   Year to date ........... 66,111,000       84.6%
   Year earlier to date ... 67,366,000       87.0%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rate Declines at Citicorp's
   Auction of 91-Day Paper
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 7.895% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.018% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $335 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.892% to 7.90%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate fell to 7.875% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.011%
at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $330 million were submitted. Accepted bids
were all at 7.875%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Union to Stop
   Payment of Strike Benefits
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   X.GRE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The Amalgamated Transit Union will stop paying
striking Greyhound Lines Inc. employees $50 a week in strike
benefits as of Sept. 13, union President James La Sala said
in a letter to officers of the Washington, D.C., union.
   About 6,000 members of the Amalgamated Council of
Greyhound Local Unions, an ATU bargaining unit, have been on
strike against the GLI Holding Co. unit since March 2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. La Sala said the Greyhound strike benefits, totaling
about $300,000 a week, had depleted the union's strike fund
to about $2 million. Further payments would make it difficult
for the union to pay legal fees in connection with recent
efforts to negotiate a bid to buy the bus company, he said.
   Mr. La Sala said the termination of benefits wasn't a sign
that the union is abandoning the strike. "We intend to
continue this fight for as long as it may take until it is
won or the company is destroyed," he said in the letter.
   Battered by strike-related violence, Greyhound Lines filed
for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code in June. The union is currently in
negotiations with Blackstone Group, a New York investment
banking firm, on a possible employee-led bid for the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pancontinental Mining Ltd.:
   Fiscal '90 Operating Profit
   Rose 9% at Australian Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   A.PCM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pancontinental Mining Ltd. of Australia reported that for
the year ended June 30, after-tax operating profit rose 9% to
27.3 million Australian dollars (US$22.2 million) from A$25.1
million a year earlier.
   Per-share earnings rose to 16.5 Australian cents from 15.2
cents. The dividend was kept at 3.5 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 22% to A$169.3 million from A$138.3 million.
   Tony Grey, Pancontinental's chairman, said that earnings
from gold were affected by lower world bullion prices, but
that this was offset by greater earnings from coal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   APFC CTP ENGY NVCR SAFC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Pacific Corp., offering 2,062,000 shares of
common stock, of which 1.9 million will be sold by the
company, 162,000 shares by selling holders, via Paine-Webber
Inc. and Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Central Maine Power Co., offering of 2.5 million shares of
common stock.
                                                                                                       

   Energy Ventures Inc., offering of 1,372,000 shares of
common stock, of which 1.3 million shares will be sold by the
company, 72,000 shares by a selling holder, via Lehman
Brothers and Howard, Weil, Labouisse, Friedrichs Inc.
                                                                                                       

   NovaCare Inc., offering of 4.5 million common shares, of
which two million will be sold by the company, 2.5 million by
selling holders, via Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. and Lehman
Brothers International.
                                                                                                       

   Safeco Corp., shelf offering of $200 million in debt
securities.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CENTRAL MAINE POWER Co. filed a shelf offering with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to issue as many as 2.5
million common shares. Yesterday's edition incorrectly
described the offering.
   (WSJ Sept. 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arco Expected to Unveil
   Cleaner Type of Gasoline
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Atlantic Richfield Co., which caters to
cost-conscious motorists in the West, will unveil a new
gasoline in Southern California that is expected to be a
cleaner version of its premium unleaded fuel.
   Analysts speculated that Arco will roll out an
emission-control version of its unleaded fuel as a complement
to its reformulated gasoline for pre-1975 cars that has
proven very successful. Last year, Arco was the first
gasoline company to scrap its regular leaded fuel in favor of
the high-octane, emission-control unleaded gasoline, which is
aimed at the 20% of motorists in its selling area who drive
older cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   M. Craig Schwerdt, an oil analyst with Drake Capital
Securities Inc., said Arco has in the past proposed the
notion of "designer fuels" for specific markets. Such fuels
could address differences in altitude, smog-control standards
and other variables.
   An Arco spokesman declined to discuss the new product,
which is scheduled to be introduced at a press conference
Thursday. Arco's stock closed at $135.625, up 75 cents in
composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McCarthy Securities
   To Sell 75% Stake
   To Sanwa of Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SWB CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Sanwa Bank said it agreed to purchase a 75%
stake in McCarthy Securities Ltd., making it the first
Japanese bank to acquire a majority interest in a Canadian
securities firm.
   The offer comes at a time when Canadian investment firms
are struggling. Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. sold its
Canadian unit in June, citing continued losses, and Merrill
Lynch Canada Inc. sold its retail operations in January. Of
the Toronto Stock Exchange's 75 member firms, only 28 managed
to eke out a profit in the first quarter of this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, Nobua Noujima, senior vice president at Sanwa
Bank's Canadian operations, said the interest of Japanese
investors in the Canadian market is growing and his company
wanted direct access to Canadian securities.
   "Canada is a very interesting market," Mr. Noujima said.
"Canadian bonds in particular are more and more interesting
to Japanese investors."
   Terms of the acquisition weren't disclosed. The shares
will be acquired from McCarthy employees, who will retain the
remaining 25% stake. Leighton W. McCarthy, founder, chairman
and chief executive officer of McCarthy, is the major holder
of that 25%, Sanwa Bank said.
   Mr. McCarthy will remain at the head of the company, which
is to be called Sanwa McCarthy Securities Ltd. The purchase
is subject to the approval of governmental authorities in
both Canada and Japan. A Sanwa representative will be
appointed to the seven-member McCarthy board.
   McCarthy is one of the few remaining independent brokerage
houses in Canada following recent acquisitions of securities
firms by Canadian banks and mergers among smaller firms. Mr.
McCarthy said Sanwa Bank approached McCarthy about the
merger. He said that while the company wasn't looking for a
partner, it was "feeling the pressure" of being a small,
independent firm and realized the merger was necessary for
growth. The company employs 62 people and has 4 million
Canadian dollars (US$3.5 million) in capital.
   Sanwa Bank, with assets of US$387 billion, said it will
make "significant additional capital" available to Sanwa
McCarthy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Schering, SmithKline
   Name U.S. Executives
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP SBE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two big pharmaceutical companies named executives to head
their respective U.S. businesses.
   Schering-Plough Corp., Madison, N.J., said Rodolfo C.
Bryce was appointed president of Schering Laboratories, the
company's U.S. prescription-products unit. Mr. Bryce, 44
years old, previously was senior vice president, prescription
marketing and sales, at Schering Labs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bryce succeeds Jean-Pierre Garnier, 43, who was named
president of the U.S. pharmaceuticals business of SmithKline
Beecham PLC, London, succeeding Frederick Kyle, who was named
president, commercial operations, of the Anglo-American drug
concern's world-wide operations earlier this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DWG Will Add
   Three Independent
   Directors to Board
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DWG
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DWG Corp., which has been ruled by Victor Posner, the
iron-fisted Miami Beach financier, agreed to yield some
control of the company by adding three independent directors
to its 13-member board, in a settlement with Granada
Investments Inc.
   DWG owns such enterprises as Arby's Inc. and Royal Crown
Cos. and is the crown jewel of the 72-year-old corporate
raider's shrinking empire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Granada, a New York-based investment firm, sued DWG's
board in April 1989, charging, among other things, that DWG's
directors shirked their fiduciary responsibility by not
seriously considering a $22-a-share, or $572 million, offer
that Granada had made for DWG in March 1989. The suit also
attacked the high salary and other perquisites of DWG
Chairman Victor Posner.
   DWG, in a countersuit, claimed that Granada's bid was
never a serious offer, but rather a scheme intended to
manipulate the market for DWG shares and allow Granada to
benefit from the increase in the stock's price when the
company was in play.
   The settlement -- which covers DWG, Granada, and certain
third-party defendants, including Granada's chairman, New
York attorney Andrew N. Heine -- is subject to approval by
U.S. District Court Judge Thomas D. Lambros, who has presided
over the court battle in Cleveland. DWG is incorporated in
Ohio.
   Leonard A. Pelullo, a Miami Beach hotelier who was a
member of the Granada group but withdrew, isn't a party to
the settlement.
   According to Martin Rosen, an attorney for DWG, the
settlement calls for the judge to pick three candidates who
will be added to DWG's slate of directors. As usual, the
directors will be voted on by shareholders.
   The settlement also provides for the independent directors
to be named to DWG's key committees, including its
compensation committee, which ponders issues like Mr.
Posner's controversial and hefty pay; the
intercorporate-transactions committee, which controls
business dealings within the Posner empire; and the audit
committee. One of the independent directors will become
chairman of the audit committee, Mr. Rosen said.
   Of the three independent directors, two will succeed
Martin Posner, who is a nephew of Mr. Posner, and Brenda
Castellano. The third will fill a vacancy on the board.
   Terms of the pact also call for the judge to determine how
much DWG should reimburse Granada for fees and expenses
associated with the litigation, up to a maximum of $5.5
million. "It's been a long, hard and bitter fight," said Mr.
Rosen, who called the agreement to foot the bill for
Granada's costs "a common thing."
   Neither Mr. Heine nor other Granada officials could be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   France Approves Carat,
   Eurocom Ad-Buying Union
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.EUC AEGSY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Despite worries about creating a giant, France
approved the request of the Carat Holding S.A. and Eurocom
S.A. advertising groups to merge their ad-buying operations.
   But because it fears that the new group could have
excessive influence on French media, especially radio and
television, France's Finance Ministry ruled that the two can
cooperate only on campaigns including ads placed outside
France. Theoretically, for clients placing ads solely in
France, Carat and Eurocom will continue competing with each
other.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision is a compromise, aimed at helping the French
companies develop abroad. But some competitors complain that
the new group still will excessively dominate the French
ad-buying market, in addition to becoming an increasingly
powerful force across Europe.
   By Eurocom's calculation, the new group will become the
third largest in Europe, behind a consortium called Media
Partnership and behind another linkup including the
Interpublic group and Publicis-FCB Communication. Within
France, Carat, a subsidiary of Britain's Aegis Group PLC,
already is the largest single media-buyer. Eurocom is second.
   Media buyers act as middle men, buying large volumes of ad
time and space in publications and on broadcast shows, and
selling it to advertisers. In a system pioneered by Carat,
the big-volume media buyers get deep discounts, which makes
it hard for smaller-scale buyers of ad space to compete.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Yetnikoff Resigns as Chief Executive
   Of CBS Records; No Successor Named
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Walter Yetnikoff, chief executive officer of
Sony Corp.'s CBS Records unit, is stepping down immediately,
accelerating previous plans to leave his post after two
years.
   Sony didn't name a successor, saying the company's three
top executives under Mr. Yetnikoff will continue to operate
their divisions while company directors undertake "a
long-term succession review."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, Sony and CBS Records insiders said
last month that Mr. Yetnikoff, 57 years old, signed a new
contract specifying that he would step down after two years,
helping to groom a successor and remaining as a consultant
thereafter. Mr. Yetnikoff at the time denied that he planned
to step down, and Sony issued a statement supporting the
flamboyant, outspoken executive.
   Morever, this week's Billboard, the music industry trade
publication, quoted Mr. Yetnikoff denying reports of his
departure, and stating that he had a new three-year contract.
Billboard said Mr. Yetnikoff would decide at its expiration
whether he wanted to leave the company.
   A spokesman for Mr. Yetnikoff said he was unavailable
yesterday to elaborate on his statement. Although he never
publicly announced any intention of leaving, he said in the
statement that he has decided to accelerate his previously
announced intention to step down as head of the company. "I
intend to go on sabbatical now," Mr. Yetnikoff said, adding
that after a few months' leave, he will work with Sony
president Norio Ohga on "long-term projects affecting the
future growth of Sony."
   CBS Records' three top executives include Tommy Mottola,
president of CBS Records' domestic division; Robert Summer,
president of CBS Records International; and Neil Keating,
president of Columbia Record Club. Mr. Mottola, a former rock
group manager who was brought in by Mr. Yetnikoff, has been
regarded by some as the most likely successor, though some
industry observers note he has no experience in running a
huge international record operation.
   The three executives will report directly to Mr. Ohga, who
is also chairman of CBS Records.
   Some industry executives had speculated that the record
company might be put under the control of Peter Guber, chief
executive of Sony's Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.
unit. But people familiar with Sony's plans said that
scenario is unlikely. Mr. Guber has his hands full running
Columbia's far-flung entertainment operations, and knows
virtually nothing about the record business.
   In a statement, Mr. Ohga said CBS Records "has never been
in better shape, both financially and operationally . . ..
This is a good time for Mr. Yetnikoff to focus on his other
priorities and for us to continue to build an organization
and management structure appropriate to CBS Records future
growth potential."
   Company insiders said Mr. Yetnikoff wasn't pushed out, but
was under increasing pressure to make room for the next
generation of managers to advance at the company. In his
statement, Mr. Ohga praised Mr. Yetnikoff, who is credited
with turning the company into the industry's leading record
company. "Mr. Yetnikoff's record speaks for itself," Mr. Ohga
said. "The company has grown and prospered under his
leadership."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Oil Firms Invited
   To Bid for Soviet Tracts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Soviet Union said it is inviting Western oil companies
to bid for rights to explore for and produce oil and gas in
two regions in the Republic of Turkmen.
   The areas cover about 90,000 square kilometers in the
South Caspian and Amu-Daria Oil and Gas Provinces. The Soviet
Ministry of Geology rated the areas as "highly prospective,"
and said there is existing major hydrocarbon production in
the area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, the Ministry of Geology and the government
of the Republic of Turkmen said invitations to bid will be
made available in November and December during a visit to the
U.S. by Soviet oil and gas officials. They said they will
then provide prospective bidders details on the potential of
the areas.
   The Soviet statement said that small tract competitive
bidding will be used to select participating companies,
similar to the bidding format used in the U.S. and some other
countries. In the past, Western oil companies have negotiated
directly with government agencies for the possibility of
joint ventures in large areas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   For Fireworks Families, Passing the Torch is Tradition
   ---
   Pyrotechnists Master Secret of Succession
   From Generation to Generation
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIALTO, Calif. -- The Souzas here have been in the
fireworks-display business for four generations. So have the
Rozzis of Loveland, Ohio, and the Zambellis of New Castle,
Pa. The Gruccis of Brookhaven, N.Y., trace their past to
before Lincoln's presidency.
   In an age when small businesses commonly don't outlast
their founders, the fireworks industry is a monument of
endurance, a throwback to a time when fathers handed their
craft to their children. The experience of these families
offers guidance on a vexing problem: how to get the next
generation ready and willing to take over the family
business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some industries lend themselves to family succession,
consultants say. With an estimated $75 million a year in
revenue, the fireworks-display industry supports several
leading family firms and local concerns. But it isn't big
enough to attract large corporate players. Besides, there are
entry barriers. "There is no school to get a master's degree
in pyrotechnics. It is a thing you learn by apprenticeship
and experience," says Dale Miller of the American
Pyrotechnics Association.
   Of prime importance, the fireworks families get their
children involved and excited. Felix Grucci Jr. recalls as a
young child walking hand in hand with his father as the elder
Grucci set off fireworks at shows. "It was the greatest
thrill of my life," says Mr. Grucci, 39 years old and
president of Fireworks by Grucci Inc.
   James Souza, a director of his family's Pyro-Spectaculars,
says, "I can't remember not being involved in the business."
By the age of 12, he helped set up shows at fairs and
tinkered with designing small-scale sparklers. In his
grandfather's day, says the 38-year-old Mr. Souza, the family
would pack explosive powder into fireworks pieces while at
breakfast.
   The families have their own secret fireworks formulas.
George "Boom Boom" Zambelli, the 66-year-old president of
Zambelli Internationale Fireworks Mfg. Co., still uses the
black book, with formulas in Italian, that was given him by
his father a half century ago. He keeps it in a safe.
   Even vacations contribute. The Souzas have an annual
vacation that attracts as many as 30 family members.
Seventeen Gruccis gather every Sunday for dinner, and "the
topic is always fireworks," says Donna Grucci Butler, one of
eight family members working full time in the business.
During the peak season around July Fourth, up to 150 family
members come in to help. For any family business to last,
"there must be a sense of love and respect in the family,"
says Leon Danco, a Cleveland-based family-business
consultant.
   Many in the industry speak of a magic that attracts them
as children. After all, it's easier to hook a kid on a
business that fills the night sky with color than a business
that hauls toxic waste.
   George Zambelli Jr., the elder Mr. Zambelli's 42-year-old
son, says that through his family's shows he has met every
president since John Kennedy. Long before he was old enough
for a license, he drove the White House tractor to help set
up a show there. Many speak of being performers on a giant
scale. "You can have a whole city as your stage," says Mr.
Souza. For the golden anniversary of San Francisco's Golden
Gate Bridge in 1987, the Souzas draped the span in a
4,200-foot-long waterfall of fire. Mr. Souza was especially
proud because his great-grandfather was involved on the
bridge's opening day.
   Some considered other paths. John Rozzi says he once
thought of working outside the family's Tri-State
Manufacturing Co. "But I figured I would just get swallowed
up in some corporation," he says.
   Mrs. Butler of the Gruccis says she hated fireworks as a
child: "I couldn't stand the noise." But as she grew up, her
mother asked for help in the business, and Mrs. Butler
couldn't say no. Now, she adds, she wouldn't do anything
else.
   The ties must be strong, for fireworks display is a
dangerous business. In 1983, an explosion destroyed the
Grucci factory and killed two people, including Donna and
Felix's brother James. The family discussed quitting, but
decided to rebuild. "It's what my father would have wanted,"
says 26-year-old Felix "Phil" Grucci, one of James's children
and a vice president.
   Mr. Souza says his great-grandfather lost an arm in a
fireworks accident. The same thing happened to a Souza worker
when a shell prematurely exploded during a 1969 show in San
Francisco. Later in the same show another premature explosion
permanently injured his father Robert's fingers, says Mr.
Souza.
   Three years ago, says Mr. Souza, an unhappy worker
committed suicide at the company compound here by igniting
some 30,000 pounds of explosives stored in an underground
bunker. Though no one else was injured, the explosion
registered 1.6 on the Richter scale, says Mr. Souza.
   As this once empty stretch of scrubs some 50 miles east of
downtown Los Angeles begins to fill with subdivisions,
neighbors and officials are pressing the Souzas to leave. The
company is looking for a new site, says Mr. Souza.
   Not all conflicts come with neighbors. Earlier this year,
James Souza resigned as president of Pyro-Spectaculars after
a dispute with his father. He says he wants to sponsor
fireworks events rather than simply put on shows. Though
active in Pyro-Spectaculars, he has his own firm.
   But Mr. Souza has no doubts he would like to see his sons,
ages 14 and 12, become the fifth generation of Souzas to go
into the business. Already, he takes them to shows and asks
their advice on current music to use with the fireworks.
   The other families feel the same. For instance, the senior
Mr. Zambelli says two teen-age granddaughters recently told
him they planned to take over the business someday. "I loved
it," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoechst AG:
   German Chemical Concern's
   Pretax Profit for Half Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hoechst AG of West Germany, a chemical concern, said its
group pretax profit for the first half fell 14% to 1.82
billion marks ($1.15 billion) from 2.11 billion marks a year
earlier.
   World-wide group sales fell 2.2% to 22.43 billion marks
from 22.94 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that economic and market developments in
several key geographic areas were weak in the first half, and
that its sales and earnings were hurt by the mark's strength
against other currencies, especially the dollar and the yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   GAO Assails RTC
   Over $250 Million
   Advances to S&amp;Ls
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The General Accounting Office criticized the
savings-and-loan bailout agency for advancing $250 million to
two insolvent thrifts under government control without
securing collateral, and said the total of uncollateralized
borrowing by such thrifts "could be substantial."
   The GAO, which scrutinized only three S&amp;Ls, said the total
could be significant because the Resolution Trust Corp. had
advanced $12.7 billion as of March 31 to thrifts taken over
by the government. The RTC, which has taken over about 450
thrifts, was set up under last year's S&amp;L bailout law to sell
off insolvent thrifts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said the RTC's
rules require it to hold promissory notes and secure
collateral for the advances but that the RTC appeared to be
ignoring those requirements. The advances are loans made to
the thrifts to meet their cash needs while under government
control.
   The GAO said the failure to follow the rules could
increase the cost of the bailout if the RTC can't get its
money back or if it finds itself in a battle with other
creditors over collateral.
   The GAO said at one of the three thrifts it visited
earlier this year the RTC couldn't find 12 of the 18
promissory notes for advances made through October 1989. The
GAO found $250 million in advances not backed by collateral
at two of the S&amp;Ls.
   The reason for the problems, perhaps, has been the
confusion that has attended some of the bailout's start-up --
and to which bailout officials have admitted. The GAO said
that officials at RTC headquarters maintained that regional
RTC officials were supposed to ensure that sufficient
collateral backed the advances. But the regional officials
told the GAO they didn't even know until recently the total
amount of advances from the RTC.
   The criticism came in a report about the RTC's spending.
In a possibly ominous note, the GAO said recent RTC actions
to accept prices lower than the appraised value for
properties suggest the RTC's overall valuations of its
assets, which are based on appraised value, "may be
overstated." If true, that could mean the RTC has further
losses that taxpayers will have to make up.
   The GAO said it will criticize appraisals carried out for
the government as being overly optimistic in a report soon to
be issued on the strength of the government insurance fund
for banks. "Because the {RTC} also uses appraisals in valuing
its real estate and other assets," the GAO said, "it needs to
be alert for optimistic assumptions."
   The GAO's report noted that the RTC had said it was taking
steps to correct the collateral problems. A spokesman for the
RTC said: "Given that we are in control {of the thrifts}, it
is highly unlikely that collateral would be pledged to some
other obligation."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreigners Were
   Net Equity Sellers
   In April and May
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Foreign investors continued as net sellers of
U.S. equities in April and May, selling a combined net $3.4
billion of stocks, early data from the Securities Industry
Association show.
   At the same time, foreign investors were only modest net
buyers of U.S. corporate bonds in those months, with
corporate bond purchases totaling a combined net $2.3
billion, the data indicate. In addition, the SIA called
foreign investors' interest in U.S. Treasury securities
"marginal" during April and May, with net purchases of
Treasury securities totaling $576 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The figures reflect unease about the U.S. economy, as well
as positive developments in the politics and economies of
European countries, said David G. Strongin, director of
international finance for the SIA, in a report.
   "It's a sea change in how foreign investors are looking at
U.S. securities," Mr. Strongin said in an interview.
Ordinarily, the securities industry trade association
releases quarterly figures, but Mr. Strongin said that
because the "pattern of a continued divestment" continued
during the two months from the previous quarter, the SIA
wanted to get the figures out quickly.
   In April and May 1989, foreign investors were net buyers
of U.S. stocks, with net purchases totaling $960 million.
They also were net buyers of U.S. Treasury securities, with
net purchases totaling $7.03 billion, and net buyers of U.S.
corporate bonds, with net purchases of $2.77 billion of them.
   Mr. Strongin pointed out that for the first five months,
all foreign activity in U.S. securities resulted in net sales
of $4.3 billion, compared with net purchases in the
year-earlier period of $42.3 billion.
   He said the consequences of the lack of support from
foreign investors, in addition to hurting stock and bond
prices, likely would be higher interest rates, all things
being equal. He said the SIA expects the trend to be similar
in the third quarter.
   In the first quarter, net sales of equities by foreign
investors totaled $3.3 billion. In the quarter, net purchases
of corporate bonds by foreign investors totaled $3.4 billion,
a spokesman said. Net sales of Treasury securities totaled
$6.5 billion, he added.
   The net sales by foreign investors in U.S. securities in
the first quarter represented the first net outflow since the
third quarter of 1983, the SIA said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit and Pritzker-Led Group Agree
   To Buy Parent of Ticor Title Insurance
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Electronic Data Systems Corp., the data processing unit of
General Motors Corp., and a group led by Chicago investor Jay
Pritzker have agreed to buy the parent of Ticor Title
Insurance Cos., a big real estate title insurance concern.
   Exact terms of the acquisition weren't disclosed. However,
an official of Ticor's parent, closely held Westwood Equities
Corp., said the purchase price is less than Ticor's annual
gross revenue of roughly $500 million. EDS also didn't
disclose how ownership of Ticor will be divided with Mr.
Pritzker's group, New Century Enterprises Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The venture gives EDS a major entrance into a potentially
lucrative market. The deal "is a big opportunity for us. It
fits very well with the other property businesses we're in,"
said Ben Sims, president of EDS's insurance business unit.
   Ticor offers EDS and GM access to an enormous base of data
on land transactions that could be valuable to their existing
financial services marketing efforts. GM, for example, has a
mortgage lending unit, while EDS is the largest supplier of
data processing for the property and casualty insurance
industry.
   In acquiring a piece of Ticor, EDS expands its strategy of
buying big customers to enter new markets.
   Earlier this year, EDS jumped into the airline computer
reservation business by forming a joint venture with Texas
Air Corp. to take over Texas Air's System One airline
reservation system. EDS was to pay $250 million for its share
of the venture, and also was to receive a 10-year contract
originally valued at $4 billion to handle data processing for
Texas Air's Eastern and Continental airlines units. EDS still
hasn't closed this deal, however, because of problems related
to Eastern's bankruptcy proceedings. Company officials have
said the terms of the deal could change.
   In conjunction with the Ticor deal, EDS will get a data
processing contract that company officials estimate will
generate $200 million to $300 million in revenue over 10
years.
   Ticor has been looking for a potential buyer for the past
four years, said Winston V. Morrow, Westwood's chairman,
president and chief executive officer. The company's core
title insurance business has been unprofitable in recent
years "due to a very heavy curve of losses in this industry,"
he said. The downturn in the real estate market has
engendered a rise in claims against title insurance, Mr.
Morrow said.
   Ticor, based in Los Angeles, has had other problems.
   In 1986, the company's mortgage insurance unit, TMIC
Insurance Co., was taken over by California insurance
regulators after it sustained huge losses on policies issued
to a failed real-estate syndication firm, Equity Programs
Investment Corp.
   The TMIC Insurance mess and controversy over Ticor's
handling of it "was a nightmare" that "haunted" the rest of
Ticor's operations, Mr. Morrow said. Westwood, formed last
year as a parent entity for Ticor's various operations, still
owes $20 million of $30 million pledged to put the mortgage
insurance unit back on a sound footing, Mr. Morrow said. That
money will be paid as part of the acquisition, he said.
   Because of the TMIC debacle and the slump in the title
insurance business, Ticor couldn't afford technology needed
to modernize its operations. The company's 300 company-owned
offices and its more than 1,000 independent agents amass
enormous amounts of information on U.S. property
transactions. However, the company's data handling capability
"is closer to the quill pen era" than the computer age, Mr.
Morrow said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yen Futures Trader Pleads
   No Contest to Fraud Counts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Martin J. Riley, one of 15 yen futures traders
awaiting trial in federal court here on fraud charges,
pleaded no contest to one count of mail and wire fraud and
two counts of violating the Commodity Exchange Act.
   Separately, opening arguments in the trial of the 14 other
defendants were scheduled for next Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Riley's plea before U.S. District Court Judge William
Hart means that while he isn't contesting the government
charges against him in the yen case, his plea can't be used
as an admission of guilt in subsequent civil or
administrative proceedings against him.
   Neither Mr. Riley nor his attorney, William Murphy, could
be reached for comment on the plea.
   Many futures traders who have pleaded guilty to fraud
charges stemming from the government's undercover
investigation of the futures pits have been fined by the
futures exchanges for admitting to violations of exchange
trading rules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   HQ Office Supplies Warehouse Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   HQOSA HQOIA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HQ OFFICE SUPPLIES WAREHOUSE Inc. (Long Beach, Calif.) --
George J. Handgis was elected president and chief executive
officer of the office-supply retailer. He succeeds Brad R.
Tukey, 43 years old, who resigned to pursue other interests
but will remain on the company's board and serve as a
consultant. Mr. Handgis, 38, is president and chief executive
of HQ Office International Inc., a former subsidiary of HQ
Office Supplies Warehouse. The companies also announced they
are discussing a possible business combination, but that no
agreement has been reached.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BCE Development
   Says 2 Supporters
   May Limit Backing
   ----
   By Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BD BCE T.B T.CDN
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Financially troubled BCE Development Corp. said
its two main financial backers may not continue to let the
company use their funds to meet its debt obligations.
   The company said in a statement that this could lead to a
restructuring of its 2.4 billion Canadian dollars ($2.07
billion) of debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BCE Inc., which holds 67% of BCE Development, and Carena
Developments Ltd., a real-estate developer controlled by
Toronto financiers Peter and Edward Bronfman, joined forces
late last year to provide a C$500 million credit facility to
the real-estate company.
   The funding was pumped into Brookfield Development Corp.,
BCE Development's chief operating subsidiary, to allow work
to continue on construction projects. However, some of the
money has been used by BCE Development to meet debenture
payments and other debt obligations. By the end of the first
quarter, C$358 million of the credit had been used up.
   "They {BCE and Carena} have the right to say `We don't
want you using {the money} for other things like debenture
payments,'" said BCE Development's president and chief
executive officer, Gordon Arnell.
   The company said Brookfield is its only source of funds
for meeting its debt obligations. Mr. Arnell said the
company's next debenture payment comes up in October and the
board will meet then to decide what to do.
   The company said that if Brookfield's support is
withdrawn, "the company will present to debenture and other
corporate debt holders a plan to restructure their
obligations." Mr. Arnell said he doesn't think the company is
facing bankruptcy. He said the company would hope to develop
a debt restructuring plan that its creditors would agree to
voluntarily.
   The company also said in the statement that, given "the
further deterioration in the real-estate markets since the
beginning of the year, a further asset provision may be
required." BCE Development took a C$550 million write-down on
its real-estate assets in the fourth quarter of 1989.
   "It's not to say these things are going to happen," Mr.
Arnell said of the company's gloomy statement. "We want to
put people on notice that these things are possible."
   The company said it expects its previously reported rights
offering of Brookfield shares to go ahead as planned. Under
the proposal, Carena and BCE would convert up to the full
C$500 million of their credit facility into equity. The two
companies are also considering a proposal to convert
capitalized interest that has accrued under the credit
facility, the company said. This would result in about C$600
million of equity being subscribed for by Carena and BCE
under the offering.
   BCE Development also reported yesterday a first-quarter
loss of C$38.1 million, or 26 Canadian cents a share. It said
that, until it completes the rights offering, it will
continue to operate at a loss.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, BCE Development
closed unchanged at 24 Canadian cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Japanese
   Car Prices
   Rise Sharply
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC NSANY F TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Two Japanese auto makers announced relatively
modest price increases on several 1991 models, moves that
could fuel their quest for a still-higher share of the U.S.
car market.
   Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. appear to be using
pricing tactics sharply different from Detroit's Big Three
auto makers, which are coupling steeper base-price increases
with big rebates on the new models even before they hit the
showrooms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Net of rebates, Detroit and the Japanese are raising
prices by about the same amount," said auto analyst Ronald
Glantz of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "Detroit is following the
policy of the biggest rebate ever, while Japan is following
the policy that rebates cheapen image."
   Honda said it was raising the base price of its 1991
Accord, the top-selling car model in the U.S., by $200, or
1.6% from the 1990 model. That will put the cheapest Accord
DX four-door sedan at $12,545, compared with $13,717 for the
cheapest Ford Taurus, one of its major competitors.
   Ford Motor Co. had raised the base price of the 1991
Taurus by $1,077, or 8.5%. But Ford yesterday announced a
$750 rebate on the 1991 Taurus, thus making its effective
price $12,967. The rebate leaves the least expensive Taurus
priced more than $400 above the cheapest Accord. However, an
automatic transmission is standard on the Taurus but a $750
option on the Accord, which comes with a five-speed manual
transmission as standard.
   "The Accord is already a successful car," says analyst
John Casesa of Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co., "This kind of
restraint in pricing will allow it to be really successful."
A Honda spokesman said the company was looking to "gain
market share in 1991 as well as 1990."
   Honda didn't announce prices on any of its other cars
beside the Accord sedan. But that single model accounts for
more than 40% of Honda's U.S. sales.
   Nissan, meanwhile, said it was raising the base price of
most models between 1.7% and 2.7%. However, a big exception
is the Sentra, completely redone for this year. It will start
at $7,999, a $600 or 8.1% increase from the current model.
   Nissan's car and truck sales in the U.S. dropped 4.9%
through July 31, making it the only major Japanese auto maker
to lose market share this year. Overall, Japanese car makers
took a record 28% of the U.S. car market in the first half of
1990.
   Yesterday, Nissan released prices on all of its models
except for the upscale Maxima. The base price of the 1991
Nissan Stanza will be $11,900, a 2.1% increase from 1990. The
Nissan 240SX will start at $13,609, a 2.7% rise.
   Nissan lowered the base price of its 300ZX sports car to
$27,300 from $28,600, a decrease of 4.5%. However, the
company eliminated the car's standard "T-bar" roof, which now
must be purchased as an option. With the T-bar roof the car
now costs $29,100, a 1.7% increase from 1990.
   The Nissan Pathfinder sports utility vehicle will have a
base price of $16,120, a 2.5% increase. The cheapest
Pathfinder with four-wheel drive will be $17,695, a 2.3%
increase.
   The leading Japanese auto maker, Toyota Motor Corp.,
expects to release prices later this week. "All I can tell
you is that our price increases will be moderate," a Toyota
spokesman said.
   The Japanese have gained some pricing flexibility over the
past year because of the value of the yen. After several
years of rising against the U.S. dollar, the yen stabilized
earlier this year. The yen currently trades at 144.05 to the
dollar.
   Earlier, General Motors Corp. and Ford announced price
increases of 4% or more on most of their models. Chrysler
Corp. put a big 12% increase on its minivans, but actually
cut prices on some less-popular vehicles.
   As expected, Ford yesterday followed GM and Chrysler in
announcing rebates on nearly all of its 1991 models. The
rebates range from $1,000 on Grand Marquis and Ranger to $500
on cars such as Mustang and Escort. Buyers can take cut-rate
financing instead of cash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Official of Stock Firm
   Is Guilty of Racketeering
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEWARK, N.J. -- Leonard Tucker, former part-owner of a
now-defunct penny stock firm, pleaded guilty yesterday to a
federal racketeering charge, the U.S. attorney's office here
said.
   Mr. Tucker was among eight high-level managers of F.D.
Roberts Securities Inc. indicted on racketeering and fraud
charges in March. The other seven, including two brothers of
Mr. Tucker, currently await trial, according to U.S. Attorney
Michael Chertoff. The defendants allegedly netted $67 million
by engineering a stock-manipulation scheme from 1986 to 1988,
Mr. Chertoff said in a statement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tucker faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and fines
in the millions of dollars when he is sentenced by a U.S.
District Court judge.
   To date, 25 officers and high-level employees of F.D.
Roberts, which was based in Paramus, N.J., and closed in
February 1989, have pleaded guilty to felony charges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AmBase Plans to Sell
   Home Insurance Unit
   To Fairfax Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   T.FFH ABC MAKL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
</IN>
<LP>
   AmBase Corp. said it agreed to sell Commonwealth Insurance
Co., a Vancouver unit of its Home Insurance Co. subsidiary,
to Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., Toronto, for $49 million.
   An AmBase spokesman said the sale would have no impact on
previously announced agreements to sell Home Insurance or a
controlling interest in the company because Home Insurance
would retain proceeds from the Commonwealth sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AmBase, New York, agreed to sell a 50.1% stake in the
company to an investor group a week after reaching a separate
agreement to sell Home Insurance to Vik Brothers
International. AmBase said it would proceed with both offers
until a definitive agreement is reached with one or the
other. Neither investment group could be reached yesterday.
   AmBase said Commonwealth, which has about 120 employees,
offers commercial property and oil and gas insurance in
Canada, the U.S. and overseas.
   Separately, Markel Corp. reached a tentative agreement
under which it would acquire Fairfax's 47.5% stake in F-M
Acquisition Corp. for $45 million cash, plus securities that
Fairfax valued at about $23 million. Markel, a Richmond, Va.,
insurance marketing concern, already owns about 42.5% of
closely held F-M Acquisition, a specialty insurer in
Evanston, Ill.
   The securities Markel would swap for F-M include about
850,000 subordinate voting shares, and 800,000 multiple
voting shares, of Fairfax. The shares, which Fairfax values
at about $16 million, account for about 23% of Fairfax's
equity and a 31% voting interest.
   The tentative agreement also calls for Markel to transfer
$7 million of preferred shares of Lindsey &amp; Newsom Claim
Services Inc., to Fairfax and transfer its 50% stake in
Lindsey &amp; Newsom to Morden &amp; Helwig Group Inc. for $8.3
million. Morden &amp; Helwig is a Toronto-based claims-management
concern 55% owned by Fairfax. Lindsey &amp; Newsom is a Tyler,
Texas, claims adjuster that already is 50%-held by Morden &amp;
Helwig.
   The transactions are subject to a number of conditions,
Fairfax said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Sunwest Financial Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   SFSI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNWEST FINANCIAL SERVICES Inc. slashed its quarterly to
12 cents a share from 28 cents but said it expects to report
a profit for the year. Sunwest, based in Albuquerque, N.M.,
which had a $7.6 million loss in the first half, including
$3.3 million in expenses associated with its voluntary
retirement program and $32.6 million in loan-loss provisions,
said earnings improved in the first two months of the third
quarter. In July and August, the bank holding company had net
income of over $3.1 million, due to a reduction in the
loan-loss provision and better controls on non-interest
expenses. The rise in non-performing assets has "stabilized,"
a spokesman said, even though the state's real estate woes
haven't improved. The July and August earnings trend is
expected to continue and result in positive earnings for the
year an official said. The dividend is payable Oct. 1 to
stock of record Oct. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amdura Corp.:
   Company Gets Higher Offer
   For Hardware Distributor
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   ADU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Amdura Corp. said it received a new bid for its Amdura
National Distribution Co. unit from United Hardware
Distributing Co. that topped an earlier bid from Our Own
Hardware, setting up a possible auction in federal bankruptcy
court.
   Amdura, a Denver automotive and hardware distributor and
specialty manufacturer, declined to release terms of the bids
from the two companies, both of which are dealer-owned
hardware cooperatives based in Minneapolis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But an Amdura spokesman said the latest bid topped the
earlier one by at least $1 million, as specified by the
federal bankruptcy-court judge overseeing Amdura's
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
which gives the company protection from creditors. He added
that a hearing on the sale is scheduled for Friday, at which
time interested parties can submit higher bids.
   Amdura National, a wholesale hardware distributor that
serves Trustworthy hardware stores in the upper Midwest, also
is operating under bankruptcy-court protection.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Appetite
   Grows as Users
   Top Off Tanks
   ---
   Unleaded Gasoline Jumps
   8.34 Cents to 94.52 Cents;
   Crude Oil Rises by $1.80
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The world's appetite for petroleum seems to be rising on
fears of a Middle East war, despite already sharply higher
prices and sluggish economies.
   People and companies concerned about potential shortages
are suddenly "topping off" their tanks, oil economists say.
That is putting more upward pressure on prices, the
economists add. Also, if there are going to be any oil
shortages from the Middle East crisis, such buying could
trigger them prematurely.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consumers aren't using more oil, just purchasing it now
and storing it instead of buying it later when they normally
would need it. Such demand is "borrowed" from future months
and simply moves fuel out of primary commercial inventories
and into so-called secondary and tertiary storage. Many
European apartment dwellers are filling their fuel oil tanks
in these final days of summer, for example, rather than
waiting for winter to approach.
   "Nothing is really changing, except whose tank holds the
oil," said Paul Mlotok, an oil economist with Morgan Stanley
Group. However, "an acceleration of demands on commercial
inventories could cause an apparent tightening of supplies
and a rise in price faster than would occur otherwise," he
says.
   Fuel and crude oil prices, paced by gasoline, surged again
yesterday. In U.S. futures trading, unleaded gasoline for
October delivery jumped 8.34 cents a gallon to settle at
94.52 cents. Heating oil rose 5.83 cents a gallon to 82.39
cents. October crude oil, similar to West Texas Intermediate,
increased $1.80 a barrel to settle at $29.12. Also, several
refiners raised their field postings for the benchmark WTI
crude by $1.75 to $27.50.
   The trend in demand is similar to one that developed
during the 1979 Iranian revolution. Large volumes of oil were
closed down then, similar in size to the 4.3 million barrels
a day that Iraq and Kuwait exported before global sanctions
were imposed. In 1979, oil demand was artificially stimulated
by precautionary inventory building -- some called it
hoarding -- and surged to nearly 52 million barrels a day as
prices doubled.
   Petroleum demand only recently has again reached the 1979
level. Many estimates for current demand range from 52
million to 53 million barrels a day.
   Demand normally begins to rise at this time of year,
hitting its annual peak during the fourth and first quarters.
But there is evidence that demand is suddenly spurting well
ahead of this time a year ago. In the four weeks through Aug.
24, U.S. petroleum demand is estimated to have averaged 18.2
million barrels a day, up nearly 6% from the year-earlier
period.
   Many oil forecasters are drawing up new demand projections
for the third quarter -- even though it is two-thirds over.
These replace some predictions made only a month ago to take
into account the unexpected surge.
   The International Energy Agency will report this week that
its new estimate for third-quarter demand has been revised
upward by 500,000 barrels a day from its forecast of 52.6
million barrels a day made a month ago. On the other hand,
the Paris agency will revise its estimated demand for the
fourth quarter downward by 800,000 barrels a day from the
month-earlier forecast of 55.3 million barrels a day.
   "There has been movement of demand forward from the fourth
quarter to the third," said an IEA official.
   Withdrawals from commercial inventories and higher
production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are expected to provide adequate supplies through
October. The IEA's new figures would suggest that chances of
any real tightening of supplies should ease later in the year
because of the anticipated slackening of fourth-quarter
demand.
   Nonetheless, IEA officials are concerned that supplies
could become tight during the winter months. At that time,
inventories will be drawn down and demand will be at its
seasonal highest. Inventories "don't have infinite staying
power," said an IEA official. One potential offset to that
scenario is an actual weakening of consumption brought on by
what would then be months of high petroleum prices.
   For next year's first and second quarters, the IEA will
report new demand estimates of 54.3 million and 51.4 million
barrels a day, respectively. These are down 1.2 million and
one million barrels a day, respectively, from the IEA
forecasts made a month ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Failed Brokerage Firm
   In France to Be Acquired
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CLC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Tuffier-Ravier-Py &amp; Associes, a French brokerage
firm that filed for bankruptcy in July, will be taken over by
Francis Lagarde, a businessman who is backed by state-owned
bank Credit Lyonnais.
   A Paris commercial tribunal cleared Mr. Lagarde's bid for
the brokerage firm under a complex deal that includes an
offer for all outstanding shares of the parent company,
Tuffier &amp; Associes, on the Paris bourse, a stock exchange
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the terms of the operation as cleared by the
tribunal, Mr. Lagarde will pay 156 million francs ($29
million) for the brokerage firm, in addition to setting aside
135 million francs to help reimburse any clients whose losses
are not covered by the existing stock market guarantee fund.
He will also inject about 100 million francs to recapitalize
the brokerage firm and guarantee to maintain a staff of 129
people.
   Mr. Lagarde, who owns a credit lease operation in Nantes,
is backed by Altus Finance, a financial investment group
formerly owned by Thomson-CSF and now controlled by Credit
Lyonnais.
   Tuffier officials were unavailable for comment. Tuffier,
the largest independent brokerage firm in Paris, filed for
bankruptcy after running up heavy losses this year. Thierry
Tuffier, the group's chairman, blamed the group's troubles on
a sharp fall in commissions and a decline in trading volume
on the Paris stock market.
   Tuffier's demise raised fears that other independent
brokerage firms, which did not sell out to domestic and
foreign financial institutions after the 1988 Paris bourse
reforms, could suffer a similar fate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine:
   Net Income for First Half
   Rose 14% to $926 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.AQU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   France's state-controlled Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine
said steady gains in the chemical sector helped boost its
first-half net income 14% to 4.9 billion francs ($926
million) from 4.3 billion francs a year earlier.
   Sales weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The profit pace followed flat growth in 1989, but fell
short of Elf Chairman Loik Le Floch-Prigent's estimate
earlier this year that earnings for 1990 may grow 20% or
more.
   Chemical sector operating profit rose slightly to 3.7
billion francs from 3.4 billion francs, though Elf noted that
the 1989 first-half figure reflected prices for base
chemicals that were "extremely high" in relative terms. The
chemical results also included a one-time capital gain of 650
million francs from the sale of paint maker La Seigneurie
S.A.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston Reshuffles, Names Archibald Cox Jr. Chief
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Archibald Cox Jr. was named president and
chief executive officer of First Boston Corp., the latest
reshuffling of top management at the big U.S. brokerage firm
that has recently been stumbling.
   The move was announced yesterday by First Boston's
Swiss-controlled parent, CS First Boston Inc. It was seen on
Wall Street as a blow to CS First Boston's top executive,
John M. Hennessy, removing him from the day-to-day operations
of the brokerage unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Mr. Hennessy, who assumed control of New
York-based CS First Boston last year, continues as its
president and chief executive.
   Mr. Cox, 50-year-old son of former Watergate prosecutor
Archibald Cox and a former international executive of Morgan
Stanley Group Inc., in May came out of retirement from the
investment banking business to join CS First Boston.
   At the same time, the firm yesterday named James R. Maher,
40, a veteran First Boston executive, vice chairman of the
brokerage unit. Both changes are effective tomorrow.
   Hurt by the collapse of the junk-bond market in which it
is a major player, First Boston has seen its once-hefty
profits dry up, and has been slipping in Wall Street's
underwriting rankings. Its CS First Boston parent earned just
$11 million last year.
   Executives inside the firm say that CS First Boston and
Mr. Hennessy have been under increasing pressure to bolster
earnings from the firm's controlling shareholder, CS Holding,
which is also the holding company of big Swiss bank Credit
Suisse.
   With capital of $1.78 billion at the end of 1989, First
Boston is the nation's seventh largest securities firm. It
has been paring back its world-wide staff of 6,000 by a few
hundred people this year.
   Mr. Hennessy's tough management style has upset some
executives at First Boston, and some at the firm say Mr.
Cox's more diplomatic manner will sit better with employees
there. Although Mr. Hennessy still runs CS First Boston, its
Swiss owners are trying to "rally the troops, stabilize
things, bring in a more orderly presentation" at First
Boston, says Perrin Long, senior securities analyst at Lipper
Analytical Securities Corp.
   The elevation of Mr. Cox means that Mr. Hennessy is freed
from various day-to-day responsibilities at the First Boston
brokerage unit. And it puts a strong potential successor next
to him at a time when CS First Boston has been stumbling.
   Mr. Hennessy was unavailable for comment. But in a
statement, he said: "These appointments will allow me to
spend my time running CS First Boston. Now, I will be able to
more effectively coordinate the strengths of our three
operating units. I'll also concentrate on developing new
business and building relationships with our core clients and
investors."
   In an interview, Mr. Cox denied that Mr. Hennessy has lost
any of his authority. "It's wrong to look at it that way," he
said. "For anybody to think that management of an
organization like this is put in the hands of one person is
simply unrealistic."
   Mr. Cox's promotion marks the third major change in top
management at CS First Boston this year. In January, William
E. Mayer was demoted as First Boston Corp.'s president and
chief executive and replaced by Mr. Hennessy. Mr. Mayer was
put in charge of a new merchant-banking subsidiary. In July,
Michael Duval, a senior executive who played a pivotal role
in negotiating First Boston's merger into a Swiss-controlled
unit two years ago, resigned to launch a small investment
banking firm.
   Two and a half years ago, Mr. Cox resigned as a managing
director and head of Morgan Stanley Group's international
operations's London unit, apparently because he saw limited
chances for further advancement at Morgan, where he spent 23
years. At the time, he was one of the best known and
longest-serving figures in the European financial markets.
   The 6-foot-7 New Englander is well known in London, in
part for his unusual habit of commuting on a bicycle. He led
Morgan Stanley's rise to the upper echelons of investment
banks in the Euromarkets. Mr. Cox was chief executive of
Morgan Stanley International, where he launched and ran the
firm's international operations out of London for more than a
decade.
   Mr. Cox joined First Boston this year after a short
retirement. His original assignment was to coordinate CS
First Boston's European operations with its Pacific unit and
its First Boston unit in the U.S.
   Mr. Maher joined First Boston in 1976 and has co-headed
its investment banking department as a managing director
since 1988. Mr. Maher joins William Voute as First Boston
Corp. vice chairman; since 1988, the brokerage unit hasn't
had a chairman post.
   Mr. Cox said one priority for First Boston is beefing up
its technological trading prowess, the sort of innovation
that has helped competitors such as Morgan Stanley. "Firms
have done better than we have in technology," Mr. Cox said,
"and that will be terribly important in this decade."
   He also said First Boston continues to try to pare its
nettlesome temporary "bridge" loans. First Boston currently
has about $700 million in bridge loans to clients, including
nearly half of a $450 million bridge to Ohio Mattress Co. In
March, First Boston sold about half the loan to its Swiss
parent.
   "We're making some progress in {the bridge loan} area,"
Mr. Cox said. "We hope that it wouldn't stay with us for too
long."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Coal &amp; Allied Industries Ltd.:
   After-Tax Operating Profit
   For the Fiscal Year Soared
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   A.CNA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Coal &amp; Allied Industries Ltd. of Australia, a coal
producer, reported that operating profit after taxes for the
year ended June 30 soared to 60.3 million Australian dollars
(US$49.1 million) from A$2.4 million a year earlier, citing
an increase in coal sales, higher selling prices in
U.S.-dollar terms and a lower Australian dollar.
   Per-share earnings more than doubled to A$1.136 from 47
Australian cents. Total operating revenue rose 28% to A$603.9
million from A$470.5 million. Saying that increased
efficiency and lower financing costs also boosted returns,
Coal &amp; Allied raised the dividend to 60 cents a share from 16
cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall profit after accounting for extraordinary items
jumped 76% to A$52.2 million from A$29.7 million. In the
latest period, the company had an extraordinary loss of A$8
million, related mainly to the closure of an engineering
division; year-earlier results included an A$27.4 million
extraordinary gain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allergan Inc.:
   Eye-Care Company's Patent
   On Lens Cleaner Is Upheld
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   AGN Z.NES
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Allergan Inc. said the U.S. District Court for northern
Texas upheld its patent for the use of its Ultrazyme
proteolytic enzyme product with hydrogen peroxide to clean
and disinfect contact lenses.
   The lawsuit, filed by Alcon Laboratories Inc. of Ft.
Worth, Texas, had sought to invalidate the patent, and
alleged that Allergan had violated antitrust laws. The court
ruled that Alcon had failed to prove those claims. Allergan
said the court's decision will allow the company to
exclusively market Ultrazyme for use with hydrogen peroxide
in the U.S. through May 2005.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, the Irvine, Calif., eye-care products maker
also announced a plan to buy back as many as 1.2 million of
the company's 67.6 million common shares through two stock
repurchase programs. One program consists of purchases of its
stock made periodically in the open market, through Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co.
   The second, to be established later, will involve the
purchase of common stock held by stockholders who own less
than 100 shares each. The stock buy-backs will be available
for use under the company's employee benefits program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Private Placement
   Financing Plunged
   In the First Half
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wall Street's hopes for a quick shot in the
arm from the $170 billion market for privately placed stocks
and bonds are fast being dashed.
   U.S. private-placement financings plunged by one-third in
this year's first half to $55.3 billion from $82.1 billion a
year earlier -- accounting for just one-quarter of all stock
and bond financings, according to IDD Information Services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's the first time in more than a decade that the
volume of privately placed securities has dropped, IDD says;
the market has grown steadily from $15.6 billion in 1980. The
plunge primarily reflects the drying up of the market for
high-yield, low-rated junk bond markets and a dearth of
acquisition-related financing.
   With new regulatory rules making it easier for securities
firms to trade in the market for privately placed securities,
Wall Street had been expecting that private placements would
help fill the gap created by the slump in other areas of the
securities business. The SEC's new rule 144a exempts U.S. and
foreign institutions from registration requirements for the
sale of stocks and bonds to big institutions.
   But the private market, which is limited to institutions
and is largely used to sell corporate debt, has been hit
harder by the financing slump than the public market for
stocks and bonds.
   "Neither the passage of rule 144a nor the gap left in
corporate financings by the virtual disappearance of the
junk-bond market could boost the sagging private placement
market this year," IDD said.
   The recent Mideast turmoil, however, may actually boost
the private market, some analysts say. That's because
securities firms may increasingly tap the private market now
that the public financing environment has stumbled.
   "There may be more private placements if the Dow Jones
Industrial average just kind of drifts away over the next
eight to 12 months," said Perrin Long, senior securities
analyst for Lipper Analytical Securities Corp.
   Financings fell in most categories of the private market,
with the biggest drops in placements of non-investment grade
bonds and placements for employee stock-ownership plans; both
plunged more than 70% in 1990's first half compared with the
yearearlier period.
   Overall, private placements made up 26% of all stock and
bond financings, IDD said, down from a 38% market share in
1989.
   Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. continues to lead the
private-placement underwriting rankings, maintaining a 15%
market share. But Goldman's volume fell 32% from 1989's first
half, to $8.1 billion.
   Underwritings by Salomon Brothers Inc., meanwhile,
actually jumped by one-third during the first half, to $5.6
billion, representing a 10% market share. The increase
propelled Salomon to No. 2 from the eighth position a year
ago, IDD said.
   Commercial banks have picked up some ground. Nine of the
top 20 privateplacement underwriters in this year's first
half are commercial banks, IDD said, with a combined
one-third market share. Banks' particular strength:
Acquisition-related placements and those for non-investment
grade debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   A Year After Drug War Was Declared,
   Bennett Renews Effort to Rally Troops
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- William Bennett, just back from torching
clandestine marijuana fields with the Kentucky National
Guard, is fired up about the "drug war." Still wearing his
drug-czar fatigues -- rumpled chinos and blue tennis shirt
smelling of singed cannabis -- he is preparing to report
progress on the battlefield.
   It was exactly a year ago today that George Bush, in his
first nationally televised speech as president, branded drugs
the country's "gravest domestic threat" and endorsed Mr.
Bennett's get-tough strategy. This morning, the drug czar
will announce that his plan is working. Cocaine prices have
risen, while purity has dropped -- possible indications of
curbed supplies. "We no longer have a situation that is out
of control, that is threatening the republic," Mr. Bennett
says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet the past 12 months also have sharpened a dichotomy in
the drug problem. Middle-class use of drugs generally appears
to be leveling off, perhaps even decreasing. But the
proportion of heavy users of cocaine and its potent
derivative, crack, may actually be increasing. Indisputably,
drug-related crimes have risen, and murderous violence
continues to rip apart many inner cities.
   While acknowledging that such urban neighborhoods remain
under siege, Mr. Bennett notes that some police officials
attribute the skein of killings in New York, Washington and
elsewhere to intensified competition in a tightening cocaine
market. "One drug scumball blowing away another one," as he
puts it.
   Though other crises -- first the savings-and-loan debacle,
now the Iraqi situation -- have supplanted drugs at the top
of the national list of concerns, Mr. Bennett has been far
from idle. Barnstorming (and potburning) his way from coast
to coast, he has exhorted state legislators to "get with the
program": more cops, more arrests, more prisons and --
despite charges from detractors that he favors punitive
measures too much -- more treatment.
   His critics, led by congressional Democrats, complain that
Mr. Bennett's enthusiasm for punitive action fails to address
"root causes" of drug abuse and violence, such as poverty and
poor education. Tens of thousands of people, many destitute,
languish on waiting lists of overburdened public treatment
programs, charges John Gustafson, deputy director of New York
state's Substance Abuse Division.
   Other skeptics question the statistical bases for Mr.
Bennett's claims of progress -- namely, government and
private surveys that purport to show a rising rate of
disapproval of drugs among high school seniors, a decreasing
rate of workers testing positive on the job, and a 37% drop
in household drug use since 1985. These numbers reflect
apparent shifts only in the middle class, not among
hard-to-count "hard-core addicts," charges Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman Joseph Biden (D., Del.). He points to
estimates by his staff that 2.2 million people use cocaine
"frequently" -- nearly three times the government figure Mr.
Bennett prefers.
   Some of these criticisms have bite. "The numbers," as one
Bennett aide admits, "are very soft." One federally
administered survey shows a slight decrease in
cocaine-related hospital emergency-room cases in late 1989
and early 1990 after years of sharp increases. But the number
of cocaine-related deaths continued to grow last year,
although at a slower pace.
   Mr. Bennett tends to take credit for public intolerance
that began hardening before he ascended to czardom. David
Musto, a Yale University historian of medicine, says that
American attitudes toward narcotics swing from toleration to
rejection in predictable patterns and that the recent
movement toward abstinence began in the early 1980s.
   Statistical ambiguities don't trouble Mr. Bennett, whose
world view tends toward good vs. bad, heroes vs. villains. He
prefers to discuss the grudging support he has won from an
increasing number of state officials, Democrats as well as
Republicans.
   The states could never construct enough jail cells to
satisfy the drug czar, but they are building more. Many
legislatures also have stiffened forfeiture provisions and
other civil penalties that he pushes as a deterrent to drug
use. Some state prosecutors are using the expanded laws more
aggressively to seize cars and other property for simple
possession of narcotics.
   Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore, a Democrat,
counts himself as a Bennett convert. At first skeptical of
the czar's blustery style, he now credits Mr. Bennett with
serving as an effective advocate for tougher state
enforcement and increased federal funding. Mississippi
received $4.5 million in its federal law-enforcement block
grant for 1990, an increase of $3.1 million over 1989.
   "We have drive-by shootings in Jackson," says Mr. Moore,
and "cocaine trafficking up from the Gulf {of Mexico} that we
never had before." But the czar, he adds, couldn't have been
expected to "cure" such problems in a year.
   Albert Riederer, the Democratic county prosecutor in
Kansas City, Mo., gives Mr. Bennett "credit for at least
galvanizing support" for federal-local task forces that make
more efficient use of limited manpower.
   At the federal level, the notorious turf battles of the
1970s and '80s appear to have diminished somewhat. Prodded by
Mr. Bennett, the Drug Enforcement Administration has granted
broad narcotics authority to 1,000 agents from a fierce
rival, the Customs Service. Serious problems do persist. The
Federal Bureau of Investigation, for example, rarely shares
its considerable intelligence files with sister agencies. But
veteran drug agents say the word has come down from the top
to work together and end the
   The bigger budgets that Mr. Bennett has pushed, sometimes
over the objections of powerful White House budget director
Richard Darman, have also helped ease the bureaucratic
tensions. With less interagency competition for money,
officials say, some are more inclined to share both work and
credit. Beginning with testimony before the Senate Judiciary
Committee scheduled for tomorrow, Mr. Bennett will launch a
campaign to defend the Bush administration's request for a
$1.1 billion increase in federal anti-drug funding, pushing
the total to $10.6 billion for fiscal year 1991, which starts
Oct. 1.
   Mr. Bennett's pugnacious partisanship hasn't diminished.
He used a meeting with New York state drug officials to
attack Gov. Mario Cuomo's drug-fighting record and dare him
to run for president. "Nobody is afraid of this guy," the
czar said of Mr. Cuomo. "He has got a record to run on, and
the record on drugs, I have to tell you, is not what it
should be." The outburst led New York Democratic Sen. Daniel
Moynihan to deride the drug czar's "tough-guy talk" on the
Senate floor.
   The drug czar's confrontational attitude has also spilled
over into legislative fights. He recently lambasted House
Democrats when they played into his hands by reversing course
and cutting the White House request for treatment money; Mr.
Bennett labeled them hypocrites for having accused him in the
past of ignoring the plight of the addicted, and got the
treatment money reinstated.
   Yet Mr. Bennett has also demonstrated improved political
finesse by cultivating a key legislative ally, none other
than his sometime critic, Sen. Biden. Despite occasional
verbal dust-ups, Mr. Bennett has been careful to stress that
their only significant difference is that the Judiciary
Committee chairman wants to spend even more money than the
Bush administration.
   Mr. Bennett appreciatively recounts a telephone
conversation -- confirmed by a Biden aide -- in which the
senator lauded the restoration of the treatment money in the
House and promised to help if similar problems arise in the
Senate. For his part, Mr. Bennett, who has been stumping for
GOP candidates, has refused to campaign for Mr. Biden's
Republican opponent this fall.
   Bennett watchers suggest that the drug czar may be nearing
the point, possibly within the next year, at which he
declares that he has made his mark and departs his office.
Many believe the drug czar would love to hold high office --
perhaps even the presidency. But even some of his most ardent
supporters say such ambitions aren't feasible because Mr.
Bennett, who rents a house in Maryland, lacks a geographic
base or political organization. More attainable goals may be
a lucrative book contract and some fat speaking fees.
   Famous for his restlessness, Mr. Bennett by his own
admission doesn't like to get involved in the operational
details of government. He believes he has provided a broad
plan for fighting drugs. The task now, he says, is to "stay
at it."
   ---
                   Rising Cocaine Prices
                                                                                                       

                      (Per Kilogram)
                                                                                                       

                               1989             1990*
                                                                                                       

   Los Angeles          $14,000- 20,000     $21,000- 32,000
   New York              17,000- 25,000      25,000- 35,000
   Houston               11,000- 21,000      20,000- 30,000
   Chicago               19,000- 25,000      19,000- 32,000
   Miami                 16,000- 22,000      17,500- 23,000
                                                                                                       

   *Through June 20
                                                                                                       

   Source: Drug Enforcement Administration
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Equimark Suspends
   3rd-Quarter Dividend
   For $470,000 Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   EQK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Ailing Equimark Corp. suspended its
third-quarter cash dividend on the bank holding company's
common stock. Equimark had paid four cents a share each
quarter since the second quarter of 1988.
   The move will save Equimark $470,000. The company's chief
financial officer, Michael Jehle, said the board voted
against the cash dividend because of Equimark's earnings
decline. The bank had a $45.2 million first-half loss before
one-time gains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement follows Friday's disclosure that the
Tisch family has acquired a 6.8% stake in Equimark. A
spokesman for the Tisch family company, FLF Associates,
declined to comment on the dividend cutback.
   In heavy composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Equimark shares fell 67.5 cents to $5.
   Equimark said it will continue to pay the same dividends
on three series of the company's preferred stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FACTORY EQUIPMENT (FAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Quayle Has 'Em Laughing
   All the Way to the Bank
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   VICE PRESIDENT Dan Quayle may be doing more for small
businesses and the economy than most people think.
   Entrepreneurs selling everything from wristwatches to
calendars that poke fun at Mr. Quayle say interest is still
strong nearly two years after the election. "I saw the
writing on the wall when he was elected," says John Wade, a
conservative Republican and T-shirt merchant in Lenexa, Kan.
His top seller: a T-shirt with the logo, "President's Prayer
Club -- Keep George Healthy."
   In Arlington, Va., entrepreneur Walton Sullivan gets about
40 orders a week for another hot T-shirt: It shows a ghoulish
black and white screaming face taken from Edvard Munch's "The
Scream," along with the words, "President Quayle."
   In Chicago, Computronics Discount Radar Detectors' $29.50
Dan Quayle watches boost profits. Mr. Quayle's tie makes up
the hour and minute hands amid misplaced watch-face numbers.
   Another popular item: a $9 record by the Capital Steps, a
political-satire group in Washington. One ditty, sung to the
tune of "Has Anybody Seen My Gal," goes: "Five-foot-10, hair
like Ken, looks like TV weathermen. . . Teeth of white, very
bright, twice as smart as Vanna White. . ."
   Quayle-bashers haven't had much material to work with
recently -- and some fear sales may peter out. "He's been on
a very short leash lately. . . . He stays with the prepared
text," says Deborah Werksman, co-founder of the Quayle
Quarterly, a $12-a-year periodical of humorously biting
articles, letters and cartoons on the vice president and his
wife.
   As for Mr. Quayle, a spokesman notes: "The vice president
admires entrepreneurship in all forms."
                                                                                                       

   Franchisers' Mergers
   Creating More Strains
                                                                                                       

   RISING MERGER activity will probably add to tensions
between franchisers and their franchisees.
   People in the industry say mergers among franchisers are
rising. In the past 18 months, for instance, Ponderosa merged
with rival steakhouse chain Bonanza, Mr. Donut and Dunkin'
Donuts joined forces, and Popeye's acquired competing
fried-chicken purveyor Church's.
   The mergers result in part from intensifying competition
that is driving weak firms into the hands of stronger
partners. "There are so many companies out there that are
technically very sound but don't know how to sell franchises
or build the business," says Don Dwire of Dwire Group, a
Waco, Texas, franchise holding company.
   For franchisees, relations with new owners can be severely
strained. Sometimes franchisees end up disfranchised when a
new owner converts old franchisees to a new system. Hardee's
Foods Systems failed to convert all 650 Burger Chef
franchises when it acquired that chain.
   A Hardee's spokesman says, "There was some falling out,
but it was minimal." Hardee's is now converting the 640-unit
Roy Rogers chain it bought this year.
   New owners also can alter a franchiser's strategy. Erik
Wulff, a Chicago franchising lawyer, says Pillsbury angered
Haagen Dazs store franchisees after it bought the franchiser
by emphasizing sales of the ice cream in grocery stores. But
relations have improved, the company says.
                                                                                                       

   Small Factories Aren't
   Big on Modernization
                                                                                                       

   THE SMALLER the factory, the less likely the owner will
invest anytime soon in automation, finds a recent survey of
more than 600 metal-fabricating firms. Executives at only a
fifth of fabricators with sales under $5 million said they
invested in factory automation in the past five years, and
only 17% intend to do so in the next three years.
   In contrast, more than half of those from companies with
sales exceeding $20 million have invested in factory
automation. And half say they plan to begin or continue
modernizing.
   The survey -- commissioned by McGladrey &amp; Pullen,
Minneapolis-based accountants, and the Fabricators and
Manufacturers Association -- indicates the smallest
fabricators have done far less to take advantage of many new
technologies, such as bar coding, sales forecasting,
just-in-time inventory techniques, statistical controls,
computer-integrated manufacturing, and lasers.
   Though respondents weren't asked why they balk at new
technology, interviews with small-factory owners suggest they
often consider it too costly. They compete by being creative
with machinery they already have.
   Bill Meyer, part-owner of a precision sheet-metal
fabricator in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., avoided spending as much
as $100,000 for a large milling machine by stretching the
limits of his small one. He is using his machine to make
robot tables for a customer by working on each table in
sections, rather than all at once, as a large machine would.
The tables support assembly-line robots.
   H. Blaine Fluth, president of a small metal-tube shaping
concern in Minneapolis, says he used his machines to
successfully develop new products in ways considered
impossible by the salesmen who sold him the machines.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   FRANCHISEES of Canadian Tire shops in British Columbia
provide a novel incentive to keep people in boring jobs
longer: They pay up to $3,000 to send employees through
college while they work. Employees quit their jobs upon
graduation. . . . People are the top cause of productivity
problems for small manufacturers, says a recent survey by
Grant Thornton. Over half -- 56% -- blamed people for
productivity snafus; 27%, technology, and 16%, plant and
equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ford Motor Co.:
   Warranty Plans Are Altered
   For Lincoln, Ford, Mercury
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ford Motor Co. said it is offering four-year "bumber to
bumper" warranty coverage with no deductible on its 1991
Lincoln models, a move that parallels a similar step by
General Motors Corp.'s Cadillac division.
   Ford, based in Dearborn, Mich., also said it is shortening
the "power-train" coverage on its Ford and Mercury badge
cars, but also reducing the deductible amount that customers
must pay.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new policy for the luxury Lincoln line guarantees
customers coverage on virtually all repairs -- except normal
wear such as windshield wiper blades and brake pads -- for
four years or 50,000 miles.
   Previously, Lincoln cars had a 12 month, 12,000 mile basic
warranty on all parts, and coverage of six years or 60,000
miles on the engine, transmission and related parts. However,
after the basic warranty expired, Lincoln owners would pay a
$100-per-visit deductible on the extended power-train
coverage.
   Cadillac recently told its dealers that it is eliminating
the $100-per-visit deductible on its 1991 models.
   Ford also said it has lowered the deductible to $50 from
$100 on all Ford and Mercury cars and Ford light trucks
because shortened engine and transmission coverage to four
years or 50,000 miles from six years or 60,000 miles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Wheat Futures Continue to Fall as Soybean Prices
   Rise Amid Signs Southeast Drought Is Worsening
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Wheat prices continued to slide toward the
depressed levels of 1987 while soybean prices rose amid signs
that the Southeast drought is worsening.
   Prices of wheat futures contracts fell in the wake of
reports that Canada and the European Community are arranging
shipment of large amounts of low-priced wheat to countries,
such as China, Egypt and Japan, traders said yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canada, for example, is rumored to be selling 1.3 million
metric tons of wheat to international exporters, which would
then sell the grain overseas, said Robert Lekberg, an analyst
at Farmers Grain &amp; Livestock Corp., Chicago.
   The sales are taking potential business away from U.S.
wheat exporters, whose business has been lackluster for
several months. U.S. wheat exports so far this summer have
been running about 30% below the summer of 1989, traders
said.
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the futures
contracts for delivery of soft red winter wheat fell to new
life-of-contract lows. The wheat contract for September
delivery dropped 6.25 cents a bushel to settle at $2.5625 a
bushel.
   The world wheat trade is extremely competitive this year
because good growing weather across much of the Northern
Hemisphere is increasing stockpiles. That has allowed some
major importing nations to become more self-sufficient at the
same time that some major exporting nations have more grain
to sell.
   All this is a rapid change from earlier this year. Two
years of drought had reduced U.S. stockpiles to their
tightest level since the early 1970s.
   Those stockpiles began rebuilding after strong harvests
from the Southern Plains to the Midwest. According to the
Agriculture Department, U.S. wheat stockpiles in 1991 should
climb about 52% from this year. Meanwhile, stockpiles outside
the U.S. are expected to climb about 9%.
   So far, moves by the U.S. government to buttress U.S.
wheat prices seem to have had little impact. Last month, the
Agriculture Department announced that it would refill a
special wheat reserve that is used to provide emergency food
aid to developing countries. The government also plans to
require wheat farmers enrolled in its price-support program
to idle between 10% and 20% of their wheat acreage.
   Some analysts are speculating that President Bush might
offer credit to the Soviet Union to use for grain purchases
when he meets Sunday with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev.
   The Soviets have expressed interest in $2 billion in
credits, but to qualify, they would first have to gain
most-favored nation status from Congress. To do that, the
Soviets are moving to liberalize their immigration law.
   Most grain analysts doubt that the Soviet Union would buy
any substantial amount of U.S. crops until at least next
month without some sort of incentive.
   Soybean prices increased amid speculation that hot and dry
conditions will reduce yields in the Mississippi Delta and
the Southeast. Although growing conditions have been poor in
those areas through the summer, the weather there hasn't had
much impact on U.S. crop prices until now. Most of the
nation's soybeans are produced in the Midwest, where growing
conditions are generally good.
   In June, much of the Georgia corn crop was lost when hot
and dry conditions hit during the crucial pollination period.
The weather moderated in July.
   But in August, the soybean growing region of Georgia
received only 25% of normal rainfall, according to Mike
Palmerino, senior agricultural meteorologist at Weather
Services Corp. in Bedford, Mass.
   In central Mississippi, some cities received only 3% of
normal August rainfall, he said.
   It is difficult to project the amount of damage done to
the soybean crop already. The soybean plant generally
survives drought conditions better than corn, in part because
it can reflower.
   Most corn prices rose slightly.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were mixed and little
changed. December delivery gold ended with a gain of $1.30 an
ounce at $390.50. December silver was off 4.3 cents an ounce
to $4.8250. October platinum rose $2.10 an ounce to $486.40.
Gold prices advanced slightly in early trading when it was
reported that U.S. Navy units had stopped an Iraqi ship in a
search for arms, an analyst said. The concern faded when the
ship was found to contain tea, the analyst said. A comment by
U.S. Secretary of State James Baker that a diplomatic
settlement of the Mideast crisis was premature contributed
underlying support, said the analyst. However, a somewhat
stronger tone to the dollar may be limiting gains in gold, he
said. The December silver contract was particularly weak,
falling to a life-of-contract low of $4.7850 before partially
recovering. The major price-depressant in silver is that
demand for its bullion is almost nonexistent, the analyst
said. As a result, another analyst said, the gold-silver
ratio has widened to 81 to 1 in favor of gold, compared with
a more normal 45 or 50 to 1. "What this tells me is that the
ratio can continue to widen regardless of the direction of
the market," he said. "If developments trigger a price rise,
gold is likely to advance more strongly than silver. In a
decline, silver will fall more than gold."
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased in quiet trading. The
December contract fell 1.05 cents a pound to $1.2375. London
Metal Exchange inventories of copper declined 525 tons to
132,550 tons, the exchange said yesterday. The Peruvian mine
strike, now in its third week, is expected to be resolved
soon, one analyst said. He noted that copper statistics
tended to reflect a slowing U.S. economy. U.S. brass and wire
mill consumption of copper for the first seven months of the
year was down slightly, compared with the year-earlier
period, he said. Consumer stocks of copper have risen 23%
from their low point in February, and, during the same time,
producer inventories of copper have increased by 77%, he
noted. Another analyst said that some selling of copper on
the London Metal Exchange was attributed to West German
dealers. He observed that European demand for copper has
slowed. The strong buying in Europe that took place during
the summer may have been purchases that normally occur in the
fall, he said.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices were slightly higher. The December
contract ended with a gain of 0.65 cent a pound at 72.84
cents. Trade and speculative buying helped prices recover
from early losses, according to one analyst. There is some
concern over the progress of the cotton crop in the northern
areas of the Mississippi Delta, such as northern Mississippi
and Arkansas, he said. The crop in those areas got off to a
late start due to wet weather but since then has suffered a
dearth of moisture, which could reduce yields, he noted. Also
contributing underlying support to prices is the continuing
low amount of cotton certified for delivery against futures
contracts on the Cotton Exchange, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Arbitration in Commercial Cases
   Found to Save Money, Not Time
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GAF WNEWS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Arbitration in high-stakes commercial cases generally
saves companies money in legal fees but, surprisingly,
doesn't speed the process of resolving disputes.
   That's the conclusion of a four-year study by the Rand
Corp.'s Institute for Civil Justice of cases arbitrated in
North Carolina federal court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study indicated that cases bound for trial -- rather
than arbitration -- are resolved just as quickly as
arbitrated cases because the trial-bound cases often are
settled before reaching the courtroom. In contrast, while
arbitration is a faster process than trial, arbitrated cases
more often run their course and don't result in prior
settlements.
   The study also showed that arbitration doesn't reduce the
court system's costs in disposing of civil disputes.
   In recent years, arbitration and other forms of
alternative dispute resolution have been touted as solutions
to a host of problems that plague the civil justice system,
including crowded dockets, slow administration of justice and
the high costs of litigation.
   But, concludes Deborah Hensler, research director for
Rand's Institute for Civil Justice, "Arbitration is not an
efficiency tool." Ms. Hensler adds that arbitration
nonetheless improves the quality of justice because "the
parties believe they get something out of a hearing" before
an impartial body.
   The institute studied the arbitration program in the U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. As
in most state and federal courts, the North Carolina system
provided mandatory referral of civil cases to nonbinding
arbitration before a lawyer. The district was unusual,
however, in that it applied the arbitration program to
disputes with as much as $150,000 at stake, instead of just
to smaller claims.
   The study's author, E. Allan Lind, looked at corporate and
individual contract and civil injury cases. Of the 350 cases
he tracked, 210 went through arbitration. The arbitrated
cases took an average of 285 days to be concluded;
nonarbitrated cases took an average of 282 days. Many of the
nonarbitrated cases were resolved in out-of-court
settlements.
   The study estimated that litigants in arbitrated cases
paid an average of $19,972 in total legal fees and costs, and
litigants in nonarbitrated cases paid $25,047. The amount of
damages provided in arbitration was roughly equivalent to
that in cases originally slated for trial.
   Civil litigators for both plaintiffs and defendants say
the Rand study seems to parallel their experience.
   And Robert Coulson, president of the American Arbitration
Association, said the Rand study is "generally consistent"
with other studies of similar nonbinding arbitration systems.
   ---
   GAF CORP.'S BATTLE with estate of former chairman Jesse
Werner is revived.
   Justice Harold Baer Jr. ruled last week in Manhattan state
court that a fight between GAF and the estate of Mr. Werner,
who was GAF chairman for 18 years, may go to trial despite a
1987 arbitration ruling that appeared to have ended the
dispute.
   The battle centers on what GAF owed Mr. Werner, now
deceased, when he was ousted in 1983 after he lost a proxy
fight to a shareholder group led by current chairman Samuel
J. Heyman.
   Among other things, Mr. Werner, who died in April 1986,
claimed that the new board had illegally cut off his salary
and benefits and had denied him stock options. An arbitration
panel in 1987 awarded Mr. Werner's estate $2.8 million plus
interest out of the $7.6 million sought for the alleged
violations of his 1981 employment contract. Further, the
arbitration panel dismissed counterclaims filed by GAF.
   But both GAF and the Werner estate had also filed suits
against each other in state court. In its suit, GAF alleged,
among other things, that the former chairman and his board
had wasted corporate funds through excessive stock options
and prodigious pension and salary payments to Mr. Werner.
Meanwhile, the Werner estate alleged that GAF had improperly
interfered with Mr. Werner's stock options.
   Justice Baer ordered both sides to meet next Monday to
discuss a settlement or set a trial date. If there is a
trial, the justice is expected to combine the two pending
suits.
   ---
   DAVID SOUTER gets top American Bar Association
endorsement.
   The ABA's judicial selection panel rated Mr. Souter, the
Supreme Court nominee, "well qualified," the legal
organization's highest endorsement.
   The ABA's 15-member Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary voted unanimously for the certification. Mr.
Souter, a former member of the New Hampshire Supreme Court,
was nominated by President Bush in July to fill the vacancy
created by the retirement of Justice William Brennan. Mr.
Souter received a similar "well-qualified" rating from the
ABA earlier this year when he was nominated for a seat on the
First U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston.
   Republicans are likely to stress the ABA endorsement in
pushing for Mr. Souter's confirmation by the Senate. Some
liberal Democrats may use the occasion to question the
criteria the ABA uses in its judicial evaluation process. The
Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to begin hearings on
the Souter nomination Sept. 13.
   One member of the ABA panel is William Brennan III, a
lawyer in Princeton, N.J., who is Justice Brennan's son.
   ---
   IRAN-CONTRA prosecutor Lawrence Walsh asked a federal
appeals court panel to reconsider its 2-1 decision that set
aside the three felony convictions of former White House aide
Oliver North. Mr. Walsh addressed his petition to the
three-judge panel but suggested a rehearing by the full
12-member U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia. In its July 20 ruling, the three-judge panel
ordered a witness-by-witness examination of the testimony
against Mr. North to determine whether the trial was unfairly
tainted by references to testimony the retired Marine
lieutenant colonel gave Congress under a limited grant of
immunity. Chief Judge Patricia Wald dissented, saying that
Mr. North received a fair, though not a perfect, trial.
   ---
   A FORMER TAKEOVER LAWYER at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
&amp; Flom and a former money manager pleaded innocent to insider
trading charges. But lawyers involved in the case said that
both defendants could change their pleas to guilty later this
month if an appropriate plea bargain is worked out. The
government filed the criminal charges last month against
Steven L. Glauberman, a former Skadden Arps associate, and
Peter H. Jeffer, who headed Jeffer Management Corp. Eugene
Propper, who is representing Mr. Jeffer, said the parties
need more time to work out an acceptable plea bargain. Martin
Perschetz, an attorney for Mr. Glauberman, declined to
comment.
   ---
   MCKENNA, CONNER &amp; CUNEO announced that it split into two
firms effective Sept 1. McKenna &amp; Fitting, with 65 attorneys
in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., will
emphasize its financial institutions and business litigation
practices. McKenna &amp; Cuneo, with 201 lawyers in Washington,
Los Angeles, San Francisco and Denver, will concentrate on
regulatory and government contracts work, as well as
environmental and international law. McKenna Conner was
formed in a merger of Los Angeles and Washington firms in
1980. The current division back into two firms "is based
primarily on practice specialties and not along geographic
lines," said Charles E. Yonkers, managing partner of McKenna
&amp; Cuneo.
   ---
   ALSTON &amp; BIRD said it is opening an office in Washington.
The Atlanta law firm, which has 225 attorneys, said the
capital office will focus its practice on financial
institutions. The office is headed by Frank M. Conner, a
partner. John Buchman, currently assistant chief counsel for
policy development in the Office of Thrift Supervision, joins
the firm Oct. 1 as counsel.
   ---
   TERMINATION CASE DISMISSED: A federal judge threw out a
suit brought by an ex-partner of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby &amp;
MacRae, a New York law firm. In the suit filed last year in
federal court in Manhattan, Alison Clapp, 38 years old,
accused the firm of violating federal employee-benefit laws
as well as the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
law by terminating her as a partner in 1989. In court
documents, the law firm said it dismissed Ms. Clapp because
it was dissatisfied with her work in its tax department. Ms.
Clapp's lawyer, Daniel J. O'Callaghan, said she will appeal.
   ---
   Paul M. Barrett and Laurie P. Cohen contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   GE Engine Picked by Italy
   For New Navy Helicopters
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP GE FIA I.ALR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   GE Aircraft Engines, a Lynn, Mass., unit of General
Electric Co., said the Italian Ministry of Defense selected
an engine the division co-developed to power new helicopters
for the Italian navy.
   GE Aircraft Engines and its Italian partners, units of
Fiat S.p.A., beat out French and British engine makers for
the bid, the company said. GE Aircraft Engines said it won't
know the contract's value until the Italian government
decides how many helicopters it will order. Once it places a
firm order, 30% of the engines will be produced by GE in
Lynn, and the rest in Alfa Romeo and Fiat facilities in
Italy, the GE unit said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GE Aircraft, which has annual commercial and military
aircraft sales of roughly $3.6 billion, is a subsidiary of
General Electric, the Fairfield, Conn., company that also has
interests in broadcasting and financial services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   August's Stock Market Turmoil
   Tests Faith of Corporate Insiders
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ CCI LYO CBT ARC XOMA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In the days immediately after Iraq's Aug. 2
invasion of Kuwait, with the stock market sinking like a
stone, Ken Lay, a director of Compaq Computer Corp., says he
decided it was "time to hedge my bets a little bit."
   Mr. Lay lightened his holdings of several stocks -- except
for energy issues -- including Compaq Computer, filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission show. He sold 5,000
Compaq shares, which represented 33% of his Compaq holdings,
for $270,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I was concerned about the overall tone of the market, and
about the Middle East," Mr. Lay said. While Compaq management
is doing "a superb job," he said, "even good companies, in a
downdraft like this, get hurt."
   Mr. Lay sold his shares for $54 each on Aug. 10. In New
York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Compaq closed at
$47.875, up $1.50. Now, Mr. Lay says, the stock represents a
buying opportunity -- and he says he plans to buy some as
soon as SEC rules allow.
   For officers, directors and other corporate insiders, the
stock-market turmoil resulting from the Middle East crisis
has been a test of faith. This is "the most important period
for insider filings since October 1987," when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average crashed 22.6% in a single day, said Robert
Gabele, president of Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., company
that compiles and analyzes the SEC insider data. In a period
of uncertainty such as the present, he said, "insider buys
are important as a sign of confidence."
   So far, fewer than one-third of the insider filings that
are due for August have come in (the deadline for them is
Sept. 10). But from the early returns, the news appears to be
good for the stock market. "The significant buys outnumber
the sells so far," said Mr. Gabele, even though sells
normally outnumber buys by 2-1.
   Still, he cautioned, insiders tend to report stock
purchases to the SEC immediately and not to report sales
until the deadline looms. Moreover, there has been no
evidence of "cluster buying" at companies immediately after
the invasion of Kuwait. In other words, while one company
official may have felt bullish enough to make a sizable
investment, there were few companywide insider-buying
initiatives.
   For John Deutch, provost of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Citicorp stock looked too good to pass up on the
day Iraqi troops stormed into Kuwait. At $19.25 a share, the
stock was little changed from its $19.375 closing level of
the day before but was near the low end of its 52-week
trading range of $17.25 to $35.50.
   "I think it's a terrific stock to own, and every time the
price goes down . . . it's so attractive to me, I buy," he
said.
   Mr. Deutch, a director of the New York-based banking
giant, purchased 5,000 common shares Aug. 2 for $96,250. The
purchase increased his holdings 39%, according to SEC
filings. While Mr. Deutch has served on the boards of six
companies in the past decade, this was his largest purchase
of stock in several years, according to SEC filings.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Citicorp
closed yesterday at $18.375 a share, down 12.5 cents.
   Another large recent purchase was made by James Morrison,
a director of Lyondell Petrochemical Co., Houston. SEC
filings show he bought 9,000 shares for $156,420 on Aug. 3.
The purchase increased his holdings by 43%. He wasn't
available for comment.
   Mr. Morrison paid $17.38 a share. The stock closed in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday at $17.50, up
50 cents.
   Samuel Bodman, chairman of Cabot Corp., spent $326,000 on
Aug. 7 to buy the company's shares, SEC filings show. The
purchase increased his stake in the Waltham, Mass., energy
and chemicals concern by 5%, according to the filings. Mr.
Bodman wasn't available for comment.
   He paid $32.61 a share. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, Cabot closed yesterday at $28.375.
   In one of the largest stock sales of the week after the
invasion of Kuwait, Robert E. Wycoff, president of Atlantic
Richfield Co., sold 3,737 of its shares for $506,075. The
shares represented 10% of his holdings in the Los
Angeles-based oil company, according to SEC filings. The Aug.
8 sale came when some investment advisers were recommending
Atlantic Richfield stock.
   Mr. Wycoff wasn't available for comment, and the company
declined to comment. He received an average price of $135.42
a share, according to SEC filings. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday, Atlantic Richfield closed at
$135.625 a share.
   Steven C. Mendell, chairman of Xoma Corp., a Berkeley,
Calif., drug company, sold 17,281 shares on Aug. 3 for
$391,392, his first sale ever, according to SEC filings.
Company officials said he sold for "personal and tax
reasons."
   The shares represented 30% of his Xoma stock. Mr. Mendell
was out of the country and couldn't be reached for comment.
But the company said Mr. Mendell's stock holding alone
doesn't give a true picture of his stake in the company. In
addition to his 42,000 shares of Xoma, Mr. Mendell owns
options to purchase 257,800 shares, officials said. About
one-third of those options are vested and can be exercised at
any time, they said.
   Mr. Mendell received $22.65 a share for his holdings,
according to SEC filings. In over-the-counter trading
yesterday, Xoma closed at $19.
   ---
                   Crisis Investing
                                                                                                       

   Some of the largest insider trades in the days immediately
following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait:
                                                                                                       

                        SELLERS
                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Atlantic Richfield
   NAME AND TITLE            R.E. Wycoff, President
   DATE OF TRADE             8/8
   AMOUNT                    $506,075
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      10%
   SHARE PRICE               $135.42
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $135.625
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Xoma
   NAME AND TITLE            S.C. Mendell, Chairman
   DATE OF TRADE             8/3
   AMOUNT                    $391,392
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      30%
   SHARE PRICE               $22.65
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $19.00
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Compaq Computer
   NAME AND TITLE            K. Lay, Chairman
   DATE OF TRADE             8/10
   AMOUNT                    $270,000
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      33%
   SHARE PRICE               $54.00
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $47.875
                                                                                                       

                        BUYERS
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Cabot
   NAME AND TITLE            S. Bodman, Chairman
   DATE OF TRADE             8/7
   AMOUNT                    $326,000
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      5%
   SHARE PRICE               $32.61
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $28.375
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Lyondell Petrochemical

   DATE OF TRADE             8/3
   AMOUNT                    $156,420
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      43%
   SHARE PRICE               $17.38
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $17.50
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                   Citicorp
   NAME AND TITLE            J.Deutch, Director
   DATE OF TRADE             8/2
   AMOUNT                    $96,250
   % CHANGE IN HOLDINGS      39%
   SHARE PRICE               $19.25
   TUESDAY'S CLOSE           $18.375
                                                                                                       

   Source: Invest/Net, based on filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Case Against Isgro
   Dismissed by Judge
   In Payola Probe
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Citing "outrageous government misconduct,"
a U.S. District Court judge dismissed mail fraud,
racketeering and other charges against independent record
promoter Joseph Isgro and two others, aborting a highly
publicized trial and a four-year-old investigation into
"payola" in the record industry.
   Mr. Isgro, who for years was retained by most of the major
record companies to promote their releases, was on trial on
charges of giving money and cocaine to radio station
employees in California and Texas in return for air play.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge James M. Ideman threw the 57-count case out of court
"with prejudice," meaning that prosecutors may not retry the
case unless they can get a higher court to overturn the
judge's order. He tonguelashed the prosecutors for
"intentionally" withholding evidence because "they feared
(its) devastating effect" on their case.
   As Mr. Isgro's supporters were rejoicing, government
prosecutor William S. Lynch would say only that he found the
ruling "regrettable," and that he would recommend that the
government appeal the verdict.
   Donald M. Re, Mr. Isgro's attorney, and Gerson Horn,
representing co-defendant Jeffrey S. Monka, contended that
grand jury testimony by former tax accountant Dennis Di Ricco
was tainted by contradictory testimony given in an earlier
trial. Mr. Re and Mr. Horn said it was this testimony that
prosecutors withheld from them. Defense attorneys contended
all along that the case against Mr. Isgro hinged on witnesses
who were offered deals by the government.
   The U.S. Attorney's office apparent gaffe seemed even more
striking given the fact that the government had deployed Mr.
Lynch, a Justice Department senior litigation counsel from
Washington, D.C.
   Mr. Lynch, according to defense attorney Mr. Horn, let
slip in judge's chambers a remark indicating he was aware of
Mr. Di Ricco's testimony. Mr. Horn had finally tracked down
copies of the testimony in San Francisco. When Mr. Horn
procured it, he says he found no less than 74 instances where
the testimony of Mr. Di Ricco contradicted the later grand
jury testimony.
   Mr. Di Ricco was important to the government's case
because he told the grand jury he had participated in a drug
money-laundering scheme and delivered cash to Mr. Isgro's
bodyguard that would be used to bribe radio station
personnel.
   After Mr. Di Ricco was convicted of obstruction of justice
and tax conspiracy last year, he agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors as other drug charges were dismissed. The defense
had argued that much of the government's case was based on
testimony of witnesses who had made similar deals.
   When Judge Ideman first indicated that government
misconduct might have occurred last week, he mentioned that
it wasn't the first time the government had engaged in such
conduct in connection with the payola case. Last year,
charges against Valerie Tashjian, wife of Isgro associate
Ralph Tashjian, were dismissed because U.S. District Judge
Pamela Ann Rymer objected to the prosecutors' conduct,
accusing them of coercing the defendants.
   In opening arguments, the prosecution had indicated that
they wouldn't be going after the major record companies. But
industry observers had wondered whether Mr. Isgro, if
convicted, might have implicated record company officials.
Also on trial was one former CBS Records executive, Raymond
Anderson, accused of taking kickbacks from Mr. Isgro.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- International Business Machines:
   Company to Offer Rebates
   And Free Software Packages
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. of Armonk, N.Y.,
said it will offer six software programs at no charge and
rebates to customers buying selected IBM Personal System/2(A)
models through Jan. 15.
   In addition, IBM will offer rebates on selected IBM
desktop printers to purchasers of qualified PS/2(A) systems.
Quick credit and deferred payments are also available, it
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   IBM said it is offering the six software packages, which
it values at more than $600, to customers purchasing IBM's
PS/2 models 25 through 65. Customers buying the PS/2 Model
30-286, Model 50Z or Model 60 and an IBM operating system
will receive a $150 rebate; those buying PS/2 Models 55SX or
65SX and an operating system receive $300. Finally, customers
who purchase a qualifying PS/2 receive a rebate of $75 on an
IBM pro-printer and the LaserPrinter E, and $150 on the
10-page-per-minute LaserPrinter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Millicom Inc.:
   Joint Venture Is Formed
   With SCS Mobilecom Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MILL
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Millicom Inc., New York, said its subsidiary, Millicom
Technologies Corp., formed a joint venture with SCS Mobilecom
Inc., Port Washington, N.Y., to develop a design to test its
personal communications network.
   Millicom, an international telecommunications company, has
been working on developing PCNs -- the latest generation of
wallet-sized wireless telephones -- to compete with existing
cellular technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In May, the Federal Communications Commission granted
Millicom a license to test PCNs in Texas and Florida. But in
order to proceed, Millicom needs a frequency to test the
network on, as well as handsets that can incorporate the new
technology.
   In teaming up with SCS Mobilecom, Millicom gains access to
SCS's expertise in spread spectrum technology, a signaling
technique that allows a radio communication system to operate
over several frequencies without interfering with other
signals. Millicom says it is talking with various
manufacturers but has yet to select one to produce the
handsets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas
   Wins Pact to Build
   40 Jets for Kuwait
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MD MDEST BA PC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. won a $140 million
contract to build 40 F/A-18 Hornet jet aircraft for the
government of Kuwait, the Defense Department said.
   The contract covers equipment purchases that were worked
out several years ago under the foreign military sales
program, the Pentagon said. But the agreement was just
recently signed with Kuwait's exiled government, which fled
the country after the Aug. 2 invasion by Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale is proceeding because "the government of Kuwait
still exists," and the U.S. hopes the exiled government will
regain its territory from Iraq, a Pentagon spokesman said.
   The F/A-18 performs both fighter and attack roles. The
contract, which is to be completed in September 1993,
involves two versions of the aircraft, 32 F/A-18Cs and eight
F/A-18Ds.
   A separate contract, also being awarded to McDonnell
Douglas, covers a $5.4 million order for technical
publications for the Kuwaiti F/A-18s.
                                                                                                       

   In other Pentagon awards, Vitro Services Corp. got a $34.5
million Army contract for operation of the development test
center range.
                                                                                                       

   Charles Stark Draper Laboratories Inc. won a $29.5 million
Air Force contract for missile technical support.
                                                                                                       

   Boeing Co. received an $18.3 million Air Force contract
for radio sets.
                                                                                                       

   Ocean Line of Azores Inc. was issued a $13.1 million Navy
contract for cargo transport.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Long-Term Treasury Issues Ease in Slow Trading
   As October Crude Oil Prices Rise $1.80 a Barrel
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Glenn Whitney
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN ITL USG FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   A hangover of slow holiday trading prevailed in the
Treasury market yesterday. But even though trading was light,
higher oil prices helped government debt prices slip lower.
   "Nobody is making new decisions," said John Burrus,
president of CRT Government Securities Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond traders and investors are watching developments in
the Mideast, waiting for the important August payroll report,
and trading under the influence of oil prices in the
meantime.
   Yesterday, crude oil prices for October delivery closed
$1.80 higher at $29.12 a barrel. The 30-year Treasury bond
fell nearly $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount, pushing the
yield up to 9.01%.
   The National Association of Purchasing Management said its
index of business activity declined in August to 47% from
47.4% in July, but that was in line with expectations and
failed to move the market much.
   The debate facing Treasury bond investors and traders
concerns the timing of another interest-rate cut from the
Federal Reserve, and what the Mideast tensions might mean for
federal budget negotiations. The market is also keeping watch
for further signs of economic weakness, traders said.
   "The market is two different worlds right now," said
Donald Allison, managing director at Carroll McEntee &amp;
McGinley Inc. "Short-term securities are trading off weakness
in the domestic economy and the hope that the Federal Reserve
will ease. Long-term securities are being battered by the oil
market and pessimism about a meaningful budget compromise."
He said the dollar's recent weakness has also contributed to
declines in the bond market because it has kept foreign
investors' money home or in other markets.
   Friday's report on August employment could be an important
catalyst for a move to lower short-term rates by the Fed,
traders think. Louis vB. Crandall, economist at R.J.
Wrightson &amp; Associates, says inflation and employment are
high on the central bank's list of important economic
signals. But he says that the Fed must also ease at a time
when the dollar is stable against key currencies.
   "The fact that we are seeing some trading range for the
dollar enhances the possibility of a rate cut," Mr. Crandall
said. "The Fed would prefer not to disrupt the foreign
exchange market." A renewed plunge in the dollar would roil
the stock and bond markets, possibly making it difficult for
U.S. companies to raise capital, he added.
   Elliott Platt, director of economic research at Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, says the Persian Gulf conflict makes
deficit negotiations tougher. He says a tax on energy and
defense spending cuts, two important proposals for deficit
reduction, are bound to be reconsidered by Congress.
   "We had been looking for a $50 billion deficit-reduction
package for 1991," said Mr. Platt. Now, he has scaled back
his estimate to $35 billion to $40 billion.
   White House Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said yesterday that
despite the Gulf crisis and a possible economic downturn, the
administration still hopes to cut the budget deficit by $50
billion in fiscal 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury note and bond prices moved lower in thin, calm
trading. One dealer said many investors and traders were
still on vacation.
   The 8 1/8% two-year note closed unchanged at 100 3/32 to
yield 8.05%. The 8 3/4% 10-year note slipped 5/32 to 99 4/32
to yield 8.87%.
   The Treasury sold $18.45 billion of short-term debt
yesterday at its weekly auction. The average discount rate on
three-month bills was 7.39%, down from 7.49% at last week's
auction. The average discount rate on the six-month bill was
7.36%, down from 7.48% last week.
   The average yield on the three-month bills was the lowest
since the average of 7.23% at the auction on Aug. 6, 1990.
The yield on the six-month bills was the lowest since the
average of 7.31% at the auction on Aug. 13, 1990.
   Here are details of yesterday's Treasury bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                  13-Week        26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ............ $24,832,775,000 $26,441,515,000
   Accepted bids ...........  $9,232,935,000  $9,219,000,000

   Accepted noncompet'ly ...  $1,447,745,000  $1,283,965,000
   Average price (Rate) ....  98.132 (7.39%)  96.279 (7.36%)
   High price (Rate) .......  98.142 (7.35%)  96.294 (7.33%)
   Low price (Rate) ........  98.129 (7.40%)  96.274 (7.37%)
   Coupon equivalent .......           7.64%           7.75%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Sept. 6, 1990. The 13-week bills
mature Dec. 6, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature March 7,
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   International bond traders were jolted when the West
German finance ministry rejected all bids for the second part
of a German Unity bond sale. The funds are being raised by
the government to help finance unification with East Germany.
   The government had sold 2.5 billion marks of the 10-year,
8.75% bonds Monday to a consortium of West German banks at a
discounted price of 99.20 to yield 8.88%. The second part of
the sale was offered yesterday in a tender auction to a
select group of banks.
   To the surprise of dealers, the West German government
said the bids offered for the bonds in the auction were too
low, and yields too high, for the finance ministry's liking.
"We would like to finance at a lower cost," one official
said.
   A finance ministry spokesman would only say that the
interest yields sought by the bidders were all "above the
market" and thus unacceptable.
   "Our suspicion is that the 8.75% bond was not in great
demand," said one U.S. dealer in London. "I believe that if
they had an urgent need to fund things they would have not
drawn back from the allocation." He said 9% is an attractive
spread for domestic buyers in Germany where the cost of money
is now at about 8%.
   The Unity Fund issue was quoted late in Frankfurt at
98.30, up 0.05 point, to yield 9.01%.
   Among other issues, Bonn's 8 3/4% issue due in 2000
slipped 0.07 point to 99.43 for a yield of 8.99%. The latest
issue, the 8 1/2% Bund, or bond, due in 2000 shed 0.01 point
to 96.80 to yield 9%.
   "International investors are still very reluctant to buy
Bunds because estimates on the cost of unification are still
so hard to find," said one dealer. "And domestic customers
are starting to think that yields around 9% are what they
should be going for."
   In London, government bonds finished higher in thin
trading. The benchmark Treasury 11 3/4% of 2003/2007 was
quoted at 100 16/32, up 23/32 from late Monday, to yield
11.67%.
   The Japanese government bond market ended weaker, weighed
down by rising oil prices, the yen's erosion and continued
high costs of short-term funds. The benchmark No. 119 4.8%
coupon due in 1999 ended at 82.98, down 0.04 in price.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues

   The corporate bond market, including high-yield junk
bonds, finished unchanged to slightly lower.
   Among the noticeably weaker issues were the junk bonds of
Itel Corp. Its 13% senior subordinated notes, maturing in
1999, fell two points to 83.
   Itel's bonds have been depressed recently because of
concerns that the company's plan to repurchase common shares
will squeeze its already tight cash flow.
   Dirk Van Doren, a high-yield analyst at McCarthy Crisanti
&amp; Maffei Inc., said that the overall downturn in the
junk-bond market, combined with Itel's report last month of
weaker-than-expected second-quarter earnings, have
contributed to the pressure on the bonds.
   "In the face of weakening numbers, their cash flow is
already spoken for," Mr. Van Doren said.
   Junk bonds of USG Corp. edged lower on heightened concerns
that a fragile home-building sector will threaten the
company's wallboard business. USG's 13.25% senior
subordinated debentures, due in 2000, shed one point to end
at 48.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were unchanged to 1/4 point lower in
extremely light dealings.
   "We really don't have much direction," one municipal
trader said.
   New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% bonds due in 2018
were unchanged at 98 1/2 to yield 7.31%. Florida Board of
Education's 7 1/4% issue maturing in 2023 was off 1/8 point
at 97 1/2, yielding 7.42%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The mortgage-securities market ended modestly lower.
   Government National Mortgage Association's 9 1/2% issues
for September and October delivery were each down 7/32 at 98
11/32 and 98 6/32, respectively.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.'s 9 1/2% issue for
September delivery was off 6/32 at 97 30/32, while the
October delivery Gold PC 9 1/2% issue was down 6/32 at 98
17/32. Federal National Mortgage Association's 9 1/2% issues
for September and October delivery were each 6/32 lower at 98
15/32 and 98 9/32, respectively.
   Other actively traded secondary issues showed declines of
as much as 1/4 point.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kemper Corp.:
   Firm Says 5 Securities Units
   Merged Into One Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kemper Corp. said five securities units merged into one
unit, Kemper Securities Group Inc. The five firms are Bateman
Eichler, Hill Richards Inc.; Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.;
Boettcher & Co.; Lovett Underwood, Neuhaus &amp; Webb Inc.; and
Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben Inc.
   Each of the units has a seat on the New York Stock
Exchange. In Chicago, a Kemper spokesman said the company has
no plans to sell any of its Big Board seats, but he added,
"We're going to be assessing our needs. We're going to make a
determination on whether we'll need all of the seats."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the second quarter, Kemper took charges totaling $161.1
million to cover problems at its securities-brokerage
division, contributing to a net loss of $111.2 million, or
$2.28 a share.
   In the year earlier, the insurance and investment-services
concern had net income of $121.7 million, or $2.46 a share.
Revenue rose 12% in the latest period to $757.9 million from
$677.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Rebound to Finish Mixed
   As Trading Is Extremely Light
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices closed mixed as some late
bargain-hunting blunted the impact of an early sell-off,
sparked by a surge in oil prices and further evidence of
weakness in the economy.
   Trading remained extremely light, with volume on the New
York Stock Exchange setting its second consecutive low for
the year, as the passing of the Labor Day holiday failed to
bring investors back from the sidelines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It looks like some people decided to extend their
vacation another day," said Richard Meyer, head of
institutional trading at Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled about 30 points
within minutes of the opening and showed double-digit losses
through most of the session. But as a result of the market's
late turnaround, the average finished with a loss of just
0.99 at 2613.37.
   Broader market indexes managed to post modest gains.
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index went up 0.53 to 323.09, the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.16 to 177.13
and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 0.44 to 299.25.
   Just 92,940,000 shares were traded on the Big Board, down
slightly from 96,480,000 shares traded Friday. Declining
issues led advancers by 814 to 673.
   John A. Conlon Jr., a managing director at Rothschild
Inc., said the unusually low trading activity is "indicative
of an inordinate amount of indecision" among traders. "It's
really hard to come up with a strong case for equities at
this point," he said.
   One big question in investors minds is the future of
corporate profits. Weak dividend payments may be one
indication that profits are in a downturn. Yesterday,
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said that the number of companies
decreasing dividends rose to 81 in the year to date through
August, compared with 57 in 1989. Companies omitting
dividends rose to 166 compared to 89 for the same period last
year. The number of companies boosting dividends shrank to
904 for the period, compared with 1,155 in the same period a
year earlier.
   October crude-oil futures soared $1.80 to $29.12 a barrel
as New York trading resumed following the holiday, during
which oil prices rose sharply overseas. The surge helped set
the tone for stocks early in the session.
   A disappointing report from the nation's purchasing
managers also put early pressure on the market, traders said.
An index of economic activity derived from the group's
monthly survey fell to 47% in August from 47.4% in July; a
reading below 50% indicates that the economy's manufacturing
sector is contracting.
   But the market eased its fall as investors began looking
forward to Friday's employment report, seen by some analysts
as a possible prelude to an easing of Federal Reserve policy.
The market then recovered in the final hour of trading.
   Energy stocks, bolstered by the latest jump in oil prices,
held steady as the overall market slumped, and closed with
modest gains. USX, the parent company of Marathon Oil,
climbed 3/4 to 32 7/8; Texaco went up 1/4 to 62; Mobil added
1/2 to 64 3/8; Amoco advanced 1 1/4 to 56 1/4; and Unocal
rose 1/2 to 32 1/2.
   Archer-Daniels-Midland, a potential beneficiary of higher
oil prices, added 7/8 to 23 7/8. The Wall Street Journal said
yesterday in its "Heard on the Street" column that analysts
expect the ethanol industry's fortunes to improve because of
the Persian Gulf crisis. The company is widely viewed as the
lowest-cost producer in the ethanol industry.
   Union Texas Petroleum Holdings rose 7/8 to 23 3/4 amid
speculation that Chinese Petroleum, Taiwan's national oil and
gas company, will make a takeover offer. An official at a
U.S. unit of Chinese Petroleum confirmed the Taiwanese firm's
interest in the company but wouldn't elaborate, according to
Dow Jones Professional Investor Report. Allied-Signal, which
holds a 40% stake in Union Texas, dipped 1/8 to 30 7/8.
   Pinnacle West Capital, the Big Board's most active issue,
tumbled 3 3/4 to 12 3/8 on about two million shares after
PacifiCorp agreed to end its 10-month battle to acquire the
company, agreeing instead to a pact allowing seasonal "power
swaps" with its Arizona Public Service unit. PacifiCorp
gained 1/2 to 19 7/8.
   Boeing rose 3/8 at 48 5/8 after receiving $6 billion in
firm orders and options from Asiana Airlines, a South Korean
carrier.
   McDonnell Douglas gained 1 to 43 5/8; GPA Group of
Ireland, an aircraft leasing firm, placed an order valued at
about $2.5 billion for its MD-11 long-range aircraft.
   Advanced Micro Devices added 1/4 to 5 5/8. The company is
expected this fall to unveil its version of Intel's popular
80386 microprocessor, and could have an easier time if two
legal disputes are decided in its favor.
   Sotheby's Holdings skidded 3/4 to 11 7/8. About 300 of its
key employees became eligible for the first time to exercise
options allowing them to buy up to 2.5 million shares at a
huge discount and resell them at the market price.
   Equimark, whose board decided to omit a quarterly dividend
on its common shares, fell 5/8 to 5. The stock had jumped a
point Friday amid news that the Tisch family has acquired a
6.8% stake.
   Entergy gained 3/4 to 19 1/8. Its board decided to boost
by $135 million the amount it can spend on stock repurchases
under an ongoing buy-back program.
   Raytheon, which said its Caloric unit plans to close its
appliance-manufacturing operations in Topton, Pa., rose 1 1/8
to 61 3/4. The company said it expects to take a
third-quarter pretax charge of $17.5 million for the
shutdown.
   Allergan rose 1/4 to 15 1/2 following news that it plans
to repurchase up to 1.2 million of its common shares.
Separately, the company said a federal court upheld its
patent on Ultrazyme, a contact lens-care product that works
with hydrogen peroxide.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.65
to 322.74. Volume totaled 8,790,000 shares.
   Kinark went down 1/4 to 5. The company said its agreement
to sell its Camelot Hotels for $12 million to Wilmae, a Santa
Rosa, Calif.-based concern, was terminated after Wilmae ran
into delays in obtaining financing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Campeau Corp.:
   Retail Units' Losses in July
   Were Less Than Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Campeau Corp.'s retail units, Federated Department Stores
Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., reported net losses of $50
million in July, "substantially less than expected," the
companies said.
   In documents filed with U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Cincinnati, Federated said it had a net loss of $31.7 million
for the four weeks ended Aug. 4. For the previous period, the
five weeks ended July 7, Federated reported net losses of
$30.6 million. Meanwhile, Allied posted a net loss of $18.3
million in July compared with $18.6 in the previous period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company noted that the net losses included non-cash
interest and interest on the company's pre-petition debt,
which account for about $35.1 million of the units' $42.6
million interest expense. The results also include a $2.5
million one-time charge due to an accounting change.
   Analysts noted that seasonal factors and the absence of
year-earlier comparisons make it difficult to assess
Federated and Allied's progress since seeking Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection on Jan. 15.
   Janet Mangano, an analyst at Jesup, Josephthal &amp; Co. in
New York, noted that the latest results were "rather
encouraging."
   Federated's sales for the four weeks were $263.5 million,
while Allied's sales were $150.1 million.
   In the combined June-July period, Federated had $3.5
million in cash flow while Allied had $1.94 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Ratings on PacifiCorp
   Debt and Preferred
   Are Boosted by S&amp;P
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   PPW PNW
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. raised its
ratings on about $4.7 billion of PacifiCorp debt and
preferred stock, in the wake of the utility holding company's
decision to end its 10-month pursuit of Arizona Public
Service Co. and its parent, Pinnacle West Capital Corp., both
based in Phoenix, Ariz.
   PacifiCorp dropped its takeover efforts in exchange for
seasonal power swaps with Arizona Public Service having a
combined potential value of about $260 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rating concern upgraded PacifiCorp's senior secured
debt to single-A from single-A-minus, and senior unsecured
debt and preferred stock to single-A-minus from
triple-B-plus.
   S&amp;P also revised to stable from negative its long-term
outlook for the debt and preferred stock of Arizona Public
Service. "Much-needed up-front cash" from the PacifiCorp deal
"would allow Pinnacle to pay down its huge debt burden more
rapidly and aid in restoring its common dividend over time,"
the rating concern said.
   Pinnacle West shares tumbled $3.75 to close at $12.375 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. It was
the most active issue on the Big Board, on turnover of more
than 1.9 million shares. PacifiCorp shares closed at $19.875,
up 50 cents, in Big Board trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Times Mirror Co.:
   Vice President Is Appointed
   For the Newspaper Group
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TMC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Richard T. Schlosberg III, 46 years old, was elected group
vice president-newspapers of Times Mirror Co., Los Angeles.
Duties related to that post had been split among several
executives since 1988.
   Mr. Schlosberg will become the media company's third group
vice president when he assumes his new post later this month.
He also will be chairman of the newspaper management
committee with responsibility for six company newspapers, and
for group advertising sales, newsprint purchases and other
newspaper matters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schlosberg has been president of the Los Angeles Times
newspaper since 1988. A successor hasn't been named.
   Donald F. Wright, 56, senior vice president, assumed added
responsibility for various financial and administrative
functions of Times Mirror, including budget and planning. He
relinquishes responsibility to Mr. Schlosberg for four
newspapers. He continues to oversee the company's broadcast
and cable television groups.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Marietta
   Faces Intelsat Suit
   On Launch Failure
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ML
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Telecommunications
Satellite Organization (Intelsat) filed a counterclaim
against Martin Marietta Corp. seeking $400 million in damages
for the failed launch of a $150 million communications
satellite.
   The satellite, launched March 14 from a Martin Marietta
Titan III rocket, ended up in a useless orbit after the
system that separated the satellite from the rocket
malfunctioned. Martin Marietta later blamed the trouble on a
"wiring problem, undetected by the processes and test
procedures used in pre-launch checkout."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The original claim by Martin Marietta and the counterclaim
are an important test of satellite launch contracts. Martin
Marietta said in its complaint that if its contract can't be
enforced, the company will have to boost the price of its
Titan III launches, which could make its commercial launch
business uncompetitive.
   Intelsat, an international consortium, argued that Martin
Marietta failed to live up to its contractual obligation and
that slip-ups by the company's management and employees
resulted in the launch failure.
   The claim, filed in federal court in Baltimore Friday,
responds to a complaint filed July 6 by Martin Marietta. The
giant defense contractor, anticipating a lawsuit from
Intelsat, asked the court for a ruling that under the launch
contract, Intelsat assumed the risk of loss of its satellite.
Intelsat, it said, was offered insurance against a launch
failure, but decided against buying it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Airlines Seek 5% to 8%
   Fare Rise to Offset Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- Airlines plan to ask their governments for
authority to raise air fares 5% to 8% from Oct. 1 to help
offset higher fuel, insurance and operating costs.
   According to the International Air Transport Association,
which held a three-day conference here last week for some 80
of its 200 member airlines, the carriers agreed to boost
their international tariffs, pending government approvals.
Cargo tariffs will rise 7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Over the weekend some carriers said they didn't know if
they would follow the pack. Others said they would begin
studying their routes to decide whether to apply a uniform
price increase or to vary it between regions.
   Still other carriers, acting independently, already have
raised their prices to cover higher jet kerosense and
insurance costs related to the Persian Gulf hostilities. Now,
some are separately seeking government permission to add
surcharges on flights to the Middle East. War-risk insurance
premiums on aircraft traveling in the region have soared
since Iraq invaded Kuwait.
   The conference was called because carriers have been
suffering for some time from rising fuel prices, increased
air-traffic control and landing fees and other cost
escalations. The events in the Gulf made the meeting more
timely.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EPA Says AVX Corp.
   Will Pay $66 Million
   For Waste Cleanup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   ARVX KYO WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency here
said AVX Corp., New York, agreed in principle to pay $66
million in one of the largest environmental cleanup
settlements to date under the federal Superfund program, a
program to clean up toxic waste sites.
   AVX, a maker of capacitors, was purchased earlier this
year by Kyocera Corp., a Japanese maker of electronic parts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tentative settlement stems from a civil lawsuit the
federal government filed in 1983 against AVX and four other
companies charged with polluting the New Bedford, Mass.,
harbor with polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. Under the
settlement, AVX may have to pay more than $66 million if
total cleanup costs exceed $130.5 million, the EPA said. Part
of the AVX payment will go to the state of Massachusetts,
which is assisting in the cleanup.
   Tentative settlements with two other companies involved in
the case, Aerovox Inc. and Belleville Industries Inc., have
been reached but not yet announced, the EPA said. The
government will press its claims against the two remaining
concerns, Federal Pacific Electric Co. and Cornell-Dubilier
Electronics Inc., at a trial scheduled for March 1991, the
EPA added.
   EPA officials said estimated costs for the New Bedford
harbor cleanup, under various options being considered, range
up to $600 million. PCBs, chemicals formerly used in making
electrical insulation and products, can cause liver damage
and cancer. High levels of the chemicals were discovered in
fish and shellfish in the New Bedford harbor in the 1970s;
fishing has subsequently been banned in certain areas of the
harbor and a river estuary leading to it.
   Separately, Kyocera named Benedict Rosen president of AVX.
Mr. Rosen, 54, succeeds Charles Dill, who resigned to pursue
other business interests, the company said. Mr. Rosen takes
the helm after 19 years with AVX, moving up through various
management posts. He will report to AVX's chief executive
officer, Marshall O. Butler.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MGM Grand Inc.:
   Airline Signs Letter to Buy
   Boeing Planes for Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MGG BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM Grand Air said it signed a letter of proposal to buy
two Boeing 757-200s for more than $100 million as part of a
long-term plan to expand the small luxury airline.
   Charles L. Demoney, president and chief executive officer
of the Los Angeles-based airline, said the long-range
aircraft from Boeing Co. are scheduled to be delivered in the
mid-1990s. MGM Grand Air, a unit of MGM Grand Inc., is
controlled by investor Kirk Kerkorian.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MGM Grand offers two daily flights between Los Angeles and
New York. Eventually, MGM Grand hopes to use the quieter and
more fuel-efficient 757s for international service to the
United Kingdom and the Pacific Rim.
   Last month, MGM Grand began offering an upgraded service
for standard coach-class fare on its newly configured DC-8
Super 62 aircraft. Those planes, which cost $55.5 million to
refurbish, seat 81 passengers and replaced an older fleet of
Boeing 727-100s that MGM Grand used to launch the airline in
1987.
   Currently, Mr. Demoney said, the airline's load factor is
less than 40% using the DC-8s, compared with 75% for the
smaller, all-first-class 727-200s. The new Boeing 757s
probably will seat about 80 passengers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chiles, Martinez to Vie
   In Florida Governor Race
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Former Sen. Lawton Chiles won an easy victory
over Rep. Bill Nelson in a primary yesterday to become the
Democratic nominee for governor of Florida.
   He will face Gov. Bob Martinez, who overwhelmed four
challengers in the Republican primary to win a chance to vie
for his second term.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The race is important because Florida is one of the big
states in the Sun Belt that will gain congressional seats as
a result of the 1990 census. The governor will play a
significant role in the redistricting process.
   The Chiles victory represents a return-from-retirement of
Mr. Chiles, who left the Senate in 1988 after being diagnosed
with having clinical depression. Mr. Chiles will campaign
under a self-imposed obstacle -- a $100 limit on individual
campaign contributions. The limitation is an open challenge
to the convention of big-money politics.
   With more than 50% of precincts reporting, Mr. Chiles was
ahead of Rep. Nelson 70%-30%. Gov. Martinez won a solid
two-thirds of the Republican vote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Hewlett-Packard Co.:
   Firm Reduces U.S. Prices
   For HP Vectra Computers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hewlett-Packard Co., of Palo Alto, Calif., said it reduced
U.S. list prices on its top-of-the-line HP Vectra personal
computers by as much as 24%, a move analysts said may be
designed to combat slow sales.
   The reductions, which became effective Saturday, range
from $300 to $4,600. The price of the HP Vectra 486 Model
670, for example, was lowered to $14,899 from $19,499. Also
reduced up to 36% were Hewlett-Packard's 330-megabyte and
670-megabyte, enhanced small-device interface, or ESDI, disk
drives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pradeep Jotwani, the company's North American PC marketing
manager, said the price declines were driven by lower
manufacturing costs for ESDI hard-disk drives and by lower
costs for components.
   Timothy R. McCollum, an analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. in New York, said the main factor behind the price
decreases was that Hewlett-Packard had trouble selling the HP
Vectra line since the top models were introduced in January
1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Wants U.S. to Forgive Egypt Debt;
   Prolonged Presence in Gulf Is Indicated
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration asked Congress to
forgive Egyptian military debts to reward the nation for
opposing Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. It also signaled it
anticipates having a long-term presence in the Persian Gulf
even after the current crisis ends.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. Navy for the first time took control
of an Iraqi-flagged vessel attempting to carry goods to Iraq
in violation of a United Nations trade embargo against Iraq.
U.S. officials said American sailors are taking the ship,
apparently carrying tea, to a neutral port. Separately,
almost 300 Western women and children, including 25
Americans, arrived in Amman, Jordan, yesterday from Baghdad
on three Iraqi Airways planes, according to the Associated
Press. And 175 Western nationals were expected to leave Amman
early today aboard a Virgin Atlantic jumbo jet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House said it is asking lawmakers to write off
almost $7 billion in bills Egypt ran up in the years after
Cairo's 1979 Camp David peace treaties with Israel.
Economically strapped Egypt has fallen chronically behind in
repaying the debt, and its ability to make payments has been
hurt further by the loss of income from the trade embargo
against Iraq.
   But although Congress is generally grateful for Egypt's
opposition to Iraq's invasion and its decision to send troops
to serve in Saudi Arabia, it isn't clear that lawmakers will
agree to forgive the debt. Lawmakers immediately expressed
reservations about setting a precedent in which other nations
will seek similar debt forgiveness -- particularly Israel,
whose officials immediately declared that they want their own
$4.5 billion in debts to the U.S. written off if Egypt's
debts are forgiven.
   "I don't think it makes a hell of a lot of sense to
consider the Egyptian situation in a vacuum," said Rep. David
Obey (D., Wis.), chairman of the House subcommittee that
handles foreign aid. "I want to know what the next shoe is
going to be, and the next one."
   The administration tried to head off criticism that it
hasn't adequately explained why the U.S. should be willing to
endure a long-term military confrontation with Iraq.
Secretary of State James Baker told the House Foreign Affairs
Committee that the crisis involves more than stopping Saddam
Hussein and protecting oil reserves. He said that it also
would help determine "how the post-Cold War world will work."
   Calling the Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait "one of the defining
moments of a new era," Mr. Baker said international,
collective action was necessary because "new hostilities and
threats could erupt as misguided leaders are tempted to
assert regional dominance before the ground rules of a new
order can be accepted." He indicated that the U.S. could have
a continuing presence in the region as part of an
international security force even after the crisis is
resolved. Mr. Baker also said the U.S. military operation
would cost about $6 billion during the remainder of 1990.
   Mr. Baker even couched the protection of Mideast oil
fields in broader terms. He told the panel, which generally
supported the administration, that "a dictator" who
controlled much of the world's oil "could strangle the global
economic order, determining by fiat whether we all enter a
recession, or even the darkness of a depression."
   Mr. Baker's congressional testimony seemed crafted to
address concerns lawmakers have expressed in recent days
that, after rushing thousands of troops to Saudi Arabia to
protect that kingdom's oil fields from Iraqi advances, the
administration hasn't adequately explained the U.S.'s broader
stake in the region. By casting it in such broad terms, the
administration is trying to make the case that the crisis has
global implications rather than simply short-term
implications on such narrow issues as the price of gasoline
or the fate of the ousted emir of Kuwait.
   In addition, Mr. Baker was preparing the public for the
likelihood that some residual U.S. military force might
remain in the Gulf region indefinitely, even after the
current crisis passes, as part of a regional "security
structure." A senior State Department official said the
security structure idea hasn't been fleshed out. But he said
it might involve the Soviets and seek to ensure, among other
things, that Iraq can't become a nuclear power or build more
chemical weapons even if Baghdad's weapons plants survive the
crisis over Kuwait. He said similar peacekeeping forces might
emerge in other regions besides the Middle East as one aspect
of the post-Cold War world order the U.S. hopes to construct
after the Gulf crisis.
   As Mr. Baker spoke, the U.S. Navy was taking its most
direct action yet to enforce the U.N.-ordered embargo on
trade with Iraq. U.S. sailors in the Gulf of Oman boarded a
small Iraqi-flagged freighter headed from Sri Lanka to Iraq,
after the captain refused to change course or stop. Pentagon
spokesman Pete Williams said the crew of the Zanoobia didn't
offer any resistance when the boarding party took over the
bridge. Mr. Williams didn't indicate where the vessel is now
headed, though other U.S. military officials said it is
scheduled to dock in Oman.
   According to Mr. Williams, some 20 other vessels have been
boarded by U.S. sailors since the international embargo
against Iraq was put into place, but those ships either were
allowed to proceed on their original course or were diverted
somewhere else under the control of their own crew. The
Pentagon said this was the first time members of a boarding
party actually took control of a vessel and began sailing to
a neutral port themselves.
   The latest incident comes on the heels of U.S. action last
week against another Sri Lankan vessel, which was intercepted
sailing toward Iraq. Pentagon officials said the Sri Lankan
government promised at the time to halt all further shipments
to Iraqi ports.
   The action on the high seas dovetailed with political and
diplomatic moves by the administration to strengthen the
trade sanctions. The administration is seeking debt relief
for Egypt in large part to demonstrate that nations that are
hurt by honoring the sanctions against Iraq will be rewarded.
   The Gulf crisis is hurting Cairo by disrupting the flow of
hard currency from Egyptians employed in Iraq and Kuwait who
are fleeing home by the thousands because of the political
tensions between Egypt and Iraq. In addition, Egypt is losing
revenue from fees normally paid by ships that travel through
the Suez Canal while carrying goods to Iraq.
   Egypt's civilian and military debt to the U.S. totals more
than $12 billion. Though Egypt has been making payments on
its debt, the payments have been behind schedule, and it is
$1.2 billion to $1.5 billion in arrears. The White House
action, if approved by Congress, would affect only the
roughly $7 billion portion in the debt that arises from
military sales.
   The move would have an immediate impact on the U.S. budget
deficit. Egypt was scheduled to make $750 million in
repayments this year, the White House said, and that money
won't be coming into Treasury coffers if debt forgiveness is
approved.
   But the broader impact could come if other nations seek to
follow suit. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater declared
that the move doesn't set a precedent for other nations, but
Israeli Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai declared in a radio
interview this week that "When I visit Washington next month
I will ask for equal treatment."
   Turkey, another nation that has been a high-profile
supporter of the economic campaign against Iraq, owes the
U.S. $1.25 billion on military loans, congressional officials
said. And some influential lawmakers already had been pushing
for forgiving some of Poland's non-military debts.
   The administration also began a campaign that a senior
official suggested is designed to gather more than $25
billion from allies to help Mideast states hurt by the crisis
and to help fund the U.S.-led military effort in the Gulf.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady arrived in Paris for the
first leg of a tour to discuss "cooperation" and
"burden-sharing" among Western and Asian nations. Mr. Brady
refused to comment on the amounts of money the U.S. is
seeking, but the senior official said that the administration
does have specific amounts of aid in mind that nations in
Europe and Asia should contribute.
   Aid to Mideast nations is being divided into two distinct
pools, a short-term emergency fund that would tide them over
until the end of 1990, and a medium-term effort to address
their needs through 1991, officials said. More than $10
billion could be needed through 1991 to aid Turkey, Egypt and
Jordan, the nations hit hardest.
   In his explanation of the confrontation with Iraq, Mr.
Baker insisted that it is particularly important to stop
intimidation and force in the Middle East because of its
virulent regional hatreds, stockpile of weapons of mass
destruction and huge energy reserves.
   He said toppling Saddam Hussein isn't one of the
administration's objectives. He repeatedly said the way to
contain the Iraqi leader and the threat of weapons
proliferation he represented would be by building what he
called a "security structure" in the region. Although Mr.
Baker didn't provide details, he said that the U.S. would
have "some continuing presence" in such an international
security arrangement, perhaps with U.S. naval forces.
   Mr. Baker, responding to a question about why gasoline
prices have risen so swiftly, expressed irritation at oil
companies. "I fail to see how oil that's purchased at $16 a
barrel and refined into gasoline has to be jacked up within
two days of an action like this," he said. "And then when the
price goes back down, the price of gasoline is not reduced.
So that's a very good question. I think it ought to be
addressed to the people who raised the prices."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Suffield Financial
   Is Facing Lawsuit
   by Officers of Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   SFCP
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUFFIELD, Conn. -- Suffield Financial Corp. said the
president and chief executive officer of its Coastal Savings
Bank unit filed suit against Suffield Financial in Maine
Superior Court for attempting to dismiss them.
   Suffield Financial, a bank holding company, voted in late
July to negotiate, by mutual consent, the termination of
Richard Paige, the chief executive, and James McKay, the
president, of Coastal Savings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unsuccessful in its negotiations, Suffield then voted to
remove the directors of Coastal Bancorp, a subsidiary of
Suffield Financial and parent of Coastal Savings, and replace
them with new directors. The new Coastal Bancorp board has
now called a shareholders meeting in order to consider the
removal of the directors of Coastal Savings.
   Suffield said it took such action because "a change in
Coastal's management would enhance the future profitability
of Coastal Savings." While Coastal Savings is "financially
sound," the bank hasn't been as profitable as it could be,
said Suffield Financial.
   Messrs. Paige and McKay, who are joined in their suit by
certain other directors of Coastal Savings, said in their
suit that the actions of Suffield Financial are "illegal and
invalid."
   Suffield has removed the lawsuit to the U.S. District
Court in Maine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PLM International's
   Megeath Quits Board
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   PLM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- S.A. Megeath III announced his
resignation from the board of PLM International Inc. after
being stripped of the chairmanship and all other positions
except his directorship.
   In tendering his resignation, Mr. Megeath, 44 years old,
cited "intense" disagreement with the board over the
company's operations, policies and practices. In an
interview, he also complained that he had been kept in the
dark on company activity by management. But he declined to
elaborate on the substance of the dispute. PLM officials
didn't return phone calls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PLM announced that its board had elected J. Alec Merriam
as the new chairman. Mr. Merriam is an investor and formerly
executive vice president of Crowley Maritime Corp. Robert
Tidball, PLM's chief executive officer and president, whom
Mr. Megeath singled out for criticism, wasn't immediately
available for comment.
   PLM is a transportation equipment leasing company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nonfinancial Firms'
   Productivity Rises
   At 1.7% Annual Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The productivity of nonfinancial
corporations rose in the second quarter at a 1.7% annual rate
after falling at a 2.2% rate in the first period, the Labor
Department reported.
   The increase in productivity -- output per hour of work --
stemmed from a rise in production at a 1.6% annual rate while
working hours declined at a 0.1% pace.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report covers all corporations doing business in the
U.S. except banks, stock and commodity brokers, and finance
and insurance agencies.
   In addition to the new figures for nonfinancial
corporations, the government also issued revised productivity
statistics for other categories. Productivity of all U.S.
businesses increased during the second quarter at an annual
rate of 1.7%, compared with an original estimate of 1.9% and
a first-quarter decline at a 1.5% annual rate.
   The increase in productivity among nonfarm businesses was
revised to a 1.5% annual rate from 1.6%. Nonfarm productivity
also rose at a 1.6% annual rate in the first quarter.
Manufacturing productivity rose at a revised rate of 4%, up
from the earlier estimate of 3.7% but down from the first
quarter's 5.1% pace.
   The figures are adjusted for seasonal variations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Amgen Inc. to Invest
   As Much as $53 Million
   In Biotechnology Firm
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amgen Inc. committed up to $53 million over several years
to Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biotechnology concern
that has identified certain proteins, called neurotrophic
factors, that may play a significant role in human nerve
tissue.
   Amgen and Regeneron hope that these factors may be useful
in the treatment of a variety of neurological disorders and
injuries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amgen, a Thousand Oaks, Calif., biotechnology concern,
said it paid $15 million in exchange for Regeneron
convertible preferred stock equal to about a 7% stake in the
company. In addition, Amgen will pay $10 million over two
years to fund Regeneron research and development of two
growth factors, Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3).
   Amgen will provide $15 million more in the third through
fifth years if Regeneron meets certain technological and
commercial benchmarks, said Leonard Schleifer, Regeneron
president and chief executive officer. The agreement also
calls for Amgen to make $13 million in milestone payments, of
which the first $1 million has already been made.
   Dr. Schleifer declined to say when the company expects to
request regulatory approval to begin human tests of the two
factors, which he described as "drug candidates" that have
already been "discovered, cloned and expressed." Regeneron, a
Tarrytown, N.Y., private biotechnology concern, has 75
employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares Drop 512.79 Points on Reports
   Crude Oil Producers Will Raise Prices to Japan
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks fell broadly on profit-taking Tuesday as news
that crude oil producers would raise prices to Japanese
customers soaked sentiment, traders said.
   London shares closed lower, but recovered from a steep
drop in early afternoon trading. But the recovery, coming
amid thin trading, wasn't taken as a sign of things to come.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo, rounds of arbitrage selling, motivated by
weakness on the futures indexes, helped accelerate losses,
participants said.
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 512.79 points to
24907.64.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index fell
another 142.95 points to 24764.69.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 330
million shares, down from 368.9 million shares Monday.
Decliners outnumbered advancers 858 to 126, while 105 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section dropped 35.54 points, or 1.83%, to 1910.38.
   The second section index fell 60.33 points, or 1.58%, to
3761.51. Volume in the section was estimated at 9.3 million
shares, up from eight million shares Monday.
   Sentiment was hurt by higher crude oil prices linked to
expectations of increased military tension in the Persian
Gulf, traders said.
   Moreover, news that Qatari and Mexican crude oil producers
raised prices to Japanese customers and that the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry had "given in" to higher
prices for oil products was discouraging to the stock market,
noted Kevin Haag, a trader in overseas operations at Nomura
Securities.
   As the stalemate in the Gulf continues with little
expectation for a negotiated settlement soon, Tokyo traders
said they're locked into short-term activities.
   At the same time, however, brokerage houses are under
pressure from "tokkin" special money account clients to
realize profits before September book closings, noted Yusuke
Fujiwara, head of stock trading at Baring Securities Ltd.
   Mr. Haag pointed out that the lack of institutional
interest in the market leaves trading activity up to dealers,
who continue to focus on speculative issues.
   "It's just quick cash going into this market," one trader
at a U.K. firm said. "Individuals and dealers are punching
money into this thing, and then turning around to take
profits."
   "There's a limited amount of cash going in," he added, "so
if there's a change in sentiment, everything changes. The
market has been relying on these (speculative) issues. If it
goes up on that, you know it's just going to come right back
down again."
   Tuesday, the Nikkei Index dropped after the opening on
bearish sentiments, then gently bounced back on buying on
speculative issues.
   However, by midmorning, the impact of arbitrage selling
and shifting sentiment began to surface as the Nikkei edged
lower. Toward the end of the morning, support gave way to
profit-taking and further selling on futures indexes,
allowing for later arbitrage selling.
   Throughout the afternoon, the Nikkei continued to tumble,
falling easily below 25000 points and then hovering just
before hitting 24800 points.
   In the midafternoon, some program buying by major
brokerage houses helped buoy the index above 24900 points,
but wasn't enough to ignite any buying interest.
   Speculative issue Honshu Paper &amp; Pulp, whose price gains
were rumored Monday to be under investigation by financial
authorities for potential stock price manipulation, closed at
4310 yen, down 70 yen ($29.92, down 49 cents), on heavy
volume. The price had been as high as 4600 yen, up 220 yen.
   Tokyu Department Store, which Monday reported a 12% rise
in unconsolidated pretax profit for the first half, rose 140
yen to 1580 yen.
   Mining, metal and steel shares were lower. Tokyo Steel
fell 170 yen to 3820 yen, Nippon Steel fell 14 yen to 481
yen, and NKK fell 11 yen to 454 yen. Kawasaki Steel dropped
10 yen to 467 yen, and Daido Steel retreated 30 yen to 695
yen.
   Mitsubishi Metal fell 22 yen to 728 yen, while Mitsubishi
Mining fell 16 yen to 601 yen. Dowa Mining dropped 32 yen to
700 yen. Nippon Light Metal, traded actively by dealers, fell
50 yen to 1240 yen.
   Blue-chips fell, including TDK, down 210 yen to 5090 yen,
Sony, down 80 yen to 7220 yen, Fanuc, down 220 yen to 5650
yen, and Kyocera, down 180 yen to 7470. But Pioneer rose 30
yen to 5,100 yen.
   In London, poor trading volume continued but improved
slightly from Monday's record low for the year. And traders
reckon that both volume and sentiment will remain cool for
the near future.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index dropped
18.6 points to 2148. The Financial Times 30 Share Index fell
16.5 points to 1670.9.
   Volume was 286.2 million shares, up from Monday's 220.2
million shares.
   Movement in Reckitt &amp; Colman was the main feature of the
market, one trader said. Adverse market comments, concerning
earnings from recent acquisitions and long-term prospects,
are preceding Thursday's diclosure of interim figures. The
stock fell 43 pence to #11.38 (81 cents to $21.52).
   Hardy Oil fell 4 pence to 208 pence following Trafalgar
House's placing of its 30% stake in the company. Trafalgar
House firmed a penny to 233 pence.
   Other oil stocks remained firm, and one trader said they
were currently sustaining the market. Ultramar gained 4 pence
to 360 pence. Lasmo rose 2 pence to 502 pence.
   CRH, an Irish cement and concrete concern, fell 3 pence to
203 pence following interim results showing an 18% rise in
pretax profit. Analysts, however, are wary of the company's
ability to sustain growth.
   Sedgwick Group closed down 17 pence at 181 pence. The
company's bearish comments about the outlook for the industry
and its dollar-based earnings overshadowed a 2.3% increase in
pretax profit.
   Bowater, which reported a 19% increase in pretax profit
for the half year, fell 15 pence to 488 pence. The company
urged caution over the impact of economic troubles in the
U.K. and U.S. as well as the Kuwait crisis on full-year
earnings.
   Elsewhere, shares inched higher in Oslo, but closed
broadly lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Brussels,
Amsterdam, Stockholm, Milan and Madrid. European stock
markets were generally depressed by concerns over events in
the Middle East and disheartened by losses in Tokyo and on
Wall Street. South African gold stocks drifted slightly
lower.
   Stocks closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Wellington,
Manila, Seoul and Singapore and were higher in Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                                Sep 3    Aug 31    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................    298.4    298.4    - 8.2
   Britain ..................    642.3    641.5    -10.9
   Canada ...................    372.4    372.4    -13.9
   Japan ....................   1080.2   1098.9    -34.7
   France ...................    461.2    472.8    -18.6
   Germany ..................    260.7    261.1    - 8.6
   Hong Kong ................   2233.1   2252.9    + 6.5
   Switzerland ..............    188.4    188.9    -14.7
   Australia ................    306.5    307.3    - 7.4
   World index ..............    469.9    474.1    -17.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Search Exploration Inc.:
   Dallas Concern Amends Suit
   Against Sonat Inc.'s Marshall
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   SXEI SNT
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Search Exploration Inc. said it filed an amendment to its
multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Sonat Inc.'s Marshall
Exploration Inc. subsidiary to include charges under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations statute.
   The amended complaint, filed in state court in Dallas,
charges that Marshall and related defendants "have engaged in
a systematic pattern of mail and wire fraud for more than six
years." According to the complaint, Marshall, an oil and gas
exploration and production company, overcharged investors for
its services and issued "often misleading, deceptive and
ultimately fraudulent" assessments of wells it managed.
Search, a Dallas-based exploration and production company,
added that "this wrongful conduct extended to numerous wells
and injured tens if not hundreds of investors."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Sonat, a Birmingham, Ala.-based
diversified energy company, called the Search complaint
"totally without merit."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Behind the Scenes:
   Ghostwriting Booms
   As `Autobiographies'
   Become Best-Sellers
   ---
   But Some Say It's a Nightmare
   When Rich and Famous
   Try to Tell It Like It Isn't
   ---
   Zsa Zsa Slaps on a Condition
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Newsweek writer Charles Leerhsen accepted a lucrative
offer to write Donald Trump's second autobiography, he says,
a fellow reporter accused him of "prostituting his talents."
Did Mr. Leerhsen feel at all ambivalent?
   "Not at all," he says. "I felt rich."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Publishing sources say Mr. Leerhsen received a fee in the
mid six figures, but no royalties. "Trump: Surviving at the
Top," by Mr. Trump "with" Mr. Leerhsen, recently hit the
stores, accompanied by extensive publicity and mostly
scathing reviews. The slender volume, which largely ducks the
issue of Mr. Trump's financial and marital woes, appeared
Sunday on the New York Times nonfiction best-seller list for
the first time at number five -- and it will be No. 1 on next
Sunday's list.
   The Trump/Leerhsen collaboration is the latest in a
growing list of ghostwritten autobiographies, including a
large number by business leaders. Publishers have been
grinding them out by the shelf full ever since Bantam Books
commissioned William Novak, an underemployed Newton Center,
Mass., free-lancer, to write the admiring "Iacocca: An
Autobiography" in 1984. It sold more copies than any other
nonfiction hardcover in history, except for a few reference
works, Betty Crocker's cookbook and the Bible.
   The demand for ghostwriters immediately shot up. From T.
Boone Pickens to cookie maker Mrs. (Debbi) Fields, from the
Mayflower Madam to Sonny Bono, any name that popped up in the
press merited a memoir. PepsiCo chief executive Roger Enrico
("with" Jesse Kornbluth) regaled readers with tales from the
"trenches of snack-food products management" in his book,
"The Other Guy Blinked: How Pepsi Won the Cola Wars." Drew
Barrymore of "E.T." told her "life story" ("with" Todd Gold)
at age 14.
   In the post-Novak years, ghostwriters have become visible
-- even glittery. They are getting bigger fees and their
names on the dust jacket. Mr. Novak even went on the lecture
circuit with "Confessions of a Ghostwriter."
   "Since Iacocca, it's not only acceptable to be a
collaborator, it's fashionable," says Bantam publicity vice
president Stuart Applebaum, who handled public relations for
"Iacocca." "These are not ghostwriters," he corrects. "These
are second authors."
   Publishers love these authorized products because they can
be turned out quickly and, while they have a short shelf
life, they sell extraordinarily well in a short period of
time. Many readers evidently love the intimate proximity to
their favorite celebrity the ghostwriter brings them: Five of
the '80s top 25 bestsellers were as-told-to autobiographies.
   Some of these works are respectable literary or historical
efforts such as Count Basie's "Good Morning Blues,"
ghostwritten by jazz scholar Albert Murray, or the granddaddy
of the genre, General Motors chief Alfred P. Sloan Jr.'s 1963
classic, "My Years With General Motors," for which
ghostwriter John McDonald spent years in the corporate
archives.
   But critics say most ghostwritten books tend to be poorly
written and self-serving. Many ghostwriters themselves report
that the experience often ranges from unsatisfying to
mortifying.
   "Ghostwriting?" People magazine writer Ken Gross says
wearily when asked about the trade he has plied for many
years. "`Victim' is my favorite title for it."
   "It's like marrying someone you've known for two weeks,"
says former Forbes writer John Merwin, whose literary wedding
to People Express founder Donald Burr dissolved unhappily a
year later, unconsummated by publication.
   Free-lancer Tony Schwartz, author of Mr. Trump's "Art of
the Deal," says the book "put the best face on his story.
There was nothing I wrote that on its face was false. But
there's a lot open to interpretation."
   Mr. Novak painted a heart-warming portrait of Mr. Iacocca
as corporate folk hero. Peter Wyden, author of "The Unknown
Iacocca," an unauthorized and tougher account that didn't
sell nearly as well, says: "I would call Novak's book fairly
incomplete to grossly incomplete." He says the book glossed
over many episodes in the life of the Chrysler chairman and
former Ford president, including his early opposition to air
bags and his involvement in the controversial Ford Pinto.
   Armand Hammer -- Occidental Petroleum's roving
industrialist and stage manager of four authorized life
stories (he's shopping around his fifth) -- said he wanted "a
complete, serious biography" when he commissioned Clay and
Joan Blair, husband-and-wife authors of military histories,
the couple recalls. "He said he had these huge archives. . .
, letters from Lenin and so forth," Mr. Blair says.
   But when the Blairs asked to see the archives, Dr. Hammer
presented them instead with a VCR and 50 videotapes about
Occidental -- "we-open-a-plant-in-West-Virginia types of
things," Mr. Blair recalls. When the Blairs submitted an
outline, Dr. Hammer "allowed as how we can't write any of
that," Mrs. Blair recalls.
   The couple canceled the contract. "We're not PR people,"
Mr. Blair says. (Dr. Hammer declines to comment.)
   Dr. Hammer finally hired Neil Lyndon, a British journalist
who produced a 544-page account, "Hammer," with plenty of
self-congratulatory contents. ("I was personally thanked by
Lenin." "`Well if anybody can do it,' Prince Charles replied,
`Dr. Hammer can.'") Yet the book sidestepped unflattering
episodes in Dr. Hammer's life, such as his guilty plea to
misdemeanors of concealing contributions to Richard Nixon's
campaign (he was later pardoned). The book was a best-seller.
   "A lot of sanitizing went on," Mr. Lyndon says, "which I
very much regret" -- most of it, he adds, at the behest of
Dr. Hammer's friends.
   To prevent Mr. Lyndon himself from saying anything
unsanitary, Dr. Hammer stipulated in their contract that the
writer not speak about him for 10 years without his
permission. "I've never violated it before," Mr. Lyndon says.
   But the more he thought about it, the more he came to view
the gag order as "probably a breach of the constitutional
First Amendment right of speech." Mr. Lyndon also sees Dr.
Hammer's silencing provision as itself "a very telling
indication of his general attitude, which is to be very
fearful of being seen in the world in ways that he doesn't
have control over."
   When bio subjects are honest, they often regret it -- and
by contract, they can usually eat their words. Doug Tompkins,
co-founder of apparel maker Esprit de Corp, quashed his
ghostwriter's first chapter after he found prominently
featured there his endorsement of sexual relationships in the
office. (Mr. Tompkins didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.)
   Esquire writer Elizabeth Kaye tripped over the honesty
problem, too, when attempting to write Peter, Paul &amp; Mary's
memoir, an experience she calls "writer's purgatory."
   When the music trio first hired her in 1986, they wanted a
book about them "as great participants in the great movements
of the '60s," Ms. Kaye says. (The group members, through
their manager, declined to comment.) When she discovered that
their activism added up to one march -- and the group
symbolizing harmony had bitterly splintered by 1970 -- she
suggested they switch from a political to a more personal
memoir. And the three musicians seemed happy to tell all.
   "They used me as a therapist," Ms. Kaye says. "Peter
{Yarrow} told me later that I was so successful as his shrink
that he switched from a male to a female therapist." But when
Mr. Yarrow read his confessions in the finished manuscript --
especially the part about his guilty plea to "indecent
liberties" with a 14-year-old girl -- he "had an absolute
heart attack," Ms. Kaye recalls. He got the other two to take
his side.
   Mary Travers, who had originally sent Ms. Kaye a note that
read "The book is strong and truthful and so are you," was
soon calling the book "too strong and too truthful," Ms. Kaye
says.
   Finally, the writer and group parted ways. "The saddest
part of my story," she says, "is that I learned what I knew
all along" -- a writer has no business "being a megaphone."
   Some ghostwriters say they get little emotional recompense
-- and much grief from their subjects.
   Mr. Trump dressed down his second ghostwriter, Mr.
Leerhsen says, after reading the first chapter. He dialed the
writer's house late on a Sunday night. "You've put words in
my mouth]" Mr. Leerhsen recalls him saying. The magnate was
apparently put out with a quip the writer had added. Mr.
Trump began "freezing me out," Mr. Leerhsen says.
   Mr. Leerhsen wrote the next chapter exactly as instructed.
"I got around to his way," he says. "And ever since then,
it's been great." He was rewarded with invitations to
star-studded parties on the yacht and a business trip to
Brazil, where his hotel suite was stocked with matchbooks
embossed with his name in silver.
   New York Times boxing columnist Phil Berger, the first of
Henny Youngman's two ghostwriters, says that the comic
demanded someone "to stroke him constantly. He wanted someone
who would have lunch with him 83 times a week."
   Henny Youngman complains of Mr. Berger: "He didn't dig me.
He didn't follow me around enough. I gotta get a guy who
laughs at my jokes."
   Well into the writing process, takeover artist T. Boone
Pickens fired free-lancer Joseph Nocera, the second of his
three ghostwriters. "Boone wanted Joe to dedicate every
waking moment to the project," says Warren Vieth, then Mr.
Pickens's communication manager. (Mr. Pickens declines to
comment.)
   Sonny Bono says he fired his first ghostwriter because the
author didn't capture "my humor." Zsa Zsa Gabor insisted that
her life story be told "from the point of view of her dogs,"
recalls Jim Bacon, one of Ms. Gabor's many ex-ghostwriters.
Mr. Bacon told her, "In that case, I bow-wow out."
   (Ms. Gabor says she's glad he quit: "Jim Bacon only wanted
me to talk about how I slept with JFK." Which she says she
didn't.)
   Other subjects are ghost-like themselves -- never
available, or when they are, monosyllabic. Chuck Yeager had
so little to say that his second ghostwriter, Mr. Leerhsen,
had to pad the pages with the retired test pilot's lists of
what to bring on hiking trips: "Plastic Garbage Bags: Many
valuable uses" and "Foot Care: Change socks each day."
   ("I look at things pretty factual," explains Mr. Yeager,
adding: "You'd be surprised how many people wrote in about
those checklists.")
   Comedian Jackie Mason volunteered little time and withheld
much information, including his age, ghostwriter Ken Gross
says: "You had to break him like a spy. I would say `Tell me
about your father' and he would say, `I dunno. Just make it
up.'"
   Mr. Mason's version: "That's a blatant, preposterous
idiotic lie. . . . So I didn't want to tell him my age. What
am I, married to him?"
   Mr. Iacocca granted his ghostwriter only brief
jacket-and-tie meetings in the office, kept his personal
papers to himself and never invited Mr. Novak to his home.
"It was a less intimate experience than I anticipated," Mr.
Novak says.
   When free-lance journalist Tony Schwartz took on Mr.
Trump's first autobiography, he says, "I thought we could sit
down a couple hours a couple times each week and in several
months I'd get what I needed. Except I couldn't get him to
sit down -- ever."
   Every time he tried, the restless Mr. Trump would bark
"Hurry]" or "Let's get it over with]" First, interviews were
forbidden during office hours; then, weekend sessions were
called off. After a while, they were only meeting in transit.
"Most of the interviews were in limos on the way to the
airport," says Mr. Schwartz.
   Says Mr. Trump: "I think he would have liked more time,
but it was what I wanted it to be."
   Mr. Trump took no active role until the manuscript was
completed, Mr. Schwartz says. Then, he made minor changes,
inserting a few paragraphs. Mr. Trump, who says he has
"always had an ability to write," was quoted in the
Manchester Guardian saying, "And I want you to know that I
wrote this book myself." He now says, "I wrote a lot of it. .
. . I dictated it exactly as I wanted."
   Once the books are completed, ghosts often find subjects
are tight-fisted with praise, and profits.
   Mr. Novak received little gratitude from Mr. Iacocca, only
a signed copy of the book with the inscription: "Many thanks
for putting up with me for two years. Without you, it
wouldn't have been much of a book." (Mr. Iacocca declines to
comment.)
   Publishing sources say Mr. Iacocca earned millions of
dollars in royalties, which he donated to a diabetes
foundation. Mr. Novak got no royalty cut, although he did
receive two bonuses from the publisher, amounting to $40,000.
   Mr. Novak has made out well with subsequent lucrative
assignments, including the autobiographies of Nancy Reagan,
Tip O'Neill and "Mayflower Madam" Sydney Biddle Barrows.
   When "Art of the Deal" was done, Mr. Trump threw a
$160,000 promotion party at Trump Tower. He demanded that Mr.
Schwartz pay half, reasoning that the writer should foot part
of the bill, as he was getting part of the royalties. "I
think that's reasonable, don't you?" Mr. Trump says now.
   Mr. Schwartz didn't think so. Eventually Mr. Trump
relented, on the condition that his writer donate a
"substantial percentage" of his book earnings to charity.
   To a reporter, becoming a ghostwriter is a risky ethical
venture that can create at least the appearance of a conflict
of interest. Reporters can find themselves celebrating the
same people they are covering in the press. And a positive
profile can lead to a pleasing book advance.
   In the Aug. 31, 1987, issue of Fortune, staff writer Peter
Petrie helped Thomas Watson Jr. of IBM write a flattering "in
his own words" essay that ran under the headline "The
Greatest Capitalist in History." Immediately after the story
ran, Mr. Petrie got the contract to ghostwrite Mr. Watson's
autobiography, which became a best-seller. "It was only at
the very end of that process that he and I sat down seriously
to talk about writing the book, and I didn't feel at any time
that there was a conflict," says Mr. Petrie.
   About a dozen business reporters from publications
including The Washington Post, Business Week and The Wall
Street Journal got into a three-month competition this summer
for a ghostwriting job for Microsoft founder Bill Gates.
Nearly all the journalists in the running report on the
computer industry; some also report routinely on Microsoft.
Several, in fact, wrote glowing features on Mr. Gates and his
company at the same time they were seeking the job, or
planning to do so.
   Microsoft complicated matters by soliciting writers the
very month of the company's biggest-ever product launch. Mr.
Gates says the timing was coincidental, and the reporters
involved say they avoided any conflict.
   Even when a tycoon subject is a nice guy, the ghostwriter
can wind up a loser.
   When Wall Street Journal reporter Eric Morgenthaler met
his subject, discount-store billionaire Sam Walton, the
legendary founder of Wal-Mart Stores pointed to a framed
motto in his office. "It was something about how the least
important word in business is `I,'" Mr. Morgenthaler recalls.
"I thought, `Oh, he doesn't believe that.'"
   Unfortunately, he did.
   "From the very beginning, he told me he didn't want to do
this book," Mr. Morgenthaler says. "Everybody wanted the book
but Sam."
   Mr. Walton feared he would sound boastful. He "hated the
first person," Mr. Morgenthaler recalls.
   Finally, seven months and three boxes of transcripts
later, Mr. Walton called off the project. A cancer diagnosis
a month earlier ultimately served as the catalyst.
Apologetic, Mr. Walton summoned the ghostwriter to break the
bad news. "Well, my friend," Mr. Morgenthaler recalls him
saying gently, "we've had a good time, haven't we?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allied-Signal Inc.:
   Garrett Fluid Unit Awarded
   Canadair Systems Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allied-Signal Inc. said Garrett Fluid Systems, a unit of
its Allied-Signal Aerospace Co. subsidiary, has been awarded
contracts with a potential value of about $60 million to
provide systems for a new 50-passenger Canadair jet.
   A spokesman for Allied-Signal Aerospace said the projected
contract value reflects the company's expectation that
Canadair will build several hundred of this new type of
aircraft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Garrett Fluid Systems will develop and produce the main
engine-starter system, among other components, for the new
twinengine jetliner, which is scheduled to enter service in
1992.
   Allied-Signal, which is based in Morris Township, N.J.,
has businesses in aerospace, automotive products and
engineered materials. Garrett Fluid Systems, Tempe, Ariz., is
a major supplier of aircraft starters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE WHITE HOUSE ASKED Congress to forgive Egypt's $7
billion military debt.
   The Bush administration, which is seeking to reward Egypt
for its support in the Mideast, also signaled it anticipates
having a long-term presence in the Persian Gulf even after
the current crisis ends. In the Gulf of Oman, the U.S. Navy
took its most direct action yet to enforce a U.N. embargo on
trade with Iraq as American sailors boarded an Iraqi-flagged
freighter. Twenty-five Americans were among nearly 300
Western women and children who arrived in Jordan's capital on
three Iraqi Airways planes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a further sign of their tough stance in the Mideast
crisis, both France and Britain have cut all deliveries of
military equipment to Jordan.
   ---
   Gorbachev accused Soviet farmers of holding back grain --
and ordered urgent action to make them deliver their
contracted supplies -- as Moscow ran short of bread. The
shortage has developed despite an expected record grain
harvest of as much as 260 million tons.
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet president attended the opening of the Russian
Republic's Communist Party congress, where he was criticized
for his handling of ethnic clashes and food shortages. A
leader of the party's traditionalist wing said Gorbachev's
economic program is "on the brink of collapse."
   ---
   South African soldiers fired on thousands of angry blacks
in Sebokeng, and police officials said the bodies of 11
people were found after the crowd dispersed. The shooting
marked the first time soldiers have been involved in a clash
resulting in deaths since the army troops were deployed last
month in the black townships.
   ---
   North Korea's prime minister crossed the border into South
Korea to hold talks, marking the first exchange between the
countries in five years and the highest-level contact the two
governments have ever had. Formal meetings today and tomorrow
are to focus on proposals for easing military and political
tensions.
   ---
   Researchers linked osteoarthritis to a genetic defect, a
discovery that could lead to new treatments for the painful
condition that disables millions of elderly people. The
findings suggest that therapies may be able to stop or slow
the progression of osteoarthritis, a disintegration of the
cartilage between bones.
   ---
   An American Bar Association panel rated David Souter, the
Supreme Court nominee, "well qualified," the organization's
highest endorsement. Souter, a former New Hampshire Supreme
Court judge, was nominated by Bush in July to fill the
vacancy created by Justice Brennan's retirement.
   ---
   Former Sen. Chiles of Florida swept to an easy victory in
the state's Democratic primary for governor. Chiles, who had
dropped out of politics, launched a comeback by attacking
big-money campaigns.
   ---
   A former state legislator pleaded guilty in federal court
in Columbia, S.C., to a federal corruption charge. Former
state Rep. Robert Brown, who resigned his seat one day before
a grand jury indicted him Aug. 24, is regarded as the most
influential of five South Carolina lawmakers who were charged
with taking bribes.
   ---
   Cambodian factions quarreled over which of their leaders
would be the first to fly to scheduled peace talks in
Jakarta, jeopardizing efforts to end the country's
decade-long civil war. The purpose of the meeting is to
discuss peace proposals that were outlined last week by the
five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council.
   ---
   A five-nation military force moved to gain control over
more of the Liberian capital of Monrovia, as Nigeria
reportedly prepared to send additional arms, equipment and
medical supplies to the 3,000 peacekeeping troops, who are
under orders to end Liberia's eight-month-old civil war.
   ---
   Jury selection began in the Baltimore trial of Thomas
Clines, a retired CIA agent accused of trying to hide his
Iran-Contra arms profits from U.S. tax collectors. The trial
is expected to focus on profits made in the secret network
that supplied arms to Iran and the Contra rebels in Nicaragua
during the Reagan administration.
   ---
   Teachers went on strike in school districts in Michigan,
Washington, Rhode Island and Pennsylvania, and New Orleans
teachers threatened to strike Monday. Professors walked out
at Wayne State University in Detroit and Temple University in
Philadelphia, and a strike at the University of Bridgeport
entered its fourth day.
   ---
   Romania's President Iliescu accused the U.S. and other
Western countries of waging an economic war against the East
European nation by pressuring banks to withhold loans. The
U.S. and the European Community froze most aid to Romania in
June after a two-day rampage by miners who were used by the
government to curb protests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.:
   Sumitomo Life to Refinance
   Company's London Offices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM J.SLI
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. said it arranged for a $416 million
refinancing of its London office complex through Sumitomo
Life Insurance Co. of Japan.
   The New York-based bank holding company said it had
entered into an agreement with Sumitomo Life that would give
the Japanese insurance company a 52.5% stake on a structured
basis of Morgan Place, the office complex it is building at
60 Victoria Embankment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of the agreement, J.P. Morgan would receive a
25-year lease with renewal options for 50 years. The company
said no immediate gain would be realized from the transaction
and that the benefits would be realized over the 25-year life
of the lease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Fujitsu Unveils Mainframe Computers
   That May Out-Muscle IBM's New Line
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   J.FUT AMH IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Fujitsu Ltd., facing competitive challenges in
its home market from International Business Machines Corp.
and Hitachi Ltd., announced a new generation of mainframe
computers that could pack greater power than the long-awaited
line that IBM is expected to unveil today.
   Officials at Japan's giant computer maker claimed the
series includes "the highest performance general purpose
computer in the world" and triples the muscle of its current
high-end model. IBM is expected to announce a doubling of
performance with its new line. According to Fujitsu, its top
machine currently matches IBM's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fujitsu also said its new model is 10% more powerful than
the comparable version of Hitachi's new line announced in
June.
   Fujitsu is hoping the new machine, along with an
apparently aggressive price schedule, will shore up its
crumbling domestic base, where it gets the vast majority of
its sales. Both Hitachi and IBM have been making sharp
inroads in Japan in the past few years, and some analysts
think IBM may have passed Fujitsu in the high end of the
Japanese market.
   It is impossible yet to make independent comparisons
between the new mainframes, as the company refused to
disclose details. Also, Fujitsu's speediest machines won't be
available for more than a year; so while IBM may not disclose
a comparable model today, it could have one available at the
same time Fujitsu does.
   If nothing else, the announcement, coming on the eve of
IBM's, marks an effort by Fujitsu to steal the spotlight from
a rival. "It's enough to keep them in the game, but there
aren't enough details available to evaluate" the effect on
sales, said Michael Jeremy, an analyst with Baring Securities
(Japan) Ltd.
   The computer companies' announcements come at a fluid
period in the mainframe market, as IBM is struggling to stem
the steady erosion in its world-wide market share. Today's
announcement will unveil Big Blue's first new mainframe
generation in five years, and will be its most closely
scrutinized machine in a decade.
   Fujitsu scored a major coup in July in its long-running
bid to catch IBM when it announced the purchase of 80% of
International Computers Ltd., Britain's largest mainframe
maker. That move made Fujitsu the second-largest computer
company in the world. Fujitsu officials refused to comment on
whether they will sell their new machines, called M-1800,
through ICL.
   Fujitsu sells few machines directly in the U.S., but it
owns 43.64% of Amdahl Corp., which uses Fujitsu's basic
technology. Amdahl currently holds 10% of the world-wide
IBM-compatible mainframe market, and Gartner Group Inc., a
market research and consulting firm, predicts that the
company's share will rise to 13% by next year, in part
because of new Fujitsu technology.
   Fujitsu said it expects to sell 300 of the new systems
world-wide over the next three years. It will begin delivery
of the two simplest models next April, and follow with the
three faster machines in the third quarter of 1991. An Amdahl
spokesman said the U.S. company won't sell a version of the
new Fujitsu machine, although Amdahl plans to announce a new
mainframe of its own shortly.
   In addition to claiming leadership in overall power,
Fujitsu is the first maker to announce a model that will lash
together as many as eight processors. The company said that
users will be able to link a total of 16 processors in its
architecture. Analysts say IBM and Hitachi may also have that
capability, although neither has said so, and IBM isn't
expected to make such an announcement today.
   Even parity, however, could provide another edge for
Fujitsu. IBM has in recent years had processors that were
individually slower than the Japanese, but made up the
difference by cramming more processors in each machine.
Currently, Fujitsu says its four-processor model has roughly
the same performance of IBM's six-processor version.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Research Links
   Osteoarthritis
   To Gene Defect
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Medical researchers have linked
osteoarthritis to a genetic defect, a discovery that could
lead to new treatments for a condition that disables millions
of old people.
   Osteoarthritis, a disintegration of the cartilage between
bones, produces pain, stiffness and lack of mobility. The
disease has long been considered an inevitable consequence of
aging. But the new findings, announced at the National
Institutes of Health, suggest that therapies may be able to
stop or slow its progression.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest findings emerged from research supported by the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin
Diseases, part of the NIH, and the private Arthritis
Foundation. A team of researchers led by Roland Moskowitz,
rheumatologist at Case Western Reserve University in
Cleveland, examined a three-generation family in which
osteoarthritis seemed to be an inherited trait.
   Dr. Moskowitz and his team then collaborated with
researchers led by Darwin Prockop, a molecular biologist at
Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, to find the
specific genetic mutation that produced weak cartilage.
   The researchers were quick to note that the findings don't
mean that all osteoarthritis results from genetic flaws or
that it will be easy to find new therapies for a disease for
which there is currently no cure. The conclusions, announced
yesterday and published in Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, were based primarily on research
involving people in one family, while osteoarthritis afflicts
nearly 16 million Americans.
   "We're not making any claims or promises based on this
research" because much more work needs to be done to learn
how broadly osteoarthritis is tied to genetic mutations, said
Lawrence Shulman, director of the National Institute of
Arthritis.
   But independent analysts called the work a potential
breakthrough. Paul Katz, chief of the division of
rheumatology, immunology and allergy at the Georgetown
University Medical School, said the research should lead to a
better understanding of "the biochemistry of cartilage
disintegration" that could help researchers "develop
therapies to prevent its progression."
   The primary treatments for osteoarthritis today include
rest and anti-inflammatory medicines to control pain. In
addition, many of the 150,000 hip, knee and other joint
replacements performed each year are tied to osteoarthritis.
Any new therapy that slows the progress of osteoarthritis
would greatly improve the quality of life of many older
people and reduce Medicare costs for treating the disease.
   In the family they studied, the researchers found a
defective gene for collagen II, a protein the strengthens the
cartilage. Of the more than 1,000 amino acids that construct
collagen II, the faulty gene mistakenly directed the exchange
of an amino acid called cysteine for arginine, the correct
substance. "This one amino acid substitution in collagen II
could wreak havoc on the integrity of the cartilage," Dr.
Prockop said.
   The isolation of a mutant gene that triggered
osteoarthritis in one family "gives us a plan for future
research," Dr. Prockop said. The researchers are planning
studies to determine how common the genetic mutation is.
   In cases where a mutation is identified as the cause of
osteoarthritis, doctors will have several options they
currently lack. First, they can screen members of families
where the mutation is found. People with the faulty gene then
can be advised to look for jobs and exercise patterns that
minimize stress on their joints. In addition, scientists can
begin to look for drugs and gene therapies that help counter
the adverse effects of mutations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France, U.K.
   Stop Shipping
   Arms to Jordan
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP F.DAV
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   PARIS -- In a further sign of their tough stands on the
Mideast crisis, both France and Britain have cut off all
military equipment deliveries to Jordan.
   The French decision, involving a multibillion-franc order
for Mirage fighter jets, has until now been kept secret. The
British decision, focusing initially on a smaller delivery of
artillery shells, had been made public but was
little-noticed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   French officials declined to say whether they had
coordinated their decision with allies. But one French source
called France's military embargo a "protective measure,"
aimed at ensuring that none of the equipment is passed to
Iraq, which has been receiving supplies overland from Jordan.
   The French sources said only Iraq and Jordan are currently
subject to France's military embargo, as the French consider
Jordan their only current military client likely to pass
equipment on to Iraq. The Jordanian embargo affects only
military goods, unlike that of Iraq, which involves all
trade.
   "Either you are serious about this crisis or you aren't"
said one French official privately, explaining the embargo on
Jordan and the tough approach to Iraq. He also said French
troops would be prepared to fight alongside the U.S. in the
event of a Middle East war.
   U.S. officials said the U.S. hasn't embargoed arms
shipments to Jordan, essentially because it has almost no
offensive military shipments planned. The U.S. currently is
shipping just spare parts and minor items such as jeeps, and
didn't see the value of an embargo, these officials said. The
U.S. has supplied little military aid to Jordan in recent
years because of congressional cutbacks, and without aid
there are few U.S. arms sales to Jordan.
   Indeed, both the Europeans and the Americans appear to be
using a carrot-and-stick approach with Jordan's King Hussein.
King Hussein, long a U.S. ally, is caught between that
commitment and the pro-Iraqi sentiment of many Jordanians and
Palestinians living in Jordan.
   The U.S. has gone out of its way in public to call Jordan
a friend. Asked yesterday whether he thought Jordan was
breaking United Nations sanctions against Iraq, Presidential
Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said King Hussein pledged
during a meeting with President Bush last month to abide by
the sanctions. "Overall we think they are working fine," Mr.
Fitzwater said.
   The French are following the same policy. After a meeting
Monday between King Hussein and French President Francois
Mitterrand, France pledged $750,000 in emergency aid to help
Jordan deal with a flood of refugees from Kuwait. But
secretly, France had made it clear to the king before he
arrived that he wouldn't get any weapons until he moved into
the anti-Iraq camp.
   Official sources here say the king avoided raising the
military deliveries issue with Mr. Mitterrand, apparently
because he knew it was pointless. In his talks with French
officials, he focused on the broad question of how to end the
crisis.
   The main French contract affected is a sale of Mirage 2000
jets by Dassault Aviation S.A., whose business in both Iraq
and Jordan stands to suffer from France's Mideast policy.
   The sale to Jordan was agreed to in April 1988 and
involves a large number of jet fighters. Dassault and the
government refuse to say how many. One source said more than
a dozen airplanes are on order and few if any have been
delivered. Dassault also had been hoping for a big Mirage
sale to Iraq, which now seems impossible.
   Official sources said other French military sales to
Jordan also are embargoed, but wouldn't say what kind of
equipment is involved.
   In Britain, a spokesman for the Department of Trade and
Industry said the British government last week revoked all
licenses for exports of military equipment to Jordan. He said
Britain's decision isn't "ironclad," and it may authorize
some arms sales to Jordan in the future. So far it hasn't
chosen to do so.
   The British decision was provoked when customs authorities
noted that a merchant ship, the MV Tara, was preparing to
sail from Hull with a cargo of British-made artillery shells
ordered by Jordan. The export license was revoked, the
weapons were unloaded and the ship left without them.
   British authorities wouldn't put a value on the military
exports that are suspended, but said the amount is small.
British exports to Jordan, both military and civilian,
totaled #111 million ($210 million) in 1988.
   France's stiff opposition to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has
surprised some diplomats, because France has for years tried
to build links to Iraq. Along with the Soviet Union, it has
been Iraq's main military supplier. Moscow has also cut off
arms shipments to Baghdad.
   French officials say the government for years has in fact
been split into a pro-Iraq camp and a camp seeking better
relations with Iran. After the invasion, pro-Iraqi officials
such as Defense Minister Jean-Pierre Chevenement have had to
toe the official anti-Iraq line, much as they privately
dislike it. The group favoring closer ties to Iran, led by
Foreign Minister Roland Dumas, has gained favor, officials
here say.
   One French official said France now favors a total
blockade of Iraq, including air and land shipments.
Currently, though all shipments to Iraq except emergency
supplies are embargoed, the military blockade focuses on
ships. The Western powers aren't trying to stop air traffic
into Iraq.
   This official said France even would be prepared to use
its aircraft to prevent air shipments into Iraq, because it
believes the current embargo isn't effective enough.
   ---
   Richard L. Hudson in London and Gerald F. Seib in
Washington contributed this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   `Die Hard 2': Aviation for Airheads
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Before they make another sequel to their airport thriller,
the producers of "Die Hard 2" might, well, try harder to
learn a bit more about how aviation actually works.
   In case you're one of the roughly 15 million who saw the
summer's big hit, rest assured that practically everything
shown in that movie about flying (except for the long ticket
lines and late flights) is wrong. Even in bad weather,
airliners would divert to nearby airports if they were low on
fuel, despite the movie's claim to the contrary. Jet fuel
can't be dumped just by untwisting a gas cap. And Ma Bell
still hasn't completely figured out a way to let people call
up an air traveler from the ground.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Naturally, nobody expects perfection from Hollywood --
especially the people in Hollywood. "This is moviemaking,"
protests a 20th Century Fox spokesman. But unless you're some
avionics wizard, it's easy to walk out of this flick
wondering just where Hollywood did and didn't trip up. And
certainly aviation experts weren't happy with the results.
Officials at Washington Dulles Airport -- the luckless
setting for the movie -- refused to cooperate with the film
makers. Federal Aviation Administration officials won't even
discuss it. "We don't want to give it any credence," a
spokeswoman politely explains.
   The movie, starring Bruce Willis, is about a group of
Gadhafi-type terrorists overtaking the Dulles control tower,
forcing a large group of planes to circle the airport
helplessly as their fuel gauges dip toward "E." It's a
scenario that would send any nervous flier into a tailspin:
What would happen if somehow, some way, the air traffic
control system fell into the wrong hands while people were
still 40,000 feet aloft? Would they all be doomed?
   Maybe, but not the way the makers of "Die Hard 2" seem to
think. In the movie, the jetliners become virtual hostages in
the sky because communications to the Dulles tower are cut
off. But in real life, pilots would have plenty of other
radio frequencies to use; they could contact other airports,
other airplanes and airline officials on the ground. The FAA
even has an emergency band for pilots to tune into in a
crisis.
   As a demonstration of their power, the cinematic
terrorists reset an altitude reading transmitted from the
tower to approaching planes. This makes the pilot of one jet
think he's higher up than he actually is during an instrument
landing over the blackened airfield. He slams into the ground
and the jet explodes in a screen-filling fireball.
   First question: How can a plane, whose pilot frantically
claims he is flying only on gas fumes, still have enough fuel
to set off such a huge explosion? And don't pilots have
instruments that determine the aircraft's altitude
independent of control towers? "Of course, we do," says a
reassuring Robert Costello, chief pilot for America West
Airlines.
   "Die Hard 2's" dazzling finale is filled with such
distortions of airborne reality. Mr. Willis, playing a cop,
has just jumped onto the wing of a 747 carrying the fleeing
terrorists to freedom. While duking it out with two bad guys
on the wing, he reaches over to a gas cap, conveniently
marked "Fuel Dump," and releases a stream of jet fuel into
the air. Then, after being knocked off the wing, he lights up
the stream of fuel and blows up the plane.
   Wow, what an ending] But how would anybody manage to stay
on a wing of a plane zooming along at a takeoff speed of
about 180 mph, much less survive falling off? The fuel dump
valve, which pilots use to unload fuel before emergency
landings, is under the fundamental control of the pilot
inside the cockpit. And travelers will be happy to know that
Boeing engineers realized (long before "Die Hard 2") that
someone might accidentally light up a fuel stream or that
lightning might strike fuel being dumped from a plane. So
they installed a blocking screen that prevents fire from
racing upstream into jet tanks.
   Boeing people also say that to the best of their
knowledge, jet fuel wouldn't race up a stream of fire as
quickly and spectacularly as it does in "Die Hard 2." That's
because airlines use kerosene, which isn't quite so flammable
as gasoline.
   And by the way, despite referring to the name dozens of
times, the film wasn't even shot at Dulles. (The Pacific Bell
pay phone Mr. Willis uses is a dead giveaway.) The 20th
Century Fox spokesman explains there wasn't enough snow at
Dulles when the film makers needed it, and using fake snow
might have damaged the jets and jeopardized air safety. So
"Die Hard 2" crews had to run around to nine locations to
film enough snowy scenes. Quite a snow job, but so is the
spokesman's explanation, which doesn't explain at all why the
interior scenes weren't shot at Dulles.
   Still, for all its flaws, "Die Hard 2" does stumble upon
some real, little-known safety problems. At one point, a
terrorist gets on the tower radio and impersonates a
controller. Phony as the scene looked, a few real-life
pranksters have actually figured out tower frequencies and
posed as controllers. So far, pilots haven't been fooled
because the pranksters didn't use the right lingo. But it
wouldn't take a genius to learn it.
   "Die Hard 2's" terrorists also manage to slip in the
airport's baggage-sorting area by simply walking through a
door. Given all the concern about airport security, one would
hope it wouldn't be that easy. But some airports have
hundreds of doors, and a lot of airport and airline employees
know the codes to get through them. Says Steve Gardella, an
airline security consultant in San Diego: "You don't want to
know how easy it can be to sneak around in some airports."
Much easier some days than catching an on-time flight.
   ---
   Mr. Dahl covers aviation and travel in the Journal's New
York bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Adobe Achieves
   Partial Victory
   In Software War
   ---
   Apple Sets Licensing Pact
   With Postscript Maker
   After Spurning It in '89
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT AAPL ADBE
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adobe Systems Inc. won at least a partial victory in its
running battle with Apple Computer Inc. and Microsoft Inc.
over control of the software that helped launch desktop
publishing.
   Apple and Adobe said yesterday that they had signed a
letter of intent to reach a "new and expanded" technology
licensing agreement. Under terms of the accord, Apple and
Adobe plan to continue to work together to provide new
products based on Adobe's PostScript software and printer
technology developed by Apple. PostScript creates images and
type fonts on computer screens and printers, enabling users
to see exactly what will issue from their printers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the two companies declined to provide details,
the agreement appears to be a reconciliation of sorts. Last
year, Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., announced that it
would sell its 16.4% equity stake in Adobe, based in Mountain
View, Calif. It also said it would compete with Adobe by
developing a clone of PostScript with Microsoft, the biggest
maker of personal computer software. Apple's action was
viewed as a major blow to Adobe, since Apple was Adobe's
largest shareholder and customer, accounting for 28% of
Adobe's revenue during 1988.
   Yesterday's agreement was seen by analysts as a move by
Apple to stay at least neutral in offering desktop publishing
software from both Microsoft and Adobe, letting the market
decide the winner. In March, International Business Machines
Corp. said it would bundle PostScript with all lines of its
computers, but would only offer Microsoft's version with its
PC line.
   After the announcement, Adobe shares jumped $3.125 to
close at $28.125 in national over-the-counter trading.
Adobe's stock is still depressed however, trading far below
its 12-month high of $50.75 a share, reached in May.
   "When your largest customer suddenly says that they need
you after they have been saying they didn't need you, that's
a pretty good vote of confidence," said Steven L. Ossad, an
analyst for Montgomery Securities in San Francisco.
   An Apple spokeswoman said the agreement isn't a change in
plans. "We always said we would work with multivendors," she
said.
   Analysts held varying opinions as to just how positive the
agreement was for Adobe. Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst
David S. Nelson, for one, called the impending agreement a
"monumental" development for Adobe. Mr. Nelson said the pact
not only solidifies Adobe's relationship with its largest
client, but affirms Adobe as the pre-eminent vendor of
computer printing software.
   Analyst Bruce M. Lupatkin of Hambrecht &amp; Quist in San
Francisco said the relationship solidifies nothing. Apple, he
said, is keeping its options open to work with both Adobe and
Microsoft. "My guess is that Apple is hedging its bets," Mr.
Lupatkin said. "Apple is saying it can support Adobe's
technology, but that it is also supporting Microsoft's
technology. Ultimately, the best technology will win."
   "With this announcement, the relationship has gotten
extremely better," said John E. Warnock, Adobe chairman and
chief executive officer, in a teleconference with reporters.
"Apple needs Adobe and Adobe needs Apple."
   Mr. Warnock said that there has been considerable
speculation among investors and in the press that Apple and
Adobe were drifting further apart. "I think the real meat of
this announcement is that we aren't" drifting apart, he said.
"This is a public reaffirmation that we plan to continue that
process" of cooperation.
   "Continuing to work closely with excellent third-party
vendors such as Adobe has many benefits for Macintosh
customers," said Randy Battat, vice president of product
marketing for Apple.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bonn Rejects Banks' Bids for `Unity' Bonds
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   In a move that shocked international bond traders, the
West German government turned down all bids from a group of
banks for 2.5 billion marks ($1.58 billion) of bonds.
   The rejection came after the banks, burned by an
underwriting of similar 8.75%, 10-year bonds on Monday, bid
lower prices for the new offering. Because bond yields move
in the opposite direction of prices, the banks' bids raised
prospective interest rates higher than the West German
Finance Ministry was willing to pay for its debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders and analysts interpreted the banks' demand for
higher yields as a sign that global capital markets are
becoming saturated by the large volume of West German
government debt needed to finance the unification of East and
West Germany.
   "It also reflected a belief that inflationary pressures
associated with the merger of the two countries are building
and that interest rates are expected to climb further," said
Nicholas P. Sargen, a director of bond-market research at
Salomon Brothers Inc. in New York.
   "The capital market is being burdened like never before,"
said Gert Schmidt, an economist for Industriekreditbank AG in
Dusseldorf. "The question is, how much can it take before
interest rates go higher? It looks as if higher interest
rates are to be the price of unity and the price of not
raising taxes."
   On Monday, a consortium of West German banks and foreign
financial institutions that are licensed to do banking
business in West Germany purchased 2.5 billion marks of
10-year, 8.75%, so-called unity bonds at a discount of 99.20
to yield 8.88%.
   This was to be the first part of a two-part offering, the
second portion being yesterday's tender auction to the same
banking syndicate that underwrote Monday's sale. West German
bankers said yesterday's auction also was supposed to be for
2.5 billion marks.
   But after purchasing the initial 2.5 billion-mark segment
on Monday, the banks discovered yesterday that they couldn't
sell the bonds. "This morning {Tuesday}, there was
disappointment in the market, because it expected a 9%
coupon. The moment the market opened today, the price fell to
98.30," an executive at a big West German bank said. "So we
couldn't sell it {at a profit}. Because the {8.75%} coupon
was so low, it didn't even sell at 99.20, the price at which
we had underwritten it."
   He added that the bank syndicate then offered to buy the
second 2.5 billion-mark portion at 98.10. But "they didn't
accept this offer," he said. Only the Bundesbank, the West
German central bank, tendered on the government's terms,
taking 500 million marks on its books.
   West Germany first began using the two-step method of
selling 10-year government bonds -- an underwriting
syndicate, followed by an auction the next day -- last month,
when it sold six billion marks of unity bonds. Traditionally,
it has sold government debt through an underwriting syndicate
in the same manner as U.S. corporations sell debt to
investors. But traders said the new approach reflected an
evolutionary process that would eventually lead to a
competitive tender system similar to that used by the U.S.
Treasury.
   But traders criticized the two-part system as awkward. A
trader at a West German bank in New York groused, "It is
neither fish nor fowl."
   The problem is that investors who buy the bonds on the
first day can find that the securities have fallen in price
at the time of the second offering on the following day.
"That's what happened in this case; it was clear the issue
was under water," the trader said. "If you are an investor
and subscribe on day one, you are at risk, depending on the
bidding for the second half of the deal. It can go for you or
against you."
   Still, a banker in Frankfurt saw a silver lining in
Tuesday's debacle: "Maybe this was best thing. . . . What we
are moving towards is a full auction, which we do not have."
   Some analysts contended that yesterday's rejected bid
raised the odds that the Bonn government would have to raise
taxes to finance the rebuilding of East Germany, which it
estimates could cost 100 billion marks ($63.37 billion)
annually for the next few years.
   Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Finance Minister Theo Waigel,
who hope to lead the first government elected by a united
Germany since the early 1930s after all-German elections
scheduled for Dec. 2, have firmly ruled out boosting taxes.
The Bonn government has argued that unification can be
financed by existing tax levels -- enhanced by West Germany's
strong growth -- and more borrowing.
   Nonetheless, Chancellor Kohl's opponent in the December
election, Social Democrat Oskar Lafontaine, is insisting that
West Germany has no choice but to raise taxes. And some
private analysts agree.
   "I see tax increases after the elections," said Eckhard
Cornehl, an economist with Bank Julius Baer in Frankfurt. At
the very least, analysts argue that Bonn will have to forgo
corporate tax cuts scheduled for next year.
   Meanwhile, the bond market is feeling the brunt of such
pressures. Ten-year West German government bonds closed to
yield 8.97% yesterday; and at one point in intraday trading,
they were yielding more than 9%. "Clearly the market has
established new higher levels," said John Lipsky, an
international economist at Salomon Brothers in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   When North Korea Knocks...
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yesterday was one of those increasingly frequent occasions
when South Koreans deserved to feel proud. North Korea's
Premier Yon Hyong Muk arrived in the southern capital of
Seoul to meet with South Korea's Premier Kang Young Hoon and
President Roh Tae Woo. There was a brief delay to sort out a
multicar fender-bender in the visitor's motorcade. But then a
dialogue began aimed at reunification of the Korean
peninsula, 40 years after the communist North began the
Korean War with a surprise attack on Seoul. It was a war in
which more than five million Americans served.
   For South Korea, these talks are part of the payoff for
standing up to North Korea's threats and building a
democratic capitalist system that has helped lead Asia's
postwar boom. From the destitute rural economy of the 1950s,
the South has built a world-class trading nation with a per
capita income at least four times that of the misanthropic
North. In 1988, Seoul successfully hosted the summer Olympics
while North Korea's Great Leader Kim Il Sung sulked in
isolated Pyongyang.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By now, even North Korea's staunchest comrades -- China
and the Soviet Union -- have acknowledged that Kim Il Sung's
Stalin-inspired utopia is going nowhere. The future lies with
the South. China, despite its revived revolutionary rantings
since Tiananmen, has been courting Seoul's business know-how
and investment capital for several years now. In June,
President Gorbachev met with Roh Tae Woo in San Francisco and
announced that Moscow and Seoul would establish diplomatic
ties.
   There is hope in the West that these talks are part of a
sweep toward peaceful reunification that might roughly follow
the script of Germany this past year. The so-called
demilitarized zone that cuts the two Koreas along the 38th
parallel is for Asia at least as potent a symbol of the Cold
War as was the Berlin Wall for Europe. But experience says
that when North Korea knocks at the gates, it's still smart
to beware.
   The North still talks -- and lives -- in terms of
communist revolution. One of the top items on Pyongyang's
agenda is withdrawal from the South of American troops,
currently 38,000-strong, which have helped shore up South
Korea's defense since the 1953 truce. Rational calculation
says that North Korea's leaders would have to be crazy to
start a war now against the South. It is highly doubtful that
either China or the Soviet Union would help the North, and
without their resupplies Pyongyang would be doomed.
Nonetheless, the cost to South Korea and its allies could be
miserably high. And the North's Kim Il Sung during his 42
years of dictatorship has piled up all the credentials of
megalomania. These range from his personality cult and
efforts to install a communist dynasty, to such overseas
projects as bombing a South Korean official delegation in
Rangoon in 1983, and blowing up a South Korean commercial jet
over the Andaman Sea in 1987, killing all 115 people aboard.
   It is alarmingly plausible that with the communist world
breaking up around him, and his own revolution marching down
a dead end, Kim Il Sung might yet try a suicidal last stand.
Certainly there is nothing in his history to suggest that he
will graciously defer to the democrats of Seoul.
   Reunification strictly on South Korea's terms would
satisfy the South's 42 million people and bring vast relief
to the captive 20 million of the North. But there is no
reason for Seoul to rush into any compromise whatsoever with
Pyongyang. Patience has paid off well for Seoul so far.
   The only gifts worth offering to Pyongyang's Premier Yon
this week might be a Korean translation of Adam Smith, and
perhaps about 20 million copies of the June 30, 1987, speech
in which Roh Tae Woo made his winning proposal for South
Korea's transition to democracy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express
   Names IDS's Golub
   As Vice Chairman
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Co. named Harvey Golub, the
president and chief executive officer of its IDS Financial
Services Inc. unit, as vice chairman of the parent company.
   In addition, Michael P. Monaco, senior vice president and
acting chief financial officer of American Express, the
travel and financial services giant, was named executive vice
president and chief financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 51-year-old Mr. Golub was recruited to IDS from the
consulting firm McKinsey &amp; Co. IDS, a Minneapolis-based
mutual fund, insurance and financial-planning concern, was
purchased by American Express in 1983 for $727 million.
   Mr. Golub also becomes chairman of IDS, a post that has
been vacant, and he will continue as chief executive. The
vice chairman's post at American Express also has been
vacant.
   Jeffrey E. Stiefler, 43, currently IDS's executive vice
president of sales and marketing, was named president of the
unit.
   A spokesman for American Express said yesterday's moves
didn't foreshadow a line of succession to James D. Robinson
III, chairman and chief executive of the parent. Mr.
Robinson, 54, who has been in his position for 13 years, "is
in no hurry to go anywhere," the spokesman said.
   Yesterday's appointments come 16 months after Louis V.
Gerstner resigned as president of American Express to join
RJR Nabisco Inc. Since then, the spokesman said, speculation
about who would succeed Mr. Robinson has increased. The
appointments of Mr. Golub and Mr. Monaco, 42, are part of a
plan "to give the board of directors the maximum number of
choices," the spokesman said.
   "The appointments . . . continue our program to broaden
and develop senior management," Mr. Robinson said in a
statement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviet Farm System Hungers for Reform
   ---
   As Bumper Crops Rot,
   Shoppers and State Despair
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- This summer's Soviet harvest is the biggest ever
-- so large that, even with the usual enormous losses during
handling and processing, it theoretically could meet all the
country's needs. But while millions of tons of grain ripen in
the fields, bread is rationed and hard to find on Moscow's
bakery shelves. And while harvesters gather millions of tons
of vegetables, shoppers find little more than cabbages in the
stores.
   The failure of the Soviet harvesting and distribution
system means Soviet consumers face even more frustration.
Worse yet is the strong possibility that the Soviet Union,
already economically shaky, will have to spend precious hard
currency to import more shiploads of grain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A tour of the food chain from farm to city grocery
discloses that this year, the Soviet Union's perennial
harvest crisis has been exacerbated by the breakdown of the
old system of Communist Party commands. The much-heralded
market economy -- the advent of which could provide real
motivation -- is barely visible. Meanwhile, any individual
initiative is stifled by bureaucratic lethargy and
indifference.
   At the central office of Shoshensky State Farm, 80 miles
north of Moscow, director Anatoli Poltorikhin describes his
dilemma: he must fulfill production quotas directed from
above while, at the same time, his farm must turn a profit
under new economic policies.
   There isn't enough farm machinery, so Mr. Poltorikhin
relies heavily on horses to work the farm's 15,000 acres. As
he passes one huge machine coughing its way across a golden
field, he warns: "Don't stop the driver to talk. We might
never get the combine started again."
   In past years, farm managers at least could rely on
getting labor reinforcements from local factories during
harvest season. But fledgling economic reforms mean that
industries must become more self-reliant and profitable, so
they have little to gain from volunteering their workers.
   The labor shortage is so great this year that farmers in
several regions have threatened not to provide food to nearby
cities if factory workers weren't sent. Elsewhere, local
governments have declared a state of emergency, giving them
the right to force factories to send workers.
   For years, Moscow has tried to improve farm production.
Recent reforms have enabled more farms to sell part of their
produce directly to consumers at market prices rather than
through the state system. Last year, the government raised
its own purchase prices and started to pay partly in hard
currency for above-quota production.
   The incentives have an edge of desperation to them; the
Soviet Union is running out of hard currency to spend on food
imports. Last year it imported 44 million tons of grain, and
expects to buy at least 20 million tons this year because so
much of the bumper harvest is being lost.
   Mr. Poltorikhin manages 2,700 head of cattle, as well as
450 workers and their families. But all the money his farm
earns goes into an account controlled by bureaucrats in
Moscow. The most he can spend on farm needs at one time
without authority is 25 rubles -- about $40 at the official
exchange rate but only $4 at the more realistic tourist rate.
   Money in the controlled account is supposed to pay for
supplies from the state -- but official channels generally
have little to offer. The press reels off the shortages: As
of mid-August, farmers still lacked spare parts valued at
$480 million, 2,800 grain combines, 2,400 threshers, 17,000
trucks and 360,000 tons of gasoline.
   State farms have offered to pay harvest volunteers, and
television and newspapers have advertised the names of a
dozen farms and vegetable-distribution bases near Moscow that
need labor. But at Lenin State Farm near Moscow, no one seems
eager to deal with volunteers. At the workers' brigade
office, a woman sitting at a desk looks up in irritation as a
would-be apple-picker enters. "I don't know exactly when you
should have been here," she says, "but it's too late now, so
go away."
   The situation is much the same at the next stop along the
food chain: the state-run vegetable-distribution bases
through which almost all fresh produce in the Soviet Union
passes between farm and store. Shura Dyomenaya, a volunteer,
paces angrily in front of the tomato and garlic section of
Dzerzhinsky Base in Moscow. She and 20 other volunteer
workers have waited for an hour, hoping to make the
equivalent of $14 for each ton of tomatoes they sort. The
volunteers have been told they are welcome to work but will
have to come back another time to get paid.
   "It's a society of idiots," Mrs. Dyomenaya says loudly.
"Look, there's lots of work to be done, and it sits there
while they tell us not to work." Some volunteers decide to
take their chances on getting paid eventually and are
assigned to peel garlic. As for the knives that would make
the work easier -- well, there are none.
   Nearby, a train car of watermelons is being unloaded by
the only people who still follow orders: draftees. The army
has sent 46,000 trucks, mobilized air force transport planes
and sent countless soldiers to the fields, according to press
reports.
   Employees at Dzerzhinsky blame the problems on the farms.
"Look at the lousy fruit they sent us," says the director of
cold storage, slapping one pulpy apple down on the browning
one beneath. "They throw in the bad with the good so it all
counts toward their quota."
   But the vegetable bases themselves are widely blamed for
letting produce rot. Truckers allege that some bases won't
let them deliver their loads until the vegetables start to
spoil, so they can buy them at a discount and sell them at
full price.
   The government periodically cracks down. In the early
1980s, the director of Dzerzhinsky Base was executed for
taking bribes. But some base workers and shop managers look
back on those days with nostalgia. "It was run as a
business," recalls Ella Ovakimyan, a base manager. The
executed base director "paid people to make sure he got the
best stuff," she says, "and then he paid his workers extra.
At least it worked."
   Now, truck driver Vyacheslav Grechishnikov is delayed for
an hour at Dzerzhinsky, his load of watermelons sitting in
the sun. "First, the base doesn't have people to unload the
watermelons from the train," he grumbles. "If they have the
people, they don't have the trucks to deliver the fruit. And
if somehow they get the trucks, and we take the stuff to the
store, the shop says they don't need it."
   Thirty minutes later, he pulls up at Store No. 25. The
shop is a large room of empty shelves and cooling units long
since unplugged. A few sacks of green oranges and some
cabbages lie on one shelf, a bin of rotting potatoes near the
checkout.
   Down the back hall in a small office, the driver's
prediction proves true. Lyudmeva Shevlugina, the store
director, turns him and his melons away.
   "We didn't order them, and we don't need them," she says,
crossing her arms. After months of late deliveries from the
base, she got her own truck. In retaliation, the base often
refuses to deliver to her, telling her to use her own truck.
So, she says, her truck picks up melons from a different
source.
   Mrs. Shevlugina starts to cry as she describes the latest
catastrophe. A week earlier, Dzerzhinsky Base sent her three
tons of potatoes in paper sacks. She tears open the paper and
points at the oozing mold.
   "I told them the potatoes are no good, but they say it
isn't their problem," she laments. "And now, I'm supposed to
sell three tons of potatoes, but they're all rotten. How is a
person supposed to work when it's like this?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Oil Surges
   After U.N.
   Talks Falter
   ---
   Bonds Fall, Stocks
   End Mixed in Year's
   Most Sleepy Session
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With oil prices surging and foreign stock
markets slumping, U.S. bonds fell and stocks were mixed.
   The October futures contract for crude oil jumped $1.80 a
barrel to close at $29.12. Oil prices already were rising
before U.S. financial markets opened, largely due to a lack
of progress in the United Nations effort to mediate a way out
of the Mideast quagmire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished just 0.99 point
lower to close at 2613.37, though it had been down 30 points
in early trading. Broader market indexes closed slightly
higher: Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, for example, rose
0.53 to 323.09, and the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
composite indexes also eked out small gains.
   But activity was light, as it was in all the financial
markets. Big Board volume was even slower than Friday's,
which briefly held the distinction of the year's dullest
session. Yesterday's turnover of 92.9 million shares was the
snooziest since the day after last Christmas.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bonds fell nearly 3/8 point, or
almost $3.75 for each $1,000 of face amount; earlier, they
were down half a point. The dollar ended mixed, with traders
finding little in the news to guide them.
   John Candela, managing director of fixed-income investing
at Ladenburg Thalmann, said the bond market's thin trading
made it difficult to read much into the decline. Further
muddying the picture is the large number of potentially
market-moving events that are drawing near: Friday's release
of U.S. employment data; Congress returning to deal with the
ballooning budget deficit; the planned superpower summit in
Finland Sunday; and uncertainties about the direction of the
Mideast crisis.
   The lack of resolutions to any of these issues "keeps
things on edge," Mr. Candela said. "People will remain frozen
until we get some direction."
   Referring to the stock market, Peter Canelo, chief
strategist at Bear Stearns, said, "The fact that we had this
kind of light volume with many people back from vacation was
probably the most significant development" in the market
yesterday. "It reveals a real paralysis." And if the Mideast
stalemate drags on for months and oil-price moves remain
unpredictable, investors may well remain paralyzed, he said:
"When investors know they don't know, investors tend not to
act."
   The currency markets also were quiet, with prices
fluctuating narrowly. Robert White, manager of corporate
foreign-exchange trading at First Interstate Bank in Los
Angeles, said traders were surprised a bit by the dollar's
rise early in the day despite then-slumping stock and bond
prices. He speculated that investors are nervous about
indications that the Soviet Union may be having a tougher
time economically than had previously been thought.
   "If people will riot over cigarettes, they'll surely be
upset about bread shortages," he said, referring to news
reports of such shortages now emerging. "That, coupled with
the problems in Iraq, problems in German reunification, labor
unrest and wage negotiations for immigrant workers in
Switzerland -- just a lot of European stories around that
aren't very encouraging -- supports a lessening of bearish
sentiment about the dollar."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in very slow trading. On the Big
Board, decliners led advancers, 814 to 673.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond rose to 9.01%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency rose to 1.5815 marks from 1.5755 Friday and fell to
143.50 yen from 143.79.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900905-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900905-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Japanese Banks
   Retreat From
   U.S. Buy-Outs
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.FUJ J.SWB J.DKB MBK J.STB J.IBJ RJR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Another longtime prop for the U.S. stock
market is crumbling, as Japan's big banks pull back from
financing buy-outs of American companies.
   Japanese bankers say they have lost their 1980s appetite
for bankrolling 35% to 50% of the loans for many major
leveraged buy-outs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Now we are extremely cautious," says Toru Kusukawa,
Tokyo-based deputy president of Fuji Bank Ltd.
   His view is shared by many Japanese bankers. It helps
explain why buy-out financing nowadays is extremely hard to
get -- and why shares of U.S. companies that might be buy-out
targets are languishing. In a buy-out, a company's publicly
held stock is bought up by a small, debt-financed group,
often including management.
   The Japanese retreat was sparked when Japan's banks got
embroiled in their first major U.S. bankruptcy-law case, last
winter's filings by two Campeau Corp. subsidiaries, Allied
Stores and Federated Department Stores. Many Japanese banks
are becoming more selective in pursuing the fat fees and
prestige associated with funding leveraged buy-outs.
   Oddly enough, the plunging Japanese stock market also is
at the root of the banks' new-found reluctance. The stock
swoon in Tokyo is eroding the capital base of the banks, by
cutting the value of their stockholdings in other Japanese
companies. And this is happening just as the banks are
striving to meet tightened international standards for bank
capital.
   Banks in the major industrial countries doing cross-border
business must have capital equal to at least 8% of their
assets by 1993. Under the new rules, some of which take
effect next year, Japan's banks can count as part of their
capital 45% of the paper gains on their Japanese
stockholdings. But with Japanese stock prices down more than
35% this year and the banks' stock portfolios shriveling in
value, several banks are believed to be close to, if not
below, the 8% ratio.
   This is worrisome to the Japanese banks, several of which
got stung in the financial hornet's nest of Federated
Department Stores.
   Fuji Bank, for instance, initially intended to steer clear
of the Federated buy-out, then learned that rival Sumitomo
Bank Ltd. was participating. "We said, `They are in it, so
why not?,'" Mr. Kusukawa of Fuji Bank says. "That was the
biggest mistake we made."
   He adds: "We never expected this drastic change in the
`junk' bond market. Two years ago, everybody was so
enthusiastic." Prices have slumped in the past year for
high-yield junk, and recession fears are preying on this $200
billion public market.
   Sanwa Bank, also caught with a big chunk of Federated
loans on its books, is weighing "a number of ideas where we
would like to improve our {loan} approval system," Junichi
Goto, a Tokyo-based senior managing director at the bank,
says. "We feel LBOs have had their day in the sun."
   Moreover, Japan's banks have invested about $1 billion in
leveraged buy-out funds, many of them assembled by U.S.
investment banks. The Japanese banks are upset that a lot of
this money hasn't even been invested and that returns on some
deals have been below expectations. As a U.S. banker
concedes: "They made capital commitments to these funds for
five to seven years, and they are being charged a hefty
annual service charge -- about 1%. And the funds aren't doing
anything."
   U.S. takeover activity in general is slow because of tight
credit conditions, a shaky junk bond market and a weak
economy. Japanese bankers also emphasize factors specific to
their own institutions that make them particularly cautious.
   Japanese bankers say that regulators in both Japan and the
U.S., as well as American credit-rating companies, are
concerned about lending related to buy-outs. Three weeks ago,
Moody's Investors Service cited Fuji Bank's "relatively high
exposure to highly leveraged transactions," among other
reasons, in downgrading the bank's long-term debt to
double-A-1 from triple-A. Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., the
world's biggest bank, was similarly downgraded at the same
time. Though buy-out lending wasn't cited as a reason in
Dai-Ichi's case, Japanese bankers say the message is clear.
   "You have to restrain yourself from going up to a higher
percentage {of such loans} relative to your capital base,"
says the head of U.S. operations for another big Japanese
bank.
   Indeed, IBCA Ltd., a London-based credit rating concern,
yesterday placed under review for possible downgrades its
ratings on debt of several big Japanese banks: Dai-Ichi
Kangyo, Fuji, Sanwa, Mitsubishi Bank Ltd., Sumitomo Bank and
Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. IBCA cited the fall in the
Tokyo stock market and "capital pressures" on the banks.
   In July, 12 Japanese banks did supply $920 million of a
$2.25 billion loan that was part of a refinancing of RJR
Nabisco Inc. But fees on that transaction were unusually
tempting. In addition, Japanese bankers have long believed
that if the tobacco and food company ever went under, a sale
of its parts could easily cover their loans.
   Still, the RJR deal is adding to their doubts about
leveraged buy-outs. Several Japanese banks said they placed
all of their new RJR loans in a $1.4 billion pool, seeking to
sell the debt to smaller U.S. banks and other foreign
financial institutions. The pool expired Aug. 24, leaving
much of the RJR debt unsold -- mostly because the lead banks
were reluctant to share their fat fees with prospective
buyers.
   Beginning this week, each of the banks that originated the
$2.25 billion credit can try to sell its own loans
individually. A U.S. banker involved in the RJR loans says he
isn't overly worried; he argues that the debt will be sold
eventually.
   The Japanese aren't so sanguine. They fear they will be
stuck with too much of the RJR debt. Some institutions to
which they sold U.S. buy-out loans in the past -- notably
Japanese regional banks -- aren't eager to buy now.
   A senior Japanese executive at a bank that joined in the
initial RJR syndicate says: "The real intention in this deal
was to earn the fees, not interest income. Then you don't
have to keep the loans on your balance sheet."
   Evidence of the waning appetite for highly leveraged
deals, Japanese bankers say, is the buy-out of Saks Fifth
Avenue by Investcorp. Only three or four Japanese banks
contributed $100 million to $150 million combined, out of a
total $775 million in bank financing for the acquisition.
(Some U.S. bankers contend that with buy-out transactions
shrinking in size, support from any particular group of banks
isn't as important as in the past.)
   Moreover, retreating from buy-out deals is tough for the
Japanese banks. At a time when their cost of funds is
skyrocketing and profit margins from corporate lending are
razor thin, buy-out deals offer hefty fee income. For this
reason, some U.S. bankers believe the Japanese will be back.
   "They might be saying they aren't interested in LBO
financing because rating agencies have criticized them, and
the {Japanese} Finance Ministry is on their case. It's the
politically correct thing to do," an American banker says.
"But if a good deal came their way, I don't think they'd
hesitate."
   Noting that "there is still a need for restructuring in
the U.S.," Hideo Ishihara, deputy president of Industrial
Bank of Japan in Tokyo, says: "We expect takeovers to
continue in the small and medium{sized} company area. We look
to remain relatively conservative, but will make loans if the
credit meets our criteria."
   Nonetheless, Mr. Ishihara warns: "In order to induce banks
to lend, you need to structure deals more conservatively. The
days of the megadeals like RJR Nabisco and so on are gone."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
