<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reichmanns' Plan
   For Oil Merger
   Stalled by Prices
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GOU IHEIF T.IHE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rising oil prices have stalled a proposal by Toronto's
Reichmann family to create Canada's biggest domestically
owned oil producer by merging Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. and
Home Oil Co.
   The merger process "has been somewhat complicated" by the
price surge set off by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, said
Ronald Watkins, vice president, industry and government
relations, for Interhome Energy Inc., Calgary, Alberta, which
owns Home Oil. "Everyone has had to sit down and re-examine
their oil price forecasts, which form the basis for valuation
assumptions," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spot prices of West Texas Intermediate, a benchmark grade
of U.S. crude oil, have risen more than $13 a barrel since
the invasion and subsequent trade embargo against oil and
other products from Iraq and occupied Kuwait.
   The Reichmanns' plan, announced in April, called for the
merger of Gulf Canada Resources, a Calgary-based oil and gas
producer, and Home Oil this summer. It also sought the
spinoff of Interhome's Interprovincial Pipe Line Ltd. unit as
a separate public company by year's end.
   The Reichmann family owns 74.3% of Gulf Canada through its
real estate flagship, Toronto-based Olympia &amp; York
Developments Ltd. Companies controlled by the Reichmanns,
including Gulf Canada, own a combined 63.5% of Interhome.
   Gulf Canada and Home Oil would have joint daily output of
132,000 barrels of oil, more than any other Canadian-owned
oil producer, and assets of about five billion Canadian
dollars (US$4.3 billion).
   But with the Iraqi situation unresolved and the outlook
for oil prices unclear, a Gulf Canada spokesman asked, "How
do you get an agreement on price?" He added that "the
intention now is to see if we can go ahead with this merger
before the end of the year." The proposed spinoff of
Interprovincial could proceed at the same time, he said.
   Financial advisers are expected to submit proposed terms
for the merger next month to committees set up by Gulf Canada
and Interhome. The committees will then submit the
recommendations to their respective boards. The proposed
terms should be disclosed shortly thereafter, the Gulf Canada
spokesman said.
   The delay in the merger won't have any direct impact on
the Reichmann family's wealth, and the merger doesn't involve
the sale of any assets to raise cash. The Reichmanns' energy
assets are held separately from their vast real estate
holdings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chairman of Polly Peck Has Trouble
   Shaking Those Pesky Market Skeptics
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson and Hugh Pope
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL WNEWS EUROP J.SNE
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asil Nadir, the chairman and chief executive of Polly Peck
International PLC, never seems to get enough respect.
   Last year when negotiating the largest purchase of his
career -- his company's $875 million acquisition of the Del
Monte fresh-fruits business of RJR Nabisco Inc. -- the
sellers experienced a few trepidations. They wanted a
commitment for Polly Peck to make a minimum, steep $25
million payment on the sale. Such financial insurance was
needed because Mr. Nadir wasn't well-known in New York,
explains a lawyer involved in the transaction. And he adds
that even in London, Polly Peck's base, Mr. Nadir "has never
been an establishment figure."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, after three turbulent decades building a
mini-conglomerate that includes Del Monte pineapples and
Sansui stereos, the Turkish-Cypriot immigrant finds himself
in an all-out battle with British market regulators to
salvage his company's stock price and his own reputation.
   Last month, he was publicly rebuked by London's Stock
Exchange for announcing and then five days later dropping
what the exchange claims was an ill-prepared plan to take his
company private. And though there isn't evidence of personal
wrongdoing by him, Britain's Serious Fraud Office last week
questioned Mr. Nadir and searched offices of a London firm
that manages Nadir family investments; the fraud office is
investigating allegations of, among other things,
insider-trading in Polly Peck shares by at least one former
employee of the investment-management firm. As word of the
fraud office action leaked out Thursday, Polly Peck stock
crashed, sinking 55% before trading was halted.
   The day's trading "wasn't a stock market; it was a
lynching," says a London financial analyst sympathetic to
Polly Peck. The price when trading was halted -- 108 pence a
share (US$2.02) -- "is ludicrously cheap" at just 2.3 times
the company's 1989 per-share earnings, adds another analyst,
John Campbell of County NatWest Securities Ltd.
   Mr. Nadir isn't granting interviews, but he and his
associates now appear to be circling the wagons. After a
lengthy meeting Friday, the Polly Peck board issued a terse
statement saying it "deplores the recent attacks on the
chairman." Mr. Nadir has told Polly Peck colleagues that he's
seeking a public statement from the fraud office clarifying
his role in its inquiries; he indicated to colleagues, a
Polly Peck source says, that he believes the fraud office
hasn't any further questions for him. The Stock Exchange,
meanwhile, is pushing the company for a statement by this
afternoon explaining the cause of its stock-trading turmoil.
   Continuing the defense, last night the company said its
board had formally requested Britain's Trade and Industry
Department to "appoint independent inspectors to investigate
and report under the appropriate section" of British law. A
department spokesman didn't have any comment, beyond saying
that such independent probes -- generally led by a specially
appointed lawyer and accountant -- are rare in British
business.
   The company, explaining its request, criticized
regulators' handling of the case so far and said it's
"unlikely to be able to find a fair hearing" without a
special probe.
   Also last night, Mr. Nadir lashed out at the British
press, issuing a brief statement saying his lawyers plan to
file suit today for defamation against Times Newspapers Ltd.,
publisher of the Sunday Times, and the Observer Ltd.,
publisher of the Observer. Both London Sunday newspapers have
been running in-depth reports about the Polly Peck affair,
and published articles yesterday repeating allegations by a
former Polly Peck official whom, they said, had given
evidence to the fraud office.
   And in Mr. Nadir's Turkish and Cypriot power bases, allies
are rallying to his defense. Mr. Nadir is the second-largest
press baron in Turkey, its biggest electronics manufacturer,
and the largest private employer in Turkish-controlled North
Cyprus. To help him in his hour of need, Turkish government
authorities have launched a counterattack -- publicly blaming
his troubles on Greek Cypriots.
   "There is a Greek Cypriot hand in this," charges Murat
Sungar, spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry. "The
target isn't the company or the personality {of Mr. Nadir},
but the economy of northern Cyprus," he says.
   Mr. Nadir has been here before. In early 1983, Polly Peck
stock crashed after three years of stratospheric growth, in
which the shares skyrocketed beyond #32 a share from just
nine pence apiece in a speculative bubble. It popped under a
campaign by Greek Cypriot authorities against Mr. Nadir's
company, which it claimed was exploiting land seized from
Greek Cypriots after Turkey's 1974 invasion. But the stock
fall steepened after Polly Peck's earnings began lagging
behind optimistic market forecasts -- encouraged by Mr.
Nadir's own bullish pronouncements.
   After arriving in Britain from his native north Cyprus in
1963, Mr. Nadir built a small empire in the rag trade of
London's poor East End. His garment business, Wearwell PLC,
went public in 1973; and after the partition of Cyprus into
Turkish and Greek enclaves, he got Turkish government aid to
start packaging and exporting Cypriot fruits and vegetables.
As his business flourished, he made a moribund British
textile concern, Polly Peck, his main holding company. Its
growth, which resumed after the 1983 stock debacle, climaxed
this year after the Del Monte fresh-fruits acquisition and
the purchase of a 70% stake in Japan's ailing Sansui Electric
Co.
   Throughout, Mr. Nadir has displayed a fondness for the
grand gesture. Once, on a visit to Turkish north Cyprus, he
was entertained at the house of a business associate. His
host happened to point to the ruin of a nearby house that
might one day be developed, spoiling his own property's
prospects. Mr. Nadir's response, the business associate says,
was sultan-like in its generosity: He promptly bought the
neighboring house and bestowed it on the business associate
as a gift.
   Associates say Mr. Nadir, with a 28% Polly Peck stake,
runs the company as a personal fiefdom. An inner circle of
longtime aides advise him and carry out orders. Thus, even
though London analysts say Polly Peck's businesses appear to
be sound and have bright futures, stock traders are focusing
on Mr. Nadir's personal battle with British authorities.
   Mr. Nadir is "totally key" to Polly Peck's future, says
County NatWest's Mr. Campbell.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian July Retail Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales in July rose 0.8% from
June, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   In June, retail sales rose 0.9%. Apart from gains in June
and July, retail sales have been weak in 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The July gain was partly attributed to a rise in
supermarket sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   A General's Fall Raises Troubling Questions
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Not many tears have been shed over the firing last week of
Gen. Michael J. Dugan, U.S. Air Force chief of staff. Indeed,
Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, who wielded the ax, has
been praised widely in the press for reasserting the
principle that the U.S. military is under civilian control.
It had been a long time, 41 years, since a defense secretary
had publicly fired one of the Joint Chiefs. The prevailing
sentiment seems to be that maybe it should happen more often.
   There is much indeed to be said for high-level firings in
the face of crisis, although Winston Churchill at the outset
of World War II and Abraham Lincoln during the U.S. Civil War
sacked reluctant generals, not overeager ones. Gen. Dugan's
offense was excessive shooting off of the mouth. Whether that
is sufficient cause for firing in this age of garrulous
officialdom might be disputed. But a case can be made on the
basis of the sorts of things the general was saying to the
press. Not only might his bellicose rhetoric have spooked
some U.S. allies in the Persian Gulf, but it raised questions
about whether the head of the U.S. Air Force really
understood the uses of the modern weapons the U.S. military
has at its command.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The general offended his boss by telling reporters that
"downtown Baghdad" would be a prime Air Force target in case
of hostilities. Whatever the general was trying to say, his
remarks were interpreted to mean that the Air Force was
considering something equivalent to a World War II-style
assault on a population center. If that is what he meant, it
raises questions not only about his ability as a diplomat but
as a military strategist as well.
   Clearly, the first objective of any allied strike should
be to destroy, as quickly and thoroughly as possible, Iraq's
war-fighting capacity. Downtown Baghdad, unless Saddam
himself could be effectively targeted, is hardly the place
for that. The first objective would be Saddam's anti-aircraft
missiles and his combat aircraft. Control of the air, once
achieved, would be decisive to the final outcome, because
tanks and other ground forces then would become powerless to
defend themselves against air attack.
   The weapons deployed by the U.S. and its more-advanced
allies for this purpose are called "smart" weapons. Using
advanced electronic guidance, they can hit and blow up even
relatively small targets from many miles away. The cruise
missiles on the battleship Wisconsin, now deployed in the
Persian Gulf, are such weapons. So are HARM air-to-ground
missiles, used mainly to home in on air defense radars and
destroy them. F-117A stealth fighters, capable of evading
enemy radar for night attacks on major targets, have been
deployed in the region. Other attack planes are equipped for
night attacks with LANTIRN navigation and targeting pods.
   These and a wide array of other smart weapons are designed
to destroy very specific targets, such as radars, tanks and
other aircraft. Those targets can be pinpointed by U.S.
satellites. Because of their accuracy, the weapons minimize
civilian casualties. When the head of the Air Force talked of
massive bombing he may have been merely trying to frighten
Saddam. But given the kind of brute Saddam is, he probably
would far rather lose civilians than MiG-29s.
   A seeming fixation on old-fashioned methods was the source
of a major embarrassment during an Air Force sally against
Manuel Noriega's Panamanian Defense Forces some months back.
Two F-117s, the most-advanced U.S. fighters, were assigned to
create diversionary explosions near a PDF barracks outside
Panama City. But instead of using the weapons they are
designed to employ, they simply dropped two World War II iron
bombs. One missed its target by 480 feet, a long distance
considering the accuracy these airplanes are meant to
achieve. Secretary Cheney, who had boasted of the plane's
accuracy, was furious when he learned of the miss.
   Results of NATO exercises indicate that U.S. jet pilots
are among the best in the world, but there is less certainty
about the quality of U.S. military planning. One source of
uncertainty is that old bugaboo, interservice rivalry and, in
some cases, intraservice rivalry. A lack of adequate
coordination among the services played a role in the failure
of the Desert One hostage rescue attempt during the Carter
administration. A series of fiascoes in Lebanon in 1983 was
blamed on an impossibly convoluted chain of command from
Washington to Beirut, not to mention some foolish demands
from the State Department that the U.S. forces not seem too
warlike, even though they were clearly in a war zone.
   One has reason to wonder how well coordinated the present
Persian Gulf operation is. If there aren't enough problems
getting the U.S. services to pull together, how about the
problems of coordinating the forces of 10 countries? Gen. H.
Norman Schwarzkopf, commander of U.S. forces, seems to be
focusing mainly on getting enough tanks into the area, and
perhaps that is prudent. But if air superiority is achieved
quickly, will a tank war really be necessary? The army also
has tank killers, Apache helicopter gunships. One wonders
whether some of the strategy here is not strategy at all, but
an attempt to give every service unit a piece of the action.
It's a bit like running a war the way Congress runs the
Pentagon, making sure everyone gets his share.
   There also is the question of which department of the
administration is running this operation. The State
Department's performance in Lebanon in 1983 and the shocking
evidence that it might have caused Saddam to think he had a
green light cast doubt on its reliability in dealing with
hard cases. Was Gen. Dugan fired because he didn't know
enough about Navy missiles or because he offended State
Department types who still think that Saddam is susceptible
to adroit diplomacy? The fact that the general was chastised
for sounding too aggressive might suggest the latter.
   Finally, there is the question of why a member of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff was so out of touch with policy. Had
the chiefs not had any discussions with Mr. Cheney and the
president about what form an attack on Saddam would take? If
the general was simply blowing diversionary smoke, presumably
he would not have been fired. But the suggestion is that he
didn't know he wasn't supposed to threaten a bombing of
downtown Baghdad, or, worse, didn't have a very clear idea of
exactly what the Air Force role in a possible attack would
be.
   That seems a bit too far-fetched to believe and yet the
fact remains that the general was fired for being out of step
with policy, whatever that policy might be. So a question
arises about whether that was the fault of the general, who
presumably had some abilities worthy of the top job in the
Air Force, or the fault of top policy makers? In a vast
enterprise such as the U.S. government, one can never be
sure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Regional Sports
   Cable Networks
   Score Big Gains
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD TCOMA GE CVC PCI WNEWS U.GKN WPPGY SAA OMC FCB CTA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Yankees face the Baltimore
Orioles at Yankee Stadium tonight in a matchup of two of the
worst teams in the league. Will anyone care about the
outcome?
   Even though neither team has a chance at the pennant,
ratings for the game, presented on two regional sports
networks -- Madison Square Garden and Home Team Sports --
will do just fine, thank you.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Business is booming for the nation's two dozen or so
regional sports cable networks. Some of the biggest names in
sports advertising -- Anheuser-Busch and Coors beers,
Jeep-Eagle trucks and Toyota autos -- increasingly are
turning to regional sports networks as an attractive, and
especially flexible, alternative to the Big Three networks
and national cable rivals such as ESPN.
   The regionals' reach is growing, to a combined 30 million
cable homes, up more than 40% in the past year alone. Their
ad revenue is climbing nicely, increasing almost 50% a year
since 1985 and exceeding $100 million for the first time this
year, estimates Paul Kagan Associates.
   "We're in the position of a lot of media folks, who are
just now appreciating how much the regionals can grow and
what they offer," says Gene DeWitt of DeWitt Media, a media
buyer for sponsors. "Their share of the business is going to
grow."
   Ed Frazier, president of Prime Network, a loose
affiliation of about 15 regional sports channels that swap
programming, said the regionals "have reached a critical mass
to the point where we're an interesting alternative." But he
adds, "The other thing advertisers are looking for now is
fiscal responsibility."
   Fiscal responsibility is the hard part: making sure that
commercials actually air when they should in the various
regions, and ensuring the spots reach as many viewers as the
regional networks had promised. The trouble is that sponsors
have no way of accurately measuring the regional ratings
because A.C. Nielsen Co. doesn't do it. The regional networks
hope to address the ratings dearth, but no one knows exactly
how to go about it.
   "That's a problem for us," says Ralph Heim, a media
placement manager at Coors Brewing, which uses the regional
networks frequently to get around the exclusive lock that
Anheuser-Busch beers have on ESPN baseball games. For now,
sponsors must rely on a "reasonable leap of faith," says Mark
Reiss, Coors media director.
   The lack of hard ratings scares away some. "You can put
money into them and what are you getting for it? There's a
limit to how much we are willing to invest on gut feeling,"
says Bill Sherman, a vice president at ad agency
McCann-Erickson. So far he has avoided putting clients into
regional games because of the uncertainty over ratings and
the premium prices that many of the channels charge.
   The regionals' ad sales are thriving anyway. Two groups of
regional networks dominate the business. The largest, Prime
Network, which covers 23 million homes, is owned mostly by
cable entrepreneur Bill Daniels and Tele-Communications, the
largest cable-system operator. SportsChannel America is a
group of 10 regionals that are jointly owned by General
Electric's NBC and Cablevision Systems and reach 10 million
subscribers.
   Prime Network will take in $15 million in national ads,
and its affiliates will bring in about the same sum in local
spots this year. Two years ago, ad revenue was zilch, says
Edward Goldman, president of Group W Sports Marketing, which
handles ad sales for 13 of the channels. At SportsChannel,
president Jeff Ruhe says ad revenue is rising 35% a year and
will hit $25 million this year.
   Individual sports networks are faring just as well. At
Madison Square Garden Network, owned by Paramount
Communications, sales of commercials almost tripled last year
thanks to the addition of 45 games featuring the New York
Rangers (hockey) and the Knicks (hoops). Ad revenue is up
another 20% this year, a spokesman says. Prime Ticket, a Los
Angeles regional owned by Bill Daniels and Lakers owner Jerry
Buss, will see ad sales grow to $25 million this year from $4
million two years ago.
   Just two years ago, advertising provided only 15% of Prime
Ticket's total revenue, with fees from cable systems
providing the rest. Advertising now is half of revenue and
could rise to 80% of the pie in a few years, says Prime
Ticket President John Severino.
   Sponsors are fueling such hefty increases in part because
of an abiding belief in home-team loyalty. Last May, for
example, the Lakers playoff game on Prime Ticket was watched
by a 12.7% of all local homes, even though half the area's
households don't even get cable. The game outdrew even ABC's
top-rated hit comedy, "Roseanne."
   But advertisers also are turning to regionals because of
the flexibility they offer. "We really want to tailor our
buys to each particular region of the country," says Charles
B. Fruit, a vice president at Anheuser-Busch. In New England,
he hawks Busch beer, "whereas in the {San Francisco} Bay area
it isn't even distributed. Regional sports networks let us
manipulate the advertising we do from region to region much
more easily than on national television."
   The regionals, scrappy upstarts that they are, also go
beyond the typical 30-second spot to let sponsors partake in
a little hokum and hype. For Footlocker shoe stores, Group W
Sports Marketing made 20 spots touting different "shoe tips."
One for volleyball sneakers aired in California, while
another for shoes adorned with a map of Chicago ran in that
market.
   And during a recent hoops game on Home Team Sports, the
two announcers could be seen, on-camera, ordering a Domino's
pizza on the air, then eating the pie when it arrived within
30 minutes. Says Robert Kunath, a vice president at Group W
Sports Marketing, "What better could you ask for?"
   ---
   Young &amp; Rubicam, following a lengthy search, named Helayne
Spivak executive creative director of its flagship New York
office.
   Ms. Spivak, who began her career at Ally &amp; Gargano and
later worked at Ammirati &amp; Puris, most recently had been
executive creative director of Hal Riney &amp; Partners's
struggling New York office.
   Since it consolidated its three agency groups in April,
Y&amp;R has been looking for a single creative leader to revive
the New York agency's lackluster creative reputation.
   "There's an infectious enthusiasm about her," said Tim
Pollak, chief executive officer of Y&amp;R New York. "I think
she's going to help us do better and better things for our
clients."
   John Yost, general manager of Hal Riney in San Francisco,
said the agency hasn't decided on an executive to succeed Ms.
Spivak in New York.
   ---
   Ad NoteS. . .
                                                                                                       

   MEINEKE ACCOUNT: Meineke Discount Mufflers awarded the
creative portion of its $26 million account to Partners &amp;
Shevack, New York. Corinthian Communications, New York,
continues to handle media buying and planning for the
Charlotte, N.C., muffler shop franchiser, a unit of GKN PLC.
                                                                                                       

   MAYBELLINE: Maybelline Co.'s new owner, Wasserstein
Perella, has contacted J. Walter Thompson, a unit of WPP, and
Cliff Freeman &amp; Partners, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, to
participate in a review of its $35 million account. DDB
Needham, the Omnicom Group unit that currently handles the
account, will participate in the review.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Mike Koelker, executive creative director at
Foote, Cone &amp; Belding's San Francisco office, was named to
the additional post of corporate director of creative
development. He was also elected to the board of directors of
the Chicago agency.
                                                                                                       

   CRUISE ACCOUNT: Concorde Cruises, a new cruise line based
in Los Angeles, picked J. Walter Thompson's Los Angeles
office to handle its ad account. Billings weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   EASTERN AIRLINES: In a sequel to its "Hundred Days"
campaign, Eastern Airlines this week begins a campaign
featuring bankruptcy trustee Martin Shugrue updating
employees on the airline's progress. The ads, created by WPP
Group's Ogilvy &amp; Mather unit, target business travelers,
touting a special corporate rate and expanded first-class
service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, September 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                           Stock    N.A.    Stock       %
   Fund Name               Exch.   Value    Price      Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express            NYSE    16.93    15       -11.40
   Baker Fentress           NYSE    20.42    16 1/4   -20.42
   Blue Chip Value          NYSE     6.47     6       - 7.26
   Clemente Global Gro      NYSE   b10.40     8 7/8   - 4.66
   Gemini II Capital        NYSE    11.82    10       -15.40
   Gemini II Income         NYSE     9.77    12 3/8   +26.66
   General Amer Invest      NYSE    20.58    17 1/2   -14.97
   Growth Stock Outlook     NYSE    10.26     9 3/4   - 4.97
   Liberty All-Star Eqty    NYSE     8.33     7 1/4   -12.97
   Niagara Share Corp.      NYSE    16.00    12 7/8   -19.53
   Nicholas-Applegate       NYSE     9.98     9 3/4   - 2.30
   Quest For Value Cap      NYSE    16.01    11 1/4   -29.73
   Quest For Value Inco     NYSE    11.66    12 3/8   + 6.13
   Royce Value Trust        NYSE     9.13     7 7/8   -13.75
   Salomon Fd               NYSE    13.24    10 3/4   -18.81
   Source Capital           NYSE    35.77    38       + 6.23
   Tri-Continental Corp.    NYSE    25.13    21 1/2   -14.44
   Worldwide Value          NYSE   a15.47    13 3/4   -11.12
   Zweig Fund               NYSE    10.50    10 3/4   + 2.38
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs      AMEX     6.45     4 5/8   -28.29
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr     NYSE    b7.58     7 3/4   + 2.24
   Franklin Universal Tr    NYSE    b6.76     5 1/2   -18.64
   Municipal High Inco      NYSE     9.28     8 3/4   - 5.71
   Zenix Income Fund        NYSE    a5.84     5       -14.38
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn      OTC      5.85     4 15/16 -15.60
   European Warrant Fd      NYSE     9.59     8 1/8   -15.28
   Franklin M-M Inco        NYSE    b7.96     6 7/8   -13.63
   Zweig Total Return Fd    NYSE     8.94     8 5/8   - 3.52
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd   NYSE    12.53    10 1/8   -19.19
   Alliance New Europe Fd   NYSE     9.65     8 5/8   -10.62
   American Capital Conv    NYSE    20.23    17 3/4   -12.26
   ASA Ltd                  NYSE  bc56.40    48 1/2   -14.01
   Asia Pacific             NYSE    12.46    11 7/8   - 4.70
   Austria Fund             NYSE    12.19    11       - 9.76
   Bancroft Convertible     AMEX    19.10    16 3/8   -14.27
   Bergstrom Capital        AMEX    59.50    62       + 4.20
   BGR Precious Metals      TOR   be10.48     9 3/8   -10.54
   Brazil                   NYSE    10.16     8 1/4   -18.80
   CNV Holdings Capital     NYSE     8.49     4 3/8   -48.47
   CNV Holdings Income      NYSE     9.61    10 1/2   + 9.26
   Castle Convertible       AMEX    19.93    16 5/8   -16.58
   Central Fund Canada      AMEX    b4.96     4 11/16 - 5.49
   Central Securities       AMEX    10.06     8       -20.48
   Chile Fund               NYSE    16.26    12 5/8   -22.36
   Couns Tandem Secs        NYSE    12.11     9 1/2   -21.55
   Cypress Fund             AMEX     8.33     7 7/8   - 5.46
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils  NYSE     7.73     8       + 3.49
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc      AMEX     7.67     6 1/2   -15.25
   Emerging Ger Fd          NYSE     9.20     7 3/4   -15.76
   Engex                    AMEX    10.05     7 11/16 -23.51
   Europe Fund              NYSE    13.11    10 3/4   -18.00
   1st Australia            AMEX    10.07     7 7/8   -21.80
   First Financial Fund     NYSE     5.35     4 5/8   -13.55
   First Iberian            AMEX     9.25     8       -13.51
   First Philippine Fund    NYSE     9.80     7       -28.57
   France Growth Fund       NYSE    10.44     8 1/2   -18.58
   Future Germany Fund      NYSE    13.90    11 1/4   -19.06
   Gabelli Equity Trust     NYSE    10.23     9 1/2   - 7.14
   Germany Fund             NYSE    10.91    11 3/8   + 4.26
   Global Utilities Fund    NYSE    10.52     9 5/8   - 8.51
   Growth Fund Spain        NYSE    10.15     7 5/8   -24.88
   GT Greater Europe Fd     NYSE    11.55    10 1/4   -11.26
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv       NYSE    11.67     9 3/4   -16.45
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap     AMEX   b10.47     9       -14.04
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref    AMEX   b49.74    48 3/8   - 2.74
   India Growth Fund        NYSE   f18.78    13 7/8   -26.12
   Indonesia Fund           NYSE    12.68    10 7/8   -14.24
   Inefficient Market Fund  AMEX     9.51     7 7/8   -17.19
   Irish Investment Fd      NYSE     9.30     6 7/8   -26.08
   Italy Fund               NYSE   b13.43    11 1/4   -16.23
   Jakarta Growth Fd        NYSE     9.74     7 3/8   -24.28
   Japan OTC Equity Fund    NYSE    10.84     8       -26.20
   Korea Fund               NYSE    10.65    14 3/8   +34.98
   Latin America Inv Fd     NYSE    13.13     9 3/4   -25.74
   Malaysia Fund            NYSE    13.06    11       -15.77
   Mexico Equity Inc Fd     NYSE    11.38    10 3/8   - 8.83
   Mexico Fund              NYSE   b14.01    12 7/8   - 8.10

   New Germany Fund         NYSE    12.47     9 7/8   -20.81
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd    NYSE     9.43     9       - 4.56
   Patriot Prem Div Fd      NYSE     7.85     9 3/8   +19.43
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II   NYSE     9.09    10       +10.01
   Patriot Select Div Trust NYSE    13.82    14 3/4   + 6.73
   Petrol &amp; Resources       NYSE    32.48    30       - 7.64
   Pilgrim Regional         NYSE     7.30     6 3/4   - 7.53
   Putnam Dividend Inco     NYSE     9.41     9 7/8   + 4.94
   Portugal Fund            NYSE    12.11     8 7/8   -26.71
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd    AMEX     5.95     5 1/8   -13.87
   ROC Taiwan Fund          NYSE     7.31     7       - 4.24
   Scudder New Asia         NYSE    16.38    13 1/4   -19.11
   Scudder New Europe       NYSE    10.66     8 3/4   -17.92
   SE Savings Inst Fd       OTC     b6.68     5       -25.15
   Singapore Fd             NYSE   b10.95     8 1/2   -22.37
   Spain Fund               NYSE    12.06    11 1/4   - 6.72
   Swiss Helvetia Fd        NYSE    13.00    12 1/2   - 3.85
   Taiwan Fund              NYSE   b15.90    19 3/8   +21.86
   TCW Convertible Secs     NYSE    b7.32     7 5/8   + 4.17
   Templeton Em Mkts        AMEX   b14.62    12 7/8   -11.94
   Templeton Global Util    AMEX    10.33    10 1/8   - 1.98
   Templeton Value Fund     NYSE    b8.42     8 1/8   - 3.50
   Thai Capital Fund        NYSE     8.37     6 3/4   -19.35
   Thai Fund                NYSE    15.30    15       - 1.96
   Turkish Inv Fund         NYSE    15.65    10       -36.10
   United Kingdom Fund      NYSE    10.38     9 1/2   - 8.48
   Z-Seven                  OTC     11.27    13 3/4   +22.01
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush's Son,
   Others Sued
   For $200 Million
   ---
   FDIC Charges Officers
   Didn't Change Practices
   After Agency Criticism
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government brought a $200 million civil
suit against Neil Bush, the president's son, and other
officials of a failed savings and loan, in an action that
will reawaken the thrift mess as a major political problem
for President Bush and the Republicans.
   The action raises the curtain on a week when attention
will focus on Neil Bush's actions as an outside director of
Silverado Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association, which failed
in December 1988 at an expected cost to taxpayers of $1
billion. In a separate administrative action that regulators
are pursuing against Mr. Bush, public testimony begins
tomorrow and is expected to last through the week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The crisis in the Middle East has given the Republicans a
respite from growing public anger about the S&amp;L fiasco and
criticism that the Bush administration was bungling the
massive bailout.
   There's some irony in the status Neil Bush has attained as
a kind of minor folk villain -- hundreds of posters reading
"Jail Neil Bush" have been pasted around downtown Washington
and Denver, where Mr. Bush lives. (It's unclear who put the
posters up.) Mr. Bush hasn't even been accused of any
criminal activity, much less found guilty of any improper
behavior. In addition, while regulators have asserted in the
administrative case that Mr. Bush didn't adequately disclose
conflicts of interest with Silverado borrowers, no one has
suggested he profited significantly from the thrift.
   Nevertheless, the suit filed Friday in federal court in
Denver by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. adds
tremendously to Mr. Bush's legal woes. The suit goes far
beyond the administrative action in seeking to hold Mr. Bush
and 11 other former officials of the Denver thrift broadly
responsible for alleged violations of federal regulations.
The FDIC has filed more than 200 such suits against directors
in S&amp;L failures, but this is one of the largest damage awards
the agency has sought.
   "Silverado was the victim of sophisticated schemes and
abuses by insiders and of gross negligence by its directors
and outside professionals," said Douglas Jones, the FDIC's
senior deputy general counsel.
   The FDIC charged that Silverado routinely shoveled out
risky multimillion-dollar real estate loans so that the
thrift could book big fees and pass on huge salaries to some
of its officers. In 1986 alone, the suit alleged, four top
officials -- excluding Mr. Bush -- were paid $3.2 million.
   Mr. Bush has fought the administrative action brought by
the Office of Thrift Supervision, which is seeking a mild
punishment in which Mr. Bush would agree not to violate
federal regulations in the future. But it will probably be
tougher and more expensive to defend himself against the FDIC
suit, banking lawyers said, because the FDIC appears to have
a strong case.
   A key point alleged by the FDIC is that Mr. Bush and the
other outside directors failed to "correct unsafe and unsound
practices at Silverado after receiving numerous criticisms of
such practices" from regulators. Mr. Bush, who is in the oil
business, was an outside director of Silverado from August
1985 until August 1988.
   "This case will turn on what the examiners told Silverado
and when they told them," said Ronald Glancz, an attorney
with Drinker Biddle &amp; Reath and a former FDIC official who
handled such lawsuits. "In the case of directors, you've got
to show some sort of notice. It's tough to convince a jury
that directors knew some practices were imprudent if the
regulators didn't give them any warning."
   Mr. Glancz said that about 90% of defendants in the FDIC's
suits against directors and officers settle the cases. Often
the banks and thrifts have insurance to cover the liability.
But Silverado's insurance was canceled in 1986. The thrift
set up a fund of about $15 million to help directors and
officers pay legal fees, but the FDIC is engaged in a
separate legal battle to get the $15 million back.
   Neither Mr. Bush nor his attorney returned phone calls
seeking comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   SBA Deputy Is Departing; Congress Allows Breaks
   On Clean-Air Law; a European Market Worries Firms
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SBA'S NO. 2 gets the ax, but did her boss or the White
House wield it?
   Kay Bulow, whose aggressive style as the Small Business
Administration's deputy administrator alienated some people,
was given her walking papers late last week. SBA chief Susan
Engeleiter, who had fought to bring Ms. Bulow to the agency,
says her deputy is leaving by mutual agreement because the
two differ in management style. SBA officials claim Ms.
Engeleiter took the initiative.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But others familiar with the situation say White House
Chief of Staff John Sununu pushed the eject button after Ms.
Bulow demoted and transferred some longtime staffers in the
SBA's finance department. Members of the small-business
lending community were so unhappy, they started calling the
White House.
   Pressure from all sides may have toppled the powerful SBA
aide, whose influence grew, some staffers say, because of Ms.
Engeleiter's frequent travel schedule. Ms. Bulow made enemies
inside and outside the agency with her tough style. When
staffers asked an SBA expert how to alert Ms. Engeleiter to
the Bulow problem, he warned: "When you shoot, don't miss."
   But some agency workers and outside officials have praised
Ms. Bulow as a manager who would make decisions. Some said
her rough and tumble style would play differently if used by
a man. The new acting SBA deputy will be June Nichols, the
agency's Atlanta regional director. Ms. Bulow couldn't be
reached for comment.
   One lender who deals with the SBA regularly says the Bulow
ouster may make Ms. Engeleiter realize "she can't delegate
leadership at the agency."
   ---
   CLEAN-AIR BREAKS can be given to small firms by states,
Congress decides.
   A House-Senate conference committee settling differences
on a final clean-air bill agreed that states can offer small
companies extra technical help, time and flexibility in
complying with the law. The committee adopted provisions
saying each state must set up programs to tell small
companies how they can cut pollution and how to handle the
act's paper-work requirements. Each state would designate an
official to be the small-business ombudsman and also create
an advisory panel to monitor the assistance program.
   If they wish, states also can set up a no-fault inspection
system to check compliance with the law. State or private
inspectors would do regular audits of small companies to
point out illegal practices that must be corrected, but
without assigning fines. However, establishing a no-fault
system, as well as giving a concern flexibility and extra
time to comply with the law, would be options, not
requirements. Reps. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) and Rick Boucher
(D., Va.) pushed for the changes on the House side, while
Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R., Minn.) sponsored an amendment
included in the Senate bill.
   "We wanted to make sure firms like dry cleaners and
furniture makers wouldn't be thrown into a bureaucratic ocean
where it's presumed they have the lawyers and experts that
bigger companies do," says Rep. Wyden.
   ---
   RALLY ROUND THE CHAIRMAN: Several small-business groups
will honor House Small Business Committee Chairman John
LaFalce (D., N.Y.) at a dinner this week to show appreciation
for his unsuccessful effort to broker a compromise on
language in the civil-rights bill. He proposed a change
limiting monetary damages for violations of the new
legislation. This infuriated House civil-rights forces who
had counted him as a friend. Rep. Major Owens (D., N.Y.)
fumed that Rep. LaFalce had "crawled out of the sewer." The
dinner's sponsors include the National Federation of
Independent Business, National Association of Manufacturers,
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and four other groups.
   ---
   FRANCHISE FLAP: The Federal Trade Commission continues on
the trail of errant franchisors. The FTC charged Lifecall
Systems Inc. of Camden, N.J., whose franchisees sell
emergency alert units for elderly or sick people, with
failing to provide prospective franchisees with required
information and misrepresenting the business's profit
potential. Lifecall, without admitting or denying the
charges, agreed to a consent order to change its practices
and pay a $150,000 fine.
   ---
   CONFUSION MARKS smaller firms' views on a unified European
market.
   As Washington policy makers ponder the impact of the 1992
advent of a single European market on U.S. business, a new
survey of nearly 300 U.S. chief executives of smaller
concerns shows that nearly half are confused about what the
change will mean to them. More than half think it will either
hurt or have little effect on profits. A third of those
responding think the plan will create a fortress Europe
atmosphere hostile to U.S. exporters.
   The survey, conducted by Market Access Europe, a
London-based research and public affairs company, also shows
that 70% of the small companies understand the general
principles of a unified common market, but not its detailed
proposals.
   American companies "have a serious information gap" about
Europe's new single-market plan, says David Boddy, Market
Access's chairman. Without detailed information on new
regulations and technical specifications, he says, a firm
could find itself barred from the 12 member countries instead
of just from one. He also argues that now is the time for
exporters to help shape the new rules. "If the U.S. wants
this country to trade its way out of the economic slump,
there's a lot of work to do," Mr. Boddy says. European
concerns already are gearing up for the American market, he
adds.
   Respondents view the German and British markets favorably,
except for high labor costs, but are more dubious about Italy
and Greece. About a third believe the French are
unsympathetic to the U.S. style of business.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: The House and Senate have approved legislation
authorizing a White House Conference on Small Business, to be
held in early 1994, following state and regional conferences
starting in 1992. . . . The Federal Communications Commission
sponsors a conference on Minorities and Telecommunications
Enterprise in Washington, D.C., this week to offer
minority-owned concerns information on entering common
carrier telecommunications businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Belgian Consumer Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Fueled by surging energy prices, Belgium's
preliminary unadjusted consumer price index rose by 1.32
points, to 145.93 points, in September, the Ministry of
Economy said.
   The government said inflation in the latest 12 months was
3.69%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rising petroleum product prices accounted for 0.96 point
of the total rise, the ministry said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Japanese Medium-Sized Securities Companies
   Could Be in Big Trouble as Stock Prices Shrink
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP J.SYN J.NOM
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Are Japan's medium-sized securities companies
headed for trouble?
   As the Tokyo Stock Exchange sinks, the pubs and noodle
shops around Kabutocho, the stock market district, have
buzzed with worried talk of a shakeout in Japan's
once-prosperous securities industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With stock prices down 40% in the past nine months and
trading volume down by nearly two-thirds, Japan's brokers
have good reason to be nervous.
   The first clear signs that the market's reversal has taken
its toll on the Japanese securities industry surfaced two
weeks ago. Japan's Big Four -- Nomura Securities Co., Daiwa
Securities Co., Nikko Securities Co. and Yamaichi Securities
Co. -- drastically cut pretax earnings projections for the
half-year ending Sept. 30.
   Nomura said pretax profit would drop almost 50% to 125
billion yen ($908.1 million) in the first half. At Daiwa,
officials projected a 62% decline, while Nikko and Yamaichi
said earnings would plunge 73% and almost 75%, respectively.
The projected profits are about a third of what the firms
previously estimated. Pretax earnings are the clearest
indication of the firms' operating results.
   At the moment, few worry that the Big Four are in serious
difficulty. Although it's also not clear sailing for the
four: On Friday, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it now has a
negative long-term outlook for the big securities companies,
but added that it won't necessarily lower the houses'
ratings. S&amp;P said its new opinion reflects sharply lower
earnings expectations and uncertainty about when and how long
any rebound would last, but said the four maintain good
financial positions.
   But at midsized securities firms, which have high fixed
costs and rely more heavily on equity brokerage commissions,
the shock of a suddenly depressed market is proving harder to
withstand. Many of the second-tier securities houses are
projecting midterm earnings declines of more than 75%.
Midsized brokerages -- many of which were in the middle of
expanding operations -- will have trouble shrugging off those
declines.
   "The big brokers can take a hit more easily," says Stuart
Matthews, a financial analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities Ltd. "Medium-sized firms aren't as diversified, so
when revenue from commissions dries up there isn't much for
them to fall back on."
   The plight of Japan's midsized firms may be best
illustrated by difficulties faced in recent days by Sanyo
Securities Co., Japan's only major family-run brokerage
house.
   Just a few years ago, the firm was flying high. Buoyed by
soaring stock prices, Sanyo -- Japan's eighth-largest
securities company in terms of revenue and trading volume --
racked up record profits. With Tokyo stocks climbing into the
stratosphere, Sanyo's ambitious young president, Yoichiro
Tsuchiya, decided the time was right for a bid to join the
ranks of the major securities houses. He pushed Sanyo, which
is 12.8%-owned by company controlled by Nomura Securities,
into new types of trading, such as warrants and futures,
increased staff by more than a third and significantly
expanded international operations.
   The centerpeice of Mr. Tsuchiya's bold vision for Sanyo's
future was an eight billion yen trading center replete with
giant wall-to-wall electronic display boards, lightning-fast
computers and a daunting array of gee-whiz telecommunications
equipment.
   Mr. Tsuchiya -- who declined requests for an interview --
told a monthly magazine soon after the center was opened that
he felt the trading center was necessary to bolster the
confidence of his sales force. "When a strong tailwind is
blowing, victory goes to the boat with the biggest sail," he
was quoted as saying.
   But Mr. Tsuchiya's strategy may have run aground. Earlier
this month, the market was abuzz with unsubstantiated reports
that Sanyo was about to lose as much as 50 billion yen in the
futures market. Other rumors suggested that Sanyo was in
danger of losing billions of yen from its holdings of
commercial paper issued by a recently failed New Zealand
investment bank. Reports about Sanyo's position in the
futures market appear to have been false. The contracts were
said to expire Sept. 13, but that deadline passed without
noticeable interruption of Sanyo's business.
   Sanyo officials confirm, however, that the firm holds $90
million in commercial paper issued by DFC New Zealand Ltd., a
formerly state-owned investment bank that floundered after
being privatized. But while acknowledging that they haven't
been able to collect on the loans -- which came due in
October 1989 -- Sanyo officials say they still believe the
firm will get most of its money back. "The conclusion on this
matter has yet to be drawn," said a Sanyo spokesman. "We
aren't worried about this at all," he added, "because it is
an issue with the New Zealand government."
   As if the talk about Sanyo isn't bad enough, some traders
have begun whispering that Sanyo's trading operations are
sinking -- not financially, but physically. Rumors have it
that Sanyo's giant trading floor, erected on a swath of
reclaimed land along the Tokyo waterfront, is slowly receding
into the muck. Sanyo officials say the reports are
preposterous.
   If Sanyo or any other securities firms are really
floundering, it is doubtful that Japan's financial
authorities would let them drown. When Yamaichi Securities
teetered on the brink of collapse in 1965, officials at the
Bank of Japan intervened to pump it full of emergency funds.
Many here think regulators at the central bank and the
Ministry of Finance remain ready to rescue the nation's
securities institutions before they fail.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo stock prices rebounded strongly from midday lows in
the last hour of the session Friday, posting the first daily
gain in seven trading days.
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues was up 174.85 points at
23777.83.
   Financial markets in Tokyo were closed for a public
holiday Monday.
   Friday's volume on the first section was estimated at 430
million shares, up from 407 million shares Thursday.
Decliners outnumbered advancers 564 to 387, while 151 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section gained was up 1.80 points, or 0.10%, to
1769.77.
   In London, stocks ended higher and at intraday peaks after
staging a major recovery from morning lows triggered by
widespread stock-index futures selling.
   Once the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index
dropped below 2000, "buyers just came out of the woodwork," a
trader said. The FT-SE 100 closed up 8.6 points at 2025.5.
The Financial Times 30 Share Index rose 6.3 points to 1537.3.
Volume was 553.7 million shares, compared with Thursday's
517.7 million shares.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Paris; lower in
Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Madrid, Milan, Stockholm, and
Zurich. Brussels hit a two-year low, while Amsterdam and
Stockholm ended at 1990 lows. South African gold stocks
closed narrowly mixed.
   Stocks closed lower in Sydney, Wellington, Hong Kong,
Manila and Singapore, mixed in Seoul and higher in Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This

                                                                                                       

 U.S. .....................   288.0       292.5    -11.4
 Britain ..................   593.1       607.0    -17.7
 Canada ...................   363.4       365.2    -16.0
 Japan ....................   980.4       998.3    -40.8
 France ...................   430.4       439.1    -24.1
 Germany ..................   235.2       237.5    -17.5
 Hong Kong ................  2166.2      2162.2    + 3.3
 Switzerland ..............   177.7       180.4    -19.5
 Australia ................   297.7       298.8    -10.1
 World index ..............   446.5       454.0    -21.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Safra Affair: A Saga of Corporate Intrigue
   ---
   The Vendetta:
   How American Express
   Orchestrated a Smear
   Of Rival Edmond Safra
   ---
   Top Aide to James Robinson
   Oversaw Two Who Spread
   False Stories World-Wide
   ---
   Officers Deny Doing Wrong
   ----
   By Bryan Burrough
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
BANKS (BNK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Slowly, with a hint here, a comment there, a question
began to dawn on some American Express executives: Was a top
aide to James D. Robinson III, the company's chairman and
chief executive officer, up to something they would be wise
to steer clear of?
   Harry L. Freeman was given to flashes of both brilliance
and bad judgment, but Mr. Robinson's reliance on him was
unquestioned. The two frequently began their day at 6:45 a.m.
over a pot of coffee in the chairman's corner office. Special
projects were Mr. Freeman's bailiwick, and associates say
that didn't please the company's top lawyers, Gary A. Beller
and Lawrence Ricciardi, who fretted that one of Mr. Freeman's
operations might one day blow up in their faces. "We've got
to stop this guy," Mr. Ricciardi said on more than one
occasion. "He's going to destroy us."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Few knew quite what Mr. Freeman was up to this time, but
it was clear he had targeted one of the company's thorniest
competitors, the international banker Edmond Safra, a man who
some American Express officials were obsessed with defeating.
   When Matthew Stover, then an American Express public
relations executive, asked about the project, he says, "I was
always told, `You don't want to know.'" Finally, in the
summer of 1988, Mr. Ricciardi, the lawyer, confronted Mr.
Freeman. "Harry, I don't know what you're up to," he said.
"But if I were you, I'd stop what you're doing immediately."
   The warning was apt, but it was too late. In a stunning
disclosure, American Express admitted last year that it had
engaged in a covert campaign to ruin Mr. Safra's reputation
by spreading rumors and articles in the international press.
The company made a painful, public apology for what its
chairman, Mr. Robinson, called an "unauthorized and shameful
effort," and paid $8 million to Mr. Safra and charities he
selected. As part of the agreement, details of this "shameful
effort" were to remain secret.
   Afterward Mr. Freeman announced his retirement, saying he
had done nothing wrong, but taking responsibility for the
affair because it had happened "on my watch." Company
officials privately blamed the incident on a handful of
unnamed low-level employees. Other top officials to this day
insist, as one puts it, "no one did anything he believed was
wrong or beyond his authority."
   But a lengthy investigation by this newspaper reveals
evidence suggesting the effort to smear Mr. Safra was in fact
overseen from Mr. Freeman's office, only steps away from Mr.
Robinson's.
   Mr. Freeman supervised and approved the hiring of the two
American Express operatives who carried out the Safra
campaign: One a private detective, the other a public
relations executive who frequently worked directly for Mr.
Robinson as an aide. For at least two years, the operatives
investigated Mr. Safra and then spread rumors and news
articles containing patently bogus information about him. The
articles linked Mr. Safra to drug trafficking, money
laundering and murder, and to criminal elements ranging from
Colombia's Medellin drug cartel to the late Mafia figure
Meyer Lansky. Mr. Freeman met often with one of the
operatives, and approved expense vouchers for the other.
   For American Express, a company that has enjoyed a
virtually unrivaled reputation for integrity, the Safra
affair reveals a willingness to engage in unseemly corporate
revenge when confronting a rival, and, at the very least a
jarring lack of oversight on the part of top company
officials.
   Despite regular contact with one of Mr. Freeman's
operatives, there is no concrete evidence that Mr. Robinson
knew of the smear campaign against Mr. Safra. Indeed, he and
other top American Express officials, including Mr. Freeman,
have vehemently denied any prior knowledge of the anti-Safra
effort. Instead, they argue that a legitimate investigation
of a competitor's activities was simply taken too far by
overzealous employees.
   The Safra affair is a story of corporate intrigue played
out on three continents. Suspecting that American Express was
behind the outbreak of specious stories that began surfacing
in early 1988, Mr. Safra hired numerous detectives who
engaged the American Express operatives in a cloak-and-dagger
pas de deux that resulted in proof of the company's
culpability roughly a year later.
   In response to repeated inquiries, American Express
yesterday issued a statement denying that any of its
employees knowingly spread false information. The company has
steadfastly declined to discuss details of the matter.
Instead, it turned to Arthur Liman, the noted New York
attorney, who in two phone calls over the past two months
said he would urge the company to sue this newspaper if it
published defamatory statements about the anti-Safra
campaign, suggesting that "this is a textbook case of what
libel is about." Mr. Liman emphasized that to comment further
would violate "the moral spirit" of the settlement with Mr.
Safra. In early August, Mr. Robinson telephoned Mr. Safra and
said he had "personally told my people," including Mr.
Freeman, not to talk to this newspaper.
   Last week, an attorney representing Mr. Freeman, John
Walsh, wrote this newspaper to say that this article would be
"actionable" if it contained any statements implying that Mr.
Freeman had engaged in or covered up "any campaign of
disinformation" against Mr. Safra.
   This article was pieced together from interviews with
dozens of people involved in the Safra affair, including
American and European journalists, private detectives and
more than 15 current and former American Express executives.
Among the few executives willing to comment on the record was
Robert F. Smith, former chairman of American Express Bank,
who left the company under a cloud last year.
                                                                                                       

   From Rivalry to Obsession:
   A Merger Gone Bad
                                                                                                       

   The feud between American Express and Mr. Safra developed
soon after Mr. Robinson's decision in 1983 to buy for $550
million Mr. Safra's Geneva-based Trade Development Bank,
known as TDB, one of the crown jewels of the rarefied world
of Swiss banking. Mr. Safra, born in Beirut and descended
from a long line of Syrian traders and bankers, had founded
TDB's predecessor bank in 1956, after having founded his
first bank in Brazil. In the 1960s Mr. Safra started a U.S.
bank, Republic National Bank of New York, and the firms' rise
made him one of the world's most influential bankers.
   The union of American Express's international banking arm,
American Express Bank, and TDB was doomed from the beginning,
largely because of Mr. Safra's inability to function within
the rigid framework of a multinational conglomerate.
Associates say Mr. Safra might have stepped out of an
18th-century portrait, a formal, secretive billionaire whose
Swiss bank offered unmatched personal service to its wealthy
Middle Eastern and Latin American clients. Befitting his
image, Mr. Safra lives in a castle-like villa, La Leopolda,
the King of Belgium's former estate on the French Riviera.
   In image and experience, Mr. Safra's new boss, Jim
Robinson, could hardly have been more different. Mr.
Robinson, a Harvard MBA and the son of a legendary Atlanta
banker has in his 13-year reign generated generally strong
financial results and reaped publicity so relentlessly
favorable that, until this year's near-collapse of the
company's Shearson Lehman Hutton unit, he was sometimes known
as "The Teflon Executive." The formal, unfailingly polite Mr.
Robinson speaks again and again of the importance of quality
and integrity.
   Mr. Robinson's image has had a paradoxical quality that
has become more pronounced in recent years. Although he is
portrayed as a hands on manager who pores relentlessly over
briefing papers and knows the names of low-level employees at
company field offices, he is also depicted as an executive
who gives subordinates a great deal of leeway, a fact that
has often forced -- or enabled -- him to plead ignorance when
plans go awry.
   Mr. Robinson's efforts to bring Mr. Safra and TDB into the
21st century failed miserably. Mr. Safra abhorred memos;
American Express demanded them. Mr. Safra emphasized
longstanding relationships; American Express wanted more
loans and higher margins. Mr. Safra deplored publicity;
American Express thrived on it. American Express executives
thought Mr. Safra high-handed and imperial; Mr. Safra felt
excluded from Mr. Robinson's inner circle.
   After less than two years, the two men parted ways. In
December 1984 Mr. Safra resigned as chairman of the
TDB-American Express Bank combination, but agreed not to
found a new Swiss bank until March 1988. Mr. Robinson,
anxious to make the split appear amicable, gave him the means
to do so, selling Mr. Safra some minor operations in Paris
and London and, more importantly, TDB's Geneva headquarters,
the symbol of Mr. Safra's Swiss power.
   Simmering resentment burst into open hostility during Mr.
Safra's severance negotiations, when the two sides couldn't
agree on a price for the Geneva headquarters. Matters grew
worse in the months following Mr. Safra's departure, when
officials at American Express Bank suspected that Mr. Safra
was hiring away employees with an eye to his 1988 re-entry
into Swiss banking. Incensed, Bob Smith, the banker who
succeeded Mr. Safra as chairman, launched a full-scale
investigation, even hiring detectives to follow the employees
in question. "I told Jim {Robinson} what we were doing," Mr.
Smith says today. "I told him it was necessary to keep it
secret."
   Fear of Mr. Safra mounted as Mr. Smith constantly warned
Mr. Robinson of the threat posed by Mr. Safra's looming
return to Swiss banking. Inside American Express, the feeling
spread that any effort by Mr. Safra to reclaim his former
customers could be a death blow to the weakened bank.
   Their worries were fanned by Mr. Smith's inability to
trust his own executives, many of whom had worked for Mr.
Safra, and by the bank's status as a poor-performing orphan
within the American Express empire. Headquarters had tried to
sell the bank in 1981; Mr. Smith and his aides also explored
a leveraged-buy-out.
   Mr. Smith, by his own admission, had become obsessed with
stopping Mr. Safra. His aides began looking for anything that
might harm Mr. Safra, investigating whether the banker might
be using his corporate jet for personal trips -- although
there is no evidence he did so -- and probing his U.S. tax
situation for weaknesses -- although the IRS has never
brought an action against Mr. Safra. "I said, `If the son of
a bitch competes with us, we'll turn him in to the IRS,'" Mr.
Smith recalls. When Mr. Safra learned of these efforts, he
protested to Mr. Robinson on a number of occasions between
1985 and 1987. With regard to such protests, Mr. Smith
recalls telling aides, "Screw {Safra}, we've done nothing
wrong."
   Mr. Smith's anger spread to other American Express
executives. In early 1987 American Express finally took legal
action, filing a criminal complaint against Mr. Safra in
Geneva for unfair competition, mentioning the stolen
employees -- the banker's companies had hired as many as 23
American Express Bank employees -- and a key computer tape
that turned up missing. When Mr. Safra applied for his
banking license that May, American Express lawyers filed
papers to block it.
   Months ticked away. Then, in January 1988 Swiss
authorities approved the licensing of Mr. Safra's new bank,
rejecting the American Express brief out of hand. The fight
should have ended there, and to outward appearances it had:
American Express declined to appeal, allowed its criminal
complaint to lapse, and Mr. Robinson called and graciously
congratulated Mr. Safra. In fact, it was only the beginning.
                                                                                                       

   A Matter of Honor:
   The Hunter Is Hunted
                                                                                                       

   The summer of 1988 began joyously for Edmond Safra. In
March, he opened his new bank at the site of his old one, 2
Place du Lac in Geneva, the city's pre-eminent banking
address. In August, he invited thousands of guests, including
Prince Rainier and Princess Caroline of Monaco, to his
birthday party at La Leopolda.
   The celebratory mood ended two weeks later, when Mr. Safra
was shown a curious article in La Depeche du Midi, a French
newspaper based in Toulouse. A jumble of fact and fiction,
the story linked Mr. Safra to the Mafia, South American drug
traffickers, the CIA and the Iran-Contra scandal. To Mr.
Safra's surprise, it also referred to similar stories in
Peruvian and Mexican publications, and to a previous article
in La Depeche that March linking Mr. Safra to drug
money-laundering.
   Mr. Safra's alarm grew when the other articles crossed his
desk. A Lima-based newspaper named Hoy had run a full-page
article July 4 profiling Mr. Safra and his banks as the pawns
of drug traffickers and tying him again to New York
gangsters, the CIA and the Iran-Contra affair. "Mafioso
bankers turn their eyes to the south," the headline read.
Five days later, a left-wing Mexico City paper named Uno Mas
Uno had reprinted much of the Hoy story.
   The articles posed a potentially devastating attack on Mr.
Safra's reputation for honesty and discretion. But they also
thrust at the dark underside of Swiss banking -- the fact
that its vaunted secrecy laws attract money from criminal
enterprises of all stripes to its institutions, including,
from time to time, Mr. Safra's. Too many people, his aides
could see, might believe the stories.
   As Mr. Safra's aides studied what to do, a bombshell hit.
In Paris, an extreme right-wing, anti-Semitic newspaper named
Minute published on Aug. 31, 1988, an article charging that
Mr. Safra was actively involved with cocaine traffickers and
the Mafia. "Billionaire of the White Stuff," the headline
read.
   Horrified, Mr. Safra summoned his top aides to La Leopolda
to discuss what to do. The articles had a number of common
elements, and the assembled executives agreed on one thing:
If the articles represented an organized campaign, only
American Express had the world-wide resources -- and the
motive -- to carry it off. "But you know," Walter Weiner,
Republic Bank's chairman, said at one point, "we'll never be
able to prove that."
   In the meantime, Mr. Safra sued Minute, but only after the
paper published four more lurid articles that fall, alleging
Mr. Safra's ties to Manuel Noriega, the Medellin cartel and
Meyer Lansky. Then, when proceedings in the libel suits began
later that fall, one of Mr. Safra's French lawyers made a
startling discovery. Near the top of a 1967 Life magazine
article on the Mafia, which never mentioned Mr. Safra but
which Minute had produced to defend information in one of its
articles, a fax "telltale" could clearly be seen: "FEB 25 '88
21:26 AMEX CORP COMM NYC." The article had been transmitted
by a fax machine at American Express's New York corporate
communications department.
   The Safra camp's jubilance over the discovery was tempered
when they realized that the "telltale" was far from
conclusive. Among the few other pieces of evidence they had
was a name: Tony Greco. It had come thirdhand, from the
boyfriend of a Minute clerk. When Mr. Weiner, Republic Bank's
chief, hired a detective to look into Mr. Greco, he found
nothing.
   Then, in February 1989, as the Safra forces pondered their
next move, they got a break. The Miami office of Republic
Bank of New York received a call from a Peruvian named Victor
Tirado, who claimed to have information about an organized
smear campaign against Mr. Safra. The call was forwarded to
Republic's general counsel, Ernest Ginsberg, who then called
Mr. Weiner and exulted: "I just got a call and I can't
believe my ears]"
   A Safra detective traveled to Washington to meet Mr.
Tirado, who, to the Safra team's surprise, turned out to be
deputy press attache at the Peruvian embassy and a former
press secretary to the then-president of Peru, Alan Garcia.
The rotund Mr. Tirado told the detective that a friend named
Antonio Greco was behind stories about Mr. Safra in Peru, and
probably in Europe as well.
   Mr. Tirado's second contention was even more provocative:
"Greco claims he's working directly with Jim Robinson." While
that assertion was never proven, it gave the Safra forces
added incentive to probe Mr. Greco's activities.
   Mr. Tirado offered little more, but said he would if paid
a $10,000 "honorarium." After considerable soul-searching,
Mr. Safra, worried about the propriety of paying a foreign
diplomat, decided against making the payment.
   It was the last time the Safra executives heard from Mr.
Tirado, but his call persuaded them to bring in expert help.
An even greater impetus was the continued spread of
anti-Safra articles, which began appearing in U.S.
publications that spring of 1989. Mr. Safra hired Stanley
Arkin, a pugnacious New York attorney known for defending
figures in Wall Street's insider-trading scandals, and
charged him with stopping the articles.
   Before he could stop the articles, Mr. Arkin saw, he had
to know what was behind them. For investigative work Mr.
Arkin turned to Palladino &amp; Sutherland, a small but respected
San Francisco detective agency known for work on behalf of
fallen auto executive John Z. DeLorean. The firm is run by a
husband-and-wife team, Jack Palladino, an attorney and former
Ford Fellow, and Sandra Sutherland, who is also a published
poet.
   Mr. Arkin's charge was simple: Find out whether the
anti-Safra articles represent an organized campaign. If so,
was American Express behind it? And who was the mysterious
Mr. Greco?
   Aware that reporters don't typically turn over
confidential sources to strangers, much less private
detectives, Ms. Sutherland journeyed to Europe that spring
under disguise. In visits to publications in France, Italy
and Switzerland, she posed as an Australian free-lance writer
researching Mr. Safra for a book on money-laundering. At
Minute and La Depeche, journalists promised to put her in
touch with their Safra sources. At both stops, she was shown
the same strange, hand-drawn chart purporting to link Mr.
Safra to many criminal organizations. Clearly, Ms. Sutherland
reported to Mr. Arkin, the articles were coming from a single
source.
   Ms. Sutherland had hoped her inquiries might flush out the
anti-Safra sources, and before long, she succeeded. Arriving
in Geneva in April 1989, Ms. Sutherland had just checked into
a hotel when her phone rang. A deep, ominous voice, speaking
in Italian, told her: "I'm a friend. You don't know who I am,
but we should talk." The talk went nowhere, but the American
detective had a strong hunch her bait had been taken.
   At the same time, Ms. Sutherland became aware that
someone, perhaps the mysterious caller, was counterattacking,
spreading rumors that she was working for the CIA. Some Swiss
journalists canceled meetings with her as a result.
   As Ms. Sutherland crisscrossed Europe, Mr. Safra's forces
pressed parallel investigations in Latin America and the U.S.
A Palladino detective was dispatched to Peru, where he posed
as a journalist in search of information on Mr. Greco. In
Peru, he found, Mr. Greco was known as an international
businessman with a large home in Spain, outside Barcelona.
   Mr. Arkin, meanwhile, was tipped that the elusive Mr.
Greco had a second home on a secluded cul-de-sac in an
Italian area of New York's Staten Island. The lawyer brought
in a second detective agency, a Connecticut-based group of
former FBI agents. These detectives kept Mr. Greco's home
under surveillance and even went through his garbage. But Mr.
Greco seemed to be constantly traveling, and they made little
progress.
   By May 1989, Mr. Arkin's luck was changing. In Paris, Ms.
Sutherland had begun negotiations with a Minute reporter to
meet the paper's source. One meeting fell through when the
source didn't show. When the source finally arrived in early
May, Ms. Sutherland was out of touch in Australia. In
desperation Mr. Arkin directed that Ms. Sutherland's Parisian
translator, an aging former starlet named Sophie Hardy, be
sent to the meeting.
   Identifying himself as "Jaime," a journalist based in
Santiago, Chile, "the source" turned out to be a small,
swarthy man of 50 or so who, over dinner at an expensive
Chinese restaurant on the Champs Elysees, questioned Ms.
Hardy intently about Ms. Sutherland. "He was a very strange
person . . . acting like a spy," recalls Ms. Hardy. "He told
me I had been duped, that {Ms. Sutherland} was working with
the CIA." When Ms. Hardy was unable to reveal more about Ms.
Sutherland -- she didn't know her true identity -- "all of a
sudden he launched into this very brutal behavior" and
abruptly ended the dinner, Ms. Hardy recalls.
   When Ms. Sutherland reached Paris several weeks later, she
showed Ms. Hardy pictures of several unidentified men,
including a surveillance photo of Mr. Greco. "Yes]" Ms. Hardy
exclaimed, pointing to Mr. Greco. "That's him]"
   All that remained was linking Mr. Greco to American
Express, something Mr. Safra's lawyers were uncomfortably
aware they hadn't yet done. Frustrated, Mr. Arkin switched
surveillance teams on Mr. Greco's Staten Island home,
dropping the Connecticut detectives and hiring a third
agency. Within days the new team got a break. An operative
followed Mr. Greco's car to Bouley, a discreet, lower
Manhattan restaurant, where Mr. Greco was photographed dining
with an unidentified woman. Afterward the detective shadowed
Mr. Greco as he dropped off the woman at an apartment
building on Central Park West. On a hunch, Mr. Arkin put a
second tail on the woman. The next day detectives followed
her to work. As the surprised operatives looked on, the woman
disappeared inside American Express headquarters.
                                                                                                       

   Harry Freeman Launches
   His `Secret Weapon'
                                                                                                       

   The woman's name was Susan Cantor, and she was a newly
minted senior vice president at American Express Bank,
specializing in wealthy Latin American clients. But as a
former associate producer of investigative projects for ABC
News, Ms. Cantor was no ordinary banker. More than a year
before Mr. Greco's activities attracted notice, her mix of
investigative and journalistic talents had made Ms. Cantor so
valuable that Harry Freeman referred to her as his "secret
weapon" in the fight against Edmond Safra.
   Ms. Cantor joined ABC in the early 1980s after receiving a
masters degree in international relations from Yale in 1981.
Moving from posts in a documentary unit to World News Tonight
to the investigative unit, she became known as an avid
conspiracy theorist whose intelligence, ambition and Latin
American expertise seldom translated into solid stories.
   One of her former ABC supervisors describes Ms. Cantor as
more adept at conspiratorial thinking than journalism. "She
was great on the latest conspiracy theory coming off the
Hill, the latest person running the secret war in Nicaragua,"
the supervisor says. "I would say, `Susan go nail it down.'
And she couldn't nail it down."
   In a statement released yesterday, Ms. Cantor says she
resigned in 1986 to pursue other opportunities. Some ABC
co-workers say that decision came after her boss repeatedly
suggested she wasn't suited for network news. Her failure to
translate rumor and theory into usable Latin American stories
had alienated a number of correspondents.
   In early 1987, at a time when American Express's fear of
Mr. Safra was approaching its height, Mr. Freeman interviewed
and hired Ms. Cantor for a job in American Express's public
relations department. Walter Montgomery, then the department
head, told co-workers Ms. Cantor's television experience
would be invaluable. But Ms. Cantor wasn't destined to do
much P.R. work. Almost immediately upon her hiring, Mr.
Freeman tapped her for a top-secret "special assignment."
   When American Express Bank officials began raising the
alarm about Mr. Safra in the mid-1980s, they had found a
willing ear in Mr. Freeman. Trained as a lawyer, he had come
to American Express in 1975 after years of government work as
an executive for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
Of the four top aides who shared American Express's 51st
floor executive suite, Mr. Freeman was probably closest to
his boss. Though half his duties were supervising the
company's extensive government, advertising and corporate
relations apparatus, Mr. Freeman always said the other half
was "crisis of the day" work with Mr. Robinson.
   Though his ideas could be innovative, as when dealing with
international trade, his penchant for unorthodox projects
worried American Express lawyers. In 1987, for example, Mr.
Freeman was blamed internally when American Express admitted
it had secretly funded a supposedly nonbiased newsletter's
survey of credit card interest rates that The Wall Street
Journal routinely referred to until it learned of American
Express' involvement. Mr. Freeman said at the time he saw
nothing wrong with funding the newsletter.
   As bank executives in Europe probed charges that Mr. Safra
was hiring away employees, Mr. Freeman grew convinced that
Mr. Safra was intent on destroying American Express Bank. He
began collecting the darkest rumors about Mr. Safra, that he
was involved in money laundering, drug trafficking and had
ties to the CIA and French and Israeli intelligence.
   Ms. Cantor's "special assignment" to investigate these
rumors initially centered on allegations reported by Swiss
papers and the New York Times in December 1986, that a plane
owned by Mr. Safra may have been used to transport former
national security advisor Robert MacFarlane to Iran as part
of talks in the Iran-Contra affair. Interviews with European
journalists, as well as current and former American Express
officials, suggest that in the coming months, Ms. Cantor's
mission evolved from gathering information on Mr. Safra's
plane, to helping reporters investigate him, to spreading
rumors and negative articles on the banker's alleged drug
ties.
   Ms. Cantor said in her statement: "I never intended or
sought to disseminate false information concerning Edmond
Safra to anyone, and I never instructed, asked or engaged
anyone to spread such information."
   From the beginning, she sought to hide her ties to
American Express. In February 1987 she traveled to Geneva,
where she met with at least two journalists, including Maya
Jurt, a veteran Swiss writer who had reported the story of
Mr. Safra's plane two months earlier. When Ms. Cantor dined
at Ms. Jurt's home on February 8, she didn't mention American
Express. "She said she was writing a big piece on Iran Contra
for Time magazine," recalls Ms. Jurt. "She wanted to know
what I had {on Mr. Safra}, what kind of proof I had. I showed
her all my documents."
   By the time Ms. Cantor returned to New York, she had
gathered quite a bit of information. A former ABC producer
who kept in touch with her recalls, "She begins to blow in my
ear, `Hey, Safra this; hey Safra that; hey, MacFarlane and a
plane that.' I said, `Hey, if you can confirm any of this, I
might be interested.' But she couldn't."
   Her file on Mr. Safra bulging with European news articles
and records from Geneva's corporate registry, Ms. Cantor next
traveled to Washington to share it with the House select
committee investigating the Iran-Contra affair. Joseph P.
Saba, a staff counsel probing Oliver North's various Swiss
transactions, met Ms. Cantor in a public room in the capitol
one day when she arrived unannounced, file in hand.
   Ms. Cantor identified herself "as a former journalist
whose current employer knew nothing of what she was doing,"
Mr. Saba recalls. "She said she was doing it for primarily
journalistic reasons."
   The lawyer, accustomed to zealots with similarly vague
explanations, took Ms. Cantor's file and promised to
investigate. In coming months, as Mr. Saba followed lead
after dubious lead on Mr. Safra, Ms. Cantor phoned and
visited frequently. "It was always, `Here's what I've got,
what do you think?' And my answer was, `Not much,'" says Mr.
Saba.
   At one point, Mr. Saba asked the committee's press liaison
to find out more about Ms. Cantor. When he learned that she
worked for American Express, "we said that was fine," Mr.
Saba recalls. "Motive wasn't something I was interested in."
When Mr. Saba confronted her, Ms. Cantor acknowledged working
for American Express. She told him stories about her snooping
trips to Europe, insisting her work was for personal reasons.
   When not probing Mr. Safra, Ms. Cantor assumed a number of
duties at American Express that placed her in direct contact
with the chairman, Mr. Robinson. Former executives say Ms.
Cantor spent much of her New York time working for Mr.
Robinson on his much publicized plan to solve the Third World
debt crisis. Among her jobs was assembling briefing books for
Mr. Robinson and arranging Mr. Robinson's schedule for his
Latin American trips; in this role, she once quizzed a Wall
Street Journal international banking reporter on officials
for Mr. Robinson to visit in Mexico City. A former banker in
Shearson Lehman's debt group says she also took on heftier
duties, mediating, at Mr. Robinson's request, a dispute
between Shearson and American Express Bank over how to handle
the bank's Third World debt.
   Much of her focus, however, continued to be on Mr. Safra.
In the months to come, Ms. Cantor punctuated her increasingly
frequent European travels with whirlwind stops by American
Express's London office, where her appetite for dirt on Mr.
Safra was matched only by her willingness to talk about it.
To other executives Ms. Cantor spoke excitedly of how she
changed her hair color and appearance on her travels and of
how she secretly photographed Mr. Safra's villa, La Leopolda.
   In September 1987 Ms. Cantor returned to Geneva, where she
met with Irene Hirsch, a Swiss-based economic correspondent
for a Spanish paper. She told Ms. Hirsch she was working on a
"top secret story" on the Iran-Contra affair to appear in The
Washington Post. Ms. Hirsch, who knew Ms. Cantor actually
worked for American Express, was confused. "Why was somebody
working for American Express saying they were working for The
Washington Post?" she wondered. "I felt in some way she was
fishy."
   Ms. Cantor's poses seemed to change from stop to stop.
While dining at Maya Jurt's Geneva home September 1, she told
the writer she was researching a book on Mr. Safra and the
Iran-Contra affair.
   Ms. Cantor denies ever having posed as an author, or as a
reporter for Time or the Washington Post. She also denies
ever having disguised her appearance.
   Ms. Jurt, who was working on a second article on Mr.
Safra, responded eagerly when Ms. Cantor, offering to help,
referred her to Mr. Saba, the Iran-Contra lawyer. Eager to
swap leads, Mr. Saba faxed Ms. Jurt copies of telexes
pertaining to the use of Mr. Safra's plane. Ms. Jurt used
this information in an article exploring the banker's
possible Iran-Contra connections in Bilanz, a Swiss magazine,
two months later. (By that time Mr. Saba had met with Mr.
Safra's attorneys and concluded that neither the banker nor
his plane had any significant role in the Iran-Contra
affair.)
   When Ms. Cantor faxed the names of pilots believed to have
flown Mr. Safra's plane, Ms. Jurt was surprised to see an
American Express "telltale" on the fax. "I asked her point
blank, didn't she think it was very incompatible, what she
was doing," Ms. Jurt says. "She said, yes, it was very
difficult," explaining that she was working for American
Express part-time because she needed the money, Ms. Jurt
adds. "She was very smooth about the whole thing." Later Ms.
Cantor boasted of her Latin American travels with Mr.
Robinson, although she never said that Mr. Robinson knew of
her Safra activities.
   For his part, Mr. Saba, who learned the full dimensions of
American Express's activities years later, says of his
dealings with Ms. Cantor, "I'm a little pissed that I got
used."
   Irked as well, Ms. Jurt says she refused to follow up
when, in coming months, Ms. Cantor slipped her articles from
Peru, France and Mexico alleging Mr. Safra's ties to drug
traffickers. "That stuff she gave me, I just said, `I won't
touch it,'" Ms. Jurt says. "It was ridiculous. Just because a
paper reported something, that doesn't mean it's worth
printing."
   Ms. Cantor frequently telephoned Mr. Freeman from Europe
in the presence of co-workers and journalists, and even told
one journalist, Ms. Hirsch, she was working for Mr. Freeman.
But some people sympathetic to Mr. Freeman insist he didn't
know details of her work and didn't supervise her closely.
                                                                                                       

   Trafficking in Rumor:
   The Evolution of a Smear
                                                                                                       

   By early 1988, when Switzerland approved the licensing of
Mr. Safra's new bank, Mr. Freeman's concern about Mr. Safra
had deepened. To him, the Swiss move only showed how powerful
the banker was. By the time Mr. Smith and his aides began
scrambling to keep customers from defecting to Mr. Safra that
spring, Mr. Freeman had approved the hiring of a private
detective, Antonio "Tony" Greco. His activities would lead
American Express' campaign against Mr. Safra into a new, more
aggressive phase.
   According to several former American Express executives,
Mr. Greco's employment was suggested by Paul Knight, a former
federal narcotics agent and chief of American Express
security for Europe and the Middle East. Mr. Greco was said
to be a discreet, professional investigator. He had done work
for American Express for more than a decade.
   Police records in two countries, however, paint a
different picture of Mr. Greco. The detective has a record of
arrests and convictions in Italy and the United States going
back to 1962. He has also, several former law enforcement
professionals acknowledge, operated as a paid informant for a
number of government agencies. A Wall Street Journal request
to review his file at the Immigration &amp; Naturalization
Service's New York office was denied because, in the words of
spokesman Charles Troy, "the file appears to be classified."
   "Greco peddles information; he's fairly well known in the
law enforcement community," says Michael Hershman, a former
federal investigator and head of Fairfax Group, a private
security agency. "There's a thousand guys like him around;
he's not unusual. What is unusual is that a company like
American Express would use someone like that. That strikes me
as poor judgment."
   Working with government agencies and American Express,
however, hasn't kept Mr. Greco out of trouble. According to a
computer printout that appears to be Mr. Greco's complete
Italian criminal record, he was convicted in 1982 of
conspiracy and handling stolen goods by a court in Genoa,
Italy, and sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison.
Earlier, in 1980, the document indicates, a court in Rome had
convicted Mr. Greco of theft and sentenced him to a year in
prison. According to the document, both sentences were
commuted as part of a general amnesty. In the U.S., Mr. Greco
was arrested at least five times between 1968 and 1972 for a
variety of offenses ranging from smuggling to carrying an
unlicensed pistol; each of the charges was subsequently
dropped. Mr. Greco couldn't be reached for comment.
   It is unclear whether Mr. Freeman or Ms. Cantor knew of
Mr. Greco's criminal record. For Mr. Freeman, hiring a
detective wasn't unusual: American Express retains an
estimated 200 or more investigators, many of them former New
York City policemen and FBI agents, to combat credit card and
travelers check fraud.
   Some at American Express say Mr. Freeman believed that Mr.
Greco was only gathering, not spreading, information on Mr.
Safra, and Mr. Freeman has told friends he has never even
seen the detective. There is evidence that suggests Mr. Greco
reported to Ms. Cantor, who reported to Mr. Freeman.
   Still, when Mr. Greco began traveling on his new
assignment, it was Mr. Freeman who approved his expenses.
According to a person who saw Mr. Greco's contract in 1988,
the detective was paid $15,000 a month, plus $500 a day in
expenses.
   Full details of Mr. Greco's travels for American Express
are presumably still in the company's files. But he can be
linked to at least three of the most widely distributed
articles charging Mr. Safra with criminal activities. At La
Depeche, the French paper that alleged Mr. Safra's drug links
in March and August 1988, reporter Jacques Bertrand
acknowledges knowing Mr. Greco, at one point calling him his
"ami," or his friend, but wouldn't elaborate.
   According to a person who has known Mr. Greco for 25
years, in early 1988 Mr. Greco looked up his old friend
Victor Tirado in Lima, Peru, and told him he was interested
in placing a story in the newspaper Hoy, where Mr. Tirado had
once worked as a columnist. Mr. Tirado, this person says,
gave Mr. Greco a contact at Hoy, then thought little about
the matter until seeing the paper's article on Mr. Safra's
drug ties and remembering Mr. Greco's own comments about the
banker.
   The selection of Hoy may not have been accidental. The
Peruvian newspaper, like the French newspaper Minute, has
carried anti-Semitic articles, according to Morton Rosenthal,
a Latin American expert for the Anti-Defamation League of
B'Nai B'Rith. Mr. Rosenthal, who looked into the Safra affair
at Mr. Safra's request, says the Peruvian article was
reprinted in the Mexico City newspaper, Uno Mas Uno, after
being transmitted by a Lima representative of Prensa Latina,
the official news agency of Cuba.
   The most detailed version of Mr. Greco's activities comes
from former journalists at Minute, the Parisian newspaper
that printed articles linking Mr. Safra to criminal elements
ranging from the Mafia to the Medellin Cartel. Jean Roberto,
the senior reporter who wrote the articles, says in an
interview that Mr. Greco first contacted Minute in August
1988, identifying himself as a detective probing
money-laundering activities and hinting that he worked for
the CIA or the FBI. Mr. Greco promised to supply information
on a prominent banker -- who turned out to be Mr. Safra --
who was laundering money for, among others, former Panamanian
dictator Manuel Noriega.
   In coming months, Mr. Roberto says, he met regularly with
Mr. Greco, often at his hotel, The Intercontinental. Each
time Mr. Greco offered more sensational tales about Mr.
Safra, complete with graphs charting his criminal contacts,
and documents, including an Interpol inquiry on Mr. Safra's
Iran-Contra links. Mr. Roberto printed the document alongside
his first article on Mr. Safra, "Billionaire of the White
Stuff."
   When Mr. Greco claimed that Mr. Safra was living in fear
of Colombian drug traffickers he had double-crossed, Mr.
Roberto wrote in a second article that Mr. Safra was hiding
out in his Riviera estate, "perspiring in fear" of the drug
cartel's assassins. Mr. Greco also passed on clippings from
Hoy and other newspapers as well as photos of La Leopolda,
all of which Minute used in its increasingly lurid articles.
   Whether by accident or design, the seed Mr. Greco planted
spread to other publications, as Mr. Roberto shared his
information and documents with other European journalists.
Mr. Roberto, for instance, recalls "spending an afternoon"
with Jean-Claude Buffle, a Swiss journalist who has since
written extensively on Mr. Safra's supposed drug ties in a
magazine named L'Hebdo. Mr. Buffle's stories, in turn, were
followed by other Swiss reporters, who produced a spate of
articles linking Mr. Safra to drug money in 1989. Mr. Safra
has gained retractions from some publications; others, like
L'Hebdo, he has sued.
   "Mr. Greco had a lot of information about Mr. Safra, and
that's why I had confidence in him," says Mr. Roberto, who
has left Minute. Adds Jean-Claude Goudeau, Mr. Roberto's
editor at the time: "Greco seemed solid." Asked why Mr. Greco
would choose to pass information to Minute, which is known
for anti-Semitism, Mr. Roberto says simply: "Because Mr.
Safra is a Jew."
                                                                                                       

   What Was Susan Cantor
   Up To, Anyway?
                                                                                                       

   As anti-Safra articles began appearing in international
publications, the Safra effort encountered some internal
opposition. In mid-summer 1988, James McGrath, then American
Express' world-wide security chief, telephoned Mr. Ricciardi,
the associate general counsel whose duties included
overseeing the company's security force. Mr. McGrath was
curious why Ms. Cantor had called and, invoking Mr.
Robinson's name, told the London security chief, Mr. Knight,
to return to New York "for a very important meeting."
   After Mr. McGrath related the call, a puzzled Mr.
Ricciardi phoned Ms. Cantor. According to a person familiar
with the conversation, their exchange went like this: "Who
are you investigating?" Mr. Ricciardi asked.
   "I'm not sure I can say," Ms. Cantor replied. But when Mr.
Ricciardi pressed, Ms. Cantor said it was Mr. Safra.
   "This is very important," she explained. "I work for Harry
Freeman. This is for Jim Robinson. This is his show."
   Mr. Ricciardi seemed wary when Mr. Freeman's name was
mentioned. "You tell Jim Robinson to call me if he wants to
use Paul Knight," he told Ms. Cantor. There's no indication
Mr. Robinson ever did so. It was at that point, however, that
a worried Mr. Ricciardi, with Mr. McGrath in tow, went to Mr.
Freeman's office and warned him to stop whatever he was
doing.
   In coming months Mr. Ricciardi repeated his concerns to
Mr. Beller, and to his superior, Aldo Papone, head of the
travel-related services unit, American Express' largest, and
a member of the company's board. But those concerns weren't
expressed to Mr. Robinson, the man in a position to stop the
operation.
   Despite intense secrecy, hints of the Safra project wafted
through American Express. "We heard there was investigative
work going on," says a former executive in travel-related
services, "but the word coming down from corporate was,
`Don't get your noses in it.'"
   One person who grew curious was Bob Smith at American
Express Bank, who became Ms. Cantor's new boss when she
transferred from public relations into a bank position with
loosely defined duties in mid-1988. Mr. Smith says he hired
Ms. Cantor after a phone call from Mr. Robinson, who
suggested she might be useful in courting Latin American
clients.
   Different people give different reasons for Ms. Cantor's
transfer. Two people familiar with the move say Ms. Cantor
was shifted after pressure from the general counsel, Mr.
Beller, who purportedly wanted to distance her anti-Safra
work from Mr. Robinson and other executives; Ms. Cantor told
at least one bank executive this. Other people familiar with
Ms. Cantor's work said they knew of no such pressure. Ms.
Cantor, these people say, simply wanted a "line position"
that would give her greater responsibility. "She told me Jim
Robinson told her to get a line job, that it would be good
for her career," recalls a former Shearson executive.
   Whatever the case, in her new position Ms. Cantor
continued reporting to Mr. Freeman, spending much of her time
on the Safra project. Mr. Smith knew Ms. Cantor was
investigating Mr. Safra, but says he was told her findings
were to be passed on to Swiss and other European bank
regulators, not newspapers. Ms. Cantor was handling payments
to Mr. Greco, and at her request, Mr. Smith took over the
task of approving them, sometimes in increments of $30,000 or
more.
   "I did it because Harry Freeman had approved what she was
doing," Mr. Smith says today. "{Cantor} was working for
Freeman, a corporate vice president, who worked directly for
Robinson. I had no need to protect my ass."
   Mr. Smith was the only bank executive with an inkling of
Ms. Cantor's actual duties, and below him, rumors about her
swirled. Ignorant of banking procedures, Ms. Cantor embarked
on a training regimen that was frequently interrupted by
unexplained overseas trips. Soon other executives, hearing of
her journalistic background and Latin American expertise,
began whispering that Ms. Cantor was secretly working on an
unauthorized book about American Express, or with the
Nicaraguan Contras.
   Even Mr. Smith had doubts. "To tell you the truth, I
always thought she worked for the CIA," he says. Mr. Smith
adds: "She was always with Freeman. She had lunches with
Freeman. She was always off with him . . . or on some
Robinson project."
   In addition, Ms. Cantor helped the bank, making
introductions in Mexico and Venezuela. At a Mexico City
dinner celebrating the election of President Carlos Salinas
de Gortari in 1988, "she knew everyone at the table," Mr.
Smith says, including a dozen senior Mexican officials. "I
never went to a cocktail party with someone who knew so many
people."
   The bank wasn't the only one Ms. Cantor helped. At one
point, according to a former Shearson executive, she urged
Shearson to hire Mr. Greco in an effort to secure the
Peruvian government as a client. After wrangling for weeks
over a fee -- Mr. Greco insisted on being paid by the hour --
the detective arranged a meeting in New York between Shearson
executives and a group of Peruvian officials, including the
finance minister. Though Shearson never got the business, at
Ms. Cantor's insistence Mr. Greco received about $15,000,
says the former Shearson executive.
   As Ms. Cantor settled in, Mr. Smith and his deputies
watched the surge of negative articles about Mr. Safra. Soon
customers were asking who was behind them. Mr. Smith was
fairly sure he knew.
   Worried that any wrongdoing might be blamed on the bank,
Mr. Smith says he confronted Mr. Freeman about the Safra
articles and Ms. Cantor's "special assignment" in the fall of
1988. "I said, `What the hell is going on? Are you doing
anything?'" Mr. Smith recalls. "He just kind of looked at me
and smiled. I said, `Look, if you are involved in this,
you're out of your mind.'"
   He continues: "I told Harry, I told Susan, I had no desire
to know what they were doing. I didn't want to know. I wanted
nothing to do with it." He says Mr. Freeman, while denying
that he was spreading anti-Safra articles, told him: "`Well,
Susan is so busy with her banking now, it's just about
over.'"
   After talking with Mr. Freeman, Mr. Smith says he began
keeping a close eye on Ms. Cantor. "At that point in time, I
said, `Let's make sure this gal is real busy,'" he says. "We
started to really crank up the workload on her. We said,
`Okay, you can't just fly off {someplace} if you feel like
it. You've got to tell us why you're going.' From that point
in time, she was pretty much under control."
   Ms. Cantor was submerged in a crash course on banking and,
by the fall of 1988, when Mr. Smith, Mr. Robinson and Ms.
Cantor flew to Venezuela on an American Express jet, Mr.
Smith was fairly certain her "special assignment" was over.
                                                                                                       

   Final Confrontation: Safra
   Plays His Trump Card
                                                                                                       

   By the spring of 1989 anti-Safra articles were appearing
in U.S. publications for the first time. Mr. Safra was so
desperate to end the articles that he began weighing criminal
charges against American Express. In an effort to avoid such
a high-profile maneuver, the banker flew to New York to
confront Mr. Robinson with his growing suspicions.
   "We know it's your people, Jim," he told Mr. Robinson in a
mid-March meeting at Mr. Safra's Manhattan apartment. Mr.
Robinson said he would be "dumbfounded" if it were true, but
promised to look into the matter. Ten days later Mr. Robinson
told Mr. Safra he had checked and found no evidence of a
smear campaign. American Express' explanation, spoken
privately, has been that Mr. Freeman, ignorant of the extent
of what Mr. Greco and Ms. Cantor were doing, told Mr.
Robinson this.
   Then in May Mr. Safra's lawyer, Mr. Arkin, suggested a
more subtle threat. After a thorough review by Mr. Safra's
aides, the lawyer published, in his regular column for the
New York Law Journal that June, the hypothetical story of a
corporate executive who "cherishes his Boy Scout image," but
whose aides had spread rumors that a competitor was involved
in the drug business. "Spreading false of malicious rumor or
flat-out lies . . . may well amount to a criminal fraud," Mr.
Arkin mused in the column.
   According to a top American Express executive, neither Mr.
Robinson nor his aides initially saw the intended shot across
their bow. The fact that Mr. Safra was mulling criminal
charges came to American Express's attention via a circuitous
route: Then Shearson Chairman Peter A. Cohen learned of it
from a top private detective, Jules Kroll, who had heard it
from a friend of Mr. Arkin.
   Days later, Mr. Safra was in his Geneva office when a
secretary told him Mr. Robinson was on the phone. "Jim
Robinson?" he asked in amazement. According to a person
familiar with their conversation, an angry Mr. Robinson
didn't mention Mr. Arkin's column, but told Mr. Safra: "I
know you've been following my people, and I want a stop put
to it."
   When Mr. Robinson finished, Mr. Safra replied simply:
"I've got you, Jim. We've got mountains of evidence. Don't
tell me about following your people. We've got you."
                                                                                                       

   A Deal and an Apology,
   But Is It Over?
                                                                                                       

   By the end of June American Express lawyers began
negotiating a settlement with Mr. Arkin. To their inquiries
of how much the Safra forces knew, Mr. Arkin's mention of a
single name, "Tony Greco," seemed enough. American Express
agreed to pay $8 million, half to Mr. Safra, half to four
charities, to avoid a lawsuit or criminal charges.
   American Express's subsequent internal investigation sent
a number of executives diving for cover. The general counsel,
Mr. Beller, brought in representatives from three outside law
firms, including a former U.S. Attorney, John Martin, Jr., to
handle the questioning.
   According to a senior company official, Mr. Martin
encountered unswerving denials from a number of key
executives thought to have knowledge of the Safra project. In
London, Paul Knight, the American Express corporate security
official, walked into a colleague's office and announced that
his Safra file had mysteriously disappeared, a statement the
colleague took as a signal that his file should disappear as
well. Mr. Martin might have learned more had he interviewed
journalists like Mr. Roberto and Ms. Jurt, but they weren't
contacted.
   At American Express Bank, Ms. Cantor found herself an
outcast. "Susan became a member of the lepers colony," says a
former bank executive. "People didn't want to be seen with
her. You didn't go into her office for fear you'd get a call
from Gary Beller." In June, when Maya Jurt, the Swiss writer,
last saw Ms. Cantor, she was pregnant, concerned about her
baby's health, and "she looked 10 years older," Ms. Jurt
says.
   Within a week of Mr. Robinson's public apology, Mr.
Freeman announced his retirement. Mr. Freeman's fall was
cushioned by consulting contracts with an estimated total
value of more than $100,000 a year. Privately, Mr. Freeman
maintained that Mr. Robinson had tried to get him to stay on.
He also said that Mr. Robinson pledged to make him whole
financially if he did choose to leave. Afterward Mr. Freeman
continued many of the same duties he had at American Express,
including oversight of a lavish company-sponsored celebration
of Dwight Eisenhower's centennial. Today, he is one of the
most respected experts on the multilateral trade talks in
Geneva.
   The results of American Express's internal investigation
were submitted to the audit committee of the company's board.
That panel concluded, "while the people involved -- all of
whom said they did not intend to disseminate inaccurate
information -- were motivated by what they considered to be
the company's best interests, their actions set off a chain
of events that resulted in the maligning of a competitor."
People familiar with the situation say the company has since
tightened its internal controls and disciplined Ms. Cantor by
withholding her 1989 bonus.
   Ms. Cantor took a maternity leave, but if she thought she
could leave the murky world of corporate espionage behind,
she was wrong. As Edmond Safra sorted through the damage to
his image, his operatives delved deeply into Ms. Cantor's
life and reported back on all they found. Susan Cantor
ultimately had her baby, and Mr. Safra's detectives know
where, when and how it was delivered.
   Though Mr. Safra won a clear victory, he was far from
satisfied. American Express refused to accede to a key
request: Identifying publications where its operatives spread
misinformation. To do so, American Express felt, might be
tantamount to taking responsibility for rumors it didn't
disseminate. Without that knowledge, Mr. Safra has been
unable to try to counter negative articles until they appear.
Today he is regularly forced to rebut charges of
money-laundering and other nefarious activities. This spring
Safra lawyers scrambled to counter old charges in a
Guatemalan newspaper, a French newswire report and a Swiss
author's book. Mr. Safra is said to be resigned to the fact
that such allegations may dog him to his grave.
   ---
         Chronology of a Three-Continent Vendetta
                                                                                                       

                           1983
                                                                                                       

   January -- American Express agrees to buy the non-U.S.
assets of Edmond Safra's Trade Development Bank.
                                                                                                       

                           1984
                                                                                                       

   December -- Safra resigns after only six months as
chairman of the merged American Express Bank-TDB, agreeing
not to open another Swiss bank until March 1988.
                                                                                                       

                           1985
                                                                                                       

   Fall -- By this time, American Express Bank, worried about
Safra's re-entry into Swiss banking, begins a probe of
Safra's hiring of its employees.
                                                                                                       

                           1986
                                                                                                       

   Late in the year or in early 1987 Susan Cantor joins
American Express's public relations department in New York
where she is tapped for "special assignment."
                                                                                                       

                           1987
                                                                                                       

   March -- American Express files a Swiss criminal complaint
against Safra, which eventually lapses.
                                                                                                       

   May -- Safra files for a Swiss banking license; American
Express challenges the application.
                                                                                                       

                           1988
                                                                                                       

   January -- Safra gets a Swiss banking license as the
American Express challenge fails; he opens his new bank in
Geneva in March.
                                                                                                       

   March -- La Depeche du Midi, a French newspaper based in
Toulouse, begins running unfavorable articles about Safra.
                                                                                                       

   Spring/Summer -- Cantor transfers to American Express
Bank, where she is named a senior vice president.
                                                                                                       

   July -- Articles portraying Safra as a banker to the drug
cartels appear in Peru and Mexico.
                                                                                                       

   August -- Minute, a Paris newspaper, begins publishing
articles linking Safra to drugs and the mafia.
                                                                                                       

   Early September -- Safra holds a meeting with aides at his
villa near Nice on the Cote d'Azur to map a strategy for
dealing with the articles.
                                                                                                       

   Fall -- Safra sues Minute; his lawyers discover American
Express telephone numbers on documents faxed to Minute.
                                                                                                       

                           1989
                                                                                                       

   February -- Peruvian diplomat tells Safra camp that
"Greco" is planting unfavorable stories about Safra in South
America. Safra hires Stanley Arkin, New York criminal lawyer.
                                                                                                       

   March -- Safra confronts James Robinson. Anti-Safra
articles appear in U.S.
                                                                                                       

   April-May -- Safra detectives pursue leads in Europe and
Peru.
                                                                                                       

   June -- Arkin column suggesting criminal defamation
published in New York Law Journal.
                                                                                                       

   July -- James Robinson issues American Express apology to
Safra and agrees to pay $8 million to Safra and charities he
selected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rare-Coin Dealers
   Call Summit Session
   On Self-Regulation
   ---
   Industry Said to Be in `State
   of Panic' Government
   Will Move to Regulate It
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Rare-coin dealers want the government to know:
We can police ourselves.
   Following a crackdown on rare-coin fraud by federal and
state regulators, leaders of the coin business have called an
unusual "summit" to launch the industry's first
self-regulatory organization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The industry is in a state of panic that the federal
government will regulate it," says Bruce Kaplan, president of
Kaplan &amp; Co., a Santa Monica, Calif., company that advises
coin dealers. "They're scrambling to come up with a
regulatory program that the {government} will tacitly
approve," he says.
   The planned summit follows last month's crackdown by the
Federal Trade Commission on Professional Coin Grading Service
Inc. -- which heralded itself as making the coin business
safer for investors. The FTC accused the grading service of
making false and misleading claims. Professional Coin settled
the charges without admitting or denying them.
   The summit, to be held early next month in Long Beach,
Calif., is aimed at setting up a self-regulatory body that
will establish safeguards for rare-coin customers and ethical
standards for coin dealers, grading services, auction houses
and other parts of the $5 billion-a-year coin industry.
   There's been scattered talk in the past among coin dealers
of a self-policing body. But the industry believes it has to
act now because of the negative publicity generated by the
recent FTC action and other FTC lawsuits against coin
dealers.
   "We better do something to get a positive image going, or
else we're going to turn back into a little cottage industry
and never have the chance to be a real financial market,"
says Frederic Tordella, president of MTB Banking Corp., a
large New York coin dealer.
   Besides trying to mollify regulators with its
self-policing plan, the rare-coin industry wants to reassure
a skittish Wall Street. Securities firms -- which have been
moving into the coin business by selling rare-coin funds and
partnerships -- now are worried about the regulatory pressure
on the coin business.
   "We want to make our industry more attractive to more
traditional investors, particularly Wall Street," says Barry
Stuppler, co-chairman of the summit organizing committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Gets Hoots From Timber Industry,
   Environmentalists for Plan to Save Owl
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld and Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
FOREST PRODUCTS, PRODUCERS OF WOOD AND LUMBER (FOR)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration's long-awaited plan
for preserving the northern spotted owl pleased neither the
timber industry nor environmentalists, and left some of the
thorniest issues for Congress to resolve.
   Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter and Interior
Secretary Manuel Lujan said the administration is asking
Congress to allow new sales of 3.3 billion board feet of
timber on Forest Service lands in Washington, Oregon and
Northern California during the fiscal year that begins Oct.
1. Industry officials expressed disappointment that the
proposed level wasn't higher, while environmentalists
characterized it as excessive logging that would jeopardize
the long-term survival of the owl's ecosystem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's less overcutting, but it's still significant
overcutting," said Frances Hunt, forestry resources
specialist for the National Wildlife Federation. "They're
cutting those forests at an unsustainable rate and that puts
everything at risk."
   Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) chairman of the Senate
Agriculture Committee, chided the administration for
advancing only a one-year plan and "putting off the tough
decisions until later."
   In June, the administration declared the owl threatened
and put it under the protection of the Endangered Species
Act. At the time, the administration delayed announcing the
bulk of its forest-management steps, saying it would wait for
the recommendations of a task force headed by Mr. Yeutter.
The latest steps are based on those recommendations.
   But the administration didn't spell out in any detail how
3.3 billion board feet of lumber can be cut without
jeopardizing the spotted owl's well-being. The administration
also didn't present a plan for future years.
   The administration is seeking to give a greater role in
the spotted owl dispute to the endangered species committee,
or so-called God Squad. The cabinet-level panel can overrule
Agriculture and Interior Department decisions prohibiting
economic activity that would jeopardize an endangered
species, but it is rarely convened.
   Under the administration's proposals, Congress would
authorize a convening of the committee with authority to
review all timber sales and land management plans related to
the spotted owl. Environmentalists blasted this idea, and key
lawmakers have suggested that Congress is unlikely to accept
it.
   The administration also is asking Congress to adopt
language that "requires implementation" of its
forest-management plans, which have been the subject of
considerable litigation by environmentalists in the past.
Officials said they don't recommend "precluding judicial
review," though they didn't suggest any other way to ensure
that timber sales aren't blocked.
   Labor and timber interests complained that reducing
Washington and Oregon timber harvests, which will total 4.5
billion in the year ending Sunday, would have serious
economic effects. The labor and timber interests were equally
unhappy about the proposal to allow only 310 million board
feet in Northern California, about half of the average cut
planned for national forests there.
   The plan "represents a formula for economic depression,
personal hardship and social turmoil throughout the Pacific
Northwest," asserted Michael Draper, spokesman for the
Western Council of Industrial Workers, which represents
23,000 timber-industry employes.
   But the industry expressed hope that Congress would
authorize, as recommended, an immediate convening of the
endangered species committee. The endangered species law
requires the committee to hold hearings; saw-mill towns and
timber families see the hearings as an opportunity to have
"their voices heard for the first time." Said Mark Rey,
executive director of the American Forest Resource Alliance:
"This deadly serious game over the fate of the Pacific
Northwest economy has just begun."
   Secretary Lujan said he would appoint a team to develop a
long-term recovery plan for the owl as required by the
endangered species act. This will include continuing the
Yeutter task force and giving it the broader mission of
reviewing the nation's forest-management needs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern Union Hires Adviser
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SUG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- Southern Union Co. said it hired
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. to advise it on
the possible sale of its Southern Union Exploration Co. unit
as a means of enhancing shareholder value.
   The natural gas concern said the advisers will consider
various alternatives for the unit, including a sale of
existing production and reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West Germany's Auto Output
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Auto production in West Germany
climbed 16% in August to 309,000 from 266,784 a year earlier,
boosted by a higher number of work days, but fell 2% when
adjusted for the extra days, the West German Automobile
Association said.
   Because holiday-related plant closings last year fell
earlier in the summer than this year, there were 16.5 work
days in August, up from 14 days in August 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hilton Hotels,
   In Change of Heart,
   Plans Buy-Back
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Hilton Hotels Corp., whose stock
has been battered by weak earnings and worries about the
travel and tourism industries, announced plans to buy back as
many as six million common shares, or about 12.5% of the
outstanding stock.
   The buy-back, part of a previously authorized plan,
reflects an apparent change of heart by the hotel and casino
operator's board. A week earlier, senior Hilton officials
told a group of investors and analysts in Las Vegas, Nev.,
that the company had no plans for a buy-back despite the
drubbing the stock has taken since hitting an all-time high
of $115.50 last summer during the company's aborted auction
process.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John V. Giovenco, who heads Hilton's casino operations,
also told investors at the conference that operating profits
for the third quarter ending Sept. 30 will decline about 50%
because of increased competition and other problems. Hilton's
stock closed at $30.25 Friday, up 87.5 cents in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   This year, Hilton's board turned down proposals offering
about $90 a share or roughly $4.3 billion for the company's
profitable casinos and hotel operations. Last month, the
company scrapped an offering of liquid-yield option notes
with a principal amount of $650 million when the stock's
decline made the offering impractical.
   Analysts and institutional investors, stung by the recent
barrage of bad news, were reserved about the announcement.
"It's hard to say how aggressive they'll be on the buy-back,
although it appears they'd be buying pretty close to the
bottom," said Joseph Doyle, an analyst with Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   "We're not supporting the price of the stock," said Leroy
A. Judge, a Hilton vice president. "We simply see it as a
good investment." The purchases will be made periodically in
the open market or through negotiated purchases, and the
current authorization may be extended beyond the current Dec.
31, 1990, expiration date if conditions warrant. Hilton has
about 48 million commmon shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fleishman-Hillard Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11A
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Fleishman-Hillard, a public relations firm,
said it has formed a joint venture in Belgium with
Information &amp; Enterprise, a consulting firm in Paris.
   The new company, F-H &amp; Associates S.A., opened its doors
this month. Fleishman-Hillard owns 51% of the joint venture
and Information &amp; Entreprise 49%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fleishman-Hillard, in addition to offices in several U.S.
cities, has offices in London and Paris and operates
throughout Asia. It took in $38 million in fees in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Production
   Of Motor Vehicles
   Rose 8.1% in August
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN TOYOY NSANY J.MOT J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's output of cars, trucks and buses grew
8.1% in August from a year earlier to 962,257 units on strong
domestic demand, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers'
Association said.
   The total was a record for August, surpassing the high of
890,339 units set a year earlier. Output in July was up 10%
to 1,211,000 units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic sales rose 14% in August from a year earlier to
478,588 units, breaking the record for the month of 421,493
set in August 1989. Export data weren't yet complete, but
association officials said they expect them to show a drop of
about 1% from year-earlier levels.
   The vigorous domestic demand reflected sustained economic
growth fueled by healthy personal spending, among other
things, the officials said. Japan's economy now has been
expanding for 46 months in a row. That's its second longest
postwar stretch of growth, after the 57-month skein from
October 1965 to July 1970.
   In August, production of passenger cars climbed 12% from a
year earlier to 709,785, also a record for the month.
Medium-sized cars showed a 19% rise to 138,498, while small
cars registered a 6.1% gain at 507,845. Production of
minicars surged 64% to 63,442.
   Truck output slid 1.7% to 249,436. Medium-sized trucks
registered a 3.4% drop at 89,394, while small trucks had a
6.2% gain to 88,568. Output of minitrucks dropped 7.9% to
71,474. Bus production climbed 12% to 3,036.
   By maker, Toyota Motor Corp., Japan's biggest car
manufacturer, reported production of 292,780 units, up 18%
from a year earlier. Nissan Motor Co., the second largest,
produced 168,929 cars, trucks and buses, a drop of 1.3%.
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. made 7.8% more motor vehicles than in
the year-earlier month, or 98,008 units. Production by Mazda
Motor Corp. rose 8.9% to 101,950.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Winners, Losers Take Stock of Glass-Steagall Battle
   ---
   Banks Bask in Equity-Underwriting Victory;
   But New Role May Prove Symbolic for Now
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM BT CCI CMB T.CM T.RY
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Banks may have won their battle for power to
underwrite corporate-stock issues, but it could be years
before stock underwriting does much to bolster their bottom
lines.
   The Federal Reserve Board's decision to grant
equity-underwriting power to J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. last week
broke down the final barrier for banks anxious to compete
head-on with Wall Street in providing financial services to
corporate America. An underwriter buys an issue of stocks or
bonds from a corporation that wants to raise money, then
resells the securities to investors, hopefully at a profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But with the stock-underwriting business at a low ebb,
analysts figure the banks' new powers are more symbolic than
real, at least for now.
   "It's an important strategic issue in the long term, but
anybody who anticipates a huge windfall in the near term is
deluded," said James McDermott, director of research at
Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods. "The equity markets are under
pressure, the competition is severe and profit margins are
falling."
   Bankers, though pleased that the Fed has seen fit to grant
powers denied banks since the Depression by the 1933
Glass-Steagall Act, concede that their new status isn't a
make-or-break issue.
   Bankers say stock underwriting will be one more service
among many that banks can provide to corporate clients. They
doubt that many banks, if any, will spend heavily over the
next few years to build the equity sales, trading and
research staffs that would enable them to compete
head-to-head in stock underwriting with big Wall Street
investment banks such as Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. or Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co.
   Instead, it appears more likely that any stock
underwriting by banks would be done as part of financing
packages that banks arrange for their corporate clients, and
which could also include bank loans and debt securities.
Right now, if raising funds through some form of stock issue
is part of a financing package, banks have to seek help from
securities dealers.
   Banks would prefer to collect profits not only from
arranging complex financings, but also from selling the
securities involved to investors. "With underwriting power,
we get all the profits," said one banker.
   The banks' new stock-underwriting powers come with
restrictions. For one thing, banks will have to segregate
their underwriting business from their banking business.
Federal officials are particularly anxious to avoid any
perception that federal desposit insurance protects risky
stock trading and underwriting activities. This means
duplicate staffs and limits on information-sharing among a
bank's lending and securities officers, and that will impede
banks from realizing the full potential of underwriting
powers.
   What's more, for the moment at least, the Fed is
restricting the amount of underwriting business a bank can
do, whether it involves corporate bonds or stocks, to 10% of
gross revenue of the bank's securities subsidiary. Bankers
complain that the 10% limit puts a crimp in their ability to
compete with Wall Street firms.
   But Robert Tortoriello, an attorney specializing in
Glass-Steagall issues, said J.P. Morgan generates large
revenue in its securities subsidiary through its activities
as a major government bond dealer. This leaves Morgan plenty
of leeway to underwrite stocks within the 10% limit, he said.
   In any event, nobody expects community banks, or even many
of the big regional banks, to ever use the new
stock-underwriting powers. Indeed, some analysts suspect that
the Federal Reserve, deeply concerned about the health of the
nation's banks, will severely limit the number of banks it
authorizes to underwrite stock offerings.
   "By approving Morgan first, which has a very strong
capital base, the Fed is sending a message that there's a
strong bias in favor of capital-strong institutions" in the
Fed's decision to award expanded banking powers, said Keefe
Bruyette's Mr. McDermott.
   Despite its lengthy and aggressive effort to win
stock-underwriting authority, J.P. Morgan officials refused
to discuss their strategy or objectives for underwriting
corporate-stock issues. "We don't want to overplay it," said
a spokesman.
   Other banks seeking stock-underwriting powers are Bankers
Trust Co., Citicorp, Chase Manhattan Bank, Royal Bank of
Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank.
   (See related story: "Securities Industry Has Little
Leverage" -- WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Angeion to Sell Stock to Hanrow
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   ANGN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Angeion Corp. said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell 500,000 shares of its unregistered stock at
$3.35 a share to Hanrow Financial Group Ltd.
   Angeion, a maker of medical products, said the 500,000
shares represent about 6% of its stock. The company said it
expects the transaction to be completed by "the end" of
September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported earlier, Hanrow, a merchant banking investment
partnership, signed a letter of interest July 31 for the
purchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ohio Casualty Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   OCAS
</CO>
<IN>
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
INSURANCE (INS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAMILTON, Ohio -- Ohio Casualty Corp.'s board authorized
the purchase of 1.5 million shares of the insurance holding
company's common stock.
   The stock will be purchased from time to time on the open
market or through privately negotiated transactions. The
stock will be retired or held as treasury shares for stock
options or other general corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ohio Casualty currently has about 17.8 million common
shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Figgie Suspends Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   FIGIA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILLOUGHBY, Ohio -- Figgie International Inc. suspended
its share-repurchase program because of market conditions,
the company said.
   The consumer, industrial and technical concern announced
the buy-back program earlier this year to restore the balance
between the number of Class A and Class B shares outstanding.
Under the program, the company repurchased about 150,000
shares of Class B common, which have greater voting power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Figgie had 18,909,822 average outstanding shares for the
year ended Dec. 31, 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   If It Ain't Fixable,
   Don't Try Fixin' It
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Robert Goldberg's Sept. 5 Leisure &amp; Arts story, "Math and
Pizza-Making," discussing the PBS and CBS shows on how the
current education system can be fixed makes me think of the
many Soviets who still think they can tinker with the
socialist economy and fix it.
   Both the Soviet economy and the American school system
suffer from the same problem -- they are owned and operated
by the government. Socialism is widely recognized as a
failure, but many people who should know better will not give
up on it. Only when the American public realizes that the
U.S. has a "socialist education system" will we will take the
first step toward solving the problem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jim McCrory
   Albuquerque, N.M.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apparel Firms
   Expected to Post
   Weak Earnings
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   LIZC FTL LES VFC CHS HMX
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apparel companies are likely to report another quarter of
depressed earnings in coming weeks, analysts say, as worries
about the economy heighten already sluggish retail sales.
   In August, retailers failed to get the expected boost from
early fall and back-to-school merchandise, causing analysts
to become more negative in their third-quarter outlook for
the apparel sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The third quarter is going to be tough," says Jay
Meltzer, an apparel industry analyst at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
"There is still a discernible amount of inventory to work off
at retail. . . . Most apparel makers are finding that
retailers are playing it much closer to the vest than ever
before, which has made it tough for {apparel companies} to
make their plans."
   Observes Josie Esquivel of Shearson Lehman Brothers:
"Back-to-school didn't happen, and the first couple of weeks
in September were weak. Things look very bleak for the third
quarter."
   For the 16 apparel companies she follows, Elizabeth
Armstrong of Prescott Ball &amp; Turben Inc. projects
third-quarter earnings will rise an average of 4.1% from a
year earlier. But the chasm between strong companies and the
weak ones has become more pronounced this year, she and other
analysts said.
   Expected to continue posting decent third-quarter gains
from a year earlier are Liz Claiborne Inc., estimated to gain
about 15%; Fruit of the Loom, climbing between 15% and 20%;
and Leslie Fay Co. increasing about 11%, according to
estimates by Deborah Bronston, an analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc.
   But stagnant retail sales in August and early September
have clobbered weaker players in the apparel group, and those
companies will report lower third-quarter earnings. These
include VF Corp., where jeans sales continue to lag; Bernard
Chaus Inc.; and Hartmarx Corp., where analysts expect a
third-quarter loss compared with a year-earlier profit.
   "During the first half of 1990, apparel and textile
inventories were up, and manufacturer shipments were down,"
says Patricia L. Ryan of Raymond James Associates. "And now,
with the problems of the Middle East heating up and reducing
consumer confidence," retailers such as giant Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. are holding back commitments for orders, she adds. For
fleecewear maker Russell Corp., for example, she notes that
the company has healthy orders and backlogs, but is waiting
for retailers to commit to a shipment date.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kaiser-Francis Raises
   Stake in Farm &amp; Home
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FAHS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Kaiser-Francis Oil Co., Tulsa, Okla., said
it raised its stake in Farm &amp; Home Financial Corp., Nevada,
Mich., to the equivalent of 9.97%.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Kaiser said it holds 439,088 shares, assuming the conversion
of cumulative voting convertible preferred stock, including
Series A preferred stock bought from Feb. 12 to Aug. 20 and
92,834 common shares bought from Aug. 24 to Aug. 31 at prices
ranging from $8.625 to $9.125 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shares were bought for investment reasons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   EPA Continues Ban
   On European Wines
   Containing Chemical
   ---
   Decision, Which Angered
   U.S. Beverage Importers,
   Stands Pending Studies
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP J.SUC
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency said it
would continue to ban imports of European wine containing a
fungicide while it studies whether the substance is harmful.
   The move, which drew an angry response from the National
Association of Beverage Importers, came even though
preliminary EPA analysis suggests that the levels of the
chemical don't pose a health threat. Under EPA procedures,
the soonest that wine containing the chemical could be back
on the U.S. market is next summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fungicide, procymidone, has been found in 20% of the
French wines sampled by the Food and Drug Administration, 6%
of the Italian wines and 2% of the Spanish wines. In Europe,
where wine containing procymidone residues is legal and
considered safe, the fungicide is used to kill the botrytis
fungus on grapes. It isn't used in the U.S.
   In an interview, EPA chief William Reilly said, "I have
looked carefully for ways to avoid disruption of trade and
still ensure compliance with the law and fully protect the
public health against any risk, however remote."
   The beverage importers association, however, said it is
"very disappointed" by the EPA decision, which it said "could
have a disastrous impact on international trade relations and
invite retaliatory action by the Europeans." The group urged
the U.S. "to fully consider the ramifications of the EPA
action and the potential for European trade embargoes against
U.S. food products."
   Under federal law, the government must block the import of
any food or beverage containing residues of a pesticide for
which the EPA hasn't set a tolerance, or allowable level. The
FDA began confiscating shipments of wine found to contain the
chemical after it turned up during a routine test last
February.
   Mr. Reilly emphasized, though, that consumers needn't stop
drinking European wine, even if it was purchased before the
procymidone was detected. "People shouldn't worry about
this," he said. "I intend myself not to worry about it."
   But he was critical of Sumitomo Chemical Corp., maker of
the chemical, which failed to obtain a tolerance for
procymidone before shipments started. Wine industry officials
also have criticized the company.
   In April, the company did ask the EPA to set a tolerance
level and sought expedited proceedings that would have
allowed it to ship wine containing residue while the EPA
studied the matter. The EPA declined, but said it is
expediting its review of the data. Such a review normally
takes several years, but the EPA is seeking public comment on
whether to propose an interim tolerance level that would
allow shipments to resume next summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Britain Lifts Asset Freeze
   On Kuwait's Biggest Bank
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Bank of England lifted its seven-week-old
freeze on National Bank of Kuwait assets, agreeing to grant
resident status to the bank's operations in Britain.
   The freeze, which Britain imposed on all Kuwaiti
institutions when Iraqi forces invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, had
prevented the largest Kuwaiti bank from transferring any of
its assets in Britain outside the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By receiving resident status, the Kuwaiti bank, which has
been using its London branch as its operational headquarters,
is able to conduct business more freely. The bank is still
barred from transferring assets back to Kuwait or to Iraq, in
line with an international embargo following the Iraqi
invasion.
   The bank expressed hope that Britain's decision will help
"regulatory authorities in those few remaining countries
where the operations of National Bank of Kuwait continue to
be fettered by the impact of the freezing orders." It
declined to specify these countries, though bankers mentioned
Canada. The bank also has New York, Singapore and Bahrain
branches, and Paris and Geneva financial-services units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kanemaru Trip
   To North Korea
   Poses Varied Risks
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's most influential political power broker
was scheduled to fly today to North Korea on an unusual --
and risky -- diplomatic mission.
   Shin Kanemaru, who heads the biggest faction of the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party, hopes his trip will help bring
about an improvement in Tokyo's ties with Pyongyang. In
particular, Mr. Kanemaru would like to bring back two
Japanese seamen held in North Korea as spies since 1983. In
return, he's holding out the lure of Japanese financial and
technological aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestically, Mr. Kanemaru's reputation as the power
behind Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu is already growing; a
successful diplomatic trip would enhance his influence by
demonstrating that he's more than just a tough political
infighter.
   But some Japanese politicos worry about Mr. Kanemaru's
lack of international experience, and they fear that the
unpredictable North Koreans won't prove as pliable as Mr.
Kanemaru hopes. "He's wading into areas he's weak at," says
political commentator Minoru Morita. "If the North Korea trip
fails, he will definitely lose power."
   Although Mr. Kanemaru is a former deputy prime minister
and has held several cabinet posts, he currently holds no
official government position. He's visiting North Korea as an
emissary of the LDP, to meet Kim Il Sung and other North
Korean officials in their capacities as party leaders.
Foreign Ministry bureaucrats have participated in the
preparations for the trip, but their attitude toward it has
been far from enthusiastic.
   Certainly no one would mistake Mr. Kanemaru for a member
of the striped-pants set. The craggy-faced, 76-year-old looks
like the former judo fighter that he is, and his background
is all in Japan's grimy political wars, rather than in the
more prestigious bureaucracy. Where most of Japan's elite
bureaucrats went to Tokyo University, Mr. Kanemaru, the son
of a rural sake-brewing family, went to Tokyo Agricultural
College. He has been a member of the lower house of the Diet,
or parliament, since 1958.
   Over the years, Mr. Kanemaru has developed a strong base
of support in Japan's construction and telecommunications
industries, close ties with key opposition-party leaders and
a certain genius for capturing the national mood on an issue.
But perhaps the most important factor in consolidating his
power was the Recruit scandal of 1988 and 1989.
   All the other main power brokers in the LDP received
shares in a Recruit Co. subsidiary before they were offered
to the public, and the scandal's taint has limited their
ability to hold government or party posts and to influence
affairs. Mr. Kanemaru, who wasn't touched by the scandal,
moved into the vacuum.
   Mr. Kanemaru, along with his erstwhile ally, former Prime
Minister Noboru Takeshita, picked Mr. Kaifu as prime minister
last August precisely because he lacked any political power
base of his own in the party, and therefore could be
controlled. But in recent months it has become increasingly
clear that Mr. Takeshita and Mr. Kanemaru are no longer on
good terms, and that it's Mr. Kanemaru who pulls the strings.
   In fact, the perception that Mr. Kanemaru is the most
powerful figure is so widespread that some contrarians think
it has to be wrong. "This is a deliberate illusion and myth
propagation by the consolidated powers-that-be within the
Japanese political power structure," says a policy aide to
several LDP Diet members.
   But if it's a myth, it's very convincingly done. When two
cabinet posts had to be filled recently, the Japanese press
was full of stories describing how Mr. Kanemaru and LDP
Secretary General Ichiro Ozawa made the selections. Prime
Minister Kaifu's role, according to the press accounts, was
to wait for Mr. Kanemaru to inform him of the decision.
   Like many leading Japanese politicians, Mr. Kanemaru is
generally conservative, but not known for any particular
ideological or policy insights. His views are often shaped by
pragmatic considerations.
   Mr. Kanemaru is famous for speaking out boldly on an issue
-- and also, at times, for having to correct himself later.
Last spring he caused a minor sensation by suggesting that
Japan should be willing, for starters, to accept two of the
four Northern islands it's demanding from the Soviet Union as
the price of warmer relations. But two days later, after
considerable adverse reaction, Mr. Kanemaru apologized for
his failure to express himself adequately and reaffirmed the
official position.
   Despite his power, Mr. Kanemaru has never shown any
ambition to be prime minister himself. Some say that's
because he knows his own limitations. Others say it's because
in Japan, it's easier to exercise real power from behind the
scenes.
   Throughout much of his political career, his main aim was
to make his ally, Mr. Takeshita, prime minister. The two
entered the Diet the same year, and in 1966 Mr. Takeshita's
daughter married Mr. Kanemaru's son. The two men seemed to
have a pact dividing the labor, taking advantage of their
different styles: Mr. Takeshita, the more cerebral and
methodical of the two, would be the front man, and collect
the political money. Mr. Kanemaru, the swaggering tough guy,
would funnel the money to friends (and even, sometimes,
enemies) and fight the nastier fights.
   But after Mr. Takeshita finally became prime minister in
1987, the differing styles began to seem more clashing than
complementary. Their uneasy relations came to a head when Mr.
Takeshita, forced to step down because of the Recruit
scandal, chose Sosuke Uno as a successor without consulting
Mr. Kanemaru. Matters have only gotten worse since.
   Today, thanks to Recruit, Mr. Kanemaru is the chairman of
the Takeshita faction, as it continues to be called, and the
main support for the otherwise weak Mr. Kaifu. Were Mr.
Kanemaru to lose power, Mr. Kaifu's administration would have
a tough time surviving. So if Mr. Kanemaru's trip to North
Korea is a bust, the impact on Japanese politics could be
destabilizing.
   Ultimately, says Mr. Morita, the commentator, the logic
for Mr. Kanemaru's current journey lies in the assumption
that North Korea really needs Japanese economic help, and is
willing to make compromises to get it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Slates New Issue
   Of 12-Year Savings Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government said it will start
selling on Oct. 18 a new issue of 12-year Canada Savings
Bonds.
   The interest rate to be paid on the new bonds and the
purchase limit will be announced in mid-October. Sales may be
terminated at any time at the government's discretion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only Canadian residents can buy the bonds, which can be
redeemed at any time at face value. The government currently
has 34.68 billion Canadian dollars (US$30.1 billion) of
Canada Savings Bonds outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   ICC Expects a Profit in '91 as Demand
   For Its Energy-Saving Devices Grows
   ----
   By Alex John London
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ICGN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
FACTORY EQUIPMENT (FAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- ICC Technologies Inc. isn't just blowing
hot air when it says it can help ease the nation's energy
worries.
   At least that's the hope of investors in tiny ICC, which
isn't yet profitable but is already valued at $40 million by
the stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What ICC has developed is a simple technology for reducing
the peak-load demands of such big electricity users as
supermarkets, department stores and fast-food restaurants.
   The approach involves putting a garage-sized box of
machinery on the roof that can pull humidity out of the
building and cleanse the air before sending it back inside.
ICC's product cools air in the summer, heats it in winter,
and dries it on muggy days, regardless of the season.
   Dry air is much easier to cool than moist air, so
refrigeration equipment doesn't have to work nearly as hard.
Lower humidity in a grocery store or department store also
means that customers can shop more comfortably. The nation's
30,000 supermarkets consume about 2% of the total electricity
produced in the U.S. every year. The potential for energy
savings is high.
   "Energy conservation is coming back as a policy issue,"
says Keith H. Cox, ICC's chief financial officer. "Electric
utilities used to view conservation as an anathema because it
meant lower revenues. But now, they're being rewarded for
making investments that help their customers conserve
energy."
   Among ICC's customers are J.C. Penney Co., the ShopRite
division of Village Super Market Inc., and First National
Supermarkets Inc. For example, First National, which is based
in Windsor Locks, Conn., has five of ICC's rooftop units on
line and an additional 24 on order.
   Irwin L. Gross, ICC's chairman and chief executive
officer, says he is optimistic about substantial new orders
from all three customers. In addition, ICC is working on
initial agreements with at least one fast-food chain and a
major hotel. Mr. Gross declined to identify them.
   Aided by these prospects and a growing backlog of orders,
now at $2.5 million, the company expects to turn profitable
by the end of 1991. ICC, which got its start as a maker of
co-generation units, went public in 1985. A simple unit
designed for a small restaurant costs about $55,000. Larger
and more elaborate systems may cost as much as $400,000.
   Last year, the company had a net loss of $3.6 million on
sales of about $1 million. ICC has about 5.4 million shares
outstanding, which would indicate a market capitalization of
about $40.5 million, based on Friday's close stock price of 7
1/2 bid.
   Moreover, ICC's desiccant/cogeneration units are being
welcomed by the natural gas industry. The company has
developed a cooperative advertising campaign with the
American Gas Association. In addition, many local gas and
electric utilities are offering cash rebates to eligible ICC
customers.
   The company envisions even greater involvement with
utilities as investment incentives for conservation continue
to spread. For example, Mr. Cox noted that California
regulators recently authorized about $500 million of utility
rate-base allowances over the next 28 months, designed to
spur new conservation investment.
   ICC's rooftop units, powered by natural gas, can help keep
the inside of buildings more comfortable by providing
independent temperature and humidity control. The system
doesn't require any chemicals, ozone-eroding
chlorofluorocarbons or hydrochlorofluorocarbons. What's more,
Mr. Gross says the units can cut a building's
air-conditioning costs in half and reduce its total energy
consumption by as much as 15%.
   The units dehumidify the air and cool it for recirculation
while eliminating odors and killing bacteria and fungi. On
hot days, the desiccant machines feed dry air into a
building's existing air conditioners. On cold days, the
unit's own waste heat can be used to warm up air and water,
supplementing a building's thermal needs. On rainy days, the
dessicant machines dehumidify the air.
   With less-humid air, Mr. Gross says supermarkets have been
able to save 30 kilowatts to 45 kilowatts of demand by
turning off door heaters on frozen-food cases and adjusting
refrigeration units that no longer face the problem of frost
buildup.
   Since the fourth quarter of 1989, the company has
redirected its business strategy to concentrate on desiccant
dehumidification systems. The company, which designs and
maintains its units, gains a marketing advantage by being
able to sell its products to entire retail chains instead of
having to make separate sales pitches to each store.
   Earlier this year, the company began streamlining
operations, Mr. Gross says. Reductions in general,
administrative and sales expenses have trimmed monthly
overhead by about 50%, thereby reducing the level of sales
needed to reach break-even. In addition, ICC has eliminated
about $500,000 in yearly lease payments and is expected to
cut future lease payments totaling $2.1 million over the next
six years.
   In August, ICC made a rights offering for about $3 million
of common stock to provide operating capital, expand staff
and undertake in-house production that had been subcontracted
in the research and development stages.
   Mr. Gross says the company's improved operating efficiency
and the growing backlog of business will open up new markets.
As examples, he cites nursing homes, office buildings and
hotels.
   In addition, new environmental standards have boosted the
number of times air must be exchanged in a building to avoid
"sick building syndrome." ICC believes this new requirement
will double existing air-conditioning loads. That factor
could increase the appeal of the company's machines.
   The company currently has three models, which can each be
fitted with a cogeneration plant able to produce as much as
150 kilowatts of electricity. Mr. Gross says a smaller,
lighter and more efficient prototype should be in production
by 1991.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Investors sold over-the-counter stocks as Chase Manhattan
Corp. slashed its dividend and said it would cut 5,000
employees, adding to market worries about the economy and the
Mideastern conflict.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.18 to 362.25, a 0.6%
loss. Nasdaq National Market System volume climbed to 92.8
million shares from 84.8 million shares Thursday. Declining
stocks overwhelmed advancers, 1,142 to 730.
   The deteriorating economy took its toll on a number of
technology stocks.
   Octel Communications plunged 3 to 11 3/4 on nearly 1.6
million shares and triggered selling in the stocks of other
makers of voice-processing systems and telecommunications
equipment. The slowing economy prompted analysts to cut their
earnings estimates for Octel. The Milpitas, Calif., company
also announced the resignation of chief financial officer
Robert G. Sweifach, who left to pursue other business. He was
succeeded by Gary A. Wetsel.
   Among similar stocks, Syntellect faded 3/8 to 14 1/8;
Intervoice eased 1/8 to 10 3/8; Aspect Telecommunications
fell 1 3/4 to 11 1/4; Digital Systems International dropped
7/8 to 13 5/8; and Boston Technology sunk 5/16 to 2 13/16.
   Figgie International Class A shares lost 1/2 to 16 1/2.
The Willoughby, Ohio, maker of industrial, consumer and
technical products suspended its share buy-back program
because of market conditions.
   Novell dropped 1 1/4 to 23 1/2. Gateway Communications
said it plans to discontinue original equipment manufacturer
sales of Novell's NetWare operating system, which totaled
$2.1 million in the first six months of the year. Novell is a
Provo, Utah, maker of network systems for personal computers.
   Phoenix Technologies fell 1/4 to 2 1/4. The Norwood,
Mass., maker of IBM-compatible software said it expects to
report a loss for the fourth quarter ending Sept. 30 of about
$8.5 million, after restructuring charges. A year earlier,
the company had a net loss of $11.9 million, including a $3.6
million restructuring charge.
   Midlantic Corp. rose 5/8 to 9 1/2, even though the Edison,
N.J., bank slashed its quarterly dividend to 25 cents from 47
cents a share. Midlantic also said it expects a third-quarter
loss of $150 million to $160 million as a result of a $285
million provision for possible loan losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China's Foreign Trade Declines
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- China's foreign trade dropped 2.04% in the
first eight months of this year, because imports fell 16% to
$32.08 billion, compared with year-earlier levels, the
official Xinhua News Agency said, citing customs figures.
Exports rose 15% to $36.27 billion.
   In August, exports grew 15% and imports fell 10% from a
year earlier. The data exclude items imported for foreign
investment and raw materials exchanged for processing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop in imports is part of China's strict government
austerity program instituted in late 1988 to bring down
inflation that peaked at nearly 40%. Imports of foreign
cigarettes, liquor, luxury cars and certain electronics have
all been banned. August prices rose only 2.7% from a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial Metals Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CMC
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Commercial Metals Co. said its board approved
projected capital expenditures of $55 million for fiscal
1991, which began Sept. 1. The projected expenditures include
$21 million for capital projects approved but not spent in
fiscal 1990 plus $34 million of new projects.
   This is an increase of $11 million from capital
expenditures of $44 million in fiscal 1990, said CMC, which
manufactures, recycles and markets metal products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CSC Appoints Director
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7F
</SO>
<CO>
   CPSL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARREN, Ohio -- CSC Industries Inc. said Kanji Tomita,
executive vice president of Daido Steel Co., was appointed a
director. He succeeds Takanori Yamamoto, also a Daido
executive vice president, who resigned because of a
realignment of his duties at Daido.
   CSC Industries is the parent company of Copperweld Steel
Co., which produces carbon and alloy steel bars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Pre-Cold War Strategy
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   We've read for months that the U.S. needs a "post-Cold War
strategy," and the House of Representatives has now provided
one. It has simply reverted to a pre-Cold War defense policy,
the one the U.S. pursued to such good effect in the 1930s.
   That's the only way to describe the $283 billion defense
bill passed by the House last week. For all the superficial
talk of "unity" on Iraq, the House has acted as if Saddam
Hussein didn't exist. Its strategy seems to be hobble U.S.
ability to project force overseas, strangle new technologies,
ignore emerging threats, but fortify useless bases in the
U.S. Come home, America, as George McGovern used to say. If
Armed Services Chairman Les Aspin's "strategy" prevails, the
U.S. simply wouldn't be prepared to deter some future Saddam
by the mid-to-late 1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No one disputes that defense spending can fall after the
buildup of the 1980s. The debate is about the pace and kind
of build-down. Defense Secretary Cheney's proposal would cut
spending by 2% a year, adjusting for inflation, to a 50-year
low of 4% of GNP by 1995. In other words, real but not rash
cuts.
   The goal is a military that can meet a reduced but
unpredictable threat in Europe, continue to deter against the
growing Soviet missile force, as well as meet emerging
threats from regional powers like Iraq. The Soviet Union is
undergoing a revolution, with great promise but also the risk
of a Bonaparte. The rest of the world continues to throw up
its share of pirates and lunatics.
   But Congress wants to sign its version of the
Kellogg-Briand pact, the treaty that outlawed war in the
1920s. Since peace will always prevail, the House bill
requires that virtually all nonnaval U.S. forces be based in
the U.S. by 1994. This would end a 50-year strategy of
"forward deployments" intended to deter aggression and
reassure allies. GIs would head home from Japan, Korea,
Okinawa, Europe, Turkey, and most likely the Persian Gulf
too. Never mind that some of these deployments are heavily
subsidized by the host country; the Members care more about
isolationist symbolism than saving money.
   The House bill also bars the Pentagon from spending money
to transfer the 401st Air Force Fighter Wing to Crotone,
Italy, from Spain. The rest of NATO is happily paying much of
the cost, but Les Aspin's House troops seem to have lost all
interest in NATO's southern flank. Saddam Hussein is sure to
get Mr. Aspin's message, since the 401st is now deployed in
Saudi Arabia.
   If the U.S. can't project power with troops, how about
aircraft? Sorry, the House clipped the Air Force, too. It
endorsed Les Aspin's effort to kill the B-2 Stealth bomber,
following the advice of military masterminds Ron Dellums (D.,
Calif.) and John Kasich (R., Ohio). So the $35 billion
already sunk into the B-2 will buy only 15 planes, about $2.3
billion apiece. U.S. pilots will lose a weapon that can fly
10,000 miles (with one refueling), carry a big payload, and
detect targets with minimal losses. The airmen who are shot
down flying lesser planes over some future Baghdad can thank
Mr. Aspin.
   The CIA says 15 nations could have ballistic missiles by
the year 2000, but the House won't help there either.
Florida's Charlie Bennett rolled out an amendment to cut
spending on strategic defense by about half to $2.3 billion.
Following Georgia Senator Sam Nunn's work in the Senate, Mr.
Bennett is making sure that SDI is RIP. We hope they get
credit on the political coroner's report.
   Lest we be unfair, the House bill does prepare for an
invasion of the U.S. mainland. An amendment sponsored by Mr.
Aspin and Colorado's Pat Schroeder tries to make sure no
domestic military base will ever close. The Pentagon wants to
shut at least 35 bases, and reduce forces at 20 more. But
Aspin-Schroeder demands "study" upon "study," and requires
that the military spend no less than 75% of the average spent
at any base over the past five years -- regardless of need.
   This bill isn't about defense or "strategy"; it's about
politics. About pork-barrel raids favored by House Democrats
and some Republicans. And about the ideological lenses that
still dominate the Democratic nominating process -- even
after Iraq, and even after Dukakis. Mr. Aspin wants to stay a
committee chairman, so he appeases the mob. Preparing for a
presidential run, Sam Nunn wants to tell liberal primary
voters how he killed SDI.
   As we are now learning, however, the U.S. will have
foreign interests and foreign responsibilities even if the
Cold War is over. If ever a bill was veto bait, this is it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MER JPM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York -- $100 million of 8
1/2% notes due Oct. 1, 1993, priced at 99.90 to yield 8.538%.
The notes, which were priced at a spread of 32 basis points
above the Treasury's three-year note, will be reoffered at
variable prices. Rated triple-A by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold
through Lehman Brothers.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch Trust 47 -- $300 million of Remic mortgage
securities offered in nine classes by Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets Inc. The offering is backed by Government National
Mortgage Association 9% securities with a weighted average
remaining term to maturity of 26.67 years. Among classes for
which details were available, yields ranged from 8.87%, or 80
basis points above two-year Treasury securities, to 10.15%,
or 112 basis points above 30-year Treasurys.
                                                                                                       

                        OTHER U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $100 million of 8.87% notes
due Oct. 10, 1995, priced at par. The notes, which are
noncallable for one year, were priced at 30 basis points
above the Treasury's five-year note through underwriters led
by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Score 1 Ltd. (special-purpose vehicle) -- 10 billion yen
of 7.15% Eurobonds due May 11, 1993, at issue price of 101
3/8 via lead underwriter J.P. Morgan Securities Asia Ltd.
Redemption linked to Japanese government bond futures. Fees 1
3/8.
   Nippon Kasei Chemical Co. (Japan) -- 60 million Swiss
francs of privately placed notes due Oct. 11, 1995, with
equity-purchase warrants. Fixed 5 1/4% coupon at par via
Swiss Bank Corp. Guarantee by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank. Warrant
exercise period Oct. 22, 1990, to Oct. 4, 1995. Terms fixed
Oct. 4. Fees 1 1/2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phoenix Technologies
   Expects to Report Loss
   For September Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   PTEC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWOOD, Mass. -- Phoenix Technologies Ltd., continuing to
struggle, said it expects to post a loss of about $8.5
million for the fiscal fourth quarter, ending Sept. 30, in
part because of a restructuring charge.
   Phoenix, which makes software for personal computers, has
been hurt by diversification moves that haven't worked out
and by increased competition. But it said it hopes to return
to profitability "before the end of fiscal 1991" next
September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Phoenix said it expects to report a loss before
restructuring charges of about $2 million for the fourth
quarter, and a loss after a restructuring charge, bad debts
and taxes of about $8.5 million. In the year-ago fourth
quarter, the company has a loss of $11.9 million after a
restructuring charge of $3.6 million. Revenue will rise to
about $10 million from $4.5 million a year ago.
   The restructuring charges are largely the write-off of
fixed assets and related facilities costs.
   Ron Fisher, president and chief executive officer, said
the company's plan calls for it to become profitable by the
end of next fiscal year by becoming more efficient. The
company has cut expenses while putting more resources into
growing market segments, such as notebook PCs, printer
controllers and graphics-oriented PCs, he said.
   The fourth-quarter loss means that the company will have a
substantial loss for the current year; through the first nine
months, it had a loss of $14.2 million, including a
restructuring charge of $1 million, on revenue of $25.8
million. For all of fiscal 1989, Phoenix had a loss of $7.7
million, including a charge of $5.5 million, on revenue of
$52.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Michigan National's
   Debt Ratings Reduced
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MNCO
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich. -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
said it lowered its ratings on about $54 million of long-term
debt issued by Michigan National Corp.
   The rating concern downgraded the bank holding company's
subordinated debt to Baa-3 from Baa-2. Moody's also lowered
its ratings on the company's lead bank, Michigan National
Bank, for long-term and short term deposits, and long-term
and short-term issues backed by letters of credit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said the soft real estate market in the Midwest
has raised the risk of Michigan National's commercial real
estate assets. It also cited Michigan National's "mediocre"
core earnings. But Moody's said the holding company's
liquidity level appeared to be "prudent."
   The bank acknowledged the weakness in the real estate
market. But it said there is no "specific event" at Michigan
National to cause the downgrade. "The company continues to
focus on maintaining a strong balance sheet," a spokesman
said.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Michigan
National shares closed at $24.50, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   William Galvin Sentenced
   To 32-Month Prison Term
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- Defense consultant William Galvin was
sentenced to 32 months in prison after pleading guilty to
bribing two senior Pentagon officials to influence the
awarding of lucrative military contracts.
   Mr. Galvin, a major figure in the defense procurement
scandal, was also fined $10,000 by U.S. District Judge Claude
M. Hilton in Alexandra, Va., on his guilty plea to charges of
conspiracy, bribery and tax evasion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Along with another 32-month prison term given to a former
Unisys Corp. executive, Mr. Galvin's sentence was the longest
imposed in the long-running probe of Pentagon procurement
fraud.
   Mr. Galvin, 59 years old, faced a possible 40-year prison
sentence and fines of as much as $1 million. But prosecutors,
citing Mr. Galvin's "extraordinary cooperation" with the
investigation, asked Judge Hilton to impose a shorter prison
term. Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Aronica told Judge
Hilton that Mr. Galvin is expected to be "a critical witness
in future prosecutions."
   Mr. Galvin pleaded guilty in March to arranging payments
through a Swiss bank account to then-Assistant Navy Secretary
Melvyn R. Paisley for helping an Israeli company sell
pilotless intelligence airplanes to the Pentagon. Mr. Galvin
also said he paid $123,100 from 1983 to 1985 to a friend of
Victor D. Cohen, then a deputy assistant Air Force secretary,
knowing that some of the money would be given to Mr. Cohen to
influence the awarding of a contract on radar-warning
devices. Mr. Paisley and Mr. Cohen haven't been charged but
both are under investigation.
   Under his plea, Mr. Galvin agreed to pay the Internal
Revenue Service $648,548 in back taxes and interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Nuclear Power vs. Tyranny of Oil
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   John O. Sillin accurately describes the energy situation
in the non-transportation sector ("The Nuclear Energy
Weapon," editorial page, Aug. 23). But this nation rolls on
oil. Practically everything we move is powered by gasoline,
diesel fuel and jet-engine fuel.
   Los Angeles has decreed major changes in auto and truck
fuel over the next 10 to 20 years. The solutions include
alcohol from grain that will demand fertilizers from natural
gas, methanol from natural gas and electric-powered cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It would be ironic if the electric cars now being
developed go into production and we end up charging their
batteries with electricity generated by burning oil and gas
in power plants. Nuclear plants are base-loaded; they already
serve current demand day and night. Utilities meet additional
daytime loads with hydro, coal and natural gas.
   All available hydroenergy is used each season, and that
means that even if all batteries are charged at night, more
coal, gas and even oil will have to be burned for electricity
generation. Society is willing to give up some energy
efficiency to reduce urban smog and to save limited resources
of oil and gas. But it does not make sense to miss both of
those objectives while uranium and a good technology to
utilize it sit waiting for public understanding.
   A. David Rossin
   Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy
   U.S. Department of Energy, 1986-87
   Chicago
   ---
   Between the dangers of global warming and imminent war in
the Mideast, our need for non-polluting energy independence
has never been more obvious. Yet, a march down the path to
nuclear power, as Mr. Sillin encourages, is like walking
blindfolded. No one, in or outside the nuclear industry, has
proposed a safe treatment for nuclear waste. These waste
products will remain insidiously damaging to most forms of
life for thousands of years. If Mr. Sillin shortchanges our
ingenuity and industriousness in developing solar, biomass or
other renewable forms of energy to a commercially viable
level, does he really think we can build containment vessels
that will last for a few thousand years?
   In the area of transportation, we already have the
technological solution: Hydrogen burns cleanly and can be
used by existing vehicles with minor engine modifications and
a different storage tank. If it were mass produced, using
solar energy to convert water or biomass, its price would be
comparable with the pre-Persian Gulf conflict gasoline price
levels. We would eliminate the threat of global warming, oil
spills, toxic storage leaks and at least one trigger for
armed conflict.
   Harry Mishkin
   Scottsdale, Ariz.
   ---
   The American Nuclear Society believes that the U.S.
government should heed Mr. Sillin's warnings. We are
concerned that the Department of Energy's National Energy
Strategy (NES) is taking shape slowly, and may not fully
reflect the critical importance of new base-load
electric-generating plants in our nation's energy future.
   The NES should characterize the risks of all of our
electricity-supply options, including the strategic risks of
falling back on more imported oil. It should also clearly
consider the risks to our nation of
electric-generating-capacity shortages. We have had regional
brownouts and rolling blackouts this year. These are warning
signals that we will need new capacity soon, yet nothing much
is being ordered.
   Undoubtedly, the nation will conserve and use electricity
more efficiently. Nevertheless, we will still need additional
capacity if our expectations for the future and our desires
to clean up our environment are to be realized. We cannot
meet demand and replace older, less-efficient, power plants,
and those that may be shut down as a result of the new Clean
Air bill without new base-load power plants.
   This will require action at the federal level on
standardized nuclear-plant licenses, and action by Congress
to ensure regulation that is stable, predictable and has a
sound technical basis.
   Moreover, we need to stop pretending that there are
unsolvable scientific issues that prevent real progress on
nuclearwaste disposal. We need to remove this important
national obligation from state and local politics.
Radioactive wastes already exist, and must be disposed of
safely and permanently, even if every nuclear plant in the
world were shut down tomorrow. Obviously, if we can safely
dispose of the wastes that already exist, handling future
wastes will be no different.
   M.J. Ohanian
   President
   American Nuclear Society
   La Grange Park, Ill.
   ---
   Mr. Sillin has raised false hopes by concluding that more
nuclear-power plants can help us "to deal with thugs like
Saddam Hussein" who threaten our oil supply.
   Generation of electricity is hardly a significant factor
anymore in our dependence on foreign oil. The U.S. generated
only 5% of its electricity from oil in 1986 through 1988,
down from 17% in 1973, according to Edison Electric Institute
data. This current usage in turn represents only 4% of the
total petroleum used in the same current period, again down
from 9% in 1973. Transportation is the big culprit, consuming
63% of the total. This is followed by industrial use,
including chemical feedstocks, at 25%. Residential and
commercial users account for the remaining 8%.
   Nuclear power is an important future resource, and the
public deserves a clear and objective picture of the role it
should play in the U.S. energy picture. This understanding is
not served by an attempt to justify it as a response to an
irrational world leader like Saddam Hussein.
   George C. Ford
   President
   George C. Ford &amp; Associates
   (Power-generation consulting firm)
   Princeton, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Upjohn Sells Rights
   To Brands to Roberts
   Pharmaceutical Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   RPCX UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   EATONTOWN, N.J. -- Roberts Pharmaceutical Corp. said it
purchased the rights to several brands in the U.S., Canada,
Britain and Ireland from Upjohn Co., a health care company
based in Kalamazoo, Mich. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Roberts, which acquires, develops and markets
pharmaceuticals, acquired several respiratory and analgesic
brands, including Cheracol and Orthoxicol cough syrups,
Pyrroxate cold and allergy medicine, P-A-C aspirin tablets,
and Haltran, an ibuprofen product.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It also purchased other nutritional brands such as the
multivitamin supplements Zymacap, Sigtab and Super D Perles;
the calcium supplements Calcium Lactate tablets and Calcium
Gluconate tablets; the dietary supplement Diostsate D; and
Lipomul, a product that increases calorie intake. Roberts
also bought the brand Clocream, a hand cream.
   For the nine months ended March 31, Roberts, which went
public last January, had a net loss of $3.3 million, or 65
cents a share, on sales of $972,500.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Roberts
shares closed at $3.75, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Ford Chief Petersen
   Sets Book on Management
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Donald E. Petersen, who led Ford Motor Co.'s
financial and product revival in the 1980s, plans to write a
book expounding his people-oriented management philosophy.
   Those curious about the former Ford chairman's
sometimes-rocky relationship with members of the Ford family
or gossip about the company's internal politics apparently
will be disappointed. Mr. Petersen and his co-author, USA
Today financial writer John Hillkirk, plan not an
autobiography but a "new way of looking at corporations using
examples from (Mr. Petersen's) experience at Ford," said
Henry Ferris, the Houghton Mifflin Co. senior editor in
charge of the project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a very idea-oriented book," Mr. Ferris added. The
work, as yet untitled, is due out next fall.
   Mr. Petersen retired from Ford in March, two years earlier
than expected. During his tenure at the top, he tirelessly
preached the gospel of teamwork, and pushed the company's
product planners to put appealing designs and quality ahead
of short-term profits. But profits, specifically Ford's feat
in outearning General Motors Corp. from 1986 to 1988, are
what established Mr. Petersen as one of American industry's
most admired figures during the past decade.
   How much, if any, profit Mr. Petersen will get from his
book venture isn't clear. Houghton Mifflin declined to
discuss its advance. The publisher is expected to order a
first printing of about 50,000 to 75,000 copies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Analog Devices Inc.
   Charge of $12 Million
   To Result in Losses
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11E
</SO>
<CO>
   ADI
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWOOD, Mass. -- Analog Devices Inc. said it will take a
pretax charge of about $12 million against its
venture-capital portfolio that, with a previously announced
charge, will result in losses for the fiscal fourth quarter
and year ending Nov. 2.
   Ray Stata, president and chairman, said the "soft market
and economic climate for early-stage, high-technology
companies" prompted the company to take a charge against its
venture portfolio. The value of the portfolio is about $13
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stata said "volatile performance" of companies in the
portfolio has produced a "random and unpredictable" effect on
Analog's earnings. A spokesman added that Analog probably
won't make future venture-capital investments because "it has
been a tougher deal than we anticipated."
   The charge will be in addition to a previously announced
pretax charge of $12 million to $15 million that the company
expects to take as a result of "planned restructuring and
inventory adjustments" following its acquisition of Precision
Monolithics.
   Joseph Hinchey, senior vice president, finance, said the
company remains in "very strong financial condition" with
healthy cash flow and debt at 8% of equity.
   Analog, which makes integrated circuits and other
electronic parts, had net income of $469,000, or one cent a
share, on sales of $110.9 million in the fiscal fourth
quarter ended Oct. 28, 1989. For all of fiscal 1989, it had
net of $27.9 million, or 58 cents a share, on sales of $453.4
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Computer Hackers Get
   Their Hackles Up
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 22 page-one article on computer "hackers"
continues a longstanding malignment of an important group.
Those of us who call ourselves hackers, and who go to the
annual Hackers' Conference, are upstanding citizens, many the
discoverers of key technologies and founders of important
companies in Silicon Valley. The term "hacker" as we use it
means, essentially, someone who works fiercely on problems
and ideas, without regard to normal schedules of meals and
sleep.
   The people the press calls "hackers" are criminals who
break into computer systems. This use came about when Donn
Parker of Stanford used the term to reporters, which he now
regrets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We ethical hackers consider "hacker" a badge of honor, as
it is used in the true Hacker Community, and we are not about
to change the word. So we ask that you at least give the
legitimate meaning of the word an equal presentation.
   Theodor Holm Nelson
   Autodesk Inc.
   Sausalito, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Netherlands Posts Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- The Dutch trade surplus in June amounted to
1.2 billion guilders ($676.1 million), as the Netherlands
imported 19.3 billion guilders of goods and its exports
totaled 20.5 billion guilders, the Dutch Central Bureau of
Statistics said.
   The June trade data represent a strong improvement from
May, when the Netherlands posted a trade deficit of 900
million guilders, on imports of 20.5 billion guilders and
exports of 19.6 billion guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The June trade surplus also was an improvement from a year
earlier, when the Netherlands had a deficit of 200 million
guilders, with imports amounting to 20 billion guilders and
exports of 19.8 billion guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   U.S. Hires Cravath Swaine
   In Drexel Junk-Bond Case
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators said they retained the
New York law firm Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore to help try to
recover millions of dollars of thrift and bank junk-bond
losses from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
   The agreement, which was expected, was sought by a Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. task force. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York has set a Nov. 15 deadline for asserting claims
against Drexel, which filed for protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code earlier this
year. Recoveries could come from Drexel's bankruptcy estate
or two restitution funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cravath Swaine has committed itself to provide whatever
legal staffing is necessary, including senior trial partners
Thomas Barr and David Boies, who are among the country's
best-known litigators.
   The government contends that Drexel's former junk-bond
chief, Michael Milken, helped thrifts that were big Drexel
customers fraudulently swap high-risk, high-yield junk bonds
and record artificial profits on the sales. No such charges
have ever been filed against Mr. Milken or Drexel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Military
   Shipbuilders Trying
   To Cut Bureaucracy
   ---
   Their Goal Is to Establish
   Commercial Export Unit
   For Flexibility and Profit
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP GE
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Following in the army's footsteps, the French
government's military shipbuilding bureaucracy is trying to
become just a little less governmental, by setting up a
commercial export subsidiary.
   It is all part of a push by arms makers world-wide to
boost sales and improve sagging financial performance. It
also reflects a growing effort by French state agencies to
begin behaving more like companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, the French government's main maker of
munitions, cannons, tanks and armored vehicles shortened its
long, complicated name to Giat Industries. It ceased to be a
state agency and became a corporation -- albeit still
government-owned. It immediately announced plans to stem
losses, expand slumping exports, and lay off employees.
   The shipbuilders' goal is more modest. They don't want to
become a corporation or lay anyone off. They just want the
right to create a commercially registered sales subsidiary
called DCNI, short for Direction des Constructions
Navales-Industrie. Then they want to begin an export drive.
   Until now, the DCN says, it has viewed its main job simply
as supplying the French navy. It designs ships and oversees
plants that build them.
   It has been treated as another government bureaucracy, and
had to go through a cumbersome process to make an export
sale. The result has been poor export performance. The DCN
won't say exactly how much of its 20 billion francs ($3.79
billion) in sales last year were exports, but says exports
were well below Giat's figure of 10% of total production.
   A spokesman says the DCN hopes the Finance Ministry will
approve the new company within a few weeks. First, the DCN
needs to calm official worries that the new company would
mark a step away from full government control.
   The DCN's idea is similar to Giat's: Boost efficiency and
build cooperation with non-government companies, both French
and foreign. And while the DCN doesn't calculate profits and
losses, it would want its sales subsidiary to show earnings.
   "Currently," the DCN official said, "we don't have the
right to form joint ventures or to handle our own export
sales. We must build and design ships and subs ourselves, and
when we want to sell abroad, we have to work through one of
the state export agencies. We are hoping to get more
flexibility."
   The official said the DCN has been lobbying for more than
two years to create the company. The changes at Giat have
made the change seem more urgent.
   Giat Chairman Pierre Chiquet said in April that he hopes
to cut staff more than 10% by 1992. He said he hopes to end
losses, now 10% of sales, by 1994. And this month, he said
Giat has agreed to cooperate with a division of General
Electric Co. of Fairfield, Conn., (unrelated to the British
company of the same name), to develop and make a cannon
turret for light helicopters, which they hope to sell to the
U.S. Army.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Foote, Cone &amp; Belding
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FCB
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Foote, Cone &amp; Belding said it named Mike
Koelker to the new position of corporate director of creative
development and elected him as an addition to the company's
board of directors.
   Mr. Koelker, 52 years old, who joined the advertising
agency in 1968, will continue in his current post as
executive creative director of San Francisco-based
operations, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan Reaches Agreement
   Over Allied-Signal Metals
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN ALD
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Japan averted a trade investigation by
agreeing to buy thousands of electric transformers containing
new alloys developed by Allied-Signal Inc. and to respect the
U.S. company's patent rights.
   The agreement was reached Friday after a week of talks
here to craft concessions that would persuade the Morristown,
N.J., company not to refile its trade complaint.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The petition, initially filed with the U.S. Trade
Representative's Office last March, charged that Tokyo and
several Japanese companies conspired to block sales of
Allied's amorphous metals, alloys that Allied claims can save
70% of the electricity normally lost in conventional
transformers. Allied temporarily withdrew the petition at the
urging of U.S. trade officials to give them a chance to
negotiate a solution.
   Allied had argued that the Japanese government helped some
companies develop amorphous metals and had prevailed upon
Japanese utilities to defer purchases of such products until
the Japanese products were available and Allied's Japanese
patents had expired.
   Tokyo wouldn't agree to extend Allied's two Japanese
patents after they expire in 1993 and 1997. However, Japanese
utilities will buy 32,000 electric transformers containing
Allied's amorphous metals over the next 30 months.
   Allied estimates the potential world market for amorphous
metals at $3.5 billion a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   CFTC Rules Crude
   Sold as 15-Day Brent
   Isn't Futures Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as
expected, approved a "statutory interpretation" that crude
oil sold under so-called 15-day Brent oil contracts isn't a
futures contract as defined in the Commodity Exchange Act.
   The commission, by a 3-1 vote, declared that the contracts
describe cash sales of commodities for deferred shipment or
delivery. As such, these contracts are excluded from the
CFTC's regulatory jurisdiction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue arose in April, when U.S. District Court Judge
William Connor in New York ruled in a case brought by
Transnor (Bermuda) Ltd. that forward trading in Brent, a
widely traded North Sea crude, should be regulated in the
same way as a U.S. futures contract.
   Judge Connor's opinion initially placed a cloud over the
entire crude oil market. Non-U.S. participants feared
entering into Brent contracts that might subsequently be held
unenforceable. U.S. participants shied away from the market,
believing they could be held in violation of the Commodity
Exchange Act.
   CFTC Chairman Wendy Gramm and Commissioners Kalo Hineman
and William Albrecht voted to approve the statutory
interpretation, and Commissioner Fowler West dissented.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Primerica Sets Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   PA
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Primerica Corp. said it authorized repurchase
of as many as three million common shares, from time to time
on the New York Stock Exchange, to use with employee stock
option and other benefit plans.
   Primerica, a financial services company, had about 117
million average shares outstanding in the second quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tokai Bank Madrid Office
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   J.TKB EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Japan's Tokai Bank Ltd. petitioned the Bank of
Spain to expand its Madrid office into a fully operative bank
branch, a Bank of Spain representative said.
   Six Japanese banks operate branches in Spain, and two,
including Tokai Bank, run representative offices in the
country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Enserch Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ENS
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENSERCH Corp., a Dallas-based energy concern, said it
declared a special dividend of one share of its Pool Energy
Service Co. unit's common stock for each 32.4 shares of
Enserch common held. The dividend is payable Nov. 15 to stock
of record Oct. 10. Holders entitled to fewer than 100 shares
of Pool common may opt for cash, in lieu of the stock,
through a selling arrangement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ratings on How Well U.S. Banks Serve
   Communities Will Be Available to Public
   ----
   By Fowler W. Martin
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11G
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The public will soon have access, for the
first time, to reports showing how well U.S. financial
institutions are serving their local communities, a
development that is likely to prompt more lending to
disadvantaged groups in years ahead.
   Public access to Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA,
ratings was mandated by the 1989 thrift industry bailout
bill, but it has taken until now to get the program fully
implemented.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Reserve expected that the first CRA report for
a bank that it examined could be made public today, Fed
Governor John LaWare said. He didn't specify the institution.
   Describing the latest developments regarding the enhanced
CRA program, Mr. LaWare said the Fed has completed 25 to 30
examinations under the new rating system set out in the law.
Slightly more than 5% of those examined received the highest
rating of outstanding, 87% were given a satisfactory rating,
and the remainder got a needs-improvement rating. No bank has
received the lowest rating, that of substantial
non-compliance. But Mr. LaWare and other officials emphasized
that the sample of banks examined is still very small.
   The CRA program has been in effect since 1977, but, with
the exception of a smattering of success stories, hasn't
attracted much public attention. Indeed, during congressional
consideration of the 1989 thrift bill, various public-policy
advocacy groups charged that the banks and their examiners
were largely ignoring the 1977 reinvestment requirements, in
effect hiding behind the confidential nature of the rating
exercise. In response, Congress mandated the new system of
public disclosure.
   Mr. LaWare disputed the notion that the program wasn't
working well previously, though he conceded that the new
approach is likely to produce better results.
   Publication of the ratings and the bank examiners' CRA
report will probably be a "double jolt" to the program, the
Fed governor said. First, banks will be more diligent about
complying, and second, examiners will be more focused on the
issue, as a result of extensive training programs carried out
in recent months.
   Community Reinvestment Act ratings are important to banks
because, by law, they must be taken into consideration by
regulatory agencies when considering bank applications to
expand, for example, by acquiring another institution.
   Safety and soundness issues and competitiveness factors
are the major determinants for approvals in such cases, but
it is possible that an otherwise qualified application would
be turned down because of a poor CRA rating, Mr. LaWare said.
   The new system of making CRA reports public has "created a
great deal of anxiety on the part of bankers," he said. Among
other things, banks are worried that the public may confuse
CRA ratings with the banks' degree of financial soundness, he
said, noting that the two have nothing to do with each other.
It is conceivable that a bank with a high soundness rating
could have a poor CRA rating, or vice versa, Fed officials
said.
   They also said that enhanced CRA lending activities
shouldn't serve to undermine the financial condition of
banks, even though such loans are aimed at disadvantaged
borrowers.
   "This is not intended to be a give-away program," Mr.
LaWare said, noting that nothing in the law says that banks
have to make bad loans. Innovative approaches and credit
enhancement techniques can result in sound credits, he said.
   The CRA program is aimed at forcing banks and their
directors to explore aggressively the credit needs of less
advantaged elements of the communities they serve, and to
seek out lending opportunities, as opposed to waiting for
business to walk in the door, he said.
   What is beginning to emerge, he asserted, is a notion of
"enlightened self interest," where banks come to realize that
such activities are in their own best interest. "I believe
the concept is being recognized and accepted widely by the
banking community," he said.
   But if this isn't the case on a voluntary basis, the new
supervision and public exposure program is likely to push
banks in that direction. "If the cops are out, people are
going to obey the speed limit," Mr. LaWare said.
   He also said that he anticipates CRA-related lending will
become increasingly visible, and that such activities by
banks will produce a notable effect in terms of development
that wasn't occurring previously.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Is Removed
   As the Proprietor
   Of Nevada Brothel
   ---
   Refusal by Judge to Allow
   Trustee to Run Business
   Clears Way for IRS Sale
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11D
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   RENO, Nev. -- It seems the federal government won't be
operating one of the nation's most celebrated brothels after
all: On Friday, a judge lifted the stay order that would have
put a bankruptcy trustee in charge of running The Mustang
Ranch.
   But the federal government will still ultimately be
calling the shots here; by lifting the stay, the judge freed
the Internal Revenue Service to put the brothel on the
selling block.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An IRS official said the agency planned to seize the
brothel as soon as possible and put it up for sale at a
public auction, probably within about 30 days.
   Mustang Ranch shut down last Tuesday, following a
bankruptcy liquidation order. By the following day, the
bankruptcy trustee was trying to reopen the ranch under
federal management, with plans to run it until the government
was able to find a buyer for the brothel.
   At the hearing Friday, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James
Thompson refused to grant the bankruptcy trustee the
clearance she needed to operate the brothel. The trustee,
Jeri Coppa, told the judge that the county wouldn't allow her
to run the brothel without court permission to assume the
current owner's license. Getting her own license would take
another 90 days.
   But the judge declined, ruling that the seven-year battle
between the brothel and the IRS, the brothel's largest
creditor, had gone on long enough.
   Even so, the brothel's owners -- Joe and Sally Conforte --
are hoping for a reprieve. "They can't foreclose yet," said
Pete Perry, the Confortes' attorney, because earlier last
week he filed yet another petition for bankruptcy protection
under Chapter 11 -- this time using Mr. Conforte's name. (The
last one was filed by Mrs. Conforte.) To foreclose, the
federal government will have to petition the court yet again.
"We will be filing all kinds of litigation," Mr. Perry added.
"This is an attorney's field day."
   Ron Smith, chief of special procedures for the IRS in
Nevada, said the IRS will seek a "clarification" from the
judge on whether Mr. Conforte's latest Chapter 11 filing can
block liquidation. He said that while it may postpone the
sale for a while, it is unlikely to prevent it.
   Already, several prospective buyers have called the IRS
office, Mr. Smith said, but "no one's mentioned money at this
point."
   In the last few years, the Confortes have attempted
several times, unsuccessfully, to sell Mustang Ranch. They
complain that the sales fell through because of IRS
interference.
   The bankruptcy trustee has maintained that the Confortes
were generating interference themselves, by trying to thwart
the government's efforts to operate the 105-room brothel.
   The IRS says Mustang Ranch's owners owe $13 million in
back taxes; the Confortes say they own less than half that
amount.
   "One of the real tragedies of the thing is that 200 people
are going to be out of work because of this," Mr. Perry said.
And the local economy will be out "millions of dollars," he
said.
   Mustang Ranch first opened for business in the late 1950s,
when prostitution was illegal -- but winked at by Nevada
officials. It was legalized by the county in 1971.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Frick's Homey Mansion
   ----
   By Carol Hymowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Pittsburgh -- Big steel made big money for young
businessmen, who built palatial homes at the turn of the
century along Millionaire's Row here. But like the sprawling
mills of that bygone era, those houses have all but
disappeared. Only one remains: Clayton, the home of the late
coke and steel magnate Henry Clay Frick.
   It was here in this 23-room stone mansion that Frick
raised his children while ruling the country's emerging steel
industry. Steel made Frick rich, but it also made
Pittsburgh's air black. So the plutocrat art aficionado fled
the soot: He packed up his family and his Rembrandts and
Raphaels and moved them to New York in 1905 for safekeeping.
He turned his back on Clayton, leaving it untouched.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was as if they were going for the weekend," says
Joanne Moore, project director of the restoration. They left
behind furniture, linens, papers, books, games and closets
full of clothes -- some 12,000 items that gathered dust for
decades.
   Daughter Helen, who inherited Clayton in the 1930s, kept
staff there to cook her favorite dinners on her rare visits.
She spent the last four years of her life at Clayton,
bedridden in her childhood nursery. And before she died in
1984, at the age of 96, she directed that Clayton be
maintained as "a historic house and estate," with everything
"nearly as possible like it was in the days when the family
lived there."
   Now, after a five-year, $6 million restoration, Clayton
opened this weekend as a museum. A walk inside is a walk into
the 19th century. Downstairs in the parlor, where guests were
received, rococo Louis XV-style chairs are covered with
floral-patterned tapestry. Upstairs are Henry and wife
Adelaide Frick's separate but adjoining bedrooms -- his neat
and spartan, hers a lush retreat decorated entirely in red,
including a red-painted ceiling bordered with gold
cornflowers.
   Unlike many other restorations on this scale, Clayton
feels like a family home. Its high-ceilinged, Victorian rooms
are filled with everyday things -- Henry's spectacles on the
library desk where he poured over business records,
Adelaide's silver-topped dresser set and Christmas shopping
lists from 1896, a hand-carved ivory domino set, children's
toys and family photographs. "You can feel their
personalities and presence in these rooms," says Thierry
Despont, the New York architect who worked on the
restoration.
   Henry Clay Frick was 33 years old and already a
millionaire when he and his young bride moved to Clayton in
1882. The son of a ne'er-do-well farmer, he'd had little
formal schooling but shrewdly perceived there was lots of
money to be made supplying the burgeoning steel industry with
coke. By the time he was 30, he'd purchased huge tracts of
coal fields and controlled much of the coke industry.
   Andrew Carnegie, eager to secure a ready supply of coke
for his mills, invited Frick to become his partner. There was
little friendship between the demanding, gregarious Carnegie
and the dour, formal Frick, but Henry quickly proved himself
the master manager. He streamlined Carnegie's steel
empire-cutting costs by consolidating operations and
constructing a company-owned railway to connect widely
scattered plants.
   But it was the bloody Homestead strike of 1892 for which
he's most remembered. When the plant's workers went on
strike, Frick hired strikebreakers and Pinkerton guards to
break their walkout, and persuaded the governor to send in
state militia. Workers were shot at and Homestead became an
armed camp.
   An angry anarchist then tried to assassinate Frick. Two of
his bullets hit their target, but failed to injure Frick
seriously. He insisted on having his wounds treated in his
office and then went about his business duties as if nothing
had happened.
   He continued to hang tough with the strikers -- and
ultimately broke their union. One liberal senator later
commented that the industrialist was "coldblooded" and
"absolutely without any trace of sympathy for the working
man."
   At Clayton, a different man emerges -- a loving husband
and father whose home was a safe refuge from the harsh
business world. Unlike today's jet-age executives, he seems
to have spent a great deal of time at home. He usually was
there promptly at 6 for dinner in the formal dining room
furnished with rich mahogany woodwork, silver-plated lighting
fixtures and a table that seated 20.
   "My father and I sat at one end of the table, my mother at
the other, and during the meal the orchestrian {a mechanical
instrument with the sounds of a full orchestra} played
favorite tunes," Helen later recalled. After dinner, there
were games of bridge or dominos in the second-floor library,
"where my parents spent the evenings when alone, their big
armchairs drawn up in front of the gas-log fire," Helen
wrote. And when her father "got the fidgets during the
evening, he and I would take a walk, arm in arm, first on one
floor, then on another, steering our way around furniture."
   There are family photos everywhere at Clayton --
especially of Martha, the oldest daughter, who died in 1891
at age five after a long illness. For the rest of his life,
Henry placed flowers over Martha's portrait in his bedroom,
as he continued to grieve the death of his "Rose Bud."
   Despite that grief, Helen Clay Frick remembered her
childhood at Clayton as an idyllic time. She had everything a
child could want -- dolls from France, ponies and carriages
and a playhouse filled with miniature furniture that she
shared with her older brother, Childs. Among her parents'
friends, her favorites were bankers and neighbors Andrew W.
and Richard Beatty Mellon who, after talking business with
her father, would share tea with her and her dolls.
   Helen left strict instructions (and plenty of funds) to
restore Clayton to the way it was in those happy years. No
detail has been overlooked.
   A limestone carver -- one of 200 craftsmen hired for the
restoration -- handcarved 129 balusters to replace
deteriorated railing along the second-floor porch. A paint
specialist analyzed interior walls; in Mrs. Frick's bedroom,
scrapings were taken from behind the fireplace mantle to
determine the original shade of red.
   Only one panel of original drapery fabric remained for the
bedroom windows. Using a bill dated 1896, archivists at
Clayton traced the fabric to a textile maker in Lyon, France.
The company still exists and was able to duplicate the
fabric. Similarly, the library's stenciled jute wallcovering,
found almost in shreds, was reordered from its original
Parisian maker.
   It's hard to say whether Helen would embrace the
refurbished Clayton. Like her father, whom she idolized, she
was used to getting her way -- and retaliated when she
didn't. In the 1960s, when directors of an art building she'd
donated to the University of Pittsburgh announced plans to
exhibit modern art, she withdrew her Renaissance art
collection and built her own Frick Art Museum adjacent to
Clayton.
   When it came to Clayton itself, Helen hoped to control the
place even after her death. She especially wanted to keep a
tight rein on visitors to her family's shrine. In her will,
she stated that the public should stand behind gates at the
entrance to each room. But the foundation to which she's
entrusted Clayton is ignoring that dictum because "to
experience the rooms and the life lived in them, you can't
block them off," says project director Ms. Moore.
   ---
   Ms. Hymowitz is the Journal's Pittsburgh bureau chief.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Groupe Michelin Posts
   Loss for First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.MIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Groupe Michelin surprised analysts by posting a
larger-than-expected loss for this year's first half.
   Michelin, which became the world's biggest tire company
when it acquired Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. this year, posted
a first-half loss of 363 million francs ($68.7 million), and
warned that the second half is looking even worse. It said a
loss is likely for the full year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michelin said first-half sales declined 4.4% to 27.22
billion francs. It blamed the decline on currency
fluctuations.
   The loss compares to a 1.46 billion-franc profit in 1989's
first half, and a 2.45 billion-franc profit for all of 1989.
Michelin said it is making a large effort to return to
profitability in 1991.
   As with other tire makers, it blamed the loss on heavy
price competition, on sluggish auto sales in both the U.S.
and Europe, on rising costs and on a plan announced in June
to cut its French labor force by 2,260 people. To cover
severance, early retirement and retraining costs, it made a
special 350-million franc provision.
   One problem Michelin didn't point to is finance.
Michelin's more than $1.5 billion Uniroyal Goodrich
acquisition has pushed up its already heavy debt. Net finance
charges in the first half jumped to 1.06 billion francs, more
than double the year-earlier figure.
   Michelin did warn, however, that because the acquisition
was completed in May, the impact of interest payments on its
results would be more severe in the second half.
   Michelin said in a statement that efforts to cut
production, stocks and overhead would be "pursued and
reinforced.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Legal Arguments
   Focus on Contents
   Of Memo on Milken
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael Milken is scheduled to be sentenced for his crimes
in a week and the battle over what the government may tell
the public about the former junk bond king -- and when -- is
well under way.
   A federal judge is expected to hear arguments today from
lawyers for Mr. Milken, his brother, Lowell Milken, several
media organizations and others about a sentencing memorandum
that the government has filed with the court about Mr.
Milken. The sentencing memorandum, filed under seal this
month, contains information about the six securities
fraud-related crimes to which Mr. Milken pleaded guilty in
April, as well as a host of other alleged crimes that the
government believes he committed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government's sentencing memo, which is understood to
total more than 200 pages, is intended to persuade U.S.
District Judge Kimba Wood to issue a stiff sentence when Mr.
Milken appears before her next Monday. Mr. Milken's lawyers
have had the opportunity to rebut the government's
allegations in their own memo.
   Lawyers for Lowell Milken asked Judge Wood late Friday to
order prosecutors to delete those portions of their
sentencing memo that refer to Lowell Milken. Lowell Milken
was employed by the Beverly Hills, Calif., junk bond
department that his brother headed for Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc. Drexel filed for bankruptcy this year.
   Lowell Milken had been charged with securities and tax
fraud in an indictment filed last year. But the government
agreed to dismiss all charges against Lowell Milken when his
brother agreed to plead guilty. His lawyers said that "the
government has pursued a meritless case against Lowell
Milken," and that any mention of him in his brother's
sentencing memo would violate his Fifth Amendment rights. The
Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution forbids the
government from publicly charging a person with the
commission of crimes unless he has the opportunity to defend
himself at trial.
   Meanwhile, Judge Wood also will decide whether any portion
of the sentencing memo can be released prior to Mr. Milken's
sentencing. Several media organizations, including this
newspaper, have argued that the public has a right to view
the memo before Mr. Milken is sentenced. However, Mr.
Milken's attorneys oppose any release of the memo before next
week, arguing that early release could lead to "undue public
clamor and improper pressure" on the court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RJR Nabisco Agrees to Sell
   More Cigarettes to Soviets
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. -- RJR Nabisco Inc., which already has
plans to ship 14 billion cigarettes to the Soviet Union, said
it agreed to ship an additional 3.2 billion smokes.
   The food and tobacco company, controlled by Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., also said it agreed in principle to
expanded long-term cooperation with the Soviet tobacco
industry. The agreement includes technical assistance to
improve manufacturing facilities throughout the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts estimated RJR's original plan to provide 14
billion cigarettes to the Soviets would generate about $40
million in operating profit. In 1989, RJR's operating profit
from tobacco exports totaled $328 million. The company
declined to comment on the original estimate, or to project
what the added tobacco shipments might contribute to
earnings.
   RJR said the first air-freight shipments of cigarettes are
expected to begin this week, with cigarettes arriving on
Soviet shelves before the end of the month. Shipments of the
total 17.2 billion cigarettes, the company said, will
continue over the next 12 months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   North vs. South, in Your Living Room
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   By the time this appears the first installment of "The
Civil War" will have aired on PBS. Continuing tonight through
Thursday, this extraordinary series by filmmaker Ken Burns
brings the American Civil War to life as no history has ever
been brought to life on a screen, including the large one
called the movies. This may sound like a large claim but it
is an understatement itself compared with the critical praise
already-deservedly-heaped on these 11 hours. What hours. What
history. Diary excerpts, letters, paintings, lithographs,
3,000 photographs, contemporary footage (of the old
battlegrounds), music and narrative all were fused to produce
a whole of the most remarkable immediacy.
   The bitterness and gallantry and slaughter pour out in
unhurried detail. The war is in the living room. Here are the
armies, the generals, the music, the food, the battle of the
ironclad ships Monitor and Merrimack, the battle of Shiloh,
where 2,400 died, Cold Harbor, where 7,000 men perished in 20
minutes, and Antietam. Also, the South's madly heroic Nathan
Bedford Forrest, who wheeled his horse around and charged
directly at a mob of Union troops in hot pursuit, ultimately
yanking one up on his horse for use as a shield. Here are
Grant and his friend Sherman, and the president actually
shown (via photographs) leaving the field after the speech at
Gettysburg. The sense of actuality produced by Mr. Burns's
camera and his still photos grows, so that by the time we
come to the Gettysburg Address (read by Sam Waterston) it is
hard to remember that this is not the real Lincoln, whom we
have after all just seen walk through the crowd after an
address he considered a dismal failure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It helps, of course, that history here is reported largely
in 19th-century prose culled from diaries and letters of
enormous eloquence. This was not a tongue-tied age. It is
impossible to forget the words of Maj. Sullivan Ballou of the
Second Rhode Island Volunteers, who sent a letter to his wife
just a few weeks before his death at the Battle of Bull Run.
   The major wrote of his certainty that American
civilization depended on the triumph of the government. "I am
willing, perfectly willing, to lay down all my joys in this
life to help preserve this government . . . My love for you
is deathless, it seems to bind me with mighty cables. And yet
my love of country comes over me like a strong wind and bears
me with all those chains to the battlefield . . . If I do not
return, dear Sarah, never forget how much I loved you . . . I
shall always be with you in the brightest day and the darkest
night -- always, always."
   Here also are the letters written by former slaves, and
Frederick Douglass, played by Morgan Freeman. Mr. Burns
ranged far and wide to assemble his cast of voices, which
include Arthur Miller as William Tecumseh Sherman and Studs
Terkel in the role of Gen. Benjamin Butler. Then there's Jody
Powell. It's hard to absorb the notion of Jody as Stonewall
Jackson, whom a contemporary describes as a "pious blue-eyed
killer" who sucked constantly on lemons and was utterly
untroubled by the likelihood of death.
   Never before had so many aspects of war found so many
chroniclers among a citizenry. Even the decisive moment
spelling the end has its witness, a fellow worshipper who
recorded the sudden ashen look of Confederacy President
Jefferson Davis as he read a hopeless note from Gen. Lee,
slipped into his hand during services. In 11 hours layered,
however delicately, with almost nothing but vignettes of the
rawest emotional force -- Lee's last hours with his weary
troops, the surrender at Appomattox, the salute of the Union
troops as Lee departs -- these are the events most likely to
threaten a viewer's composure. Many elements prepare the way
for that effect, among them old patriotic tunes that lose no
character for all that they are turned into a dirge. A lot of
people this week are going to find themselves singing, "The
Union forever, hurrah boys hurrah]" and similar lyrics not
heard in shower stalls for some time. Mississippi author and
Civil War historian Shelby Foote, a vivid presence throughout
this series, will win new fans. It took the 37-year-old Mr.
Burns, a documentary filmmaker (whose previous subjects were
Huey Long and the Brooklyn Bridge), five years to accomplish
this work, whose equal we are not likely to see soon again.
   ---
   In another part of the forest, we have NBC's new series,
"American Dreamer," from "Family Ties" creator Gary David
Goldberg, who appears to be in some other business instead of
comedy this season. Some business with a lot of contemporary
relationship-babble on its mind. Like a lot of new shows,
this one also has its quotient of physiological jokes,
grunts, people guzzling and slobbering water and looking
repellent -- all the wild, wonderful wit in short that our TV
writers have decided the world is yearning for. In addition
to this problem, there is the lead, Robert Urich, an actor
born to spew earnestness if ever there was one. Shouldn't it
occur to somebody -- the producers, say -- that an actor's
gift for comedy or lack of one is an issue to consider when
handing out lead roles in a sitcom? On the other hand, the
show has two bright spots. One is Carol Kane in the role of a
secretary, and the other is the splendidly mordant Jeffrey
Tambor. Both of them know what a comic line is, which is a
lot more than one can say of the writers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Price of Victory:
   South Africa's ANC
   Finds Sanctions Are
   A Blessing and a Curse
   ---
   They Help the Black Majority
   Win Reform but Also Gut
   Its Economic Inheritance
   ---
   A Void Left by GM and Ford
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW BRIGHTON, South Africa -- Mkhuseli Jack, one of the
generals in the economic war against white minority rule,
points through the dusk to what appears to be a junkyard of
plywood and tin. A woman balancing a baby on her back and a
sheet of corrugated iron on her head disappears into the
mess. It is her home.
   "Squatters," says Mr. Jack. "Four or five weeks ago, those
shacks weren't there."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The battlefield inspection continues. Unemployed men, both
young and old, loiter in small groups on every corner. Flimsy
shanties, some merely a patchwork of cardboard billboards --
"whiter whites, brighter brights," says a detergent ad now
part of a living room wall -- occupy every available space.
   Mr. Jack winces at the price of victory. "Sanctions," he
admits, "have required a sacrifice."
   South Africa's present recession, hastened by
international trade and financial sanctions against Pretoria
for its policies of racial segregation, has hit the blighted
black townships of Port Elizabeth particularly hard. So has
corporate disinvestment. When Ford and General Motors left
town four years ago, 6,500 people lost their jobs. Most of
them are still unemployed today.
   Mr. Jack turns another corner. More jobless, more
squatters, more shacks. "We must act quickly to end this
sacrifice," he says. "We don't want to inherit a country in
ruins."
   The sanctions sword is turning against its blacksmith. The
African National Congress, South Africa's main black
liberation group, forged its sanctions strategy as a means of
pressuring the government to abandon white-minority rule.
And, to this end, it has worked. Earlier this year, President
F.W. de Klerk, desperate to return South Africa to
international acceptability, unbanned the ANC and other
political groups, released ANC leader Nelson Mandela from 27
years in prison, began repealing segregation laws and opened
negotiations with the ANC designed to lead to a new
constitution and black-white power sharing. Today Mr. de
Klerk, carrying a report on his reforms, will be the first
South African head of state to visit the White House in
nearly half a century.
   Having thus prodded the government into action, sanctions
now are prodding the ANC. Back home after 30 years in exile,
the ANC is swamped with its impoverished constituency's
rising expectations for improved living conditions. The ANC,
now a partner with the government in shaping the country's
future, is eager to restructure the economy to better meet
black needs, an overhaul that will rely heavily on foreign
investment. But it can't begin as long as measures designed
to punish the economy and isolate South Africa are still in
place. And many countries, such as the U.S., have locked in
their sanctions until the ANC says it is satisfied with
current negotiations between the government and the black
opposition.
   Thus, the ANC finds itself under pressure to move as
swiftly as possible in the talks; it hopes significant
progress can be made by the end of the year. To boost
negotiation prospects, the ANC last month took the initiative
to suspend its guerrilla war. Mr. Mandela also says the
organization may settle for a "statement of intent" from the
government on the shape of a new constitution, rather than
actual progress, as a trigger for the lifting of sanctions.
   "The realization of the damage that sanctions would do to
the economy, and to social stability, if they continue to be
applied has brought both the government and the ANC to their
senses," says Ronald Bethlehem, an economist at one of the
country's big mining houses. "Neither are prepared to accept
the long-term costs of sanctions."
   After more than five years of sanctions, applied in
varying degrees by individual countries, and after a huge
exodus of direct investment by U.S. corporations, the costs
are adding up. The cutting off of financial credits from the
major Western banks has triggered a net capital outflow of
more than $10 billion, mainly through debt repayment. Efforts
to hold down imports to finance these payments have strangled
growth. Black unemployment, high even before sanctions and
disinvestment, is rising by at least 200,000 a year. Without
foreign aid, development programs, such as low-cost housing,
are sputtering. More than seven million squatters, fully
one-quarter of the black population, encircle the country's
urban areas.
   In some ways, the First World component of the economy --
driven by the white-owned gold, diamond and platinum mines --
has perversely benefited from sanctions. Local companies and
businessmen snapped up disinvesting companies at fire-sale
prices. New trade routes, plied by sanctions-busting
entrepreneurs, opened almost as soon as others closed. The
country's export base actually widened, thanks to government
incentives. Industries neglected in the past have blossomed;
in response to the arms embargo against it, the country has
become one of the world's largest weapons makers.
   The net result has been to widen the already huge gap
between whites and blacks. The staggering black unemployment
-- more than 50% in some areas -- has sharpened workplace
tensions; more than 1.2 million man-days were lost during the
first half of this year because of strikes, triple the level
of last year. Moreover, the housing crisis is fueling
township unrest. Squatter camps and migrant labor dormitories
have been the flashpoints of the recent orgy of political
violence, which has left nearly 800 blacks dead.
   "I shudder when I see the black economy," says Roger
Matlock, the Port Elizabeth director of the Urban Foundation,
a privately funded development agency working toward a
post-apartheid South Africa. "It has never been worse."
   That certainly is true at the S.O.S. Old Aged Soup Kitchen
for the Needy Children.
   Long gone are the glorious days when a surprise delivery
of hot food from the Ford canteen would add a veritable feast
to the usual ladel of soup. These days it's just soup and
bread, bread and soup. The old wood-burning stove donated by
General Motors in 1981 has seen better days. And when, wonder
the old women of the neighborhood, was the last time they
gathered for a sewing bee, turning the automakers' scrap
cloth and leather into dresses and Bible covers? The memory
fades.
   "My Americans, they looked after me," says 87-year-old
Daisy Davids as she shows off the GM stove puffing away at
the foot of her bed in her rickety two-room shack in the
"colored," or mixed race, part of Port Elizabeth. "I was so
sorry to see them go."
   Ford left town lock, stock and hubcap in 1985, first
merging with a Pretoria-based auto maker, then disinvesting
entirely. General Motors left a year later by selling to
local managers. The departures were hailed by anti-apartheid
activists as the crowning glories of the disinvestment
campaign. But they devastated Port Elizabeth, which at the
time was known as the Detroit of South Africa.
   GM's successor, Delta Motors, is making a profit,
something that eluded GM here for years, but it is doing so
with about 1,500 fewer workers. Ford left 5,000 people
unemployed. The companies' contributions to community
development programs vanished. In the cruelest irony, Ford's
recreation center near the black townships was taken over by
the police; some activists who among other things advocated
disinvestment were later detained and interrogated there.
   Mrs. Davids sits on a chair in front of her shack and
squints at the bottom line. "The government is finally
talking to our people. This is very good," she says. "But
what about my children?" Inside, two bags of powdered soup
lean against a wall, below a painting of the Last Supper.
   Her "children," some of them sons and daughters of former
Ford and GM workers, flock to the S.O.S. kitchen from the
school across the street. For most, a cup of soup will be
their only hot meal of the day.
   "I feel it is my duty to worry about them," says Mrs.
Davids. "Nobody else does." Suddenly, her tired eyes brighten
with a flash of optimism. "My Americans," she wonders, "do
you think they will ever come back?"
   Across town, Welfit Oddy no longer worries about that
question. One of the area's prominent white businessmen, he
leans back in his office chair, satisfied that he has beaten
all that the world beyond South Africa's borders can throw at
him. Disinvestment and sanctions should have ruined him.
Instead, he is prospering as never before.
   "I remember saying back then that a lot of people will
benefit from this," he says now.
   In 1985, his family's company, which began as a wagon
builder in Port Elizabeth nearly a century ago, was making
150 bodies a day for Ford pickups and trucks. It was 25% of
his business and, based on assurances from Ford that it
wouldn't disinvest, he had just built a new factory. But Ford
went anyway.
   "It was a shock," he says. "The country was in the middle
of a recession, and then they take off." He cut his work
force and scrambled to diversify away from the auto industry.
As his losses mounted, he settled on the production of
stainless steel transport containers. He found an export
market and business has boomed.
   "If Ford hadn't gone and this opportunity presented
itself, I might have sat back and said, `No, I'm quite
happy.' As it is, I'm pleased Ford went," says Mr. Oddy.
"When the whole world is against you, you've got to survive."
   Outside the factory gates, the squatter shacks from the
black township across the road continue their inexorable
advance toward his property. The mixed-race community down in
the valley is in flames; riots over living conditions will
kill more than 40 over the next two days. Production suffers
as workers take off to defend their homes. Meanwhile, the
recently unbanned South African Communist Party canvasses the
factory floor with the rhetoric of "workers control."
   Mr. Oddy manages a withering smile. Is it possible, he
wonders, to beat the world but lose at home?
   In the cold office of the Unemployed Workers Union in
downtown Port Elizabeth, ten black men, who know all about
losing, sit upright and proud on white plastic chairs. In the
anti-apartheid crusade, some of their comrades were killed,
others were imprisoned, many went into exile. These men lost
their jobs. They were all Ford workers.
   "We aren't ashamed of sanctions. It is our contribution to
the struggle," says Michael Qwesha, a young man with
dreadlocks flowing from beneath a black beret. The beret is
embroidered with the hammer and sickle logo of the South
African Communist Party; a button -- "ANC leads, ANC lives"
-- dangles from his sweater. After he lost his job, he says,
he was arrested and detained without charge for three years
for his anti-apartheid activity. He has been free, and
unemployed, for a year now.
   "Whatever steps the government has taken," he says, "have
been because of us, the masses."
   But beneath the pride there is ironic bitterness. In
unison, the men say that Ford and GM and all the other
disinvesting companies were right to leave, but wrong in the
way they did it. The severance packages, they grumble,
weren't enough to compensate for the coming years of
unemployment.
   "During our time of working we never had anything to save,
anything to put away," says Johnny Mke, who worked for Ford
for 22 years. Adds Prince Parlie: "They didn't give us any
warning. We were building our future, our children's future,
on Ford."
   That is the problem with capitalists, says Patrick Shwempe
of the Unemployed Workers Union, which seeks to organize the
jobless into a political force. "Unemployment wasn't just
caused by sanctions and disinvestment, although that added to
it," he says. "Unemployment is a creation of capitalism, to
hold over the heads of workers who want to strike."
   Still, the 10 men would welcome the capitalists back
tomorrow. They are eager to get back to work. "We have the
skills they need," says Mr. Mke. "We can be the Detroit of
South Africa again."
   It is the ANC that now must contend with these rising
expectations.
   "Every resident in the area is expecting an ANC government
to quickly improve the situation," says Michael Xego, the
ANC's publicity officer in the Port Elizabeth area. "But no
one can expect the shacks, the unemployment, to just go away,
poof, overnight."
   Where once the ANC sought to exploit the impoverished
township conditions to create social instability --
"ungovernability" was the revolutionary word -- it is now
desperate to maintain stability. "We are going to inherit
most of the problems here," says Michael Ndube of the ANC's
youth branch.
   He catalogs the poverty around him. Unemployment is
running at 50%. An average of 20 families a day are moving
into the city, each looking for a job and a house. The
shortage of classrooms is so severe that existing schools are
being used in shifts; one group of students in the morning,
another in the afternoon.
   "We have to do things now," says Mr. Jack, turning up
another street and explaining why the ANC decided to suspend
its armed struggle ahead of all its demands being met. "If we
delay, things only get worse."
   Another corner, another squatter neighborhood. "It's very
difficult giving the ordinary people what they need with
limited resources," he says. "The needs of our people are so
great."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Conflict in Export of Technology
   For Missiles Is Seen in 2 Brazil Licenses
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7E
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM IBM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, which is trying to
get its allies to tighten restrictions on the shipment of
missile-related technology to potentially unstable regions,
is still struggling to find workable controls of its own.
   The conflict became evident during a hearing of the
congressional Joint Economic Committee about the
administration's handling of two controversial export-license
applications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. policy "is in disarray," said Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D.,
N.M.). He complained that the policy currently is set by a
"hodgepodge" of agencies.
   In one case discussed during the hearing, the U.S. first
authorized Brazil to obtain special heat treatment for seven
rocket casings, but then reversed itself and prohibited
similar treatment for 11 other casings. Heat treatment is a
process of hardening rocket parts to make them more resistant
to the stresses of re-entry into the atmosphere.
   The State Department initially gave the state-managed
Brazilian Aeronautical Commission a license to obtain the
heat-treatment services because it saw no risk that the parts
would be transferred to a potential war zone. But the
administration altered its position after the Pentagon
complained. The Pentagon, which didn't participate in the
original decision, argued that the treatment could give
Brazil the capability to build vertical-launch rockets with
potential military applications.
   The Chicago firm that provided the treatment, Lindberg
Corp., earlier said in a statement that it had been assured
by the Brazilian licensee that the casings would be used only
for space research and wouldn't be resold to any other party.
   In another case, the administration indicated that it is
preparing to act on a long-delayed application by
International Business Machines Corp. to enhance the power of
an IBM 3090 Model 200 computer installed at Embraer, a
Brazilian aeronautical firm. There has been considerable
debate over whether the technology could be used in missile
development programs.
   A senior administration official said the sale could be
approved if Brazil guarantees the technology won't be
diverted to unauthorized uses.
   But Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on
Nuclear Arms Control, warned the congressional panel that the
IBM sale poses a risk of diversion because of the presence in
Brazilian aeronautical circles of "high-tech mercenaries" who
could share supercomputing knowledge with Iraq.
   IBM said its proposed sale of two additional
data-processing units for the computer would be accompanied
by an airtight "government-to-government agreement" on
securing the beefed-up machine.
   International concern about missile proliferation has been
intensified by the faceoff between Iraq and the U.S. and its
allies in the Persian Gulf. Despite Washington's own
agonizing experience with such licenses, it is urging its
allies to retain or tighten their own controls on the export
of missile and chemical-warfare technology, even if there no
longer are restrictions on shipment of the technology to the
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. James LeMunyon, deputy
assistant secretary of commerce for export administration,
said the appeal will be cabled to 16 allied governments soon.
   In 1987, the U.S. and some of its allies organized an
informal arrangement called the Missile Technology Control
Regime, but the venture is handicapped by the lack of a
specific, up-to-date list of controlled items. Moreover, the
group, which includes West Germany, Canada, France, Italy,
Britain and Japan, has no ability to control exports from
newly industrializing countries like Taiwan and South Korea.
   A U.S. proposal could affect shipments to as many as 36
countries believed to be developing missile-manufacturing
skills. U.S. officials cautioned, however, that it won't be
easy to secure agreement on which products to control and
which destinations to proscribe. "Some of these countries are
our friends," said Henry Sokolski, a Pentagon aide in charge
of non-proliferation policy.
   A State Department official said the U.S. will try to
prevail upon Brazilian President Fernando Collor de Mello to
respect U.S. non-proliferation concerns. Mr. Collor is
scheduled to address the United Nations General Assembly
today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The War Against the President
   ----
   By David Brock
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   If you think President Bush is going to flex a little
muscle in the Persian Gulf without setting off yet another
dawdling debate about the separation of powers, think again.
   Actually, the confluence of the publication of Louis
Henkin's "Constitutionalism, Democracy and Foreign Affairs,"
(Columbia University Press, 125 pages, $25) and Michael
Glennon's "Constitutional Diplomacy" (Princeton University
Press, 353 pages, $35) with the current U.S. military
engagement is coincidental, though instructive nonetheless,
as it reminds us just why such windbags are in business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both professors begin from a premise that no reasonably
informed undergraduate would believe for a minute: That in
the past two decades, a turbo-charged executive branch has
trounced on the foreign-policy authority of a supine
Congress.
   It is as if the authors were stuffed in a time capsule
when Arthur J. Schlesinger's "Imperial Presidency" was
brought out in 1973. How else to explain their total
disregard of the real post-Vietnam story: the delving of
Congress into every nook and cranny of the policy process,
from micromanaging the defense budget to scrutinizing the
intelligence agencies?
   One answer does leap from these pages. Plainly, Mssers.
Henkin and Glennon were ticked that Ronald Reagan refused to
play nice-nice with scurvy thugs like Moammar Qaddafi and
Daniel Ortega. So they've penned the opening missives in what
portends to be another endeavor, by the puling precincts in
the academy and the media, to ordain any presidential use of
force a "constitutional crisis."
   As befits the noted Columbia scholar, Mr. Henkin is lucid
and fairly detached in arguing, as he long has, for
congressional supremacy in foreign affairs. Not so Mr.
Glennon, an ex-congressional staffer now at the University of
California at Davis, whose methodology proves both abstruse
and pernicious.
   Both professors construe narrowly the foreign-policy
powers of the president spelled out in the Constitution and
see Congress's broadly. But the main contest between the two
branches continues to be in what Supreme Court Justice Robert
Jackson tagged the "twilight zone," where the Constitution is
either ambiguous or silent.
   The authors wish to define this zone not through the
political process, as has been the admittedly imperfect case
historically, but with the liberals' last refuge, judicial
fiat. Mr. Glennon goes a step further, arguing that the
courts ought to regard "international law as our law."
   In practice, this would mean that any time a president
acted when Congress hadn't officially spoken, as is currently
the case with Iraq, he could be hauled into court by a
dissenting member of Congress or a flaky lobbyist. And if the
court agreed with Mr. Glennon, any U.S. action not in sync
with the bogus idea of international law would be ruled
unconstitutional (i.e. Grenada, Nicaragua, Libya, Panama).
   Thus far, the courts wisely have dismissed most cases of
this type as non-justiciable political matters. Applying Mr.
Glennon's loaded criteria in the few foreign-policy powers
cases where grounds for a ruling have been found, virtually
every decision ever won by the executive would be decided in
favor of Congress. This is a recipe not for more cooperation
and accountability between the branches, but for a
superannuated presidency and a despotic Congress.
   Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan takes us to the same dead end
in "On the Law of Nations" (Harvard University Press, 224
pages, $22.50). Mr. Moynihan writes in ostensible protest of
the "insistent American disavowal of international legal
norms" in the 1980s. His conceit is the presumption that
"international law exists," not merely as an idea, but as
law. There is no attempt to convince the reader why the U.S.
should vest its security in the International Court of
Justice, whose U.N.-appointed members, more often than not,
represent bandit regimes without the faintest regard for
common decency, much less any sort of law or democratic
principle.
   The senator is onto something when he exposes the annoying
habit of U.S. presidents to "do what {they} want to do in the
reasonable expectation that in time someone . . . will put
out a brief demonstrating that, whatever the decision, it was
legal." Would that he heeded the logic of his complaint and
put the case against Reagan-Bush interventionism on its
merits, instead of captiously marking it "illegal."
   Already, as everywhere, there are too many lawyers with
their fingers in foreign policy. And we know the sole
"result" of an earlier attempt to litigate an
executive-legislative policy clash, in the Iran-Contra cases:
Special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh's jowls have been embedded
firmly in the federal feed bag for 45 months, and counting.
   The implication of such paralysis for foreign policy per
se is even graver. Should the weak sisters in Congress decide
enough is enough in the Persian Gulf, for instance, they will
find plenty of cover in these books to hide their policy
choice in high-flown constitutionalist rhetoric. The result
would be foreign policy unworthy of the name.
   ---
   Mr. Brock is writing a book on Congress.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Make Them Search Washington
   For Anything That Makes Sense
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Search the caves of Postojna, Yugoslavia, for the
mysterious "Brilliant." Scour Malacca, Malaysia, for Wah Aik,
the last remaining artisan of Chinese bound-foot shoes. Find
Juliet's balcony in Verona, Italy.
   Welcome to the Humanrace, competitive division -- an
international scavanger hunt that promises challenge, exotic
locales and glamour.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spurred on by a world-wide, elbows-out, $5,300-entry-fee
race among 30 adventurers last year, backers of the event are
thinking up ways to expand. There's talk of local scavenger
hunts, with contestants battling it out on the freeways of
Los Angeles or the subways of New York, ending in a race for
the national and international title.
   Jonathan Bassan, a Montecito, Calif., traveler, one-time
importer, and real-estate developer, organized the event last
year to "take businessmen and professionals otherwise
primarily stuck in offices all day and open them up in new
ways. How you get there is the most significant thing."
   But will it be any fun? Judging by last year's results,
and with a $20,000 first prize at stake, not necessarily.
   Instead of an enjoyable romp on, say, the Orient Express,
last year's teams zoomed through cities in pursuit of brass
ear-cleaning spoons (Singapore) and receipts from Cafe della
Grazie (Italy).
   "It was a nightmare," laments Kay Finegan, who at 78 was
the oldest Humanracer. In Jakarta, Indonesia, Ms. Finegan
raced up a temple's 354 stairs in 104-degree heat to take a
photo from its top.
   Another racer endured a 12-hour ride to Luxor on a packed
Egyptian bus complete with live chickens and recorded Islamic
prayers.
   On the other hand, Humanrace's top finishers found the
competition thrilling. "It was a great challenge," says Andy
Valvur, a 36-year-old stand-up comic and writer who ran up
the stairs to the crown of the Statue of Liberty and back in
seven minutes. But his team had a few problems. "Right after
the race my girlfriend said I looked 10 years older," he
concedes. "We probably didn't expect not to sleep; we didn't
expect not to eat."
   The quick pace leaves little time for sightseeing. "We did
Paris in 3 1/2 hours. We were in the Louvre for eight
minutes. We did the Champs Elysees, Arc de Triomphe, Eiffel
Tower, Notre Dame, Ile Saint-Louis and bingo] We were out of
there," says Mr. Valvur.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Ought to Keep
   Syrian Government
   At Arm's Length
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Just as the U.S. is coming to grips with the
consequences of years of cozying up to Iraq, it risks heading
down the same path with another of the world's bad actors --
Syria.
   When Secretary of State James Baker met with President
Hafez Assad in Damascus recently, his purpose was to bolster
the U.S.-led effort against Mr. Assad's longtime foe, Iraq's
Saddam Hussein.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That may have been a reasonable tactical maneuver in a big
crisis. But unless the sudden warming of relations with Syria
is carefully contained, it could well embolden that country's
ruthless regime, just as Iraq was strengthened by the support
it won from Washington during its war with Iran. Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait demonstrates the hazards of setting aside
longterm considerations in favor of building ties to an
enemy's enemy.
   Already, there are troubling signs of a softening of U.S.
attitudes toward Syria on the most important issue separating
the two nations -- Syrian support for terrorists who have
killed hundreds of Americans over the past decade.
   "There are still problems revolving around this question
of terrorism," Mr. Baker blandly said at a Damascus news
conference that the Assad regime had packed with sullen
secret police trying to look like journalists. He then gave
the floor to Syria's foreign minister, who blamed "the media
in the West" for "exaggerating the terrorism issue in our
region."
   President Assad, for his part, pleaded with Mr. Baker that
he was being unfairly branded as a backer of terrorism.
   How could the U.S. expect him to help solve the Pan Am
Flight 103 bombing case, Mr. Assad asked, when the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
were refusing to provide him details of their investigation?
If he had hard evidence, Mr. Assad said, he'd be willing to
put on trial in Syria the Damascus-based terrorists the U.S.
blames for the atrocity, the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine-General Command.
   Mr. Baker apparently took this request seriously. He told
reporters: "There is . . . a disagreement between us on the
sufficiency of the evidence. We will work to resolve that
disagreement." Last week, meetings began here among U.S.
officials to see what more about the case could be told to
Mr. Assad.
   In the past two years, Mr. Assad has taken pains to
quieten his public role in terrorism, much as Iraq did in the
early 1980s. Syria also has tried to curry favor here by
"facilitating" the release of U.S. hostages in Lebanon.
   But Mr. Assad isn't an innocent bystander, a landlord with
an open mind whose country happens to house a few killers.
According to U.S. intelligence officials, he has been an
active backer of terrorists who kill Americans. In fact, they
believe he is far worse on this score than Saddam Hussein.
   "I've been around long enough to recognize the need for
democratic societies to make temporary alliances with
unsavory regimes for immediate military advantage," says Rep.
Tom Lantos (D., Calif.). "But I particularly caution the
State Department not to portray President Assad of Syria and
the Syrian regime as an ally. That regime in terms of its
recent history is no less bloodthirsty, no less brutal . . .
than the bloodthirsty regime of Saddam Hussein."
   The Syrian government created, and still controls, the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command
-- the group believed to have planted the bomb that went off
on Pan Am Flight 103 as it flew over Lockerbie, Scotland, in
December 1988, murdering 270 people, including 189 Americans.
The group's leader, Ahmad Jibril, is a former Syrian army
captain who is believed to report to Syrian intelligence
officials close to Mr. Assad.
   U.S. intelligence believes Mr. Assad already has all the
detailed evidence he would need against the PFLP-GC. The
group is thought to have bombed the Pan Am airliner under
contract to Syria's ally, Iran, with Syrian permission.
   The leader of the cell that is thought to have assembled
the bombs for the Pan Am attack entered Germany before the
bombing on an official Syrian passport. And that cell leader,
Hafez Dalkamoni, is under indictment in Germany for trying to
blow up two U.S. troop trains there. If he had succeeded, he
would have slaughtered hundreds of the same U.S. soldiers
with whom Syrian troops now stand shoulder to shoulder
against Iraq.
   And that isn't all. Throughout the 1980s, Mr. Assad helped
Iran organize the Shiite terrorist network that took U.S.
citizens hostage and staged the 1983 bombing of the U.S.
Marine barracks in Lebanon that killed 241.
   The intelligence and counterterrorism arms of the U.S.
government are resisting turning detailed information on Pan
Am 103 over to Mr. Assad because that might enable him to
find out how much they know about the bombing and how they
learned it. They fear such information would soon be in the
hands of the terrorists themselves, who could use it to
improve their security.
   The counterterrorists also are loath to see the PFLP-GC
tried in the friendly confines of Damascus instead of in
Scotland, where the crash occurred. But it remains to be seen
whether they will be able to resist State Department pressure
to compromise with Mr. Assad.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CAG F
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conagra Inc., shelf offering of $900 million in debt
securities.
                                                                                                       

   F.A. Tucker Group Inc., initial offering of 1.4 million
common shares, of which 1.275 million will be sold by the
company and 125,000 by certain holders, via Mabon, Nugent &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

   Ford Motor Credit Co., shelf offering of up to $2 billion
in Euro medium-term notes, via Goldman, Sachs International
Limited, Merrill Lynch International Limited and Credit
Suisse First Boston Limited.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   MCEG Retains an Accounting Firm
   To Investigate Corporate Transactions
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11B
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEGE G.BVM GE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Management Co. Entertainment Group
Inc. said it retained Neilson, Elggren, Durkin &amp; Co., an
accounting firm, to conduct an internal investigation into
"certain corporate transactions."
   The company said it took the step due to "certain recent
allegations of corporate misconduct." A profile of the
troubled independent movie production company appeared in
this newspaper on Sept. 13th. Jonathan D. Krane, chairman and
chief executive officer, resigned on Sept. 14th.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MCEG is in default on more than $100 million in debt, and
movie director Nicolas Roeg and two other creditors have
taken steps to force the company into liquidation. MCEG has
been hurriedly negotiating with creditors, including the GE
Capital unit of General Electric Co., and potential investors
in an effort to reach a restructuring agreement.
   The company also said on Friday that it has halted an
unusual commercial paper program created last July with the
help of the General Electric's Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. unit. The
program was hailed by analysts as the first financing of its
type in the entertainment industry, but questions have been
raised recently about the value of the underlying security.
   The paper was backed by foreign film receivables -- or
money owed to MCEG by overseas distributors for the licensing
rights to future films. The company persuaded Bayerische
Vereinsbank AG (Union Bank of Bavaria) to guarantee the
paper, and it was sold through Kidder Peabody, allowing MCEG
to raise a total of $26 million.
   However, the Bavarian bank decided to halt the program
last week after a monthlong review of the underlying
securities, says Raymond H. Godfrey, president and chief
executive officer of MCEG. On Thursday, he says, the bank
paid holders of the paper about $19 million, the full amount
owed, and the bank is now left with the foreign receivables.
"They decided it wasn't the type of business they wanted to
be in," says Mr. Godfrey.
   Officials at the bank didn't return calls on Friday. Early
last week, Walter Koch, a vice president of the bank said,
"There are some questions about the security but I don't have
all the details. If anyone has a problem it's us."
   It isn't clear how much the bank may lose. The security
includes certain rights to five MCEG movies which haven't yet
been released including, "Chains of Gold," starring John
Travolta, and "Boris and Natasha," starring Sally Kellerman,
the wife of Mr. Krane.
   Stuart B. Rekant, an MCEG executive vice president who
masterminded the program, said early last week that the
delayed delivery of MCEG movies has created "timing gaps" in
payments by overseas distributors. Mr. Rekant didn't return
calls on Friday.
   An internal MCEG letter indicates there are problems with
other receivables. MCEG acquired Virgin Vision Ltd., a
British distribution company, from Richard Bramson's Virgin
Group last July for $83 million. Shortly before the
acquisition, MCEG sold Virgin Vision certain rights to movies
from its Manson International film library for $3 million.
   Mr. Rekant says the $3 million in Virgin Vision
receivables were among those that backed the commercial
paper. However, in a letter dated Aug. 1, 1990, Peter Coles,
director of acquisitions and business affairs of MCEG Virgin
Vision, charged that the value of those rights was "grossly
misrepresented" by MCEG's unit. The letter demands
cancellation of the transaction. Mr. Coles didn't return
calls seeking comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arizona Public Service Makes Proposal
   For a Much Smaller Increase in Rates
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11C
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arizona Public Service Co. proposed a sweeping settlement
with the Arizona Corporation Commission that includes a
sharply reduced rate-increase request and a $250 million cap
on liability for costs related to a three-year-old nuclear
power plant.
   Arizona's largest electric utility conditionally offered
to freeze rates for three years after raising them 9.3% next
January. The utility's pending rate increase, filed earlier
this year, calls for a 6.8% increase in each of the next
three years, or slightly more than 21% compounded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Quite frankly we recognized that customer bills after a
21% increase would have been too high," said Mark De Michele,
president and chief executive officer. The smaller rise would
cut the increased cost to customers by $600 million over four
years, he said.
   Arizona Public Service "is moving in the right direction
by lowering its rate request," said Gary Yaquinto, director
of the commission's utilities division. He indicated,
however, that "excess capacity, operating performance,
construction imprudence" and other issues could lead to staff
recommendations of "even further cuts."
   Arizona Public Service rates were harshly criticized by
PacifiCorp during its recent attempt to acquire the Arizona
utility or its parent, Pinnacle West Capital Corp. of
Phoenix, Ariz. PacifiCorp, based in Portland, Ore., had
promised to keep rate increases to 2% a year in each of the
next four years if its takeover bid succeeded. Last month,
PacifiCorp dropped its pursuit in exchange for seasonal power
swaps with Arizona Public Service.
   "If this would have been their first {request}, there
never would have been a bid by PacifiCorp," said Edward J.
Tirello, a utility analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp;
Co. This proposal "is a quick and dirty way that cleans up"
all major disputes between the utility and state regulators.
"It makes a lot of sense."
   Mr. De Michele said the proposal wouldn't have been
possible without the PacifiCorp pact, potentially worth $260
million to Arizona Public Service. Among the proposal's
conditions are that the commission approve a $221 million
sale of the utility's 35-megawatt, coal-fired Cholla unit 4
plant. The initial PacifiCorp agreement specified that it
would buy partial interests in units 1 and 3.
   Mr. De Michele also said the lower rates were a reflection
of recently accelerated belt-tightening moves. Non-nuclear
jobs have been cut 30% to about 4,200 since 1988. About 2,840
workers are employed at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating
Station. Capital spending budgets have been pared by $770
million over five years. Last year, the utility spent about
$270 million on capital outlays.
   The proposed $250 million write-down is related to Palo
Verde unit 3, operated and 29.1%-owned by Arizona Public
Service. The utility has been seeking to recover $1.2 billion
in plant construction costs and deferred operating expenses.
The commission, which regulates utilities, has indicated it
probably will disallow a big chunk of those costs on various
grounds, including possibly that the reactor isn't needed and
never should have been built. It began commercial operations
in Jan. 1988.
   Arizona Public Service "doesn't acknowledge that any
portion of the plant is excess capacity or should not have
been built," Mr. De Michele said. "We are proposing that the
write-off resolve all issues of imprudent expenditures."
   The proposed 9.3% rate increase includes 3.4% for new
property taxes imposed by the state legislature earlier this
year. Arizona Public Service wants commission approval for a
"pass-through mechanism" that would let the utility collect
the taxes from customers in future years without making a
rate filing. The utility also said it plans to challenge the
new taxes in court.
   Mr. Yaquinto said the commission feels "a bit stampeded"
by the utility's demand for a response to its proposal by
Oct. 31. Mr. De Michele played down the deadline. "If we're
making progress in October then we'll pursue it." If not, the
utility would ask for interim rates to be put into effect and
would pursue its pending 21% rate filing, he said. The first
hearing on that case is set for Dec. 5.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nominee for SEC
   Supports CFTC
   On Index Futures
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Richard Roberts, President Bush's nominee to
the Securities and Exchange Commission, voiced support for a
plan that would leave regulation of controversial stock-index
futures with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   The plan, being floated on Capitol Hill, is an alternative
to White House-sponsored legislation that would shift index
futures to the SEC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock-index futures, often used in computerized
program-trading strategies, allow investors to bet on the
move of a basket of stocks without owning the actual shares.
   Mr. Roberts's stance, expressed at his confirmation
hearing before the Senate Banking Committee, is significant
because it would swing the balance on the SEC. Agency
Chairman Richard Breeden strongly favors a jurisdiction
shift, as does Commissioner Philip Lochner Jr. But Edward
Fleischman has voted against any such power transfer, and
Mary Schapiro has endorsed a third plan that would merge the
two agencies.
   The administration's plan, severely weakened by strong
opposition from the Chicago futures exchanges and Capitol
Hill Agriculture committees that oversee the CFTC, appears
dead for this legislative session. Moreover, without solid
backing from the SEC, it's unlikely Congress will press ahead
with the plan and might focus exclusively on a compromise
next year.
   At the hearing, Mr. Roberts also offered support for
another tenet of the Capitol Hill alternative -- a provision
to shift the regulation of margins on stock-index futures to
the Federal Reserve Board. Margins -- the good-faith money
needed to trade the futures -- currently are set by the
exchanges, with the CFTC allowed to intervene only in
specifically defined emergencies. A similar switch is
included in the administration's proposal.
   Mr. Roberts also told the senators that he "intends to
improve communications with the CFTC" and create a "better
spirit of cooperation" between the futures agency and the
SEC.
   The committee is expected to approve his nomination this
week, after which he isn't likely to have any difficulty
passing the full Senate. Mr. Roberts, 39 years old, is a
former top staffer for Sen. Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), a
Banking Committee member who was one of only two senators to
quiz Mr. Roberts at the hearing. The questioning was friendly
and generally supportive of the conservative Democrat from
both Sen. Shelby and committee Chairman Donald Riegle (D.,
Mich.).
   Mr. Roberts wondered whether the SEC was doing enough to
confront "front-running," which frequently involves trading
in futures or stocks in front of a large order in the other
market. He said he is concerned that the SEC isn't generating
many of its own cases, instead relying on the exchanges to
provide referrals. The SEC hasn't been able to bring
front-running cases, and the agency contends that's because
it can track only the stock side of the transaction and not
the futures side.
   Mr. Roberts focused largely on Wall Street-related
problems in his testimony. Asked what his biggest enforcement
priorities were, the nominee said they were "rooting out
insider trading, stopping penny-stock fraud" and slowing
fraudulent investment advisers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soviet Union's Chief Accountant Wants
   To Set Up Group Resembling U.S. CPAs
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11H
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Soviet Union's chief accountant expects to
issue new standards for all enterprises by June, and he wants
to set up a professional group resembling the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
   At a meeting organized by Ernst &amp; Young here, Nicholai
Panteleev, chief accountant for the Soviet Ministry of
Finance, also said that by early next year he hopes to make
some other rules changes regarding accounting for joint
ventures. Mr. Panteleev heads the accounting rule-making body
in the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the most part, Soviet accounting is predicated on a
centralized form of government. The Soviet accounting system
"now resembles an army code," Mr. Panteleev said. He said he
would like to make the system "more democratic," and he wants
to pass some of the functions that the government handles to
an outside group.
   With the current system, "if it directs to turn right, one
can't possibly turn left," he said. The current accounting
model was designed "strictly to forward the plans and
direction of the government," Mr. Panteleev said. Current
standards "are largely used for economic statistics as
opposed to financial reporting," said James Searing, national
director of Ernst &amp; Young's international business services.
   The government only recently allowed joint ventures to
record revenue on an accrual rather than a cash basis. In the
past, an enterprise would have to actually receive a cash
payment before it could record a sale. Although Mr. Panteleev
didn't specify what the joint-venture changes might be, one
might be to also move expense accounting to accrual from a
cash basis.
   Mr. Panteleev said his goal is to bring Soviet accounting
rules closer to internationally accepted standards. But it is
difficult to envision a Soviet accounting system until
questions about how a free-market economy will work are
answered. And those questions, Mr. Panteleev said, are best
left to the politicians.
   Mr. Panteleev said the biggest challenge seems to be to
establish a system of auditing and review, such as the one
that operates in the U.S. The concept of auditing didn't
exist in the Soviet Union until recently.
   "Under new market conditions, there will be a great
necessity to have an independent body to exercise control,"
Mr. Panteleev said. "The issue of accounting management is
connected directly with the issue of any market standard," he
said.
   Mr. Panteleev visited the Securities and Exchange
Commission and apparently was impressed. The SEC has
statutory authority to establish accounting and reporting
standards for public companies, though it has largely left
that role to the private sector. The SEC also enforces the
rules.
   Mr. Panteleev said he would like to create a private
organization similar to the AICPA for licensing. But he
didn't say when that might happen.
   Other issues involve developing standards that are more
similar to those the rest of the world uses. A task force of
the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations has
been advising the Soviet Union on how to accomplish this
goal, and it has provided expertise on international
accounting standards.
   Mr. Panteleev also sees re-educating professionals as a
major goal. The Soviet Union has about two million
bookkeepers and about 300,000 in-house chief accountants.
"They have to move from a bookkeeping culture to an
accounting profession," said Mr. Searing of Ernst &amp; Young.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP NSANY TOYOY F.RNA G.VOW FORGN TAXES LATAM
LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BREAKING BRITAIN'S SPEED LIMIT
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two Japanese car makers and one from France reportedly
have been warned not to glamorize speed and high performance
in advertising and selling their models in Britain.
   According to a Japanese news agency, Britain's Advertising
Standards Authority has criticized Nissan Motor Co. and
Toyota Motor Corp., along with the French manufacturer
Renault S.A., for emphasizing the ability of their cars to
reach speeds of 155 miles an hour. This is more than twice
the 70 mph speed limit that applies on all British motorways.
   A spokesman for the authority was quoted by the news
agency as saying that ads stressing speed and glamorizing
power appeared to have come back in fashion after being
dropped some years ago. "We will be keeping a very close eye
on car advertisements in future," the spokesman reportedly
added.
   An official of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents, noting that there was ample evidence that speed
was a major factor in traffic fatalities, said: "We are very
pleased the authority is getting tough with emotional
language in car adverts which leads to aggressive driving."
                                                                                                       

   A LOAN FOR SHANGHAI VOLKSWAGEN
                                                                                                       

   Shanghai Volkswagen reportedly signed an agreement with
China's Bank of Industry &amp; Commerce to borrow 128 million
yuan (about $27 million) to be used for Chinese-made parts.
Shanghai's Liberation Daily said the loan also would serve as
a "shot in the arm," enabling Shanghai VW to complete its
1990 production plan. The report called Shanghai VW the "pet
of the Shanghai financial community." Shanghai VW is a joint
venture of Shanghai Automobile &amp; Tractor Industries and
Volkswagen AG.
                                                                                                       

   HELPING NORTHERN IRELAND
                                                                                                       

   The European Community said it would give 35 million
European currency units ($45.9 million) to projects in
Northern Ireland. The money is being targeted for
infrastructure projects as well as various social programs
trying to reconcile the province's Roman Catholic and
Protestant communities. The EC commissioner for regional
policy, Bruce Millan, said: "The (EC) itself was born out of
the need to resolve conflict and achieve reconciliation, and
it is appropriate that it should today seek to help Northern
Ireland in the same way."
                                                                                                       

   GATT DOORS SHUT ON CHINA
                                                                                                       

   A Beijing delegation failed in its latest attempt to gain
China's entry into the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, the global trading organization. China, which has
observer status in the GATT and has been trying to gain
membership for some eight years, has been told that it has to
open up its markets more to foreign trade and reduce tariffs
before it can be considered. Beijing's bid for recognition
also was set back considerably by last year's Tiananmen
Square killings.
                                                                                                       

   MORE PRIVATIZING IN PORTUGAL
                                                                                                       

   The Portuguese government will sell its minority holdings
in 34 companies, the news agency Lusa reported. The assets,
in each case less than 10% of a company, are to be sold
through direct negotiation with potential buyers, a Finance
Ministry spokesman said; current shareholders may be granted
preferential rights. The companies involved run the gamut
from beer maker Companhia de Cervejas Estrela S.A. to the
national zoo.
                                                                                                       

   LINKING SEOUL AND BELGRADE
                                                                                                       

   Yugoslavia and South Korea will establish the first-ever
air link between the two countries, a Yugoslav news agency
reported. Yugoslav Airlines plans to open a direct link
between Belgrade and Seoul by the end of this year, and
Korean Air is expected to fly to Belgrade soon thereafter,
the report said.
                                                                                                       

   THE FUTURE OF EUROPE'S ELDERLY
                                                                                                       

   Europe's old people may have to go back to work, reversing
the current trend toward early retirement, as families shrink
and a labor shortfall looms, according to papers discussed at
a recent Council of Europe workshop.
   And as a trend toward very small families continues, the
many over-65s expected by the year 2025 -- more than 20% in
Sweden, West Germany and the Netherlands against half that
figure now -- will likely experience increasing social
isolation due to the absence of family ties.
   "The picture isn't all black," said Italian demographer
Raimondo Cagiano Azevedo. "The gray revolution is the result
of medical improvements and a change in life styles, such as
women joining the labor force. . . . But there will be
problems if governments fail to adopt a long-term strategy."
   Like other demographers at the seminar, Mr. Azevedo urged
a quick overhaul of national welfare systems to cater to
growing numbers of the "old old" -- those over 75 years. By
2025, they are expected to account for 8% of people in
Britain, France and Switzerland.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPT . . .
                                                                                                       

   In the first six months of this year, China confiscated
195 pounds of opium, an amount 17 times greater than in the
same period last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup
   Reduces Cash Price
   In Its Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NII PPA+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc. said it reduced its
cash purchase price in its tender offer for its sole general
partner, Permian Partners Limited Partnership, to $3.5625
from $3.85 per outstanding cumulative convertible preference
unit, subject to adjustment.
   The reduction reflects the recently declared cash
distribution of 28.75 cents a preference unit for the third
quarter. The $3.5625 cash portion of the purchase price will
be subject to further reduction to reflect any distributions
as of a record date subsequent to Oct. 1 and before
completion of the offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Intergroup, an oil and drug distribution and
metals concern, also extended the tender offer from midnight
EDT tomorrow to midnight EDT Oct. 5.
   As of the close of business on Thursday, approximately 7.4
million preference units had been tendered.
   The offer is conditioned upon, among other things, the
tender of at least 7,875,001 of the publicly held preference
units representing a majority of the publicly held preference
units, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lloyds Is Said to Be Seeking the Sale
   Of Banking Line in Asia-Pacific Region
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN U.LLO FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Continuing to pare marginal foreign operations
as it comes under pressure at home, Lloyds Bank PLC has put
its Asian banking operations on the block, according to
people familiar with the decision.
   These people said Lloyds has retained the investment
banker Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. in London to sell its four
commercial-retail branch offices in Asia, and its Australian
and New Zealand bank units. The four branches are in Tokyo,
Hong Kong, Singapore and Seoul.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Lloyds spokesman said that he had heard "market
speculation" the operations were for sale, but that the bank,
one of Britain's four largest, "has a standard rule about not
commenting on market speculation." Morgan Stanley declined to
comment.
   Lloyds generally doesn't break out overseas results by
country, but all international operations in the first half
earned #71 million ($133.1 million) before taxes, double the
year-earlier performance, and accounted for 17% of the bank's
pretax earnings. But earnings of its National Bank of New
Zealand unit, included in the overall international figure,
were flat at #17 million.
   Lloyds has divested itself of a number of peripheral units
in recent months. The spokesman said this was "the general
strategy of the bank. Where we aren't a strong player and
aren't getting a reasonable return on equity, we have moved
out." He declined to say whether this strategy applied to
Lloyds's Asian operations.
   The bank's international operations were built with an eye
toward making Lloyds a world banking power. But like many
other major U.S. and British banks with similar dreams,
Lloyds was blindsided in the 1980s by the Third World debt
crisis.
   Though it has shored up that debt exposure with massive
reserves, Lloyds, along with its British counterparts, has
found another specter looming. Loans to British businesses,
mainly in construction and real estate, have become
increasingly risky, as high interest rates have hobbled
building and accelerated business failures in several
sectors.
   In the first half, Lloyds more than tripled its domestic
loan charges to #190 million from #60 million. The bank's
first-half pretax profit of #408 million, though more than
quadruple the year-earlier #93 million, disappointed many
investors, mainly because of the riskier domestic loan
exposure. Lloyds shares closed Friday at 235 pence, down 2
pence, equaling its 1990 low. The shares have traded as high
as 316 pence this year.
   In June, Lloyds sold its Portuguese operations to
Madrid-based Banco Bilbao Vizcaya for an undisclosed sum. In
February, it sold Lloyds Bank Canada to Hongkong &amp; Shanghai
Banking Corp. for 190 million Canadian dollars (US$164.5
million). That same month, it sold its stake in Yorkshire
Bank PLC to National Bank of Australia. And last September,
it sold its U.S. commercial banking unit to Daiwa Bank of
Japan for $200 million.
   The sales helped produce a #94 million extraordinary gain
in the first half. Most of the gain came from the sale of the
Yorkshire Bank stake, though the U.S. and Canadian sales
contributed a total of #11 million.
   ---
   Cynthia Owens in Hong Kong contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq Threatens
   Wide-Scale War
   In Middle East
   ---
   Secretary Baker Rules Out
   Diplomatic Compromise
   And Demands Pullout
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Iraq threatened wide-scale Mideast war and
the U.S. played down diplomatic solutions to the Gulf crisis,
as the Bush administration prepared to send Congress this
week a roughly $10 billion arms package for Saudi Arabia.
   In a statement broadcast yesterday by state-run Radio
Baghdad, Iraq warned that it would destroy Middle East oil
fields and include Israel in an all-out war if the West tried
to "strangle the people of Iraq." The statement, which was
monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, by wire services, said: "The
oil areas in Saudi Arabia and in other states of the region,
all the oil installations, will be rendered incapable," and
"Israel will be transformed into something different from
what they are now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Secretary of State James Baker, yesterday on
NBC's "Meet The Press," reiterated that the U.S. ruled out
any diplomatic compromise regarding United Nations
resolutions demanding that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait and
restore its government.
   In fact, Mr. Baker noted that he will be joining other
foreign ministers of the five permanent members of the U.N.
Security Council tomorrow to consider a further tightening of
sanctions against Iraq by imposing an air embargo. He said
that the U.S. had nothing to negotiate about with Baghdad and
that only after Iraq complies fully with the U.N. resolutions
"then you might see some discussions between Kuwait and Iraq"
about their differences.
   At the same time, Mr. Baker said, "I don't think we're
running out of nonmilitary-type sanctions," to the Gulf
crisis.
   Mr. Baker also said that while the U.S. would continue to
work with the U.N., one exception might be if there were an
Iraq-sponsored terrorist attack against Americans. In this
case, he implied, the administration would make "an
appropriate response" on its own.
   The arms sale to Saudi Arabia would be the first phase of
what the administration hopes would be a $20 billion package.
The administration bowed to congressional pressure and split
the package when some legislators, led by pro-Israel members,
complained that Saudi Arabia didn't need all the weapons
immediately and that such a mammoth sale would threaten the
qualitative military edge that the U.S. has guaranteed to
maintain for Israel. Among items the Pentagon is likely to
push to send quickly are TOW anti-tank missiles, which might
be needed in a fight with Iraq, U.S. officials say.
   The most high-profile items the administration wants to
sell to Saudi Arabia, including M-1 tanks and 24 F-15 Eagle
fighters, are likely to be put off until the second phase,
which would be submitted to Congress in January or February,
U.S. officials said. The overall package also would include
Patriot Air Defense Missiles and more than 40 tank-killing
Apache helicopters.
   A Saudi official said his government "is confident we will
get the entire package in the long run."
   Separately, Saudi Arabia over the weekend ordered several
diplomats from Jordan, Yemen and Iraq to leave the country,
asserting that they were involved in spying for Baghdad and
helping to prepare for possible terrorism. The expulsions
reflect the deep rift in the Arab world between those
sympathetic to Iraq and the Persian Gulf states that feel
threatened by Saddam Hussein. U.S. officials say that Persian
Gulf leaders have refused to send any money to Jordan to
compensate for its losses as a result of the international
economic sanctions against Iraq, which Jordan insists it is
honoring.
   Saudi Arabia also has stepped up pressure on its Southern
neighbor, Yemen, to support the embargo against Iraq. Saudi
officials have withheld millions of dollars of aid they
routinely would have supplied to Yemen in recent weeks. The
Saudi government also withdrew special privileges that
allowed some 750,000 Yemen citizens to work and own property
in the kingdom.
   Meanwhile, Jordan's King Hussein appealed directly to the
American people, in an address broadcast on the Cable News
Network, to support a peaceful resolution of the
confrontation with Iraq. King Hussein asserted that he has
never accepted Iraq's right to invade Kuwait but believed
that Iraq could be persuaded to leave shortly after the
invasion. That chance, he implied, was lost when Saudi Arabia
invited U.S. troops to the kingdom in large numbers.
   In Washington, the administration, which has had
widespread domestic support for its responses to Iraqi
aggression, is being criticized for taking too soft a line
toward Saddam Hussein in the weeks before the August
invasion. Yesterday, Mr. Baker said, "I'm not going to deny
what the policy was," but he complained that "now we've got
some 20-20 hindsighting going on."
   Mr. Baker defended some State Department officials,
including the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie, who
told Saddam Hussein the U.S. wouldn't get involved in
inter-Arab disputes. But at the same time, he appeared to be
distancing himself from direct responsibility for some of
Ambassador Glaspie's actions. He said, "probably 312,000
cables, or so" go out under his name each year, implying that
he didn't have direct knowledge of the instructions sent to
Ms. Glaspie before her July meeting with Saddam Hussein.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing, Insurers
   See Vindication
   In Waste Case
   ---
   Verdict Is Likely to Prolong
   Fight Over Cleanup Cost
   For Two Dumping Sites
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   BA AET AIG
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   After four days of deliberations, a federal court jury in
Seattle returned something of a Solomonic verdict on Friday
in a case that has pitted Boeing Co. against its insurers
over $97.5 million in environmental cleanup costs.
   But by finding as it did -- that Boeing expected or
intended contamination at two King County, Wash., hazardous
waste sites only in certain years -- the panel paved the way
for continued wrangling by the two sides over how, and even
if, the expenses will be divided. Attorneys close to the case
said they ultimately expect a second jury to decide those
issues, but not until there has been another year or so of
pre-trial maneuvering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the center of the Boeing case are two dumps where for
decades the aerospace concern collectively shipped about 24
million gallons of waste. Boeing used one of the sites, Queen
City Farms, from 1957 to 1968. It sent solvents, heavy metals
and acids to the other location, Western Processing, from
1964 to 1977.
   In the mid-1980s, Boeing agreed in court-ordered
settlements with the Environmental Protection Agency to clean
up the properties under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, better known as
Superfund. Boeing, in turn, sued its insurers, arguing that
they are responsible for covering the costs because the
company never expected any pollution problems. The insurers,
meanwhile, sought to show that Boeing was liable because
engineers had cautioned the company about the possibility of
contamination at the sites, but it ignored those warnings.
   The jury essentially bought both positions. It found that
Boeing "did not expect or intend" subsoil or groundwater
contamination at Queen City Farms before 1968, but starting
then it did. Similarly, the jury concluded that the company
didn't anticipate pollution problems at Western Processing
until April 1971.
   Now, Boeing is touting a total victory. It notes that the
portfolio of insurance it held during any of the years in
which the jury determined its carriers are obligated to pay
for the cleanup is big enough to cover the entire $97.5
million claim. Therefore, Boeing figures, the company is
completely off the hook.
   "Our view is that we get 100 cents on the dollar," said
Paul Carlson, Boeing's lead attorney on the case. He
maintained that U.S. District Judge William Dwyer "clearly
ruled" during a pretrial motion on the subject, and that
insurers are generally obligated "to indemnify. . . to the
maximum extent" they can.
   Moreover, he suggested that trying to figure out "what
part of the damage occurred when is a pretty tall order," and
perhaps can never really be apportioned sensibly.
   But the insurers dispute Mr. Carlson's assessment. They
argue that the jury obviously intended both sides to pay for
part of the cleanup. "Boeing is not exonerated," contended
Robert Israel, who represents underwriters for Lloyd's of
London. "The jury rejected soundly and roundly the company's
bald-faced assertion that it didn't know what it was doing"
when it was hauling waste to the two sites.
   The Lloyd's underwriters, Hartford Accident &amp; Indemnity
Co. and Insurance Co. of North America, will now work
together to try and calculate how much Boeing should cough
up. Several other carriers, including American International
Group and Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., are effectively out of
the case at this stage because they didn't provide Boeing
with insurance in the years singled out by the jury.
   Mr. Israel rejected the notion that Boeing's share of the
cleanup costs couldn't be fairly arrived at. He said state
courts in Washington and in other jurisdictions have come up
with such formulas, sometimes based on the volume of waste
shipped during a specific period, and other times by simply
splitting the overall dollar amount on a pro rata basis.
   He also was quick to point out that Boeing itself has sued
a number of other companies that used Western Processing in
an attempt to have them contribute to the cleanup. And in
that case, Mr. Israel said, Boeing has been able to arrive at
a system for different parties to share the expense. "To say
that we can't do the same thing means that the company is
talking out of both sides of its mouth," Mr. Israel said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                      TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                       Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   $11.5 billion of two-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                      Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $8.5 billion of four-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                 One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Amax Gold Inc. -- 9.5 million units, via Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
   American Waste Services Inc. -- initial six million of
Class A common shares, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   AT&amp;T Capital Corp. -- initial five million of
Yen/Deutschmarks cross-currency warrants, via Goldman Sachs.
   Central Maine Power Co. -- two million common shares, via
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Coeur D'Alene Mines Corp. -- two million common shares,
via Kidder Peabody.
   Destec Energy Inc. -- initial 15 million common shares,
via Goldman Sachs.
   Employee Benefit Plans Inc. -- two million common shares,
via Dean Witter Reynolds.
   Energy Service Co. -- twelve million common shares, via
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   LDDS Communications Inc. -- 1.4 million common shares, via
Robinson-Humphrey Co.
   Maxtrix Service Co. -- initial 3,250,000 million common
shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Scholastic Corp. -- initial 4.2 million common shares, via
Goldman Sachs.
   Vetco Gray Inc. -- initial nine million common shares, via
Lehman Brothers.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Clark County School District, Nevada -- $120 million of
school improvement limited tax revenue bonds, via competitive
bid.
                                                                                                       

                        Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Maryland -- $95 million of general obligation bonds, state
and local facilities loan of 1990, Fourth Series, via
competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                        Thursday
                                                                                                       

   District of Columbia -- $300 million of 12-month general
obligation tax and revenue anticipaton notes, 1991 Series A,
(LOC-Sanwa Bank Ltd., Dai-ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd, Mitsubishi
Bank Ltd., Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd., New York branches),
via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                  One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Commonwealth of Massachusetts -- $610.5 million of
dedicated income tax bonds, Fiscal Recovery Loan Act of 1990,
via a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group.
   Washington Public Power Supply System -- $500 million of
revenue refunding bonds, Nuclear Projects No. 1 and 2, 1990
Series C, via a Goldman, Sachs group.
   California Public Works Board -- $167.875 million of lease
revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, via a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
group.
   Roanoke Industrial Development Authority, Va. -- $164.16
million of hospital revenue bonds, (Roanoke Memorial
Hospital's Community Hospital of Roanoke Valley &amp; Franklin
Memorial Hospital Project), 1990 Series, via a J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   PEPSICO Inc. short interest on the New York Stock Exchange
in the month ended Sept. 14 was 4,183,239 shares, following a
3-for-1 stock split on Sept. 4. Friday's edition failed to
note that the total for the month to mid-August, of 898,979
shares, was based on the old stock outstanding prior to the
split.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UNDER AN AGREEMENT by which CalFed Inc. will sell its
subsidiary, Beneficial Standard Life Insurance Co., to
Conseco Inc., CalFed may purchase back from Beneficial $35
million of real estate assets acquired through foreclosure,
as well as some nonperforming and other mortgage loans within
three years. The period of time was misstated in Friday's
edition.
   (See: "CalFed Set to Sell Unit to Conseco Inc. for $140.2
Million" -- WSJ Sept. 21, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Higher Air Fares
   Likely to Cover
   Overseas Routes
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- U.S. fliers, already hit with sizable fare
increases on domestic flights, face paying more to travel
overseas.
   The Transportation Department is expected to disclose
today that it is allowing fares to climb 5% to 10% on
international tickets, starting Oct. 1. Before becoming
effective, the higher fares would still require other
nations' approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Patrick Murphy, deputy assistant transportation secretary
for policy and international affairs, said late Friday that
the department plans to cite "extraordinary circumstances
created by the recent invasion of Kuwait."
   Mr. Murphy said the department decided that the fare
increase, which was proposed by an airline industry trade
group, is justifiable because events in the Middle East "have
generated sudden and extreme fluctuations in the prices
carriers must pay for fuel."
   The average cost of jet fuel, one of the industry's
largest expenses, hovered near $1 a gallon late last week.
That is almost 70% more than the average 60 cents a gallon
that airlines paid before Iraqi troops moved into Kuwait on
Aug. 2.
   Since the invasion, U.S. carriers have raised their
domestic fares 5.3% and are laying plans to increase them
again by 4.2% on Oct. 1.
   The U.S. government's approval would help clear the way
for a world-wide increase in international fares. Many other
nations are also considering whether to permit an increase in
international fares.
   While U.S. fares aren't regulated by the government,
prices of tickets for international flights are set by
bilateral pacts with many nations. These pacts typically
require that a carrier must receive approval by both
countries in order to change prices.
   In this case, most of the world's airlines are lobbying
for government approval through their Geneva-based trade
group, the International Air Transport Association. Earlier
this month, the airlines devised an agreement among
themselves on how much of an increase to request.
   While such a price-setting meeting would be illegal for
U.S. carriers on domestic routes, the international trade
group is immune from antitrust regulations.
   Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner was thought to be
skeptical about the need for fuel-related fare increases.
However, U.S. airline executives convinced him in talks last
month that the carriers face steep financial losses from
their higher fuel expenses, according to a source familiar
with the talks.
   Earlier this month, AMR Corp.'s Chairman Robert Crandall
projected that results from the last half of 1990 will be
"stinko." AMR is the parent company of American Airlines.
   "We're pleased that the department understands our need
for the increase," said David O'Connor, IATA's regional
director to the U.S. "We would rather have lower-priced fuel
and lower-priced fares. But most of the airlines are
suffering right now with revenue falling short of cost."
   The department is expected to approve a 7% fare increase
on most international flights. On flights within Europe,
fares would rise 5%. Fares would rise 6% on flights from
Iran, the Republic of Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Fares would
rise 6% on flights involving Ireland and the U.K.
   Fares on flights from Canada would jump 8%. One of the
largest fare increases would be a 10% rise on flights from
Greece.
   These increases are slightly larger than a first round of
fare increases that swept through the international market
late last winter. At the time, jet fuel prices were also
rising. Fuel supplies had tightened because refiners were
shifting their production to heating oil to meet demand
during the unusually cold winter.
   Until this year, fuel-related fare increases had been rare
since the oil price spikes of the 1970s. On U.S. domestic
routes, the fare increases are coming at a time when the
carriers already face sluggish demand. Industry analysts say
that traffic on the international routes is relatively
strong, and they expect fliers to more readily accept the
fare increases.
   The Transportation Department also is expected to disclose
today that it is approving a so-called war-risk surcharge
that allows airlines to levy an extra fee to cover the
increasing cost of insuring flights to Middle East
destinations.
   Terms of the surcharge probably would be broad. The
department is expected to give airlines the latitude to set
the amount of the surcharge, its lifespan and what flights it
would affect. According to Transportation Department
officials, the war-risk surcharge is the first of its kind to
be approved in recent memory.
   The department also is expected to approve increases of 6%
to 10% in cargo rates involving most countries. That, too, is
scheduled to take effect Oct. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tucson Electric
   Seeks Surcharge,
   11.6% Rate Jump
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11F
</SO>
<CO>
   TEP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   TUCSON, Ariz -- Tucson Electric Power Co., seeking "an
immediate and positive sign to creditors," said it applied to
Arizona regulators for an 11.6% rate increase and a further
2% temporary fuel surcharge.
   The requested increases, which would raise $55 million in
permanent new annual revenue and $15.5 million through the
temporary surcharge, are substantially lower than analysts
have said is eventually needed to put the utility on a sound
footing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The application, filed Friday with the Arizona Corporation
Commission, seeks to forestall an important reckoning of rate
recovery for Tucson Electric's controversial new, $829
million Springerville 2 coal-fired generating plant.
   In its application, the utility asked the commission for
permission to defer about $100 million annually of interest
and other expenses related to the facility. Tucson Electric
said it expects to file for recovery of Springerville 2's
costs late next year.
   The application for cost recovery, which could mean a rate
boost of 15% or more on top of the latest application, faces
considerable resistance whenever it is filed. Two members of
the three-member Arizona Corporation Commission have
questioned whether the plant is needed in a region awash with
generating capacity, raising the painful possibility that
Tucson Electric might be barred from recovering some or all
of its investment.
   The wounded electric utility, Arizona's second largest
after Arizona Public Service, which also filed for a rate
increase Friday, said its requests for rate increases are
"the initial step to returning Tucson Electric to a
reasonably sound financial condition."
   As previously reported, Tucson Electric had a net loss of
$87.4 million, or $3.62 a share, on $233.1 million of revenue
in the first six months of the year. The total included $27.4
million in losses from continuing operations and $59.9
million of one-time charges and losses from discontinued
operations.
   The utility said its request for a temporary 2% fuel
surcharge is intended to recover about $15.5 million in fuel
and purchased power expenses incurred between Jan. 1 and June
30, 1989, adding that it is seeking "expedited consideration"
of the surcharge, in hopes that the levy could start in
mid-November.
   The Arizona Corporation Commission has twice dismissed
Tucson Electric's requests for recovery of fuel expenses for
the six months in question and the entire issue of fuel and
purchased power recovery is the subject of litigation in
state and federal courts in Tucson.
   However, a company spokesman said an earlier commission
order opened the way for the company to reapply for the
money. "We are persistent," the spokesman said.
   Tucson Electric last was granted a rate increase in
October 1989 when the Arizona commission approved an 11.9%
boost.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Network News Divisions Are Developing
   Programs in Effort to Lure More Viewers
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS CCB GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The news divisions of the three major networks
are undertaking some ambitious new programming initiatives in
an effort to bolster declining viewership and extend their
franchises.
   At CBS News, battered by layoffs and stagnant second-place
ratings for the "CBS Evening News with Dan Rather," two new
prime-time series are quietly under development. Rival ABC
News today is expected to announce plans for a new, five-hour
overnight broadcast starting in January. NBC, meanwhile, is
considering bringing back the one-hour summer NBC News series
"Real Life with Jane Pauley" as a weekly half-hour program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the networks have yet to draw impressive ratings
with any of their primetime news shows, they continue to try
new ones because of the relatively low cost. The networks own
the news shows and don't have to buy the product from a
Hollywood studio; also, a one-hour news program costs about
$500,000, half of what it costs to produce an entertainment
show.
   Some of the proposed new programming appears to draw
heavily on concepts already tried by more
entertainment-oriented syndication companies. At CBS News, a
unit of CBS Inc., one program under development has the
working title "On Trial" and could be a half-hour series. CBS
News hasn't produced a half-hour show since "On The Road with
Charles Kuralt" and "Our Times with Bill Moyers" aired as
summer series in 1983.
   Each "On Trial" show would focus on one trial and include
interviews with the participants. CBS News recently taped two
trials, one in Los Angeles that sought to determine whether a
man convicted of murder was insane at the time of the crime,
and another about a Johnston, Iowa, couple accused of child
endangerment after their 11-year-old son died from a bowel
obstruction. The trials will be used in a future "48 Hours"
show, a current CBS News series, but they could serve as the
basis for "On Trial" pilots.
   The other program, also being developed as a half-hour
series, is tentatively titled "Whose Side Are You On?" It
would present the pros and cons of a controversial issue,
such as the so-called suicide machine developed by a Michigan
pathologist and used by an Oregon woman with Alzheimer's
disease earlier this year.
   Andrew Heyward, executive producer of "48 Hours," is
developing both programs. According to individuals within CBS
News, Mr. Heyward told the "48 Hours" staff recently that
Jeff Sagansky, CBS's senior prime-time programmer, is
receptive to new CBS News projects. Asked about the two
proposed series, Mr. Heyward said, "This is a favorable time
for developing informational programming. We at `48 Hours'
are happy to fill the gap."
   But the two CBS series would be joining a crowded field.
Last year, Republic Pictures Corp.'s domestic television
distribution unit syndicated a show, also titled "On Trial,"
but it failed after one season, because many real trials are
"boring, dull, harsh, cruel and not always perfect," Republic
President Charles Larson said previously. And early next
year, American Lawyer Media L.P. is planning to launch a
cable channel, called the American Courtroom Network, that
would broadcast trials peppered with commentary.
   CBS News already produces two primetime series, "60
Minutes" and "48 Hours," and is scheduled to produce
occasional specials of "Face to Face with Connie Chung." As
previously reported, the division, which has an annual
operating budget of $340 million and is profitable, is also
considering launching a half-hour show at 11:30 p.m. with
correspondents Charles Kuralt and Lesley Stahl.
   At NBC, meanwhile, the Jane Pauley series was
well-received when it aired last summer and was NBC's most
successful new news series ever. It could come back as a
midseason replacement for a show that doesn't work, possibly
paired with "Expose," an investigative journalism series with
correspondent Brian Ross and producer Ira Silverman. A
spokeswoman for NBC News, a unit of General Electric Co.,
confirmed that discussions are taking place, but emphasized
that "nothing final has been decided."
   ABC's overnight broadcast has been under consideration for
several months, and ABC News officials said many of the
network's 200-plus affiliates requested the service. The
broadcast would air from 1 a.m. to 6 a.m. and originate from
Washington, D.C. The ABC newscast will be starkly different
from "Nightwatch," CBS News's overnight show, because it will
have up-to-the-minute news reports. "Nightwatch," a two-hour
show that CBS premiered in October 1982, is pretaped and
broadcast at 2 a.m. and rerun at 4 a.m. and emphasizes
interviews. CBS News is likely to revamp "Nightwatch," which
has been without a permanent anchor for several months, but
there are no firm plans.
   Currently, the ABC affiliates air syndicated shows or
movies, which the stations must pay for. ABC News, a unit of
Capital Cites/ABC Inc., declined to comment, pending today's
announcement.
   At ABC, the overnight newscast is the first time the
network has attempted a late-night news program since 1982,
when it temporarily expanded "Nightline" to one hour and
followed it with "The Last Word," a 60-minute talk show with
Greg Jackson and Phil Donahue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   The ACLU Zoo
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   School days are upon us, as well as the threat of lawsuits
by the American Civil Liberties Union to undermine school
order and discipline. A student showed up at East Islip High
School on Long Island wearing a T-shirt inscribed with the
legend, "Adolf Hitler European Tour 1939-1945." He removed it
under threat of suspension, and went to the ACLU. Attorney
David Jampol threatened suit, declaring, "This is definitely
a free speech issue." We think school officials should be
allowed to run the schools. To preserve and display every
species of free speech, the ACLU could always open a zoo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aon Withdraws
   $840 Million Offer
   For Corroon &amp; Black
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   AOC CBL U.WIL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Aon Corp. dropped its unsolicited $40-a-share
bid for Corroon &amp; Black Corp., in the face of continued
resistance from the New York insurance broker.
   Aon's cash proposal, which valued Corroon at about $840
million, had challenged a stock-swap accord under which
Corroon had previously agreed to merge with Willis Faber PLC
of London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corroon, which under terms of the pact with Willis was
free to accept a superior bid if one surfaced, opted to
rebuff the Aon proposal in favor of the merger with the UK
concern. While Aon's bid offers Corroon shareholders more
cash, the combination with Willis would provide Corroon with
a valuable international presence, Corroon said.
   Aon initially said it wasn't interested in pursuing a bid
if it was opposed by Corroon's board. But when Corroon last
week turned down the proposal without giving Aon officials a
hearing, the company announced its offer was "still on the
table." But later in the week, Aon signalled again that it
wouldn't pursue an unfriendly acquisition, and on Thursday
Corroon again refused to meet with Aon officials to discuss
the proposal.
   Aon's Richard Miller, chairman and chief executive
officer, wrote to Corroon &amp; Black's Patrick G. Ryan,
chairman, chief executive officer, saying that Aon's offer
was superior to Willis Faber's offer. He expressed his
disappointment in Corroon's opposition to his company's offer
and the letter was to inform Corroon that Aon would withdraw
its proposal.
   Aon wanted to blend its Rollins Burdick unit with
Corroon's operations, which would have created the
fourth-largest insurance brokerage in the world. But the deal
with Willis will establish a slightly larger brokerage, of
similar world rank.
   Corroon shareholders formally vote on the proposed merger
with Willis Sept. 28.
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp. declined to comment on Aon's
withdrawal.
   Even before Aon formally announced that it was withdrawing
its bid, Corroon shares had been weakening. "The stock is
down because the stock market is convinced that the Willis
Faber deal will go through and it's just worth $30 a share,"
said Michael Smith, an insurance industry analyst with Lehman
Brothers, a unit of New York-based Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   RICHARD MILLER is chairman and chief executive officer of
Corroon &amp; Black Corp. Patrick G. Ryan is chairman, chief
executive and president of Aon Corp. Yesterday's edition
incorrectly reported the executives' corporate affiliations.
   (WSJ Sept. 25, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Index Technology
   To Unveil Software
   For Mainframes
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11E
</SO>
<CO>
   INDX
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Index Technology Corp. will introduce
tomorrow a product to help corporate software experts update
old mainframe software programs, Richard Carpenter, chairman
and chief executive officer, said.
   The product, XL/Recover, marks a move into a new area of
the software-engineering field that Index helped pioneer. It
will be available next week. Index, the nation's biggest
maker of products for the computer-aided software-engineering
market, known as CASE, has previously made software tools to
improve the productivity of programmers writing new programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an interview, Mr. Carpenter said the XL/Recover
software program, which will sell for $9,800 and runs on
IBM-compatible personal computers, "is a major thrust in our
offerings for 1991." He declined to predict sales but said it
will "probably account for 10% to 25% of revenue" in the
future.
   Last year, Index earned $2.3 million, or 50 cents a share,
on revenue of $38 million. During this year, Index has
continued to grow rapidly, but earnings have declined.
First-half net was $961,000, or 20 cents a share, down 21%
from $1.2 million, or 27 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 39% to $24.4 million from $17.5 million.
   Mr. Carpenter declined to predict earnings for the current
quarter or the rest of the year. "This is continuing to be an
investment year for Index. The good thing is we're beginning
to get the results of all that investment into the
marketplace," he said.
   The company's new product addresses what should be a
substantial market, Mr. Carpenter said. He added that in most
companies, 60% to 80% of the software-development budget is
spent adjusting old software programs to address new business
conditions rather than designing new programs. For example,
when a company eliminates a layer of bureaucracy in the
credit-approval department, software has to be rewritten to
make sure that bills don't still require approvals from those
job titles.
   XL/Recovery helps systems analysts look at the old COBOL
software code that runs on most companies' mainframe
computers. It can read the code, determine the logic and
business rules used in the application, and draw charts of
the structure of the code, making it easy for programmers to
see how changing one part of the program will affect other
parts.
   Several other companies, including Cambridge-based Bachman
Information Systems Inc., already make programs that
automatically turn old COBOL "spaghetti code" that is
extremely complex and hard for humans to follow into
better-organized code. But Index said XL/Recovery goes beyond
that by capturing information about both the data involved
and the process by which it is manipulated.
   John Dunkle, an analyst with WorkGroup Technologies Inc.,
Hampton, N.H., said, "Other CASE vendors are talking about
this capability, but nobody is delivering it yet." He added
that for Index to pioneer the technology is surprising
because "usually the largest companies in any market are
somewhat sluggish. The small companies usually tend to
introduce technologies faster."
   Mr. Carpenter said the company plans a major publicity
campaign starting tomorrow. He said: "We're very eager to see
how folks respond to it. We have to wait to see the market
reception." He added that Index plans several other
significant product announcements later this year, but he
declined to comment on the products involved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   OPEC's Output
   May Forestall
   Energy Shortfall
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Authoritative new estimates show that members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are pumping
enough oil to forestall -- at least until winter --
world-wide energy shortages because of the Middle East
crisis.
   However, rising prices are building political pressures to
tap stockpiles such as the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve
even though these were established as buffers against
physical shortages, not volatile markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total OPEC output has rebounded from the August low of
19.7 million barrels a day to 22 million barrels a day or
more for September. That level generally hadn't been expected
until October.
   The extra oil is coming mainly from Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. It's enough to replace
three-fourths of the four million barrels a day of embargoed
Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil.
   Demand for OPEC's oil still is higher than its output,
partly as a result of panic buying. But rising flow rates
combined with high world inventories make it unlikely that
the International Energy Agency's emergency oil-sharing
mechanism will be triggered when the governing board of 21
oil-consuming nations meets again in Paris Friday.
   The increased output doesn't bar individual nations from
dipping into their strategic oil reserves to alleviate high
prices. Nor does it completely rule out a possible supply
crunch later this year. "It's going to be a touch-and-go
winter," said Thomas A. Petrie of Petrie Parkman &amp; Co., a
Denver investment firm specializing in energy. "We could
still see some pretty tight conditions in November and
December in some fuels."
   It's true that supplies of some petroleum products --
including kerosene, jet fuel and naphtha, a petrochemical
feedstock -- already are tight in some areas, particularly in
regions of the Persian Gulf and Asia. "This reflects the loss
of Kuwait refining capacity and the added demands associated
with the military buildup in the Gulf," Cambridge Energy
Research Associates reported Friday.
   But crude oil supplies are ample everywhere even though
some refiners worry that some oil replacing the lost Iraqi
petroleum is of lower quality. In the U.S., according to the
latest count by the Department of Energy, crude oil
inventories total 373.1 million barrels, 35 million above the
year-earlier level. And in Europe, according to Energy
Security Analysis Inc., crude oil inventories are 25 million
barrels higher than they were a year ago.
   Energy Security Analysis is a Washington-based firm that
monitors oil supplies world-wide. It estimates that at the
end of August commercial onshore inventories of crude oil and
chief petroleum products totaled 2.93 billion barrels. That
was 87 million barrels above the year-earlier level. If
government stockpiles are included, total global inventories
were 113 million barrels higher than a year ago.
   "We've seen no statistical evidence that inventories are
being drawn down significantly," said Sarah Emerson, a vice
president of Energy Security Analysis. Still, she said, the
surplus is getting smaller just as demand increases
seasonally. "No one is going to run out of crude," she said,
"but in a month or two we could start having problems on
products."
   Oil markets appear to be expecting severe disruptions of
supplies. Petroleum prices underscore that sentiment. They
continued their run-up last week, reaching a nine-year high
of more than $35 a barrel.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the futures price of
crude oil for November delivery settled Friday at $35.43 a
barrel -- up $2.01 a barrel for the day and $4.27 a barrel
for the week. Gasoline and heating oil futures also continued
to show sizzling gains, each advancing toward $1 a gallon.
   U.S. and European energy officials foresee some problems
in the distribution of petroleum products, as is happening
already in Asia. Still, many are concerned that the potential
for a supply crunch exists, even if war doesn't break out in
the Middle East, because the global systems to produce,
transport and refine oil have grown taut in the wake of the
Persian Gulf standoff over Iraqi-occupied Kuwait."We are
operating in a fragile environment," one official explained.
"At every level, from the wellhead through the refinery, we
are at capacity."
   Still, energy representatives of oil-consuming nations
have been pleasantly surprised at the rapid increases in
production by Saudi Arabia and others. According to most
estimates, the kingdom already is producing the additional
two million barrels a day it had pledged, putting its current
output at between 7.3 million and 7.5 million barrels. And it
is understood to be pushing to expand its output to eight or
8.5 million barrels a day.
   Actual "supplies" from OPEC -- exports of oil plus the
volumes refined and used domestically -- exceed production at
the moment. That's because Saudi Arabia and others are
selling oil from storage as well as from current production.
Petro-Logistics Ltd. of Geneva monitors both the volumes
refined and exported by OPEC and estimates that such supplies
currently total 22.2 million barrels a day.
   But surveys of oil in tankers at sea by Petro-Logistics
indicate that so-called producer-owned stocks afloat are
beginning to shrink.
   Further evidence of the declines in oil at sea comes from
tanker charterings, which dropped sharply in recent weeks.
However, according to Robert Boslego, a Winchester, Mass.,
oil consultant who monitors such charterings, there has been
"a significant rebound in tanker chartering fixtures since
the depths reached in August."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil's Chief to Reach Out
   To World in U.N. Address
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRASILIA, Brazil -- When Fernando Collor de Mello
addresses the United Nations General Assembly today, he'll be
saying a lot of new things for a Brazilian president.
   The leader of a country denounced internationally for
environmental destruction will emphasize his concern for the
ecology. The president of a nation long viewed as one of the
world's most protectionist will talk of free markets and
economic liberalization. Denounced recently in an Amnesty
International report as a country where extermination squads
run rampant, Brazil will stress human rights. And viewed
suspiciously as a country trying to build an atomic bomb and
help such countries as Iraq and Libya enhance their military
potential, Brazil now affirms its commitment to peaceful use
of nuclear energy and disarmament.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The message I will bring to the U.S. is that there's a
profound economic and cultural revolution going on in
Brazil," Mr. Collor said Friday in an interview on the eve of
his departure for a week-long visit to the U.S. "We are
establishing the conditions for the free market to operate.
We are preparing seriously to enter the First World."
   Brazil still has a ways to go. Its monthly inflation rate
of about 13% is still more than twice that of major
industrialized countries, income distribution is among the
most unfair in the world and many here complain that their
economic situation is getting worse, not better.
   But many Brazilians also agree that the country is
undergoing a sea change six months after Mr. Collor took
office, although he is sometimes criticized as authoritarian
and even if there are often more words and publicity stunts
than concrete results. In the latest sign of his government's
no-nonsense attitude, Brazil Thursday ordered the closing and
liquidation of four state banks and four official lending
agencies for "serious irregularities."
   Sitting ramrod-straight behind his desk throughout the
interview, the 41-year-old Mr. Collor, his hair flecked with
gray, made the following points:
   -- Brazil will resist pressure to make a token foreign
debt payment as it prepares to resume negotiations with
creditors, but the country hopes to sign an accord it can
comply with to avoid new debt payment suspensions in the
future.
   -- The Persian Gulf crisis "creates difficulties" for his
bold anti-inflation plan that will need to be solved
"creatively," with cooperation among the government, unions
and employers to prevent excessive wage and price increases.
   -- Mr. Collor welcomed President George Bush's "Initiative
for the Americas" as consistent with plans for greater South
American economic integration and said he hoped to give it
"practical content as soon as possible."
   -- He said Brazil's controversial nuclear program is
undergoing a "profound re-evaluation" to reorient it toward
peaceful uses and said this should be done under the control
of society rather than under a "veil of secrecy."
   He affirmed his government's commitment to the "fight" to
save the Amazon rain forest and called for more international
cooperation in ecological matters.
   Regarding the sweeping anti-inflation plan he enforced
when he took office, which included an 18-month freeze on
almost half the money circulating in the Brazilian economy,
Mr. Collor said the drop in the monthly inflation rate to 13%
from 84% largely without price controls is "already a great
victory" but "much remains to be done."
   Acknowledging that the plan has aggravated Brazil's
already "shameful" income distribution, Mr. Collor said the
adjustment plan isn't an end in itself but aims to give the
state the means to meet Brazil's pressing housing,
educational and health needs and reduce social inequalities.
   He appealed to Brazilian society to help him attain this
aim by entering into a "national understanding," a sort of
pact that would, among other things, prevent "wild
capitalists" from making excessive profits through price
mark-ups and "radical unionists" from pushing for
wage-and-price indexation. Discussions on this pact are to
begin this week.
   As Brazil, the developing world's largest debtor, readies
itself to negotiate with its creditors next month -- an
essential step to obtain a recently approved $2 billion
standby loan from the International Monetary Fund -- Mr.
Collor and debt negotiator Jorio Dauster, in a separate
interview, said Brazil's payments capacity was linked to its
future economic growth.
   "The question isn't how much the country can grow after
paying its debt, but how much we can pay after guaranteeing
our economic growth," Mr. Collor said.
   Pressed by creditors to make a token payment on some of
the approximately $10 billion in arrears Brazil has
accumulated since it suspended interest and capital payments
on most of its $114 billion foreign debt last year, Brazilian
officials urged bankers to take a long-term view.
   Comparing Brazil to a company whose shareholders have
ousted the old management and replaced it with a new team
that's cleaning up the mess, Mr. Collor said "one can't
require that this company pay such a sum as to impede the
success" of this cleaning-up process. Added Mr. Dauster: "Our
payments capacity is a dynamic concept: as we start to grow,
it will become much bigger."
   Bankers and diplomats retort, however, that Brazil also
has to take a long-term view and will have to quickly
normalize relations with the international financial
community if it wants to obtain foreign financing to help it
grow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   European Community Law on Mergers
   Takes Effect After Years of Wrangling
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The new European Community law on mergers
control has taken effect, giving the EC Commission a
broadened role in scrutinizing corporate mergers and
buy-outs.
   The legislation, approved last December after more than 17
years of wrangling, will concentrate authority in the
commission to clear the largest European crossborder mergers,
according to EC competition laws.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There is now a clear division of responsibility between
the European Commission and the member states for assessing
mergers and takeovers," said Sir Leon Brittan, the EC
commissioner for competition affairs.
   "It will be a simpler world for business, which will no
longer face the multiple jeopardy of seeking clearance for
such deals both from Brussels and from national capitals."
   But experts say the law also gives the commission more
teeth and stricter standards than it had in the past to
enforce EC competition rules.
   That could mean that some agreements made in the past
wouldn't be approved under the new rules.
   Under the law, the EC Commission will examine large
mergers for their impact on competition in the EC. It will be
empowered to change, suspend, or block mergers that hurt
competition or create a company with a dominant position.
   Mergers in which the companies involved have combined
revenues of 5 billion European currency units ($6.55
billion), of which at least two of the parties each have 250
million Europen currency units in EC sales, will be reviewed
by the commission.
   Smaller transactions will be referred back to national
authorities.
   Those thresholds can be reviewed in 2 1/2 years.
   The new law requires companies to notify the commission of
merger plans within one week of their agreement or
announcement, providing detailed information in the
notification. The commission must notify a company within one
month whether it will oppose the merger.
   Merger specialists say the new procedures should
facilitate cross-border acquisitions by creating a clear path
for getting them approved, eliminating potential conflicts
among national authorities and between EC and national laws.
   "The advantages outweigh the uncertainties," said Carter
Eltzroth, a lawyer with the Brussels office of law firm
Morgan Lewis Bockius, based in Philadelphia. "It gets rid of
the risk of conflicting decisions."
   Lawyers also praised the emphasis on economic, rather than
social or political considerations, in assessing mergers'
impact.
   "When big deals were going on in recent years, people
would be saying to one another `Wish we had the EC law now,'"
said Donald Holley, a partner at Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp;
Hamilton, a New York law firm with a Brussels office.
   But the law also toughens the benchmark the commission can
use for blocking a merger. In the past, under EC case law,
the commission could only intervene in mergers where one of
the concerns had a dominant position before the merger.
   A dominant position was flexibly defined as a 40% market
share under EC case law.
   Under the new legislation, the commission will be able to
block a merger that would create a dominant position.
   "Before, one of the companies would have needed a 40%" to
prompt action by the commission, said Cleary Gottlieb's Mr.
Holley. "Now if the two have 40%" the commission can
intervene, he said.
   Experts say the amount of information companies must
provide at the time a merger is announced will be greater
than the requirements companies face now, or that companies
face in the U.S.
   The initial notification "is a bother, and sometimes an
expensive bother," one lawyer said.
   Nonetheless, experts gave the commission high marks for
its efforts to gear up to its new task.
   "They have good people in the sector and have made an
extraordinary effort to be prepared," Mr. Holley said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Sony to Unveil Digital Audio Tape Units
   In Walkman Style and for Use in the Car
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11A
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE MC PIO
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sony Corp., again going to the front of the
pack in consumer electronics, is marketing two new digital
audio tape products, one for the car and one for the
waistband.
   In keeping with its strategy of creating markets for its
technology, Sony will start selling a DAT Walkman and a car
DAT player in late December. But it will have to rev up
interest in a technology that's not yet cheap and has been
hampered by political and legal wrangling over DAT taping of
copyrighted works.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These products follow the home-unit DAT player, which Sony
launched in the U.S. in June, and position it as the first
consumer electronics company to offer a full line of DAT
products. DAT machines, like compact disk machines, play
music with almost no distortion. But unlike CDs, they also
can record music digitally.
   Although audio-industry executives have been cheering the
clarity of DAT sound for the past few years, product
development and marketing have been held back by disputes
with the recording industry over possible copyright
infringements against labeled recordings. Manufacturers
agreed last year to include a device on the machine that will
allow it to make one CD copy but not more, but a lawsuit was
filed in July in an attempt to halt Sony DAT recorder sales.
   Many other Japanese electronics manufacturers have held
back, waiting to see how the tape-pirating issue played out
in the courts.
   Not Sony. "It's businesss as usual," says Neil Vander
Dussen, president of Sony Corp. of America, Sony's U.S. unit.
"We believe DAT is certainly a mass-marketable technology."
   Indeed, analysts say Sony's success with the DAT Walkman
and car player would not only test the portable applications
of digital-based audio technology, but it would also be a key
factor in determining the future market for DAT products.
   Like most new high-tech products when they first hit the
market, Sony's latest offering won't be cheap. The TCD-D3 DAT
Walkman, which is roughly the same size and weight as
existing cassette-tape players, has a suggested retail price
of $850. The price tag on the DTX-10 car DAT player is
$1,100.
   While these initial prices may be too steep for all but
the most serious audio buffs, analysts say the DAT walkman
may have broad appeal once prices come down. Unlike portable
CD players that tend to skip when jostled by joggers or
dashing commuters, the DAT Walkman is designed to give
steady, high-quality sound despite such jiggling.
   Though price can be a critical determinant for the success
of DAT, analysts say Sony's strategy of developing a steady
stream of new products is crucial to winning consumer
confidence. Knowing that there is more than one use for a DAT
cassette could go a long way in convincing consumers that DAT
is worth the investment.
   Sony is also betting that a broader product lineup will
persuade the recording companies to back the technology. Thus
far, limited available recordings have been a big hurdle in
DAT marketing. While Sony started selling blank DAT cassettes
at $12 to $18 when it launched the home DAT unit, there are
still only about 30 prerecorded titles on the market. And at
about $25 a pop, they are pricier than compact disks.
   But "now that we've extended DAT, we believe there will be
strong consumer response," said Martin Homlish, president of
Sony's audio component systems division. "Then we believe you
will see additional movement in software {prerecorded
titles}."
   To drive home the idea that more titles will follow soon,
Sony said it reached a special promotional agreement with its
wholly owned CBS Records unit. CBS recently recorded four new
jazz titles, which consumers will receive free along with
their purchase of a DAT player from Oct. 1 until Jan. 31,
1991. Analysts have said Sony's ties to a major recording
company may help it to nudge the industry toward DAT.
   For Sony's rivals, the new DAT products are good news and
bad news. "From an industry point of view, it expands the
market and shows consumers it's not a fly-by-night product,"
says Paul Foschino, assistant general manager of Technics, an
audio division of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. of
Japan. "But I wish we had done it first." Technics will start
selling home DAT players later this month.
   Other Japanese makers are expected to launch DAT players
by year end, though Japan's Pioneer Electronic Inc. says it's
not planning any DAT products in the U.S. soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Banks Seeking Entry to Thai Economy
   Encounter Opportunities but Also Strict Limits
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST H.HKS CCI J.BOT J.MUB J.IBJ
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANGKOK, Thailand -- Five foreign banks learned a harsh
lesson in the frustrations of Thai politics this year.
   After months of negotiations, the Ministry of Finance
recommended in January that the five be granted licenses to
open branches, the first for foreigners since 1978.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By February, that plan was on hold.
   Later, there were rumblings that the list could be
revived, and officials even hinted that it might suddenly
gain approval. Now the plan is absent from the political
agenda. The five banks, along with a dozen others, are back
to square one.
   "We're not making any assumptions about having a branch in
five years or 10 years," an executive from one of the banks
with a representative office says. But he adds, "We are
making money with what we've got."
   Across town, there isn't an empty seat or an idle employee
at Banque Indosuez. It's a scene repeated in every one of the
14 foreign banks with a branch license in Thailand. As
foreign investment in Thailand has soared and local companies
have looked overseas, foreign banks have reaped the rewards.
"We're doing extremely well," says one.
   Foreign bankers agree that there are tremendous
opportunities in Thailand, but there is a huge disparity
between the business that comes with a branch license and
that of representative offices, which number about 45. The
latter operate out of small facilities with only a few staff
members, and they are kept out of the very profitable
foreign-exchange business. The gap between the two kinds of
foreign operations isn't likely to change soon.
   The first bank in Thailand was a foreign bank, regional
giant Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp., which opened a
branch in 1888. Foreign banks dominated the market until
World War II, when they were closed and a number of local
banks were established. Thai officials don't want foreigners
to gain prominence again.
   Now, the 14 foreign banks are up against 15 local banks
with more than 2,000 branches and 95% of the banking
industry's assets. Still, foreign bankers don't complain too
much. With loan growth of 33% in the first six months of this
year and the economy still vibrant, there are plenty of
opportunities.
   Most of the foreign banks with branch licenses concentrate
on trade finance, offering international services and
expertise that most of the local banks can't equal. Foreign
bankers also specialize in private banking, advisory and
stock-custodial services, and treasury and securities
operations.
   The government isn't entertaining applications from
licensed foreign banks for additional branches, effectively
keeping them out of consumer banking. Only Citicorp is really
interested in competing with the local banks in consumer
banking and is already a leader in home mortgages from its
lone branch. For most of the other banks, a second or third
branch might be nice, but it isn't vital.
   "Foreign banks are well-treated here. It's one of the
better environments in Asia to work in," says David L.
Hendrix, country corporate officer for Citibank in Thailand.
"The only area where we're not treated as a local bank is in
branching. For us, that's a severe limitation." It also slows
development of domestic banking, since foreign banks
typically bring innovations that force local banks to
modernize.
   Foreigners do bring in much-needed offshore financing.
Thailand's double-digit growth rate in the past two years
could not have been maintained without foreign money. Yet
foreign banks play a far less important role in Thailand than
in other Southeast Asian economies, such as Malaysia and
Singapore. The lucky 14 say they are little threat to the
local giants; they worry more about competition among foreign
banks for that 5% sliver of the market.
   Only two Japanese banks, Bank of Tokyo Ltd. and Mitsui
Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd., have branches in Thailand. Takehiko
Mori, chief representative in Bangkok for Industrial Bank of
Japan Ltd., says, "If we get a license here, our competition
will be the Bank of Tokyo and Mitsui Taiyo Kobe, not the Thai
banks."
   Industrial Bank has the biggest representative office in
the country and was one of the five banks on the short list
early this year. Foreign bankers say it could be three to
five years before the issue is revived, because the Thai
banks are a formidable political force.
   "The consensus is that {Thai} banks still need
protection," says George Morgan, analyst with Hoare Govett
Asia Ltd. in Bangkok.
   In the meantime, the representative offices are making
money. Some followed a few clients to Thailand and
concentrate on serving a growing overseas client base. Most
were able to streamline a process for quickly completing
transactions through their offices in Singapore or Hong Kong.
They say there is so much business that there is some for
every bank. Increasingly, Thai companies are losing their
aversion to foreign banks.
   A few representative offices, seeking a more active role,
also have taken a stake in local finance or securities
companies, for which they provide needed expertise and from
which they profited as the sector expanded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Parkinson's Disease
   Symptoms Cure Seen
   In New Treatment
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Researchers at Emory University say a new
treatment could lead to a cure for the symptoms of
Parkinson's disease, the muscular ailment that affects more
than 350,000 Americans.
   The research, published in the current issue of Science
magazine, involves the subthalamic nucleus, a part of the
brain that scientists previously regarded as being
unconnected to Parkinson's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By deactivating cells in the nucleus, however, researchers
found they could relieve the tremors and loss of muscle
control that characterize the disease.
   The study indicates this particular part of the brain "is
playing an important role in producing the signs and symptoms
of Parkinson's disease," said Mahlon DeLong, a physician and
chairman of the department of neurology at Emory. "Knowing
this, we can design better forms of treatment for the
disorder."
   The next step will be to perform additional tests on
monkeys, Dr. DeLong said, noting that surgical treatment or
medicine for humans is still "some years away."
   But he characterized the current research as encouraging.
"It gives us a better idea of where the problem is," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alexander &amp; Alexander
   Names Two to Posts
   Of Deputy Chairmen
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   AAL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Alexander &amp; Alexander Services Inc. named
William M. Wilson and Michael K. White deputy chairmen, as
part of the newly created office of the chairman.
   Mr. Wilson, 53 years old, will still be responsible for
the European operations of the insurance brokerage concern,
from his office in London. Mr. White, 51, will continue to
head the company's North American and South American
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman T.H. Irvin said he decided to create the new
management team to better coordinate the concern's world-wide
operations, which now account for 50% of its revenue and
employee base.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stanford Fires S&amp;L Expert
   Following TV Controversy
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STANFORD, Calif. -- An economist who recently incensed the
banking establishment when he called the federal
bank-insurance fund insolvent on national television has been
fired from his post as an unpaid research scholar at Stanford
University.
   R. Dan Brumbaugh, a thrift expert who was among the first
to predict that industry's collapse, said yesterday that
Stanford's director of the Center for Economic Policy
Research notified him that the university was canceling his
research project on banking in a letter dated Sept. 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Brumbaugh said he believes that, while the center's
director has denied it, the termination is the result of his
feisty words on ABC News' "Nightline" on July 31. On that
news program, Mr. Brumbaugh said that six out of the 10
biggest banks were at or near insolvency, and the cost to
close them and hundreds of other failed thrifts was going to
outstrip the reserves of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which insures bank deposits up to $100,000.
   His remarks drew a firestorm of criticism and denials from
bankers and federal regulators. FDIC Chairman William
Seidman, who also appeared on the program, denounced the
economists' predictions as "irresponsible" and
"preposterous."
   The center's director, John Shoven, did not return calls
to his home yesterday, but he earlier denied in the press
that outside pressure played any role in the ousting of Mr.
Brumbaugh.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, September 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8% 30 to 44 days; 7.95% 45 to 59 days;
7.85% 60 to 89 days; 7.80% 90 to 119 days; 7.75% 120 to 149
days; 7.70% 150 to 179 days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.16%
30 days; 8.10% 60 days; 8.04% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.61% one month; 7.63% two
months; 7.66% three months; 7.63% six months; 7.85% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.20% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.93% 90
days; 7.93% 120 days; 7.86% 150 days; 7.81% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% three months; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% four months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 5/16% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 13.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.38%; Switzerland 9.50%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, September 17, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39% 13 weeks; 7.30% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.14%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.11%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.57%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keating Stays Jailed as California Judge
   Refuses to Lower the Bail From $5 Million
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Charles H. Keating Jr. remained behind bars
after a California state-court judge refused to reduce the $5
million bail imposed early last week on the indicted former
chairman of American Continental Corp.
   The unusual two-day bail hearing, filled with allegations
by the state of deception by the four defendants and
countercharges of prosecutorial grandstanding, presages a
contentious trial for the 66-year-old Arizona businessman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The indictment launched the first criminal case resulting
from the 1989 collapse of Lincoln Savings, among the largest
thrift failures ever.
   The state alleges that Mr. Keating and three associates
made fraudulent claims in selling unsecured American
Continental subordinated debentures through the Phoenix,
Ariz., holding company's Lincoln branches in California.
   Prosecutors said they identified 17,458 of about 23,000
bondholders who incurred losses totaling $250 million when
American Continental filed for federal bankruptcy-court
protection last April, rendering the bonds practically
worthless.
   Judge Gary Klausner, who stunned defendants last Tuesday
with bail far higher than amounts they had informally
discussed before surrendering to the Los Angeles County
district attorney's office, again surprised Stephen C. Neal,
a Keating attorney, on Friday. Mr. Neal argued that his
client's bail should be reduced because there was a low risk
he would flee from prosecution.
   The embattled Mr. Keating, who claims that his liabilities
exceed assets by $5.2 million, is interested only "in
preparing a vigorous, strong defense" against the various
criminal and civil charges facing him, the lawyer said.
   But after sharply lowering the $1 million bail for the
other defendants, the judge said that the "picture painted
here . . .  {of} creditors knocking at the door and lawsuits
all around him" gives Mr. Keating "significant reasons not to
stay around." Of the $5 million bail, Judge Klausner noted
that "simple calculation will tell you it's 2% of what the
actual loss was."
   District Attorney Ira Reiner hailed the high bail as an
example for white-collar criminals, saying Mr. Keating's mug
shot "ought to be posted in every boardroom in the United
States." Mr. Reiner, who led a seven-month grand jury
investigation of American Continental's bond-sales practices,
told a news conference: "Whether someone wears an expensive
suit or a cheap mask, stealing is stealing."
   Asked about why a man once considered among Arizona's
leading citizens would flee, Mr. Reiner said one "can't
escape the thought of Robert Vesco in a case like this." Mr.
Vesco, accused of masterminding the huge I.O.S. Ltd.
investment scam, fled in 1973 to Central America and remains
a wealthy fugitive.
   Mr. Reiner brushed off criticism of his office by the
judge, who expressed from the bench being "troubled" by how
prosecutors first favored much lower bail, then urged no
reduction. Defense attorneys suggested the change in position
reflected the heavy anti-Keating publicity the case has
garnered.
   Mr. Keating wore the rumpled blue suit he exchanged for
county-jail grays for his court appearances, and seemed at
ease as Mr. Neal addressed the two factors the judge
identified as central in bail determination: risk of flight
and the seriousness of the offense.
   Mr. Neal said Mr. Keating "has never failed to appear at
any hearing or interview he was scheduled for" in the
numerous inquiries since Lincoln's seizure by federal
regulators. He also noted lower "presumptive bail" amounts
that the court recommends for violent crimes-$50,000, for
example, in a kidnapping with intent to commit a sexual
offense and $10,000 in terrorism cases.
   Mr. Neal, who later told reporters he planned to appeal,
said in court that a debt-laden Mr. Keating could post bail
of only $500,000 if several family members encumbered their
houses and other assets. Financial records were produced
showing a net worth of $40 million in 1987, when his American
Continental compensation was about $3 million and he was a
large political contributor. But most assets listed were in
now-worthless American Continental stock.
   Prosecutors, in their questioning, have hinted that Mr.
Keating is hiding assets accumulated during the five years
American Continental owned Lincoln. They noted that in ruling
against Mr. Keating's own suit challenging the thrift's
seizure, a federal judge said transfers of funds to American
Continental "amounted to a looting of Lincoln."
   After the judge reduced bail to $200,000 for American
Continental's former president, Judy E. Wischer, and to
$100,000 for former Lincoln presidents Robin S. Symes and Ray
C. Fidel, the three posted bail and were released. Mr. Reiner
said he expects the trial of the four, who each face maximum
sentences of 10 years in prison and fines of $10,000, to
begin before year end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NL Steps Up Effort Against
   Lockheed Poison-Pill Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LK NL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Barred from meeting in person with a special
committee of the Lockheed Corp. board, NL Industries Inc.
sent the group a videotape last week attacking Lockheed's
poison-pill plan to deter hostile takeovers.
   The videotape marks the latest move in Dallas financier
Harold Simmons' campaign to increase his stake in the
nation's sixth largest Pentagon contractor. Mr. Simmons, who
lost a proxy battle for control of Lockheed in April,
controls a 19.8% stake in the company through NL Industries,
a Houston chemical concern that he controls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the poison-pill provision, acquisition by Mr.
Simmons of more than 20% of Lockheed's stock could trigger
the issuance of shares that would dilute his stake. Mr.
Simmons has asked Lockheed to amend the provision and allow
him to buy 10 million Lockheed shares now controlled by the
trustee of Lockheed's employee stock-ownership plan.
   In a lawsuit filed in federal court in Los Angeles last
April, NL attacked the plan as an attempt by Lockheed
management to entrench itself. Also included in last week's
SEC filing was a previously sealed amended complaint
involving that lawsuit.
   The amended complaint charged that Lockheed had hidden
from shareholders the potential size of the plan, which NL
claimed is operating as "a creeping, management-led, employee
buy-out of the company."
   In Calabasas, Calif., a Lockheed spokesman said it
considered the NL complaint "to be without merit and simply
more harassment."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caesars World Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CJN CAW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Caesars World Inc. extended its $22-a-share
tender offer for the 2,175,945 shares of Caesars New Jersey
Inc. it doesn't already own to Oct. 17 from last Friday. The
offer was initially set to expire in August.
   Caesar's World, a hotel and casino operator, has agreed in
principle to make an additional payment to Caesars New Jersey
shareholders of 25 cents a share as part of a legal
settlement brought by some holders of the latter. Final court
approval isn't expected for at least two months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tidewater Inc. Seeks
   To Buy Petroleum
   Helicopters for Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   TDW PHEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Tidewater Inc. proposed to acquire
Petroleum Helicopters Inc. in a stock swap valued at about
$195 million, plus the assumption of about $30 million of
debt.
   Tidewater provides supply and other vessels for use in the
offshore oil and gas industry and provides compression
services to the natural gas industry. Petroleum Helicopters
provides transportation services for that industry through
the use of its 289-helicopter fleet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Petroleum Helicopters' New Orleans offices
couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
   Tidewater said that the purchase and incorporation of
Petroleum Helicopters' aircraft into its operations would
strengthen its position in the marine services segment
world-wide.
   Under the proposed plan, Tidewater would give holders of
Petroleum Helicopters' voting and nonvoting common stock
about $32 of Tidewater common for each Petroleum Helicopters
share held and assume about $30 million of that company's
debt, Tidewater's chairman and chief executive officer, John
P. Laborde, said. Tidewater had about 28.5 million shares
outstanding and about $89 million of long-term debt at June
30.
   Petroleum Helicopters has a combined total of about 5.1
million voting and nonvoting common shares. The company
reported net income of about $10 million on revenue of
roughly $188 million for the fiscal year ended April 30.
Assets totaled about $137.7 million at July 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Data, Including Durable Goods Figure,
   Expected to Bolster View on Recession
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Economists aren't expecting any surprises in
this week's economic indicators, but the numbers aren't
likely to provide much comfort on the economy's direction,
either.
   This week's reports are likely to solidify the belief that
the economy is sliding into a recession. "There's a move
toward pessimism," says Robert Dederick, chief economist of
Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. "A month ago, there were more
diverse views. Now we're all shifting to the other side of
the boat."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Few economists expect any significant change in the
government's final version of second-quarter gross national
product, scheduled for release tomorrow, which was previously
estimated to have grown at a 1.2% annual rate. Real gross
national product is the inflation-adjusted value of the
nation's total output of goods and services.
   Instead, they are looking to indicators that provide sneak
previews of the economy's third-quarter performance and give
some new insight on the economic impact of the Mideast
crisis. The focus is on durable goods and personal
consumption for August, both scheduled for Wednesday,
followed by personal income on Thursday. Other important
indicators scheduled to be released this week include
mid-September auto sales, the Commerce Department's index of
leading indicators for August, new jobless claims and August
agricultural prices.
   While economists note that orders for durable goods are
volatile and hard to predict, the consensus view holds that
the latest figure will reflect a significant drop in
manufacturers' confidence in the economy. MMS International,
a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., New York, says its weekly survey
of economists shows durable goods orders plunging 1%. That is
a big change from the 2.8% increase in July.
   Because of the general weakness in the economy, economists
expect orders for metals, machinery and transportation
equipment to be down substantially. July's 2.8% increase
reflected stronger-than-expected aircraft orders. MMS
International says the survey of economists indicated that
few expect aircraft orders to be as strong as they were in
July. Truck and auto sales also are expected to be off.
   Gary Cimenero, chief economist at Fleet/Norstar Financial
Group in Providence R.I., doesn't see much hope in personal
consumption or income data. In line with the consensus, he
predicts a sluggish 0.3% rise in personal consumption and a
0.4% rise in personal income. But when adjusted for
inflation, which is creeping up, both figures show declines
in real terms. If so, Mr. Cimenero says, the data "would
reinforce the idea that consumers are really pulling in their
horns on spending." Moreover, he expects continued weak
employment data.
   Mid-September auto sales due tomorrow may provide other
clues on how consumers are reacting to the prolonged crisis
in the Middle East. Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist at
Midland Montagu, New York, notes that although car dealers
push hard in September to move out old models to make way for
new ones, sales have been weak so far. In the first 10 days
of September, U.S. car sales totaled 7.1 million units. Mr.
Fabbri expects a similar to slightly lower figure for
mid-September, with early 1991 sales dropping off sharply
once the initial promotions are finished.
   So how negative is the overall outlook? The Commerce
Department's index of leading indicators, statistics that are
expected to move up or down ahead of the economy, will be
reported on Friday. It has remained unchanged for the past
two months, but is expected to have tumbled nearly 1% in
August.
   Fleet/Norstar's Mr. Cimenero notes that eight of the 11
components of the index -- including stock prices, consumer
expectations, unemployment insurance claims and
manufacturers' unfilled orders -- should have influenced it
negatively.
   Economists say that while the impact of the Mideast crisis
is just beginning to work its way into a variety of
indicators, the continuing uncertainty plays prominently as
they move toward third-quarter GNP forecasts. "The Middle
East is dominating all these numbers," says Robert T. McGee,
chief economist at the Tokai Bank's regional headquarters in
New York. "Every time the price of oil goes up a dollar, it
adds to the likelihood that inflation will be greater and
that the economy will be weaker."
   ---
                   CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended May 18
                                                                                                       

                                             CHANGE
                                          (from prior
                              TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended

                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     Sept. 21 (in billions) $3,317.6         + $1.1
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     Sept. 21 (in billions) $4,097.7         - $3.4
                                                                                                       

   Business Sales
   July (in billions)        $539.52         -  0.5%
                                                                                                       

   Housing Starts
   August, annual rate
   (in thousands)              1,127         -  1.7%
                                                                                                       

   Building Permits
   August, annual rate
   (in thousands)              1,036         -  4.3%
                                                                                                       

   Merchandise Trade Deficit
   July, (in billions)         $9.33         + $3.99
                                                                                                       

   Business Inventories
   July (in billions)        $801.94         +  0.7%
                                                                                                       

   Consumer Price Index
   August                      131.6         +  0.8%
                                                                                                       

   New Jobless Claims
   Week ended Sept. 8        382,000          unchg.
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders (Wed.)
   August
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Tues.)
   Mid-September
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP (Tues.)
   Second quarter, (final)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption (Wed.)
   August
                                                                                                       

   Personal income (Thurs.)
   August
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural prices (Fri.)
   August
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index (Fri.)
   August
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Wed.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Canada Workers Ratify Contract
   Providing Gains in Wages and Benefits
   ----
   By Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   FC T.FMC LABOR C GM F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Striking workers at Ford Motor Co.'s Canadian
subsidiary yesterday voted overwhelmingly in favor of a
generous wage and benefit package that the Canadian unit of
cash-strapped Chrysler Corp. may find difficult to match.
   The agreement, reached after a marathon bargaining session
Friday, met the Canadian Auto Workers' major demands. The
12,800 Ford Motor Co. of Canada workers were expected to
return to work this morning, ending the week-long strike.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement includes percentage wage increases in each
year of the three-year contract, improved cost-of-living
protection, added time off and a broad income-security
program.
   Wages will increase by 7.5% in the first year, 6.7% in the
second year and 4.8% in the third. The increases include
estimated cost-of-living allowances of 4.5%, 4.7% and 2.8%,
respectively, designed to provide 90% protection against
inflation.
   Ford Canada also has established a 100 million Canadian
dollar (US$86.6 million) fund to finance the generous early
retirement, severance pay and income supplement programs
agreed to in the contract.
   Union President Robert White called the agreement "the
best worker income-security program" in the industry and said
he expects it to become a model for labor negotiations in
other industries.
   The agreement will be the basis for negotiations with the
Canadian unit of General Motors Corp. and Chrysler Canada
Ltd. The auto workers' contracts with the Canadian units of
the Big Three auto makers expired Sept. 14. Ford Canada was
the Canadian Auto Worker's target in the pattern-setting
negotiations.
   Mr. White said GM Canada probably will be the next company
the union negotiates with. Nick Hall, a GM Canada spokesman,
said the Ford contract looks expensive, but he declined to
elaborate.
   Chrysler Canada officials declined to comment on the Ford
Canada contract, but analysts said the cash-strapped company
would have difficulty affording such a settlement.
   Chrysler is financially "very weak and there are questions
of whether it could even withstand a strike," Toronto auto
analyst Dennis DesRosiers said earlier in the Ford
negotiations.
   In separate U.S. auto talks, Chrysler already has warned
that it may not be able to match the settlement the United
Auto Workers reached last week with General Motors.
   Ford Canada's chief negotiator, Donald McKenzie, declined
to say how much the agreement will cost the company, but
called it "a handsome settlement" as far as workers are
concerned.
   The contract requires that Ford provide one-year's notice
in the event of a plant closing and six months' notice of job
losses due to technological change or outsourcing -- the
buying of products from outside sources, rather than
producing them inhouse.
   When jobs are lost for these reasons, the contract
provides for early retirement at full pension for older
workers with at least 10 years of service. Depending on
length of service, laid-off workers also may receive 95% of
their income for up to three years, or choose severance
payments of up to C$65,000.
   The union said the compensation plan is designed to
encourage older workers to leave the work force ahead of
younger ones.
   Also in the new settlement is an annual C$500 vacation
bonus for workers, and workers will also get three additional
four-day weekends a year. Mr. White said the extra time off,
a key issue in the talks, is likely to have an influence on
the auto talks in the U.S.
   Ford Canada also agreed to create a "social justice fund"
to make contributions to such things as international
development and relief projects and food banks. The company
will contribute one cent per hour worked to the fund, up to
C$250,000. It will also contribute to the Canadian Auto
Workers' child care program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stuart Hall Co. Says
   Profit Increased 50%
   In Fiscal 3rd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11C
</SO>
<CO>
   STUH
</CO>
<IN>
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Stuart Hall Co.'s growing distribution
base and "an exceptionally good" back-to-school season
contributed to a boost in earnings for the fiscal third
quarter, ended Aug. 31, Charles G. Hanson, chairman and chief
executive officer, said.
   Mr. Hanson said net income for the office- and
school-products company was "50% over last year's"
third-quarter earnings of $544,000, or 14 cents a share. But
the comparison benefits from a $188,000 net charge, from
inventory write-down, that substantially trimmed year-earlier
results. The 1989 quarter also was hurt by an unusually large
$289,379 pretax bad-debt provision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Per-share figures reflect a 4-for-3 stock split paid in
December 1989.
   Total sales for the quarter are expected to be $40.4
million, a 28% increase from $31.6 million for the
year-earlier period. Mr. Hanson said he expects continued
earnings growth of 30% to 40% next year.
   "We are adding constantly to our distribution base. We
estimate that some 46,000 outlets now carry a pretty broad
base of our product," Mr. Hanson said in an interview.
   Upgraded office-supply products, which he called "the
backbone" of Stuart Hall's office product lines, also added
to increased sales, but earnings growth was stunted
nonetheless by the effects of a "depressed pricing structure
throughout the industry," Mr. Hanson said.
   "This year was probably the worst for pricing structure
that I can recall," he said. "Had it not been for that we
would have done substantially better."
   Mr. Hanson said he expects to benefit from some "very fine
equipment" purchased from a German-based paper-supply company
that closed its American operation. The equipment purchased
from Herlitz Co. will be placed in Stuart Hall's Kansas City
headquarters, its Bessemer, Ala., facility, and in a new
Woodland, Calif., facility scheduled to open in December, he
said.
   Mr. Hanson said the company will release within the next
30 to 45 days a new line of about 50 products made from 100%
recycled paper products.
   People are "caught up in the recycling movement but are
not willing to pay more for a recycled sheet of paper," he
said. "We are delighted" with the new recycled product, he
added, because "the consumer will have an opportunity to buy
a 100% recycled product at the same price he's spending for
the product now."
   Mr. Hanson wouldn't project how much the new products
might affect earnings, but he said "it will have a favorable
impact on our bottom line. It will be a major introduction,
the largest thing that's happened to us in 1990."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Analysts' Profit Estimates Grow Gloomier
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MRC SNS CBL HTK LAB PA HLT D AEP PEG PPW KMB SPP GE JPM
BAC BT MHC CCI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Analysts, glimpsing how even the first shock
waves from surging oil prices are souring consumer sentiment
and crimping spending, are forging new corporate earnings
estimates -- this time with a recession in mind.
   Since Aug. 15, 75% of all revisions on estimated 1991
earnings have been decreases, according to Zacks Investment
Research, Chicago, which tracks some 4,000 companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is the worst set of readings since the last
recession in 1981," says Benjamin Zacks, executive vice
president of the company. "These numbers are getting very,
very bleak."
   And so are the market's reactions. Even minor adjustments
in earnings forecasts are triggering torrents of sell orders.
On Friday, for example, Scott Paper fell 17% after company
executives told investors that third-quarter and full-year
profit may fall below year-earlier results.
   Analysts have even reversed their optimism in formerly
bullish groups as recessionary trends become more apparent.
From June 15 through Aug. 15, analysts raised 27 estimates on
semiconductor companies and lowered 11, Mr. Zacks says. But
in the past month, only five estimates were raised while 25
were lowered.
   Reinforcing the "safe growth" theme, estimate revisions
have gone up for hospital management companies, such as
Humana, U.S. HealthCare and United Healthcare, Mr. Zacks
says, as well as for drug makers and mining concerns. And in
general, big makers of nondurable goods for consumers with
dependable earnings growth, such as Warner-Lambert, Philip
Morris, Johnson &amp; Johnson and Procter &amp; Gamble "are holding
to slight earnings upgrades," Mr. Zacks adds.
   Those are the few stocks that investors are holding onto
as they run for cover, shares of companies in which they
retain any confidence that profit projections will be
fulfilled. Stocks that aren't as well known by investors and
aren't as closely followed by Wall Street analysts are being
hammered hard as safety-first investors dump them.
   This pattern shows up in the market barometers. So far
this year, on a total return basis, which includes both price
change and reinvested dividends, the Dow Jones Industrial
Average is down 6.16%, and Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index
is off 9.61%. But the rest of the market, as measured by the
Wilshire 5000 index minus the 500 S&amp;P stocks, has sunk
16.51%.
   This isn't to say big brand-name stocks are escaping
unscathed from this round of second-guessing earnings
strength. This month, through last Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 has
fared a bit worse than the remaining stocks in the Wilshire
5000: On a total return basis the S&amp;P 500 fell 3.24%,
compared with a 3.07% decline in the Wilshire remainder.
   "You have total capitulation -- no tolerance to own stocks
with a question regarding the fundamentals," says James Awad,
president of BMI Capital Corp., a money management company.
This shooting down of stock by stock has occurred on such a
scale that the overall damage "is as bad as if there had been
an aggregate cleanout in the market, as in October 1987," he
says.
   Even the year's all-stars aren't being spared from the
rash of earnings revisions.
   Claire's Stores shares, which gained more than 34% in the
second quarter, dropped 25% last week. On Wednesday, Alex.
Brown &amp; Sons analyst Chris Vroom trimmed his profit estimate
for the women's specialty retailer's current fiscal year by
no more than 10 cents a share to $1.20.
   Sell-offs in stocks such as Scott Paper means money is
shifting from those shares to either "safe growth" issues or
out of the stock market altogether.
   But even the big blue chips may not withstand selling
pressures in coming days, says Stefan Abrams, chief
investment strategist at Kidder Peabody. Investors already
are selling stocks of companies with earnings prospects that
are relatively invulnerable to economic troubles, he says.
   "You can see it in top tier growth issues -- Coke, Pepsi,
and hospital and drug stocks," Mr. Abrams says, asserting
that the market is "in the early stages of capitulation."
   Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/Twenty-First
Advisers, observes that hoarding blue chips is typical
behavior early in a bear market. But if a sell-off
accelerates to stampede proportions, the big, easily traded
shares are the ones investors are likely to sell first.
   Mr. Abrams of Kidder says the S&amp;P 500 is about 12% above
"fair value," which is based on the yield of the one-year
Treasury bill. "The first reasonable expectation of a
stopping point in the current decline is fair value," he
says. That would be roughly 273 on the S&amp;P 500, which closed
Friday at 311.32, down 0.16; a comparable decline in the
industrial average would bring the average to 2210.89 from
Friday's finish at 2512.38, down 5.94. "The greatest
vulnerability will be in the most liquid stocks -- what
people sell in a capitulation phase," he says.
   What could precipitate such a sell-off? "It could be event
driven -- such as an outbreak of war. It could be the
continuing sand-papering of the investment community by a
crude oil price that keeps edging up," Mr. Abrams says.
   Whatever happens, Mr. Abrams advises investors to sell
stocks of any company with "questionable" profit prospects
and hang on to cash, perhaps investing in "a short-term
instrument of impeccable quality."
   He adds: "It is no time to go foraging around for a few
extra percentage points of yield."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 5.94 to 2512.38
because of rising oil prices, declining hopes for a quick
budget accord in Washington, and bad news in the banking
industry. The loss for the week was 51.73, or 2%.
   Friday's loss would have been greater, were it not for
program buying related to the "triple-witching" expirations
of September stock-index futures and options, and options on
individual stocks.
   Program activity also was responsible for pushing volume
to 201,050,000 shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the
busiest since Aug. 23 when the industrial average hit its low
for the year. Average volume the previous four days last week
was 136.1 million shares.
   Iraq's expulsion of diplomats from the U.S., Egypt and
several other countries helped boost November crude-oil
futures contracts $2.01 a barrel to $35.43. That price jump
hurt stocks, as did the news that the chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee would seek a postponement of
automatic budget cuts, which take effect next week if no
deficit-cutting budget accord is reached by then.
   Also weighing on the market was a broad sell-off in bank
stocks in the wake of Chase Manhattan announcing sweeping
restructuring moves. Shares of Chase fell 1 to 12 3/4 on Big
Board volume of 2.6 million shares. The company set a
third-quarter restructuring charge at $350 million and a
loan-loss provision at $650 million, and said it plans to cut
the dividend to 30 cents a share from 62 cents.
   Among other money-center bank issues: Citicorp dropped 7/8
to 15 3/4; Manufacturers Hanover tumbled 2 7/8 to 23; Bankers
Trust New York fell 1 3/4 to 34 1/4; BankAmerica slid 1/2 to
20 1/4, and J.P. Morgan fell 3/4 to 32 1/8.
   But General Electric, which had lost 9% earlier this week
amid concerns about possible problems at its
financial-services unit, gained 3/4 to 55 7/8. While some
critics say the company's profit growth will slow because of
the prospects for the unit, GE Capital, this newspaper
reported that analysts remain positive on the stock.
   Scott Paper plunged 6 7/8 to 34 3/8 after the company said
operating earnings for the third quarter and full year could
fall short of year-earlier levels. Shares of Kimberly-Clark,
a competitor in the paper-products business, fell 2 1/8 to 72
3/4.
   Four utility issues that Smith Barney, Harris Upham cited
as havens amid the market's current jitters moved higher.
PacifiCorp rose 7/8 to 19 1/2; Public Service Enterprise
Group added 1/2 to 23 1/4; American Electric Power rose 3/8
to 26 1/2, and Dominion Resources gained 1/4 to 42 7/8.
   Hilton Hotels advanced 7/8 to 30 1/4. The company said it
plans to buy back six million common shares, or about 12.5%
of its shares outstanding.
   Primerica added 1/8 to 20 3/4. The company's board
approved the buy-back of as many as three million common
shares.
   Milton Roy jumped 3 3/4 to 26 3/4 after reaching a
definitive merger agreement with Sundstrand, which is
offering $28 a share for the company. Corroon &amp; Black dropped
1 5/8 to 29 1/4.
   Aon withdrew its $40-a-share takeover bid for the company,
which had rejected the offer in favor of pursuing a
stock-swap merger with Britain's Willis Faber.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.17
to 316.01, extending its loss for the week to 1.7%.
   Howtek fell 3/4 to 7 1/2. Business Week magazine reported
Dean Witter Reynolds, which controls about 20% of the
company, is battling short sellers that collectively own more
than one million shares, or a 13% stake.
   Shares of Nichols Institute, which estimated that
third-quarter earnings could be 10% below analysts' highest
forecasts, tumbled 1 7/8 to 12 3/4.
   ---
                   The Divided Market
                                                                                                       

      Analysts' Profit Outlooks Are Mostly Gloomier...
                                                                                                       

   Number of revisions in 1991 earnings forecasts for
companies in selected industry groups
                                                                                                       

                    June 15-Aug. 15      Aug. 16-Sept. 18
                    ---------------      -----------------
 Industry Group     Up      Down         Up       Down
                                                                                                       

   Negative
                                                                                                       

 Specialty
  Chemicals         22        9           0         15
 Semiconductors     27       11           5         25
 Office Equipment    7        7           0          8
                                                                                                       

   Positive
                                                                                                       

 Major Oils         45       19          53         11
 Drugs              30       12          16          9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan to Discuss
   Transfer of Defense
   Technology to U.S.
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese government officials will visit
Washington this week to discuss increasing defense technology
transfers to the U.S.
   The meetings stem from a series of talks held over the
past two years, but appear increasingly pressing because of
the Persian Gulf crisis, which has stirred American demands
for more military support from Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two sides will discuss at least 10 specific
technologies during the Pentagon meetings Thursday and Friday
, Col. Edwin A. Hind, chief of the U.S. government's Mutual
Defense Assistance Office in Japan, said in an interview.
They include three proposals by Japan during the most recent
such formal set of talks in 1988, and seven more suggested by
U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney during a trip here earlier
this year.
   "Beyond that, there may be some more ideas," Col. Hind
said. "We're continuously interested in presenting new agenda
items."
   He refused to identify the technologies under
consideration, but the Japanese press has widely reported the
list, which ranges from missile seekers to military-use
semiconductors.
   A spokesman for Japan's Defense Agency confirmed that
bilateral meetings are scheduled to explore "joint research
between the U.S. and Japan" but said he didn't know any more
details.
   Col. Hind said he didn't know how receptive the Japanese
would be to the American list, but one U.S. official familiar
with the pending talks said their success probably would be
limited, as many of the technologies are controlled by
Japanese industry and not the Japanese government. He
speculated that, at best, the JDA could facilitate ties
between U.S. and Japanese companies.
   The discussions, labeled the Systems and Technology Forum,
aren't formal negotiations and don't require a bilateral
agreement. The likely result of the talks will be the
establishment of working groups in each of the technology
areas that the two countries want to work on.
   The U.S. and Japan have talked for a decade about trying
to balance the outflow of American technology, as Japan has
raced ahead in certain technological fields. In addition,
many Americans argue that Japan should share more of the
burden for its military protection, and that debate has
intensified during the Persian Gulf crisis.
   But the two sides have taken little specific action. Japan
did in 1983 decide to exempt the U.S. from a postwar ban on
military exports, but government and industry reluctance
lingered.
   Meanwhile, U.S. officials, despite their rhetoric, haven't
made the issue a top priority. The Defense Department
recently appointed Albert J. Kelley to fill the long-vacant
post of deputy undersecretary for international programs, who
oversees such matters. He apparently pushed to hold the
meetings this month, even though many officials familiar with
the process had earlier said the forum talks couldn't take
place until November at the earliest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Machine Tool
   Orders Climbed
   During August
   ---
   Total Topped July by 23%
   And Year-Ago by 27%;
   Show Augurs Brisk Sales
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Durable-goods producers are proceeding with plans to
upgrade their factories despite the economic uncertainty.
   Machine tool orders in August rebounded briskly from the
vacation-affected July lull, rising 27% from a year earlier
and 23% from July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Furthermore, buyer interest at the International Machine
Tool Show in Chicago early this month indicates that business
will continue brisk into the fall, if the economy doesn't
actually plunge into recession, machine tool industry
officials say.
   Orders placed at U.S. machine tool plants in August jumped
to $288.1 million from $227.1 million a year earlier and
$234.3 million in July, according to NMTBA -- The Association
for Manufacturing Technology, a McLean, Va., trade group.
   The August total was bolstered by at least one large
automotive order. Litton Industries Inc.'s Lamb Technicon
unit at Warren, Mich., received an order for about $40
million of equipment to machine transmission cases for
Chrysler Corp.
   "We were very encouraged by the show," said Robert J.
Siewert, president of Monarch Machine Tool Co., a Sidney,
Ohio, producer of lathes, machining centers and equipment to
process coils of sheet metal. "Many people came to us with
plant-improvement projects, and some actually came with
drawings. We were amazed; after a relatively slow summer, we
didn't expect that much interest."
   Salesmen and executives of Hurco Cos., Indianapolis,
obtained twice as many sales leads at this year's machine
tool show as they got at the 1988 show, said Michael K.
Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer.
"Manufacturers have decided that if they want to be in
position to compete beyond 1991, they need to invest in
equipment now."
   Cincinnati Milacron Inc., the nation's largest machine
tool concern, booked more orders at the show than officials
had expected. A machine shop owner bought one of the machines
Milacron was demonstrating and took it home in his pickup
truck after the show.
   Machine tool distributors, who handle imported as well as
U.S.-made machines, also did far more business than usual at
the recently concluded show, said Robert A. Gale, president,
American Machine Tool Distributors' Association, Rockville,
Md. He said some U.S. manufacturers have concluded that
there's less risk in borrowing heavily to buy new machinery
in uncertain times than there is in trying to compete with
obsolete equipment. "They'd rather go out fighting" than to
be slowly squeezed out by more efficient competitors, he
added.
   Part of Monarch's recent order rise results from a
recovery in the oil patch, Mr. Siewert said, but Monarch has
received inquiries and orders from "a very broad cross
section of industry." September orders will be higher than
for any of the summer months, he said, and "October looks
like it will be good too."
   Machine tool industry executives have been expecting the
auto makers to resume active buying. Industry orders dropped
noticeably in the spring of 1989 when auto companies began
deferring decisions on equipment purchases.
   The Middle East crisis, which is creating uncertainty for
most businesses, may resolve some of the questions troubling
engineers at the auto companies. They've been uncertain about
whether to buy machinery to make six-cylinder engines, which
the performance-oriented buyers have been seeking, or more
fuel-efficient 16-valve, four-cylinder engines.
   Auto companies are concerned that if they produce more of
the six-cylinder cars, they'll exceed federal government
limits on average fuel consumption per car. But they have
also worried that the thrifty cars Uncle Sam wants them to
produce wouldn't sell. If Saddam Hussein can hold the price
of gasoline up in the present range, however, those
four-cylinder cars may sell briskly, particularly if they're
equipped with new four-speed automatic transmissions. Both
the engines and transmissions would require large purchases
of machine tools.
   August orders for lathes, machining centers, milling
machines, boring mills, grinders and other machines to shape
metal parts by cutting totaled $240.5 million, up 54% from
$156.3 million a year earlier, the NMTBA said. Even excluding
the Lamb order from Chrysler, orders would have been up more
than 25%.
   Orders in August for metal-forming presses and other
machines to shape metal with pressure were $47.6 million,
which was down 33% from $70.9 million a year earlier. Figures
for both years were reduced by unusually high cancellations
of foreign orders.
   Machine tool shipments in August totaled $242.3 million, a
7.3% rise from a year earlier, which is in line with an 8.7%
shipment increase for the first eight months.
   ---
                Aug. 1990      July 1990     Aug. 89
                                                                                                       

     Comparative new orders for metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ..... $220,450,000   $132,550,00   $120,700,000
 Foreign ......   20,000,000     14,200,000    35,550,000
   Total ......  240,450,000    146,750,000   156,250,000
   Eight-month total for 1990: $1,375,900,000; for 1989:
$1,351,550,000.
                                                                                                       

               Metal-forming machine orders:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic .....  $47,850,000    $81,400,000   $70,450,000
 Foreign ......  a-(250,000)      6,100,000       400,000
   Total ......   47,600,000     87,500,000    70,850,000
   Eight-month total for 1990: $569,050,000; for 1989:
$558,100,000.
                                                                                                       

     Comparative shipment of metal-cutting machines:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic ..... $142,200,000   $144,000,000  $147,200,000
 Foreign ......   24,200,000     17,800,000    22,700,000
   Total ......  166,400,000    161,800,000   169,900,000
   Eight-month total for 1990: $1,512,850,000; for 1989:
$1,405,200,000.
                                                                                                       

             Metal-forming machine shipments:
                                                                                                       

 Domestic .....  $61,450,000    $67,350,000   $49,750,000
 Foreign ......   14,450,000      4,250,000     6,150,000
   Total ......   75,900,000     71,600,000    55,900,000
   Eight-month total for 1990: $627,400,000; for 1989:
$563,800,000.
                                                                                                       

   a-Cancellations exceeded new orders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   LSI Logic to Unveil
   Chips It Says Will Cut
   Technology Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LSI T.LSC
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- LSI Logic Corp. said it will unveil
today a set of chips that will drastically reduce the cost of
video conferencing and other "multimedia" technologies.
   LSI said it will introduce a family of so-called
full-motion video compression chips, chips that shrink video
images into small amounts of data so that the images can be
processed by telephone lines and computers that otherwise
couldn't handle the information. Called the L64700 family,
LSI's chips will help bring the cost of a typical
teleconferencing system down to $5,000 in 1992 from about
$50,000 today, said LSI Vice President Brian Halla.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts see teleconferencing, which allows people in
different locations to hold meetings by watching each other
on TV screens, as a big growth market in the 1990s. And
computers of the 1990's are expected to be used increasingly
to display and edit movielike images. But such systems cost
too much today for broad acceptance, in part because
conventional technology can't squeeze moving images enough to
fit on cheap telephone lines. LSI said a kit of its L64700
chips that function as a standard "codec," a coder and
decoder of video information, will cost under $700.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Biogen Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BGEN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BIOGEN Inc. (Cambridge, Mass.) -- Alan Belzer, president
and chief operating officer of Allied-Signal Inc.,
Morristown, N.J., was named a director, increasing the board
of this biotechnology concern to 10 members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer Task Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   TSK
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- World Software Group B.V. of the Netherlands
said it boosted its stake in Computer Task Group Inc.,
Buffalo, N.Y., to 14.66% of the common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
World Software said it holds 1,184,300 Computer Task common
shares, including 270,000 shares bought on Sept. 12 for $9.09
each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No reason was given for the boost in the stake.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Members Service Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MSCX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MEMBERS SERVICE Corp. (Houston) -- William Lynton, 47
years old, was named chairman and chief executive of this
mergers and acquisitions concern. Mr. Lynton was formerly a
managing partner in a number of limited and general
partnerships in Houston and Dallas. He succeeds Leon R.
Hooten III, who resigned earlier this month after the company
filed suit claiming he improperly appropriated corporate
property. The two sides reached an agreement under which the
company agreed to dismiss the lawsuit and repurchase two
million shares held by Mr. Hooten. Members Service also said
it elected Arthur S. Feher Jr., a New York consultant, to its
board, succeeding James R. Beazle, who resigned from the
board but who remains a vice president at the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midlantic, Southeast Banking See Losses
   For 3rd Period; Payouts Cut or Skipped
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL STB
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   One big regional bank slashed its dividend Friday, and
another omitted its payout altogether. Both warned that they
will report third-quarter losses.
   Midlantic Corp., staggering under the burden of a heavy
exposure to New Jersey real estate, nearly halved its
dividend and said it expects to post a loss of between $150
million and $160 million for the third quarter. The bank said
it is setting aside $285 million to cover possible loan
losses in the third quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Southeast Banking Corp., Miami, omitted its
quarterly payout and said it expects a third-quarter loss of
about $87 million. Southeast also said it is negotiating to
sell its credit card portfolio, a sign the ailing bank still
is struggling to raise capital. Credit card portfolios are
among banks' most profitable businesses.
   The action by both banks came on the same day that Chase
Manhattan Corp. announced a major retrenchment. Analysts said
more banks are expected to cut their dividends in the next
few weeks as evidence grows that the economy is slowing.
   Robert Van Buren, chairman of Midlantic, a $25 billion
institution based in Edison, N.J., said the board cut the
company's quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 47
cents. As recently as the company's April 18 annual meeting,
Mr. Van Buren vowed to maintain the payout at 47 cents a
share, "barring any extraordinary developments."
   Friday, he said that "cutting the dividend helps us
conserve capital, and that's the name of the game in banking
these days."
   Mr. Van Buren said the provision for possible loan losses
resulted from a federal regulatory review of Midlantic's loan
portfolio. Since the beginning of the year, bank regulators
have been conducting so-called targeted real estate reviews
at various banks to try to identify real estate loans that
might go sour. The severe real estate downturn that started
in the Northeast has since spread to the mid-Atlantic region.
   "The regulatory examination is winding down, and this puts
us in a position in which we're {bank officials and
regulators} both in agreement that we very clearly satisfy
their concerns," he said. "That's terribly important in this
environment."
   Midlantic said it expects nonperforming assets to total
about $1.22 billion when this quarter ends, compared with
$924 million June 30.
   Analysts said that while Midlantic's exposure to real
estate will result in a loss for the year, the bank's
expenses are not out of line, as are those of many other
banks in the region. Thomas Hanley, a bank analyst at Salomon
Brothers, said the provision for losses and the dividend cut
were expected, "and in our view this is enough."
   He said Midlantic is operating in one of the U.S.'s most
difficult banking environments right now. "It's a good bank
that just happened to be caught in a downdraft," Mr. Hanley
said.
   Southeast Banking's omission of its 10-cent-a-share
quarterly dividend and announcement that its $900 million
credit card portfolio is for sale are the latest in a series
of setbacks for the beleaguered banking company. In June,
Southeast slashed its dividend to 10 cents from 28 cents a
share, announced asset sales, boosted loan-loss reserves and
said it expected to post a loss for the year. All the actions
reflected the worsening condition of the south Florida real
estate market.
   Friday, Southeast said it is adding about $115 million to
its loan-loss reserve, which will raise its total provision
for bad loans to a projected range of $300 million to $310
million by the end of this week from $278.7 million June 30.
Third-quarter charge-offs will total about $85 million.
   Southeast said it doesn't expect a third-quarter increase
in its nonperforming assets, which it reported at $619
million as of June 30. Its loss reserve as a percentage of
loans outstanding is expected to rise to about 3.15% from
2.73% as of June 30.
   In a statement, Douglas E. Ebert, president and chief
operating officer, said, "Through continuing extensive
reviews of the loan portfolio, we find that there are strong
indications under current economic conditions that the
portfolio is stabilizing." He added: "We have developed
action plans to significantly reduce credit risk assets. Each
and every business segment and expense area is under review
to maximize profitability."
   A spokesman said the sale of the credit card portfolio is
expected to be completed in the fourth quarter, but he
declined to estimate fourth-quarter results. While the
company declined to make any further predictions about
full-year results, it did say that the sale of the portfolio
would "more than offset the anticipated third-quarter loss."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Technologies
   Gets $167.7 Million
   Of Air Force Work
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX T TDY GE LK BP WX ITT MOT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- United Technologies Corp. received $167.7
million in Air Force contracts for Minuteman missile rocket
motors and jet-engine parts.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. was awarded a $96
million Navy contract for telecommunications services.
                                                                                                       

   Teledyne Inc. got a $53.1 million Air Force contract for
target drones.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. received $47.5 million in contracts
for Navy aircraft electronics and Army turbine engines.
                                                                                                       

   Lockheed Corp. got a $42.5 million Air Force contract for
support of space operations.
                                                                                                       

   BP Oil Co., a unit of BP America Inc., received an $18.7
million Defense Logistics Agency contract for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

   Westinghouse Electric Corp. got an $18.4 million Air Force
contract for aircraft radar.
                                                                                                       

   ITT Corp. was awarded a $14.6 million Army contract for
countermeasures sets.
                                                                                                       

   Cable &amp; Computer Technology Inc. received a $13.9 million
Navy contract for aircraft computers.
                                                                                                       

   Gunver Manufacturing Co. got a $12.2 million Air Force
contract for jet-engine parts.
                                                                                                       

   Motorola Inc. received an $11.1 million Navy contract for
communications equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Mason &amp; Hanger-Silas Mason Co. got a $10.1 million Army
contract for operating an ammunition plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd.:
   Coke Affiliate to Sell Assets
   Of Its Leigh Mardon Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KO A.KOA U.MID
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. of Australia said it agreed to sell
the packaging division and communications and systems
division of its unit, Leigh Mardon Pty., to DBSM Capital
Partners Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Asia Ltd. for
260 million Australian dollars ($US215 million).
   Coca-Cola Amatil makes almost all the Coca-Cola consumed
in Australia and is 59.5% owned by Coca-Cola Co., Atlanta.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DBSM Capital Partners is a unit of Dominguez Barry Samuel
Montagu Ltd., an Australian investment bank that is a unit of
Midland Bank PLC.
   Coca-Cola Amatil said it expects the sale of the Leigh
Mardon units to be completed by Nov. 30, although the
agreement to sell is subject to shareholder approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Economy's
   Expansion Continues
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's economic expansion continues, owing to
robust domestic demand led by personal consumption and
corporate-equipment investment, the Bank of Japan said in its
monthly report.
   The central bank's report, reviewing the country's
monetary and economic trends, also said that mining and
industrial production is on the rise, and that corporate
business sentiment remains strong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Economic Planning Agency also painted a bright picture
of the economy in its latest monthly report, making it
official that the economy has entered into its 46th
consecutive month of growth. The assessment means higher oil
prices and rising interest rates as a result of the Middle
East crisis have had little significant effect on Japan's
economy.
   The central bank's report said that "both manufacturers
and non-manufacturers are maintaining a buoyant attitude
toward investment plans. Personal consumption continues firm
against the background of increasing disposable income, and
housing starts are also at a high level."
   The Bank of Japan believes prices are maintaining
stability, even as it noted in its report that "domestic
wholesale prices continued to rise, though by a small margin.
. . . Consumer prices rose mainly due to higher perishable
foodstuff prices."
   Despite the price stability, Bank of Japan officials have
warned that it is necessary to keep prices under close
surveillance, as the effect of the Mideast crisis on the
economy may be gradual.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Broken Hill Proprietary Co.:
   Australian Company's Profit
   Gained 60% in First Period
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BHP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Broken Hill Proprietary Co. said after-tax operating
profit gained 60% in the fiscal first quarter, as results
benefited from profit from the sale of investments.
   The Australian oil, steel and mining company said profit
for the period ended Aug. 31 was 435.1 million Australian
dollars (US$359.6 million), up from A$272.6 million a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BHP said it had profit from the sale of investments of
A$136.3 million, including an "abnormal" profit of A$114
million from selling shares in Woodside Petroleum Ltd. A year
ago, profit from such sales was "immaterial."
   Excluding these abnormal profits, BHP's earnings rose 18%.
   Per-share earnings were 29.1 cents, up from 18.9 cents.
BHP has raised its halfyearly dividend to 19.5 cents a share
from 17.5 cents.
   Sales and other revenue rose 25% to A$4.29 billion from
A$3.42 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Security Pacific Corp.:
   Firm Acquires Some Assets,
   Liabilities of Failed Thrift
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Security Pacific Corp. said it paid $44.4 million to
assume certain assets and liabilities of Mercury Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association, the Huntington Beach, Calif.,
thrift that was seized by the federal Resolution Trust Corp.
last February.
   Los Angeles-based Security Pacific said it is acquiring
$1.4 billion in total deposits, including $1.3 billion in
core deposits. It is also assuming $340 million in loans from
the thrift, most of them residential loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchase price, which is slightly more than 3% of core
deposits, appears to be at the lower end of what banks have
been paying for core deposits of failed thrifts in recent
months.
   Mercury Federal had total assets of $1.7 billion and total
liabilities of $1.8 billion, as of July 31.
   Security Pacific is the parent company of Security Pacific
National Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Billie Jean and Bobby
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Regarding Frederick C. Klein's Sept. 4 Leisure &amp; Arts
article on the U.S. Tennis Open, he had one date wrong. The
famous match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs was on
Sept. 20, 1973, not Sept. 30.
   Charles A. Schmidt
</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Antonio, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bayer AG:
   Firm Is Cleared to Acquire
   Nova Corp.'s Polysar Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP NVA T.NVA G.BAY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   West Germany's Bayer AG said it received permission from
both Investment Canada and the West German antitrust
authority, the Bundeskartellamt, to acquire the Polysar
Rubber division of Nova Corp. of Alberta. Nova said in May it
was selling the division to Bayer for 1.25 billion Canadian
dollars (US$1.08 billion).
   All necessary approvals for the acquisition have now been
received and closing is expected to take place in a few
weeks. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and Canada's Bureau
of Competition Policy previously approved the acquisition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the acquisition, Polysar will assume responsibility
for Bayer's rubber activities in North America under the name
Polysar Rubber Corp., to be based in Toronto. Bayer said it
intends to invest about C$120 million in Polysar's Canadian
operations within the next three years. Research activities
based at Sarnia, Ontario, are to be intensified.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Safra Affair: A Saga of Corporate Intrigue
   ---
   The Shadowy World of Antonio Greco
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Antonio Greco's criminal record goes back nearly 30 years
and includes three convictions in Italy, one as recently as
1982, and a half-dozen arrests in the U.S. According to a
computer printout that appears to be his complete criminal
record in Italy, prison sentences for each of his Italian
convictions were commuted as part of general presidential
amnesties. All U.S. charges were dropped.
   Mr. Greco was born in Italy in 1939 to a family whose
members own and operate a number of Italian hotels. According
to the printout, he was convicted of theft in 1962 by a Rome
court and sentenced to one year and four months in prison.
That same year, according to a person who has known Mr. Greco
for 25 years, Mr. Greco moved to Lima, Peru, after
befriending a Peruvian diplomat who had stayed in one of his
family's properties. In Lima, this person says, Mr. Greco
opened an Italian restaurant that was frequented by senior
government officials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By 1968 he had moved to America. In the next four years,
U.S. police records show, Mr. Greco was arrested at least
five times for a variety of offenses: December 1968, New
Orleans, smuggling counterfeit Omega watches; July 1969,
Miami, violating immigration laws; April 1970, Pompano Beach,
Fla., illegally selling watches from a hotel room and
attempting to bribe a police officer; December 1971, Miami,
possessing false identification cards and an unlicensed .25
caliber pistol; September 1972, Miami International Airport,
possessing airline tickets stolen the previous summer from a
Lindhurst, N.J., travel agency. (Mr. Greco was rearrested ten
years later for the last offense when, after he narrowly
avoided an accident with a Miami police car, a routine check
of his driver's license revealed an outstanding arrest
warrant.) For various reasons, each of these charges was
dismissed.
   According to several people familiar with his work, by the
mid-1970s Mr. Greco was operating as a paid informant in
Europe for the federal Bureau of Narcotics, a predecessor
agency to the Drug Enforcement Administration. His "handler"
was Paul Knight, a federal agent who later became American
Express's European security chief. In the late 1970s, these
people say, Mr. Greco helped American Express break a major
European fraud case, and has done work off and on for the
company ever since. He has also worked for a Washington-based
detective agency. A former American Express executive says
company security officials believed the detective to be
generally above-board, although security officials "knew he
had some trouble in one or two countries."
   (See related story: "The Safra Affair: A Saga of Corporate
Intrigue --- The Vendetta: How American Express Orchestrated
a Smear Of Rival Edmond Safra --- Top Aide to James Robinson
Oversaw Two Who Spread False Stories World-Wide --- Officers
Deny Doing Wrong" -- WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Computer Factory Inc.:
   Board Gets Takeover Bid
   From Bay Street Group
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A spokesman for Computer Factory Inc. confirmed that it
received a $4-a-share takeover proposal from a San Francisco
merchant banking firm and said the board is reviewing the
plan.
   Directors of the Elmsford, N.Y., personal-computer
retailer "undoubtedly will take up" the proposal from Bay
Street Group "before any regularly scheduled meeting," the
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There may be an informal {directors} meeting early next
week, but it won't include the full board," the spokesman
added. The takeover proposal, contained in a letter to
Computer Factory's board, is valued at more than $34 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Computer Factory closed at $3.375, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Real Estate's Ills
   Are Likely to Linger
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The real estate industry is locked in a
serious recession. The optimists think that business will
bottom out in the next year or so and that the industry then
will start moving upward. Many analysts, however, believe
real estate will be scraping along the bottom at least
through the mid-1990s.
   The optimists note that lenders and developers had plenty
of trouble in the 1970s. At some banks in the Southeast, for
example, bad assets peaked at 14% of loans in 1976. That's
about the same level as at today's most imperiled banks, such
as Bank of New England. Yet few lenders failed in the 1970s,
and the real estate industry rather quickly recovered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet, according to James W. Warren, senior executive vice
president of First Florida Bank, Tampa, "Those who think the
industry will do as well as it did in the mid-1970s are dead
wrong."
                                                                                                       

   The recession is spotty, to be sure. While the Northeast
is firmly in its grip, Texas, which sank into a real estate
slump ahead of most areas, now seems to be recovering. Some
areas in the Midwest, benefiting from a rebound in
manufacturing, look reasonably healthy, as do parts of the
Pacific Northwest.
                                                                                                       

   But the recession's impact clearly is national. Housing
starts in the past few months have sunk to the lowest levels
since the 1981-82 recession, and office and apartment
vacancies have been high. "Absorption of office space is at
an all-time low," says Raymond Torto of Coldwell Banker/Torto
Wheaton Services Inc., a firm that keeps track of vacancies.
   Demography plays a role in the residential slowdown. The
post-World War II baby boom ended about 1960, so the number
of families in their late 20s -- the peak home-buying years
-- is rising more slowly. In the 1970s, by contrast,
developers and lenders were still benefiting from a strong
and growing demand for space.
   Industry officials didn't see the demographic slowdown
coming or, if they saw it, chose to believe it wouldn't apply
to them. "Developers make money only when they build," one
analyst comments, "and consequently they will build as long
as funds are available."
   In the 1970s, lots of funds were available. Savings and
loan associations traditionally had borrowed short-term funds
from depositors and lent them on long-term home mortgages at
fixed rates. In an effort to help the S&amp;Ls, Congress
broadened their lending powers, notably by allowing them to
lend on commercial real estate.
                                                                                                       

   The S&amp;Ls ran into stiff competition from commercial banks,
which had been losing much of their commercial and industrial
loan business to securities firms. Outstanding C&amp;I loans of
the 15 largest banks declined last year to about $175 billion
from $200 billion in 1982.
                                                                                                       

   The result of the competition for loans has been
overbuilding. Although construction activity has slowed
sharply, it will take time for the market to absorb the home
and office space that has already been built. One banker who
prefers not to be identified says, "In five years we've built
a 15-year supply of space, and we're going to spend the next
10 years trying to fill it."
   At the moment, there aren't a lot of lenders standing
around waiting to finance sales and leases of all this
surplus space. Federal regulators have come down hard on the
banks, and Congress has sharply curtailed the thrifts'
activity. As a result, lenders are examining potential loans
much more carefully than they were earlier in the decade.
"Lenders are treating developers like they've got some kind
of leprosy," says Scott Toombs, a New Jersey developer.
"Things are exceedingly difficult."
   The situation isn't likely to get easier very quickly. The
economy already is teetering on the brink of a general
recession, and the real estate slump could help to bring it
on. This, of course, could only make the real estate problems
worse.
   One factor the real estate industry had going for it
through much of the 1970s was a generally expansionary
Federal Reserve policy. Inflation rates zoomed into double
digits both in the mid-1970s and in the latter part of the
decade. Investors were interested in real estate as a hedge
against rising prices, and real estate values soared. Some
real estate loans, viewed as bad investments, came to look
very good.
                                                                                                       

   Analysts see little chance that the industry will get
another inflationary bailout anytime soon. The Federal
Reserve has been following a very cautious and generally
restrictive policy despite strong pressure from the Bush
administration to ease up to try to prevent a recession. For
the present, at least, the Fed appears to view inflation as a
more serious worry than recession.
                                                                                                       

   Real estate has always had its ups and downs. In the down
periods, developers usually move into home repair or some
other line of work. Some lenders are beginning to wonder
whether they shouldn't work out survival tactics -- or at
least learn to avoid the excesses they have been guilty of in
recent years. James McCormick, president of FMCG Capital
Strategies, a consulting firm, calls real estate the
"narcotic" of commercial lending, because bankers so often
get hooked on the fat loan margins and fees. In the 1980s,
some lenders relaxed their credit standards, often lending
against developers' personal net worth, which vanished as
real estate values fell.
   It has happened before. "The New England problems wouldn't
have happened," Florida's Mr. Warren says, "if bankers had
learned from what happened earlier in Arizona, and the
Arizona troubles wouldn't have happened if bankers had
learned from Texas. As a group," he concludes sadly, "we
bankers don't learn very well from past experience."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Adolph Coors Co.:
   Formation of Holding Firm
   Is Slated for Holders' Vote
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adolph Coors Co., as expected, approved the formation of a
holding company and called for a special shareholders'
meeting Oct. 18 to get shareholder approval of the change.
   Coors, based in Golden, Colo., said the legal step created
a corporate structure that conforms to the way it has been
doing business for about two years. The holding-company
approval was expected at the annual meeting last spring, but
the paper work wasn't completed in time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the new corporate structure, Coors's businesses will
operate as units of the holding company, increasing their
management autonomy and financial independence, Coors said.
The units include Coors Brewing Co., Coors Ceramics Co.,
Golden Aluminum Co., Graphic Packaging Corp., Coors BioTech
Inc., Coors Energy Co. and Golden Technologies Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CSX Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   CSX Corp. (Richmond, Va.) -- John L. Sweeney was named
executive vice president of CSX Transportation Inc., a
Jacksonville, Fla., subsidiary of this freight transportation
company. CSX Transportation provides rail transport and
distribution services. Mr. Sweeney, 62 years old, will be
responsible primarily for rail labor negotiations. He had
been senior vice president of corporate services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. and Saudi Generals Are Discussing
   Joint Military Command for All Forces
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia -- U.S. and Saudi generals are
discussing proposals to set up a joint military command to
improve overall control of the international forces
confronting Iraq, according to officials from both countries.
   Such an arrangement, with top Saudi and U.S. officers
essentially becoming vice commanders and sharing power under
a central structure, would have important symbolic and
military implications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to the top tier, other countries with troops
in Saudi Arabia presumably would be represented in this new
arrangement, giving them a larger political stake and a
chance to participate more formally in important decisions,
these officials said. Proponents also contend there would be
improved coordination and more clear-cut control over
British, French and Arab troops.
   Senior U.S. and Saudi officials haven't agreed on a
specific plan, and any decision is probably weeks away. But
the issue became the focus of renewed attention over the
weekend in the wake of complaints by British and American
officers about the current makeshift command arrangements.
   Regardless of the outcome, American forces are certain to
remain under the direct control of the U.S. In the same way,
Saudi leaders have insisted from the beginning of the Gulf
crisis that they must maintain command over their own
soldiers. But with more than 50,000 additional troops slated
to arrive soon from Britain, France, Egypt and Syria, the
proposals under discussion could significantly improve the
overall readiness of the multinational forces.
   Meanwhile, Saudi military and government leaders have
stepped up private messages urging the Bush administration to
take military action against Iraq if economic sanctions don't
produce clear-cut results in the next few weeks. Some Saudi
leaders, according to one government official, weeks ago
called on Western countries to cut off commercial and mail
service to Iraq. They also warned the White House that the
fragile Arab coalition opposing Iraq may begin to erode if
the standoff stretches into next year, this official said.
   The sensitive question of who is in charge of the growing
international strike force became public after British
defense chief Tom King highlighted the issue during a meeting
last week with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney. Mr. King agreed
that British forces would be under day-to-day American
control in most combat situations, but he also suggested that
a broader arrangement may be in the works that would put a
British officer "in the overall command structure" in Saudi
Arabia.
   French Defense Minister Jean Pierre Chenvenement, on the
other hand, before leaving for a visit to the Middle East
said last week that his government will retain "autonomy of
decision and autonomy of action" regarding almost 5,000
specially trained desert fighters France is sending to Saudi
Arabia.
   If fighting breaks out, a single chain of command may be
essential to transform this hodgepodge of soldiers, tanks and
aircraft from at least 11 countries into an effective
fighting force. "The British have prompted a lot more
attention to the whole question of a unified command," one
senior military official said, adding: "But it's still in the
early talking stages."
   In the meantime, Saudi and U.S. commanders have assigned
their ground forces to defend specific sections of the
northeastern border with Kuwait, and the two countries are
conducting separate but coordinated 24-hour patrols by
fighter jets to guard against Iraqi air attacks. British
pilots are flying their own missions alongside the two other
air forces.
   A number of U.S. and British pilots, however, have
complained to reporters that existing procedures may be
unworkable in combat because it would take too long for them
to receive authorization from U.S. and Saudi ground
commanders to fire on hostile planes.
   American naval commanders have tried for weeks, apparently
with only limited success to obtain European approval of a
detailed plan outlining how Western warships can work more
closely together to interdict Iraqi shipping in the Gulf.
   Without creating a single, well-defined command structure,
"missions will be duplicated and {some of the vessels} will
be at risk for the lack of an organized defense against
possible Iraqi attacks," according to a report released last
week by a European parliamentary group.
   Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, the commander in chief of U.S.
forces in the region, has said, "there isn't one supreme
commander" in Saudi Arabia "and there doesn't need to be
one." But other U.S. and Saudi officials stressed that his
Saudi counterpart, Gen. Khaled bin Sultan, the top Arab
commander, only recently assembled a full-fledged staff to
help him deal with the complex problems of coordinating
foreign troops.
   While emphasizing that the current system is working well,
Mr. Cheney told reporters earlier this month that "if it
becomes necessary in this instance" to set up a unified
command, "I'm certain we could work something out."
   In Washington, a spokesman for Gen. Colin Powell, chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, "I don't sense that there
is any movement at this end" to change the current
arrangements. But like Mr. Cheney, he left the door open for
possible changes as the military situation evolves.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Auto Makers to Build 9.6% More Cars
   In 4th Quarter Than Weak Year Earlier
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT J.FJH J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- U.S. auto makers plan to build just 9.6% more
cars in the fourth quarter than they did in a weak
year-earlier period, but analysts say those schedules won't
hold if the economy continues to weaken.
   The 10 U.S. auto makers plan to build 1,741,955 cars in
the fourth quarter, up from production of 1,589,215 in 1989's
final quarter, according to industry sources. But the latest
output plans are still the second-lowest since 1982, when a
recession-wracked industry built just 1.2 million cars. Some
analysts say auto makers will have to trim their
fourth-quarter plans or face bloated inventories at year end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, there are signs that higher fuel prices are
prompting some Americans to buy smaller cars. That bodes well
for Japanese auto makers who are boosting their U.S. output,
and also for new small cars from Ford Motor Co. and General
Motors Corp. GM's new Saturn division will launch its
subcompact models late next month, and Ford is stepping up
efforts to spur sales of its 1991 Escort subcompacts.
   But sales of some of Detroit's larger models are starting
to suffer. GM, blaming sluggish sales, said last week it will
idle the plant that builds the big, V-8 powered Chevrolet
Caprice until Oct. 8, and operate just one production shift
for the following four weeks. GM had a 96-days' supply of the
cars at the end of August, nearly 50% above the ideal level.
   The slowdown in sales of the newly redesigned Caprice
reflects a shift toward smaller cars in recent weeks. In
August, compact cars accounted for 24.7% of all cars sold in
the U.S., up from 23.3% a year earlier. Meanwhile, full-sized
cars such as the Caprice saw their share of the market drop
to 6.2% from 7.0% in August 1989, according to the industry
trade publication Ward's Automotive Reports.
   But analysts warned the auto industry could be headed for
a broad slowdown as higher gas prices and uncertainty over
the Persian Gulf buffet an already shaky U.S. economy.
   "Consumers have led this economy into and out of
recession," said John Casesa, an auto industry analyst with
Wertheim Schroeder in New York. "And it looks to me like
right now they're leading us into one."
   If U.S. auto makers are to maintain their current
production schedules without boosting inventories, cars will
have to sell at a rate of seven million units in the quarter,
says John Qualls, an analyst with Hill &amp; Knowlton Inc. in St.
Louis. That's roughly the pace sales have averaged since
early July. But Mr. Qualls said more gloomy economic news
could depress sales below that level.
   Nonetheless, Japanese auto makers still plan to make
gains, largely at the expense of the Big Three. Honda Motor
Corp. is planning to build 26% more cars in the fourth
quarter than a year ago, reflecting increased production from
a new plant in East Liberty, Ohio. Honda also is planning to
boost by around 30,000 cars the number of Civic sedans it
imports to make up for production lost during the startup of
the East Liberty factory.
   Here are the output plans for the fourth quarter:
                                                                                                       

                           CARS
                                                                                                       

                                   1990      1989     %Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM ........................   768,000   711,138   +  8.0
   Ford ......................   399,000   381,001   +  4.7
   Chrysler ..................   225,000   209,000   +  7.7
   Honda .....................   104,519    82,751   + 26.3
   Toyota ....................    51,500    47,693   +  8.0
   Nissan ....................    33,500    26,188   + 27.9
   Mazda .....................    55,000    51,941   +  5.9
   Nummi .....................    44,000    41,447   +  6.2
   DiamStar ..................    46,900    36,446   + 28.7
   Sub-Isu ...................    14,536     1,610      ...
   Total ..................... 1,741,955 1,589,215   +  9.6
                                                                                                       

                           TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

   GM ........................   385,000   344,798   + 11.7
   Ford ......................   389,000   333,652   + 16.6
   Chrysler ..................   148,000   138,815   +  6.0
   Nissan ....................    32,322    31,798   +  1.6
   Sub-Isu ...................    14,692     2,447      ...
   Total .....................   969,284   851,510   + 13.8
                                                                                                       

   As the third quarter closed, Detroit continued to shave
its original output plans for the period. Ford last week said
it would idle two of its U.S. car plants and one truck plant
this week because of sluggish sales. In all, Ford has cut
45,000 cars out of its original third-quarter production
schedules. The company now plans to build 311,199 cars in the
July to September period, down 8.1% from a year ago. GM,
meanwhile, cut about 20,000 cars out of its original
third-quarter production schedule within the last month.
   Here are the latest third-quarter production plans:
                                                                                                       

                           CARS
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   GM ........................   652,200   599,684   +  8.8
   Ford ......................   311,199   338,558   -  8.1
   Chrysler ..................   169,000   185,531   -  8.9
   Honda .....................   104,443    81,324   + 28.4
   Toyota ....................    53,502    45,112   + 18.6
   Nissan ....................    12,263    27,710   - 55.7
   Mazda .....................    45,812    47,108   -  2.8
   Nummi .....................    46,003    47,441   -  3.0
   DiamStar ..................    34,796    27,793   + 25.2
   Suba-Isu ..................     9,119         0      ...
   Total ..................... 1,456,337 1,399,103   +  4.1
                                                                                                       

                           TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

   GM ........................   381,400   396,914   -  3.9
   Ford ......................   338,558   283,400   + 19.5
   Chrysler ..................   169,000   138,815   + 21.7
   Nissan ....................    27,200    25,965   +  4.8
   Suba-Isu ..................    11,922         0      ...
   Total .....................   928,080   845,094   +  9.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gambling:
   Laughlin, Nev., Casinos Fed
   By Meat-and-Potatoes Diet
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT CIR SHRE
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAUGHLIN, Nev. -- For this gritty gambling town, it pays
to be behind the times.
   Market jitters, volatile fuel prices and recession fears
are supposed to be flattening U.S. tourism, but word hasn't
reached this corner of the Mojave Desert. While Atlantic
City, N.J., struggles with the Northeast economy and Las
Vegas tries to digest a record building boom, Laughlin
thrives as if it were the '80s. Hilton Hotels Corp., Nevada's
biggest employer and a giant presence 90 miles to the north
in Las Vegas, just launched the newest and biggest casino
here -- a $190 million, 2,000-room resort that promises to
lure younger, more affluent customers to this largely
blue-collar playground.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Laughlin's gambling revenue rose 16% in 1989, although
some pessimists doubt anything like that can be sustained.
   Now, big developers yearn to convert Laughlin into a Palm
Springs on the river, complete with ritzy golf courses and
shopping malls. But even Laughlin isn't immune to economic
chills: Money is as scarce as water, which may spell trouble
for such grand projects.
   Few people come to Laughlin for the view. The town is
wedged between California and Arizona, where the murky
Colorado River oozes through sweltering, ragged hills on its
way to Mexico. The new Hilton swells the city's room count to
7,200-handily outnumbering the population of about 5,000. And
the casino marquees here boast "real mashed potatoes,"
defying the champagne-and-caviar glitz of Las Vegas.
   Older customers flock here to relive the past of cheap
rooms, cheap food and lots of low-tech gambling. In the fall
and winter, snowbirds in recreational vehicles roost here and
across the river in Bullhead City, Ariz., and younger
blue-collar gamblers pop in on weekends when they're not
soaking up the sun at nearby lakes.
   Laughlin feeds largely off Southern California, which has
a huge and relatively stable economic base. A rise in
gasoline prices won't prevent people from going there; fuel
doesn't take up much of a weekend vacationer's budget. The
town also attracts customers from Las Vegas's older and less
glamorous downtown.
   Atlantic City, in comparison, is stuck in the Northeast.
Casino-hotel rooms there cost at least three to four times as
much as Laughlin rooms, and there's a real shortage of
lodging space. Atlantic City feeds off day trippers, and
still buses in scads of low rollers from New York. And fixed
costs -- building costs, debt, overhead -- tend to be quite
high.
   As for Las Vegas itself, it's still holding its own and
trying to absorb the biggest building boom it has ever
experienced. The city caters to a wide range of customers --
high rollers, families, middle Americans and locals. Because
of that, a typical big casino must pay to offer a little of
everything: lines of credit, shows, some star performers,
cheap food, expensive food.
   Not in Laughlin. Room service is practically nonexistent.
Until recent customer complaints, some hotels balked at
putting the little bars of soap in the bathrooms in favor of
cheaper liquid soap dispensed from wall machines. And lots of
places offer showers instead of bathtubs.
   Laughlin has few showrooms, few big headliners, and no
limousines or high-roller comps or parties. Customers will
put up with a lot for $32 a night.
   Credit lines? Playing on casino credit in Laughlin is as
rare as summer rain. Atlantic City, Las Vegas and Tahoe have
to offer credit to attract their more diverse clientele. But
Laughlin does most of its casino business off machine games
like slots and video poker. They're more predictable and less
expensive to operate. Table games require more manpower and
involve more risks, thus making operating profits far less
predictable.
   As the mercury nears 100 one midmorning, retiree Ed Layton
pulls his wheezing green Pontiac into a casino parking lot. A
bimonthly visitor, he's ready for a hectic day pumping
quarters into video poker machines, an enterprise to be
interrupted by a $2.99 buffet lunch.
   "What else is there for an old guy like me to do?" he
laughs. And there is a bonus, he adds with a smile: "It's a
good place to meet nice ladies."
   If the big developers succeed, a new crowd may be on its
way to town. John H. Midby &amp; Associates, which owns hundreds
of acres of prime Laughlin property, has started the first
phase of a proposed billion-dollar development scheduled to
include four hotels, 125,000 square feet of casino space, a
7,000-seat amphitheatre and other big-city trappings. And
developer Louis Walter of Beverly Hills, Calif., plans a big
island-themed resort complex with at least 1,000 rooms and
facilities for meetings and conventions.
   But experts question whether the area can support such
projects, especially by developers who lack casino-hotel
operating history. And while those representing both new
projects say foreign financing is in the works, industry
observers aren't holding their breath. "It's easy to `just
say no' on exotic projects now," says Jay Kornmayer of First
Interstate Bank of Nevada.
   In fact, Midby &amp; Associates apparently has new problems by
the river. The partnership that owns Sam's Town Gold River
Hotel &amp; Gambling Hall, a newly expanded casino built by Midby
and managed by the Boyd Group, said last Thursday that it is
unlikely to make a bond payment due Nov. 1. It also said it
probably won't be able to make a $1.2 million bondholder
payment required under certain bond indentures by Oct. 19.
   In a statement, the partnership said it reported a
combined net loss of $3.5 million for July and August, but it
didn't elaborate. It's unclear whether the problems stem more
from operations or from problems lining up financing.
Officials at the Midby-controlled partnership and Boyd Group
didn't return calls seeking an explanation of the troubles.
   Some experts warn that casino towns are far from
recession-proof. Harold Vogel of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. says he
is "very skeptical" of Laughlin's ability to maintain
double-digit growth next year in an era of higher oil prices
and consumer wariness.
   Even Don Laughlin -- the wiry, silver-haired entrepreneur
who helped build today's go-go growth spot from a single
bankrupt motel -- concedes, "We're kind of in a catch-up
period."
   But optimism prevails up and down newly widened Casino
Drive. So far, visitor counts and occupancy rates have stayed
strong despite the added capacity from Hilton, indicating
that the new property may be attracting new customers, rather
than simply stealing them from others. Last year Laughlin
played host to more than three million people and took in
$346 million in gross gaming revenue.
   "I think we'll see 16% to 17% increases {in local gambling
revenue} with the Hilton capacity this year," says Richard P.
Banis, president of Circus Circus Enterprises Inc. Circus
dominates the market with the huge riverboat-themed Colorado
Belle property and neighboring Edgewater casino, which is
under expansion. Other casinos, including the Golden Nugget,
Harrah's Del Rio and the Ramada Express, hope to expand when
the time is right.
   Casinos here don't have to be big or fancy to make piles
of money. The 412-room Pioneer, one of the smallest and
darkest joints on the river with decor straight out of a
spaghetti Western, rakes in more than nearly all its
competitors.
   "You can't argue with success," says Paul Lowden, whose
Sahara Resorts of Las Vegas bought the family-owned Pioneer
about a year and a half ago. He plans to spruce up and expand
the place, but he balks at anything that could disturb his
coveted $1 and $5 slot players.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Second National Skips
   Payout, Lifts Reserve
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SNFS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALISBURY, Md. -- Second National Federal Savings Bank,
facing a deteriorating real-estate market, suspended its
dividend and increased its loan-loss reserves following an
investigation by federal regulators.
   Second National increased specific loan-loss reserves by
$7,880,000 and general loan reserves by $8,750,000. The
company said it plans to increase general loan reserves an
additional $8,750,000 over the next 18 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, which has $1.8 billion in assets, said it
decided to suspend the dividend because it wouldn't be the
"most prudent expenditure of shareholder capital." The
company's quarterly payout had been nine cents a share, but
last month, Second National announced it intended to cut the
dividend 50%.
   Second National said real-estate developers aren't able to
"produce sufficient cash flow to support their borrowings"
and more stringent reserve requirements "have precluded
additional borrowing for interest carry."
   The company's nonperforming assets have risen to $62
million from $30 million in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Sanders, a Red Star in the Green Mountains,
   Is Making a Strong Bid for Congressional Seat
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, Vt. -- You don't have to be J. Edgar Hoover to
spot the subversive at the breakfast meeting of the South
Burlington Rotary Club. He's the one who isn't wearing a tie.
Bernard Sanders -- former socialist mayor of Burlington,
current independent candidate for Congress, and the morning
speaker at the local EconoLodge -- has entered the belly of
the capitalist beast.
   Polite but restrained applause greets the silver-haired
radical when he ascends the podium. In the working-class
accent of his native Brooklyn, Mr. Sanders praises Sweden,
denounces South Africa, and calls for a publicly financed
national health-care system and a five-year, 50% reduction in
defense spending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such rhetoric hardly seems calculated to woo the merchant
class. But by the time the meeting ends, at least one
plutocrat is won over. "I think I'm going to vote for
Sanders," says retired life-insurance executive Harold
Engelman, explaining that "a message needs to be sent" to
Washington.
   Socialism may be on the wane in Eastern Europe, but in
Vermont democratic socialist Bernie Sanders' red star has
never shone brighter. This is the seventh time Mr. Sanders
has sought statewide office; six times he failed. But he made
a strong showing in his 1988 congressional race (Vermont is
one big congressional district) against former Lt. Gov. Peter
Smith -- 38% to Republican Smith's victorious 41% -- while
the Democrat, a prominent state legislator, trailed far
behind.
   This year, Mr. Sanders and freshman Rep. Smith meet in a
rematch. "I think the race is very close," says Garrison
Nelson, a political-science professor at the University of
Vermont, noting that the most recent independent poll,
published in July by the Burlington Free Press, placed the
two candidates in a dead heat. If elected, Mr. Sanders would
be the first socialist elected to Congress since the 1950
defeat of Rep. Vito Marcantonio of New York, who ran on the
American Labor Party ticket.
   The contest has left the state's historically weak
Democratic party in serious disarray. Although its support is
technically behind Dolores Sandoval, a little-known black
education professor at the University of Vermont who earlier
this month won a narrow primary victory, in reality the party
has virtually abandoned the field. Prominent Democratic
officeholders like Sen. Patrick Leahy and departing Gov.
Madeleine Kunin are remaining emphatically neutral, while
other state officials divide their support between Rep. Smith
and Mr. Sanders. Even the party's executive director, Craig
Fuller, declines to state personal support for the Democratic
candidate, while the national party is "sitting on the
sidelines," according to Howard Schloss, spokesman for the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in Washington.
   Rep. Smith, with his preppy demeanor, liberal politics,
and high Washington profile on issues ranging from the
savings-and-loan crisis to the civil-rights bill, has strong
appeal among moderate Republicans and the state's burgeoning
yuppie ranks. But with a sigh, the 44-year-old congressman
describes the race as "the most intense political exercise
that I've been involved in in my life."
   The man responsible for this turmoil is a self-proclaimed
socialist who hung the Soviet flag in the Burlington mayor's
office (in honor of its sister city, Yuroslavl) and
celebrated the sixth anniversary of Nicaragua's Sandinista
victory with Daniel Ortega in Managua. Mr. Sanders, 49, still
praises the Sandinistas for "fighting for women's rights" and
"economic justice," but emphasizes that his brand of
democratic socialism bears little relation to the
Marxist-Leninist model. For Mr. Sanders, socialism means "the
powers and abilities of government should be used anywhere
and everywhere" -- he pauses for emphasis -- "where it makes
sense."
   In practice, Mr. Sanders' socialism until now has meant
little more than keeping the streets and parks of
picture-post-card Burlington well tended. As mayor from 1981
to 1989, Mr. Sanders switched the city's revenue burden away
from property taxes -- which he viewed as an undue hardship
on the middle class and elderly -- and made up the difference
in room and meal taxes exacted from tourists and higher taxes
levied on utility companies. He attempted to institute a city
income tax, but was foiled by the state government in
Montpelier. He also mimicked penny-pinching Yankee
capitalists by reinvesting the city's pension funds and
subjecting its insurance contracts to competitive bidding.
Indeed, a 1985 poll showed that one-third of Ronald Reagan's
Burlington supporters also supported Bernie Sanders.
   "Bernie is definitely in favor of business," says Ben
Cohen, chairman of the ice-cream maker Ben &amp; Jerry's Homemade
Inc. "But he's in favor of businesses which are caring
members of society."
   Still, Mr. Sanders promises to shake things up if sent to
Washington. Asked if he would vote to eliminate the "bubble"
whereby marginal taxes drop for the wealthy -- a feature of
the tax code Democrats seek to eliminate -- Mr. Sanders rolls
his eyes. "Pssh -- eliminate the bubble," he sneers. "I would
develop a steeply progressive income tax."
   Mr. Sanders seeks to fan the same voter dissatisfaction
with the bipartisan status quo that has already led to upset
gubernatorial primary victories for two relative newcomers in
nearby Massachusetts. He blames low voter turnout on the
inability of the two major parties to solve the nation's
problems -- particularly those of the poor -- and cites his
own record of doubling Burlington's voter turnout when he was
mayor during the 1980s.
   He also lashes out at Rep. Smith for accepting campaign
contributions from corporate political-action committees.
(Mr. Sanders refuses to take money from pro-business
political-action committees, but has received substantial
help from labor PACs and other out-of-state contributors.)
"In Washington, they're crooks," Mr. Sanders tells his
Rotarian audience. "Sometimes I wonder about my insanity
about wanting to go down there."
   One Rotarian angrily questions Mr. Sanders about his
refusal, as mayor of Burlington, to fly the United Way flag.
Mr. Sanders corrects him: He did agree to fly the flag -- but
not on the same flag pole as the U.S. flag. "This is not the
time of Charles Dickens, when people flipped coins to
starving children," he retorts.
   In an odd twist, Mr. Sanders stands to benefit from
Vermont's backlash against growing national support for gun
control -- an issue usually associated with the left. Both
Mr. Sanders and Rep. Smith support federal limits on assault
weapons, but Rep. Smith's position is viewed as a betrayal by
members of the state's gun lobby, who claim that before he
was elected, Rep. Smith promised to oppose all forms of gun
control. Steven Herchenroder, president of the powerful
Sporting Alliance for Vermont Environment, says his
organization is unlikely to endorse either Mr. Sanders or
Rep. Smith, but "there are going to be sportsmen that will go
out and vote for Sanders because of what Smith did to them."
   For his part, the normally loquacious Mr. Sanders grows
quiet when asked whether he supports current legislative
efforts to require a seven-day waiting period for the
purchase of firearms. "I've got to talk to more people about
that one," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Electrolux AB:
   Commercial Services Unit
   Is Put on Auction Block
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ELUXY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CONSUMER &amp; HOUSEHOLD SERVICES, LAWN CARE, TAX PREPARATION (CSV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Electrolux AB of Sweden, an appliance concern, put up for
sale its commercial services division, in an effort to
concentrate on its core operations of making and selling
consumer and industrial equipment. It didn't disclose an
asking price.
   The commercial services unit, which has 30,000 employees
world-wide in environmental cleaning and janitorial services,
had 1989 revenue of 3.9 billion kronor ($675.1 million), and
profit after depreciation of 260 million kronor, the company
said. It accounts for only about 5% of Electrolux's business.
Electrolux said the division's profit and revenue for this
year are expected to increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An official, explaining the decision to sell, said the
business "differs markedly in character from other areas" of
the company. The unit's sale will mean that "the capital
which will be released will increase our freedom of action in
future developments in our main areas," the official said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Honda Motor Co.:
   Acura Integra '91 Models'
   Price Increases Restrained
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Honda Motor Co.'s U.S. sales arm in Gardena, Calif., said
base prices for 1991 Acura Integra models will range from
$11,950 to $17,675, with some versions of the car showing no
price increase from a year ago and others rising $500.
   The Integra is the Japanese auto maker's third-best
selling car line in the U.S., and accounts for about 60% of
the volume in its Acura luxury division. The Integra is a
sporty car designed to compete with so-called near-luxury
European models, such as BMW 3-series sedans. Honda's
relatively restrained pricing for the 1991 Integra reflects
increasing competition in this segment from European
manufacturers and new Japanese entries such as the Infiniti
G20, which will have a base price of $17,500.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The price of the least expensive Integra RS hatchback,
$11,950, is unchanged from a year ago, as is that of the
least expensive Integra RS four-door at $12,850. The
better-equipped Integra GS four-door with automatic
transmission will start at $17,175, up $500, or 3%. The rise
for the GS sedan reflects an added sunroof.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd.:
   Hongkong Land Holdings
   Reports 32% Rise in Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   H.JMH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. said its interim after-tax
profit surged 32% in the first six months of 1990, helped by
higher lease renewals despite the softening of the local
property market.
   The Hong Kong landlord, which owns a swatch of the
colony's most valuable downtown property, also said it
intends to follow in the footsteps of its parent group,
Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd., and sister company, Dairy
Farm International Holdings Ltd., by obtaining a listing on
the International Stock Exchange in London and by keeping its
accounts in U.S. dollars. The moves, which it said are aimed
at enhancing its international corporate profile, come at a
time when it is seeking to purchase properties overseas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hongkong Land's after-tax profit rose to US$129.6 million
from $98.3 million in the year-earlier first half, equal to a
32% rise in per-share earnings to 5.10 cents from 3.86 cents.
Turnover rose 35% to $176.9 million from $131.4 million.
   The group's directors proposed raising its interim
dividend to 2.75 cents from 2.05 cents a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EC Electronics Firms Turning to U.S.
   ---
   Plan for Alliance to
   Compete With Japan Gains
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN I.OLV
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- In late July, a grim delegation of electronics
industry executives gathered in the European Community
Commission's headquarters here.
   The message they delivered in meetings with two commission
vice presidents was blunt: The EC electronics industry is
losing ground in world markets, "and we don't see any
positive reaction by the commission" to help, recalls Peter
Asam, director of external relations for West German
electronics giant Siemens AG, who attended the meetings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The message got through. Now, the EC's executive agency is
conducting the most sweeping review of its
electronics-industry policies in a decade. It will help
determine whether the $200 billion European electronics
industry pulls out of its tailspin. It also will influence
the political reception U.S. and Japanese electronics
companies get here in the early 1990s.
   The review will take months, but a few clear policies are
already gaining ascendancy in Brussels, according to EC
Commission officials and industry lobbyists.
   Chief among them is a desire for closer ties to the U.S.,
formerly considered as much a threat to the EC electronics
industry as Japan. A U.S.-EC alliance, commission officials
argue, could help both regions compete with an increasingly
strong Japanese electronics industry. "The political climate
is favorable for cooperation between the {U.S.} and the EC,"
says Michel Carpentier, EC director-general for
electronics-related programs. EC officials hope to agree this
year on some form of collaboration with Washington -- though
the U.S. is undecided on the issue.
   Other proposals gaining ground in Brussels are measures to
stimulate European demand for electronics products. One
possibility involves a massive public works project to link
government computers of all 12 EC member states. The project,
dubbed the European Nervous System, would be the largest
electronics procurement in European history. The EC
Commission already has allocated 380 million European
Currency Units ($504 million) to research such a network. But
now Filippo Maria Pandolfi, the EC vice president in charge
of science and technology, says he also wants the commission
to help supervise the network's installation.
   A third proposal, overt protectionism, is so far being
rejected in Brussels. Despite industry calls for help, "it
would be an enormous mistake to go to more protectionism,"
says Mr. Pandolfi. Indeed, the EC Commission is considering
proposals to cut import duties on all semiconductors to 9.2%
from 14%, and to eliminate the 5% import duty on computers.
   The source of all this policy foment is the sad state of
European electronics. After hitting a peak European market
share of 43% in 1987, Europe's computer companies are now
losing sales and profits to U.S. and Japanese rivals; this
year, industry pundits expect European manufacturers' share
to fall to 37%. (Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co. yesterday announced
plans to cut several thousand jobs as it grapples with the
slowdown in demand in the computer industry and the weak
dollar.)
   The semiconductor industry is shrinking as weak players
cut back; last year, the European industry held just 36.5% of
the European chip market, down from 43.3% in 1979. Partly
because of European phone deregulation, the once-strong EC
telecommunications equipment industry is losing ground. And
the EC's overall electronics trade balance is dismal: Last
year, according to the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, a Geneva-based United Nations agency, the EC's
electronics trade deficit hit a record $27.22 billion.
   Now, Mr. Carpentier says, "We ask ourselves: What might be
done?"
   For starters, he and other EC officials say, the answers
include altering some long-cherished European principles.
Through much of the 1980s, the EC Commission and several EC
member states pursued a policy of Europe for Europeans in
electronics. U.S. and Japanese companies, which control more
than half of the EC's computer and semiconductor markets,
were the challenge against which EC industry had to rally.
The commission pumped about 3 billion ECUs into electronics
research programs with catchy names like Esprit and Race.
Though U.S. and Japanese companies weren't entirely excluded,
they weren't always welcome. The aim was to get EC companies
working together, pooling their strengths.
   Now, however, officials in Brussels and at several EC
capitals are encouraging U.S.-EC collaboration. "We are very
much in favor of a trans-Atlantic partnership," says Klaus
Rupf, director of information technology in Bonn's Ministry
of Research and Technology. "In some areas, I doubt whether
we will be able to solve the strategic challenge of Japan on
our own."
   Signs of this policy switch are numerous. Earlier this
year, politicians in Bonn and Brussels applauded a Siemens
agreement to collaborate with International Business Machines
Corp. in a crucial area of semiconductor technology,
developing 64-megabit dynamic random access memory chips.
Likewise, talks are under way to link the largest European
and U.S. government semiconductor-research programs, Jessi
and Sematech. In high-definition television, the
next-generation TV technology under study world-wide, EC
companies are being urged to seek alliances with U.S.
companies. And the EC Commission wants to sign a memorandum
of understanding soon with the U.S., spelling out other areas
for electronics collaboration.
   But just how far this romance goes depends largely on
Washington -- which can't seem to make up its mind.
   President George Bush's science adviser and the U.S.
National Science Foundation have expressed enthusiasm for
closer EC ties. But the U.S. trade representative and
Commerce Department officials are leery of any agreements
with Brussels that might violate Washington's official taboo
against telling U.S. companies how to run their overseas
businesses.
   Another cherished EC policy that's under review is the
longstanding belief that European manufacturers need help
bolstering their technology. In the 1980s, the big EC
research programs provided 50% subsidies for companies to
collaborate on "pre-competitive" research into basic
semiconductor, computer and telecommunications technologies.
Now, however, EC officials say improving the supply of
European electronics products isn't enough; market demand for
them must also rise. To whet the appetites of corporate
electronics buyers, they say, they now want to involve them
with electronics suppliers in more EC research programs.
   More important and controversial, though, is a Brussels
plan that would put the commission in the driver's seat of
the so-called European Nervous System. The project was pushed
by industry lobbyists last year as part of the 1992 program
for lowering internal trade barriers. If the unified market
is to work, Brussels bureaucrats agreed, the EC members need
to link their customs, police, treasury, air-traffic and
other computers. The five-year budget awarded to the project
in April is for research on the concept only.
   But Mr. Pandolfi, the EC technology commissioner, says "it
isn't enough to promote R&amp;D" on the computer network. He says
"a direct, concerted action of the commission" to establish
the network is needed to get it working -- and to help the
European electronics industry, which would be its main
supplier. The commission, he says, must also "coordinate the
implementation" of the network. In practical terms, EC
officials say, that could mean helping specify the network's
technical details, providing poorer EC states with
regional-aid funds to buy the needed computer gear and
coordinating the network's installation and operation.
   The proposal, which Mr. Pandolfi and EC Internal-Market
Commissioner Martin Bangemann plan to submit to the Council
of Ministers by the end of the year, will stir a political
tempest. Mr. Pandolfi insists the project won't entail any
protectionism or "dirigisme," a French term for government
dictating to industry. But British and Spanish officials have
already begun grumbling that the idea looks suspiciously like
a power-grab by Brussels. Traditionally, public procurement
has been the exclusive province of national governments.
   But the European electronics industry's backing for Mr.
Pandolfi's proposal is overwhelming. "Today, cooperative
research in EC programs isn't enough," argues Bruno
Lamborghini, president of Eurobit, the main European computer
trade association, and vice president for strategy at Italian
computer-maker Olivetti. "We need something that can create a
larger critical mass" in European electronics, he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Newell Co.:
   Concern Says Strike at Unit
   Could Cause Earnings Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Newell Co. said it "could have some negative impact on
earnings" from a strike that has started at a unit's plant in
Monaca, Pa. It didn't elaborate on the possible impact.
   Newell, the maker of home do-it-yourself products based in
Freeport, Ill., said 450 employees at the plant have rejected
a tentative labor agreement and are now on strike. The
company said the employees are members of American Flint &amp;
Glass Workers Locals 512, 36, 67 and 544.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plant is operated by Phoenix Glass, a unit of Newell's
Anchor Hocking Industrial Glass division.
   Newell said a cooling-off period is now in effect. The
company said it's "hopeful" that negotiations will soon
resume and an "acceptable" agreement can be reached.
   Newell said the plant continues to operate with office and
supervisory personnel. It said that "if necessary," the
company can shift "some" production to Newell's Anchor
Hocking Consumer Glass plant in Lancaster, Ohio.
   Net income for the second quarter just ended fell to $21.9
million, or 36 cents a share, from $46.1 million, or 76 cents
a share, during the year-ago period.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NEWELL Co.'s net income for the second quarter rose to
$21.9 million, or 36 cents a share, from $17.1 million, or 28
cents a share, a year earlier. Yesterday's edition misstated
the year-earlier figures.
   (WSJ Sept. 25, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Harley-Davidson Inc.:
   Recreational-Vehicle Firm
   Is Laying Off 180 at Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   HDI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Harley-Davidson Inc., signaling troubles in the
recreational-vehicle market, said it is laying off 180
employees, or 10% of the work force at its Holiday Rambler
Corp. subsidiary.
   Harley, based in Milwaukee, cited softness in demand for
recreational vehicles and consumer skittishness prompted by
the Middle East crisis. The company said the layoffs involved
hourly and salaried employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action doesn't appear to be an indication of wider
troubles at the company, which has posted hefty profit
increases, largely as a result of its strong
motorcycle-manufacturing business.
   Harley added that it expects to report third-quarter costs
of $1.1 million as a result of closing two operations. The
company said it is discontinuing Holiday Rambler's Aviator
Van Conversions operations in Milwaukee and closing a
Woodland, Calif., facility that produces Utilimaster, a
commercial vehicle.
   Harley said the two operations had 1989 combined sales of
$8 million and only $1.6 million for the first six months of
1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Helian Health Group Inc.:
   Medical-Services Firm Posts
   40% Gain in 3rd-Period Net
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HHGR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTEREY, Calif. -- Helian Health Group Inc. reported a
40% increase in earnings for the third quarter ended Aug. 31,
to $579,827, or 14 cents a share, from $413,557, or 15 cents
a share, a year before, when fewer shares were outstanding.
Sales at the medical-services company rose 31% to $4.6
million from $3.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sundstrand Corp.:
   Accord Signed to Purchase
   Remainder of Milton Roy
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SNS MRC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY &amp; PRODUCTION, QUALITY CONTROL (ITC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sundstrand Corp. has entered into a definitive agreement
to purchase the 85% of Milton Roy Co. that it doesn't already
own, for $28 a share, or $128 million.
   The company, based in Rockford, Ill., said the purchase,
which is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals, is
expected to close in December or in "early" January 1991.
Sundstrand said Milton Roy will become a subsidiary after the
aquisition is completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Sundstrand shares closed at $26.75, up $3.75. Milton Roy's
shares fell 65.5 cents, closing at $23.25.
   Milton Roy is a St. Petersburg, Fla.-based maker of
instrumentation and control equipment. Sundstrand makes
aerospace and industrial equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environmentalists to Lobby
   Yosemite Park Concession
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- One week before the 100th anniversary of
Yosemite National Park, a group of affluent environmentalists
are expected to announce today its plan to start a company
that might one day bid against the park's sole
concessionaire, an entrenched institution that has been
accused of rapidly reducing America's most beloved national
site into a theme park.
   The environmentalists said that they would need to raise
at least $200 million to launch their company, the Yosemite
Restoration Trust, which would press for less construction
and fewer cars in the park and, if all else fails, put in a
bid for the federal concession contract when it comes up for
renewal in 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This doesn't have anything to do with running a
concession," said Bob Maynard, president of the Aspen Skiing
Company and one of the environmentalists heading up the
group. "The real interest is just to try to get the National
Park Service and the concessionaire to try to work together
to implement the master plan." This master plan, recommended
by the Park Service in 1980, would curtail traffic, reduce
lodging and move other buildings to the periphery of the
park.
   The current concessionaire, MCA Inc.'s Yosemite Park &amp;
Curry Co., has held the contract since 1973. In that time, it
has made millions while paying the federal government only
0.75% of its annual revenue, among the lowest franchise fee
paid by any national park concessionaire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Philadelphia
   Bonds Stay
   In Demand
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Philadelphia is facing its worst cash crunch
ever, and many analysts believe the city could eventually
default on some of its bond payments.
   Yet the bonds of the nation's fifth-largest city aren't
getting massacred in the market; instead, they are getting
recommended by analysts. What's going on?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It seems that investors, after going through similar
crises in the 1970s with New York and Cleveland, have learned
an important lesson: Big cities usually make good on their
debt obligations.
   Philadelphia bonds have been under pressure ever since
officials of the city acknowledged that it is running out of
cash. Last Friday, Mayor W. Wilson Goode said Philadelphia
will go broke by Dec. 1, even with cost-saving measures,
unless it can borrow from banks or the credit markets. To
avert running out of cash on Nov. 9, the mayor said the city
will defer $90 million in pension fund contributions, freeze
hiring, and seek a structured settlement to stretch out
repayment of $25 million in realty transfer taxes that a
state court said were illegally levied; after these moves,
the city still won't be able to meet payrolls in the first
week of December, Mr. Goode said. He added that an aide to
Gov. Robert P. Casey assured him that the governor won't let
the city become insolvent.
   Two weeks ago, the city was shut out of the market when it
tried to sell $375 million in short-term notes that would
have been used to offset a $206.4 million budget deficit. Mr.
Goode said he is considering another attempt to sell the
notes in a few weeks.
   Late last week, 8 1/4% tax-exempt general-obligation bonds
of Philadelphia were quoted at more than 92 cents on the
dollar, to yield 9.1%. Though this yield was up from 7 3/4% a
few weeks ago, analysts say, Philadelphia bond prices haven't
fallen as much as could be expected, considering that the
credit rating on the bonds has been slashed to the level of
medium-grade junk bonds-triple-C by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
and single-B by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Fitch
Investors Service Inc.
   "We're seeing substantial demand" for Philadelphia bonds,
says Larry Morris, a municipal bond trader at Butcher &amp;
Singer. "People feel that at these yield levels, it's worth
taking the risk. Some investors believe there is a lot of
money to be made, just like there was when New York had
problems."
   On a taxable-equivalent basis, the current yields on
Philadelphia general-obligation bonds are about 11.9% for
investors in the 28% federal income-tax bracket and 13.8% for
investors in the 33% bracket.
   The higher the yield rises, the more often securities
analysts recommend that investors seeking speculative
opportunities consider buying Philadelphia bonds.
   Steven J. Hueglin, executive vice president at the bond
dealer Gabriele, Hueglin &amp; Cashman Inc., says that yields on
Philadelphia general-obligation bonds could rise further in
the months ahead, especially if the city misses any interest
payments. Nevertheless, he advises clients to consider buying
the bonds now. "I think the bonds will bounce back," Mr.
Hueglin says. "It's a nice speculative investment, because
G.O.s are made good on with more reliability than other kinds
of issues."
   Richard Lehmann, president of the Bond Investors
Association, a nonprofit group that tracks corporate and
municipal bond defaults, has been advising Philadelphia
bondholders to sit tight and hold on to their bonds.
   "I don't see this as a dangerous situation. It's more
political than financial," he says. "Even if there is a
default, the problem will probably get resolved."
   If it seems that Messrs. Hueglin and Lehmann are taking a
rather casual approach toward a disturbing situation, it is
because they have been there before.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stalled deficit-reduction talks and news of a move in
Congress to delay the automatic budget cuts mandated under
the Gramm-Rudman law sent bond prices sharply lower.
   "The market is expecting $50 billion to be cut from the
budget this year," and any indication that the federal budget
deficit-reduction targets might not be met is greeted
negatively, said Kathleen Camilli, chief economist at Maria
Ramirez Capital Consultants Inc.
   She said budget concerns seemed to override all other
factors operating in the fixed-income markets, including
another jump in crude oil prices and reports of rising
tensions in the Persian Gulf.
   Even flight-to-quality buying on the short end of the
yield curve, following news that Chase Manhattan Corp. is
increasing loan provisions and laying off employees, couldn't
stem the downturn in bond prices.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell nearly one
point, or $10 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount, while the
yield jumped to 9.12%. Two-year notes posted modest declines
of nearly 1/8 point, to yield 8.1%. In when-issued trading,
yields on two-year notes scheduled to be sold tomorrow were
quoted at 8.1%, and yields on four-year notes scheduled to be
sold Wednesday were quoted at 8.48%.
   Meanwhile, prices of most long-term investment-grade
corporate bonds ended about 7/8 point lower. But prices of
bonds issued by Chase Manhattan plunged after the nation's
third-largest banking concern stunned investors with a
barrage of news. The bank said it will slash its staff by
5,000, and take a $650 million provision for loan losses and
a $350 million restructuring charge in the third quarter.
   Chase Manhattan's 10% subordinated notes, due in 1999,
which were yielding 14% before the latest disclosure, shot up
to 14.75%. The price fell six points, about $60 for a bond
with a $1,000 face amount, to 77.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UCB S.A.:
   Company Expects '91 Profit
   Despite Surging Oil Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.UCB
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UCB S.A. should be able to produce a 1991 profit before
exceptional items that is at least as high as this year's
earnings, even with the recent surge in oil prices, the
chairman of the Brussels chemical and pharmaceutical
company's executive committee said.
   "We are clearly less vulnerable than other chemical
companies," Georges Jacobs said in an interview. Higher oil
prices shouldn't have much effect on UCB's specialty
chemicals and pharmaceuticals, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The oil surge will raise raw-material costs for UCB units
producing special polypropylene films used in food packaging,
but the effect will be minor in terms of the entire company's
results, he said. UCB's production of cellulose film, also
used to wrap food, is partially shielded from higher oil
costs because the company has converted its plants to burn
coal, Mr. Jacobs said.
   For the first half of 1990, UCB reported group net profit
of 1.31 billion Belgian francs ($41 million), up 31% from 1
billion francs ($31 million) a year earlier. For the full
year, UCB has projected its profit before exceptional items
will equal or moderately exceed 1989's earnings of 2.26
billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nichols Institute:
   Company Indicates Earnings
   Will Be Up This Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LAB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nichols Institute said earnings for its third quarter,
ending Sunday, could be 10% lower than the highest projection
published by analysts. The medical diagnostic testing company
said it was referring to an estimate of $2.4 million, or 16
cents a share.
   In the year-ago quarter, the San Juan Capistrano, Calif.,
company earned $1.3 million, or 11 cents a share, on revenue
of $32.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it had unexpected difficulties in
consolidating the operations of Physicians Medical
Laboratories, a company it acquired in January of this year,
with its existing Medlab Inc. operation in Portland, Ore.
   Dr. Albert L. Nichols, president, chief executive officer
and chairman, said the company has terminated several
managers from Physicians Medical Laboratories and installed
new managers from within Nichols.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Aeritalia-Societa Aerospaziale:
   Aerospace Group Says Sales
   To Advance 17% in Year
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11E
</SO>
<CO>
   I.AER
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aeritalia-Societa Aerospaziale Italiana said consolidated
group sales will rise 17% to 2.8 trillion lire ($2.38
billion) this year from 2.4 trillion lire in 1989.
   The Italian aerospace group also said consolidated sales
grew 30% in the first half to 1.225 trillion lire from 940
billion lire in the 1989 first half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although it didn't provide earnings figures for the first
half, Aeritalia said gross consolidated profit was above 35
billion lire, but down from 1989. The company blamed the
downturn in the defense industry and the dollar's drop over
the past year.
   Aeritalia said new orders totaled 860 billion lire as of
June 30, while total orders were valued at 5.5 trillion lire.
Investments stood at 98 billion lire, up from 77 billion lire
a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Chargeurs S.A.:
   Profit Surged in First Half;
   Gain From UTA Sale Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11H
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CHG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   French industrial holding company Chargeurs S.A. posted a
67% rise in net profit after payments to minority interests
in the first half of 1990, largely as a result of gains from
the sale of airline UTA to Air France.
   The company said net profit came to 1.54 billion francs
($292 million), up from 921 million francs in the year-ago
half. Chargeurs recorded a one-time capital gain of 1.55
billion francs from the UTA sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Disregarding financial gains, the group's operating profit
was actually down 48% to 219 million francs from 422 million
a year earlier.
   Consolidated revenue, meanwhile, fell 41% to 6.11 billion
francs from 10.47 billion. The latest figure takes account of
a marked decline in textile sector sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ciments Francais S.A.:
   Paris Cement Group Profit
   Rose 7% in the First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11D
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ciments Francais S.A. said consolidated net profit after
payments to minority interests rose 7% in the first half,
despite a marked slowdown in activity in North America.
   The Paris cement group said profit was 402 million French
francs ($76.2 million) in the first half, up from 377 million
francs a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ciments Francais previously said consolidated revenue
gained 30% to 7.29 billion francs from 5.63 billion francs,
buoyed by strong gains from southern European activities.
   Consolidated operating profit was up 27% to 1.18 billion
francs from 928 million francs.
   The company said that full-year net profit should rise
from 1989's 1.1 billion francs on revenue of 12.5 billion
francs, but didn't elaborate.
   In the latest half, 57% of sales were in France. Cement
products accounted for 49% of overall sales, while 51% came
from construction materials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking:
   Marine Midland Bank Unit
   Faces Additional Cutbacks
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp., facing profit
pressures, intends to continue trimming the operations of its
unprofitable Marine Midland Bank operation in the U.S., John
Gray, deputy chairman of the Hong Kong-based banking concern,
said.
   The work force at Marine Midland, based in Buffalo, N.Y.,
has been cut by 1,400, or 10%, in the past year, Mr. Gray
said. Its monthly operating costs have fallen to $70 million
from $78 million at year end, and he said the figure will be
lower by the end of 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gray also said profitability at Hongkong &amp; Shanghai
Banking, which owns large stakes in four Middle Eastern
banks, hasn't been seriously affected by the Persian Gulf
crisis. The company doesn't have operations in Kuwait or
Iraq, he said, but does have "some exposure" to Kuwaiti
banks, which he didn't specify. Hongkong Bank owns British
Bank of the Middle East, 40% stakes in Saudi British Bank and
Hongkong Egyptian Bank SAE, and 21% of Cyprus Popular Bank
Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Aluminum's 43% Price Surge in Recent Weeks
   Looks Speculative, Unsustainable, Analysts Say
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aluminum has a new shine these days on the London Metal
Exchange. Prices for the metal passed $1 a pound last week, a
rise of 43% in the past 50 days.
   The cash price in London traded up to $1.0250 before
easing slightly Friday to 99.8 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The surge has put the price of aluminum ingot at its
highest level in more than a year and a half, raising
aluminum companies' earnings potential and their stocks'
prices on Wall Street.
   The reasons for the move, though, are anybody's guess.
Market watchers, some of whom seem a bit perplexed, diverge
widely in explaining the metal's erratic rise, which has
exceeded even the most bullish expectations. But they tend to
agree that the market's top is near, if it hasn't already
been reached.
   The laws of supply and demand clearly contribute to
somewhat higher prices. Demand, while slack in the U.S., is
growing strongly overseas. As a result, U.S. producers are
smelting new metal at 97% to 98% of capacity. And producer
inventories remain lean: Metal stocks in house total just
five weeks' supply, against the 14 weeks the industry carried
before the last recession. One metals trader says aluminum
has the strongest demand of all the base metals and that
demand is expected to outpace smelting capacity.
   One fundamentalist, aluminum analyst Vahid Fathi of
Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben, says the higher aluminum ingot
prices -- up from 63 cents a pound in January -- reflect the
close supply-demand balance.
   "People are beginning to realize that final demand hasn't
fallen off that precipitously despite the threat of
recession," he says. "It should give a clear sign to the
bears that things might not be as bad as they like to think."
   Americans, says Sharps Pixley Inc. metal trader Richard
Hirsch, "aren't fully aware of the strong demand for aluminum
in Europe, led by Germany, and in the Far East, led by
Japan."
   But with recession fears rampant and the U.S. automotive
and construction industries slumping, others say the
fundamentals alone aren't solid enough to justify aluminum's
giant leap. "We have not seen substantial improvements in
fundamentals in the last three weeks," says Lloyd T.
O'Carroll, corporate economist for Reynolds Metals Co.
   Instead, he and others say speculative trading is behind
much of the rise. According to this view, several factors may
be at work, including the Persian Gulf crisis, which prompted
investors to flee the currency and securities markets in
favor of commodities. A broad-based metals rally has also
pushed up copper and nickel prices. And once traders saw
prices edge up, they piled on aluminum's bandwagon, driving
prices higher still.
   The instability in the Middle East has also put on hold
some plans to expanding smelters in the area. Some traders
are gambling that a prolonged conflict could therefore mean
short supplies of aluminum toward the end of the decade.
   The leading rumor in commodity circles suggests that
Switzerland-based Marc Rich &amp; Co., the world's largest
aluminum dealer, is trying to drive up prices. But a
spokesman for the company denies the rumor and says the
current price rally didn't start with Marc Rich but with the
activity of another prominent trading concern. Officials of
that concern couldn't be reached for comment.
   Whatever the cause, there are widespread warnings that
aluminum prices can't go much higher -- and that if they do,
they'll start hurting business for aluminum makers. "I think
it's going down from here," says aluminum analyst Peter
Merner, who thinks the demand for aluminum has been
overstated.
   In the short term, higher aluminum ingot prices will boost
aluminum makers' profits. Aluminum companies have already
raised prices for common alloy sheet metal used in
construction and transportation. The higher ingot prices may
also push up prices for aluminum extrusions and castings.
However, companies are expected to hold the line on beverage
container sheet, as Aluminum Co. of America, the industry
leader, has committed itself to stable can sheet prices.
   Volatile price swings have long been the bane of the
aluminum industry. In the long term, if the price sticks at a
level above $1.05 a pound, analysts and aluminum companies
fear it will harm demand among automotive and transportation
customers. Wild gyrations in ingot prices also heighten
customers' insecurity.
   Mr. O'Carroll says aluminum makers like to see prices at
the current level, but he fears that the pattern is not
sustainable. Ultimately, he says, "the volatility hurts" the
aluminum business.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Prices of pork belly futures contracts might come under
some downward pressure at the start of trading today.
   A monthly survey released by the Agriculture Department
after the close Friday showed slightly more than the expected
number of U.S. pork bellies in cold storage. Pork bellies are
used to make bacon.
   The government said that on Sept. 1 it counted 23.1
million pounds of pork bellies. That still was a 53% decline
from the big stockpile that existed on the same date last
year.
   Jerry Abbenhaus, an analyst at A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc.,
St. Louis, said the survey signals that price competition
between meats might be strong at Thanksgiving this year.
   According to the report, 591.6 million pounds of turkeys
were in cold storage on Sept. 1, a record for that date and
3% more than on the same 1989 date. Many of those turkeys
will be sold for Thanksgiving in competition with ham.
   This week, traders will focus on a quarterly pig crop
report that is slated for release after the close of trading
Friday.
   According to Thomas Morgan, an analyst at Sterling
Research Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill., the report will
probably show that the high hog prices and strong profits
that prevailed in the first half of the year are finally
prompting farmers to expand their hog herds.
   A tight supply of hogs helped push retail prices of pork
up to record levels this year. Mr. Morgan said he expects the
government survey to show that farmers intend to have 5% more
sows producing piglets during September, October and
November, compared with the 1989 period.
                                                                                                       

   Gold
                                                                                                       

   Gold appears ready to break out of its current trading
range, some analysts say.
   On Friday, the December futures contract fell to $392 an
ounce before recovering to end at $394.50, up 30 cents. This
performance prompted William O'Neill, senior futures
strategist for Merrill Lynch, to say that the contract might
be establishing a base to move over $400.
   However, he said, the failure to move above Friday's peak
of $399 was yet another case of the prevailing pattern in
recent gold trading: Prices rise moderately, attracting
selling that stifles the advance.
   Usually, producer selling is the rallykiller, but that
didn't appear to be the case this time, according to Mr.
O'Neill. He attributed the selling mostly to dealers and
"locals," or traders dealing for their own accounts.
   Despite this failed move, a strong fundamental foundation
for gold is being built by the Persian Gulf crisis, which is
being translated into surging oil prices, and by growing
concern over problems at banks and savings-and-loans, Mr.
O'Neill says.
                                                                                                       

   Sugar
                                                                                                       

   The October contract ended at 10.90 cents a pound, down
0.24 cent, but a late rebound from a low of 10.76 cents
indicates the market still has a strong underpinning.
   Sandra Kaul, analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers, said
that with the harvest just beginning in most producing
countries, new supplies may not become available for purchase
for some time.
   Working stocks have been drawn down to minimum levels,
which may force major users such as the Soviet Union and
China to make further purchases, she said.
   "This potential demand is the principal reason that the
October price has been able to hold up on dips under 11
cents," Ms. Kaul said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dentsu Inc.:
   Japan's Largest Ad Agency
   To Have Branch in Moscow
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11B
</SO>
<CO>
   J.DEN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dentsu Inc., Japan's largest advertising concern, said it
will set up a branch office in Moscow.
   With the new office, which is scheduled to be established
next Monday, Dentsu will become the first Japanese
advertising company to create an office in the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the advertising market in the Soviet Union is
still in the developmental stage, Dentsu officials said, it
has potential to allow advertising businesses to grow as the
nation's economy shifts gears to a market base.
   The new office will map out and collect information in the
local advertising market and will provide Soviet enterprises
with advertising know-how. The new office will also assist
Japanese companies trying to penetrate the Soviet market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   IRAQ THREATENED a wide-scale Mideast war and destruction
of oil fields.
   Baghdad warned it would attack oil installations in the
region and include Israel in an all-out war if the West tried
to "strangle" its people. Baker, meanwhile, said the five
permanent members of the U.N. Security Council will meet
tomorrow to consider an air embargo against Iraq. The Bush
administration prepared to send Congress a roughly $10
billion arms package for Saudi Arabia. Over the weekend, the
Saudis ordered several diplomats from Jordan, Yemen and Iraq
to leave the country, asserting that they were involved in
spying for Baghdad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. and Saudi generals are considering proposals to set
up a joint military command to improve control of the
international forces confronting Iraq.
   ---
   SOUTH AFRICA'S LEADER ARRIVED in Washington for talks with
Bush.
   President de Klerk is scheduled today to become the first
South African head of state to be received at the White House
in more than 40 years. He also is expected to meet with
congressional and business leaders to discuss ways in which
the U.S. can help in bringing about a peaceful transition
from apartheid. His visit has been clouded by an upsurge of
factional violence in black townships.
   In Johannesburg, Mandela charged that new police measures
were timed to create an appearance of calm during de Klerk's
three-day trip to the U.S.
   ---
   Gorbachev appealed to Soviet lawmakers on Friday for
emergency powers that would enable him to push through
economic changes by decree. Despite his plea, the Supreme
Soviet adjourned until today without taking a vote on the new
powers, and it also failed to meet a deadline for approving
an economic restructuring plan.
   ---
   Two rival Liberian rebel chiefs will meet Friday in Sierra
Leone for U.S.-brokered peace negotiations aimed at ending
the country's nine-month-old civil war, according to
officials from the West African Economic Community. A
cease-fire has been in effect since Saturday in Monrovia.
   ---
   Cambodian guerrilla factions accepted a compromise for an
expanded Supreme National Council, a key element in a U.N.
peace plan, and asked to resume talks with the government.
The council's first meeting broke up last week when the
guerrillas and the Vietnam-backed regime disagreed on how
many seats each side should have.
   ---
   Patriarch Alexi II led a Divine Liturgy in the Kremlin's
Uspensky Cathedral, the first full service allowed in more
than 70 years in Russia's most important cathedral. The
government's decision to permit the service was seen as a
symbolic step in the revival of the Russian Orthodox Church,
long controlled by the Communist Party.
   ---
   Bhutto was ordered to appear before a special court to
answer a mounting legal challenge by Pakistan's interim
government that could force the former prime minister out of
next month's elections.
   ---
   Forest fires raged on the French Riviera as 2,500
firefighters and soldiers struggled for the second straight
day to keep flames away from coastal towns. Officials said
some 28,400 acres of forests and dozens of homes had been
destroyed since Friday in the region, and that about 2,500
people had been evacuated over the weekend.
   ---
   Researchers reported that a new treatment could lead to a
cure for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, the muscular
ailment that affects more than 350,000 Americans. The
research involves the subthalamic nucleus, a part of the
brain previously regarded as unconnected to Parkinson's.
   ---
   Aquino expressed satisfaction with progress made last week
on the future of U.S. military bases in the Philippines. The
president said her government would weigh proposals made for
phasing down U.S. operations at the Subic Bay Naval Base. She
said the Philippines had demanded that the U.S. return
control of five other installations.
   ---
   An agreement was signed Friday by Vietnam, Britain, Hong
Kong and the U.N.'s refugee agency concerning steps for
repatriation of Vietnamese boat people who aren't opposed to
returning home from Hong Kong camps. The joint statement
followed three days of talks in Hanoi.
   ---
   Swiss citizens voted over the weekend to forbid the
construction of nuclear power plants for 10 years, despite
warnings of lower living standards and increased dependence
on imported oil. The voters decided against shutting
Switzerland's five existing nuclear facilities, which provide
about 40% of the nation's electricity.
   ---
   An Indian student killed himself Saturday by eating
insecticide, prompting rioters to rampage through the town of
Kurukshetra to protest government plans to reserve federal
jobs for lower-caste Hindus. The policy has set off a wave of
suicide attempts.
   ---
   California's Deukmejian signed a landmark oil-spill bill
that taxes oil 25 cents a barrel, creates a cleanup
administrator and regulates tankers in the state's waters.
The governor said the new law will give California an
unprecedented ability both to prevent spills and fight the
effects of spills.
   ---
   Aides to Bush said the administration -- as part of a plan
for preserving the northern spotted owl -- is asking Congress
to allow new sales of 3.3 billion board feet of timber on
Forest Service lands in Washington, Oregon and Northern
California during the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1.
   ---
   President Gaviria rejected criticism of his handling of
Colombia's drug war and ruled out talks between the
government and powerful cocaine cartels. Three prominent
Colombians have disappeared in the past month, and it has
been suggested that they were kidnapped by drug traffickers
in an effort to force the government to negotiate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Illinois Court Ruling Could Limit
   Damages in Product Liability Suits
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DD FLFE
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Illinois Supreme Court issued a decision that could
make it tougher for consumers to collect punitive damages in
product liability cases.
   In the decision last week, which legal experts say
probably will have an impact on other states, the court
reversed a $1.6 million punitive damage award against gun
manufacturer Remington Arms Co., a division of Du Pont Co.,
Wilmington, Del.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court said, among other things, that a manufacturer is
not liable for punitive damages if it has investigated prior
accidents involving a product and concluded that the product
is not defective. The company, in this way, would have
demonstrated its good faith in making a safe product.
   The court also said, in essence, that to win punitive
damages the consumer must prove that the product in question
was defective. It isn't enough to argue that the company is
culpable because it did not use the best possible design or
material.
   Mark I. Levy, who filed a friend-of-the-court brief on
behalf of the Product Liability Advisory Council, said the
decision might be followed by other state courts. The opinion
"sends a clear message that the standard for punitive damages
should be stringent," said Mr. Levy, an attorney with the
Chicago law firm Mayer, Brown &amp; Platt. "The opinion makes it
clear that such damages are available only in cases of
exceptional wrongdoing on the part of companies."
   But Minneapolis attorney Roger P. Brosnahan, a partner at
Robins, Kaplan, Miller &amp; Ciresi, said the opinion indicates
"a conservative trend to narrow the responsibility of
companies toward the public. It sends a message that people
cannot rely on a company that has been informed about a
product's problems to either correct the product or warn the
public about it."
   In the case, a marksman was injured when the barrel of his
Remington 12-gauge shotgun, Model 1100, exploded during a
trapshooting contest in 1983. Claiming that the company knew
about the potential dangers of the gun, the marksman, Robert
Loitz, charged Remington with negligence and misconduct.
   At the trial, testimony disclosed that prior to Mr.
Loitz's accident, the company had received 94 reports of
other barrel explosions involving the same model that
resulted in injuries. The company argued that after
investigating those accidents, it determined that the cause
of the explosions was the type of shell the shooters used,
not an inherent problem in the gun. The company's records of
those investigations had been destroyed, but two longtime
employees testified about the results of the probes.
   A state jury had awarded Mr. Loitz $75,000 in compensatory
damages in addition to the $1.6 million punitive damage award
and an intermediate appellate court upheld the awards.
   Mr. Loitz's attorney, Jon B. Robinson of the Decatur,
Ill., law firm Hull, Campbell &amp; Robinson, could not be
reached.
   William E. Kelly, a lawyer at the Chicago law firm Pope,
Ballard, Shepard &amp; Fowle representing the company, said that
he was pleased with the decision but was "disappointed that
the court didn't also reverse the compensatory damages."
   ---
   JUDGE SETS CAP on attorneys' fees in racketeering case.
   A federal judge in Chicago set a $150,000 limit on
attorneys' fees for each of six defendants named in an
indictment charging members of the On Leong Chinese Merchants
Association with operating an illegal gambling business.
   The defendants were among 29 members of the national
association and chapters in Chicago, Houston and New York
charged last month with operating casino-style centers. The
government is seeking $11.5 million in proceeds from the
alleged gambling operations.
   The six defendants are under a court-imposed restraining
order limiting their personal expenditures, because if they
are found guilty their assets are subject to government
forfeiture.
   U.S. District Judge John A. Nordberg modified the
restraining order to exempt attorneys' fees from the
$5,000-a-month limit on spending. Federal prosecutors sought
a cap of $100,000 on attorneys' fees, but the judge ruled in
favor of defense attorneys, who argued that a $150,000 limit
would be reasonable.
   The cap will apply unless the trial, set for April 1,
lasts more than three weeks. Judge Nordberg cautioned defense
attorneys to limit the number of hours they spend on pretrial
matters that can be handled by more junior lawyers and
paralegals.
   Attorneys' fees have become an issue in some racketeering
cases in light of two 1989 U.S. Supreme Court rulings that
forfeiture of the fees is constitutional.
   ---
   TEXAS ATTORNEY wins reversal of napping conviction.
   The federal appeals court in New Orleans overturned a
ruling that had found prominent Houston attorney John O'Quinn
guilty of criminal contempt for taking a nap in a jury room
last Nov. 30.
   Mr. O'Quinn took the siesta during a break in a lengthy
and acrimonious case he was trying before U.S. District Judge
David Hittner in Houston. The judge said the nap violated his
Nov. 22 order barring attorneys in the trial from using
courthouse facilities without his permission. He imposed a
10-day jail sentence to be served on weekends, although he
offered to set aside the jail time if Mr. O'Quinn paid a $500
fine and performed 60 hours of community service.
   But last week, a three-judge appeals court panel overruled
Judge Hittner, saying his original order banning the use of
court facilities had been "too vague and overbroad" to
support a criminal contempt conviction. Although Mr. O'Quinn
had exhibited "less than professional conduct" in his dozing,
the panel said, the judge had left "too much doubt" about his
intentions.
   John Braddock, an assistant U.S. attorney who won the
conviction, said he was disappointed by the reversal, but he
didn't expect any further action in the case. Mr. O'Quinn
didn't return telephone calls.
   ---
   NEW JERSEY SETTLES sex bias dispute between two judges.
   Elinor Reiner, an administrative law judge in New Jersey,
was paid $220,000 to settle a sex discrimination and sexual
harassment suit she brought against her ex-boss, Ronald
Parker, a judge who formerly ran the state's Office of
Administrative Law. The office was also a defendant.
   As part of the terms of the settlement, neither defendant
admitted wrongdoing. Jerry Fischer, a senior deputy attorney
general with the state, said, "We strongly dispute each and
every one of the claims."
   Ms. Reiner's suit was filed in federal court in Newark,
N.J., in 1988. The suit alleged that Judge Parker, the former
acting director and chief administrative law judge,
repeatedly suggested they have sex and made other sexual
statements.
   As punishment for rejecting his advances, Judge Parker
assigned Judge Reiner dull cases and wrote a job performance
review that led to her getting a small raise in salary, the
suit alleged. Judge Reiner also charged that male judges were
paid substantially more than their female counterparts.
   An attorney for Judge Parker couldn't be reached. An
attorney for Judge Reiner declined to comment.
   ---
   STUDENT-LOAN INQUIRY leads to conviction of ex-official at
Florida thrift.
   A federal jury in Tampa, Fla., convicted Jeffrey A.
Flatten of conspiring to defraud the U.S. Department of
Education in connection with its Guaranteed Student Loan
Program. The program makes low-interest loans available to
students for college expenses.
   Mr. Flatten, who headed Florida Federal Savings Bank's
student-loan division, first came under scrutiny in 1988 when
the thrift was investigated for allegedly filing as many as
17,000 fraudulent insurance claims to the government on $35
million in student loans.
   Federal officials in Florida characterized the case as the
largest student-loan fraud ever prosecuted. Mr. Flatten
couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   GASTON &amp; SNOW, a 270-lawyer Boston law firm, is
collaborating with accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young to provide
counseling on environmental issues. The firms are offering
what they call "environmental opportunities assessment"
services. The goal, according to Gaston &amp; Snow partner
Michael P. Last, is to "systematically look at economic
opportunities that you may be able to take advantage of when
you try to seek environmental compliance or, better yet,
environmental excellence." Ernst &amp; Young will provide
accounting and environmental consulting expertise and Gaston
&amp; Snow will advise clients on legal and management issues.
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes and Ellen Joan Pollock contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Would Rise, Yen Fall, if Shooting
   Breaks Out in the Gulf, Analysts Predict
   ----
   By Brandon Mitchener
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One shot might not ignite a war in the
Mideast, but it would cripple the yen and most European
currencies through higher crude oil prices, analysts say.
Without a war, however, the dollar is likely to weaken.
   A survey of oil analysts and economists suggests the
dollar would gain about 20 yen within minutes of the first
volley of gunfire in the Gulf as traders and investors scurry
to a "haven." The British pound also would gain during an
armed conflict, while other European currencies would suffer,
they say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the stalemate with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
continues, many analysts say crude oil prices will stay well
above $30 a barrel, but the dollar will continue to suffer
because of the weak U.S. economy. That weakness also will
take its toll on the dollar if the Gulf crisis is resolved
peacefully.
   "The one thing that would be positive for the dollar, in a
perverse sense, is if there was a war," said Bob Chandross,
vice president and chief economist at Lloyds Bank in New
York.
   Late Friday in New York, the dollar was quoted at 136.65
yen, falling a full yen from 137.65 yen late Thursday in New
York.
   But the U.S. currency edged up against the mark Friday,
being quoted in late New York trading at 1.5785 marks, up
from 1.5773 marks late Thursday. Sterling was trading at
$1.8435, down from $1.8740.
   Financial markets were closed in Tokyo Monday for a public
holiday.
   The benchmark U.S. oil futures product, the November light
sweet crude oil contract, closed at $35.43 a barrel Friday on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, up $2.01 from Thursday,
when the October contract went off the board near a record
high of $35. If the Mideast erupts, experts say, the
soonest-expiring contract's price likely would fly well above
$40 a barrel, pulling the dollar and sterling along.
   Since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, crude oil futures
prices have risen about $13.50 a barrel.
   The World Bank Thursday warned that a "war scenario" in
the Middle East would push oil prices "to as high as $65 {a
barrel} in the short term," eventually translating into
higher world interest rates and slower growth for industrial
countries as well as a large group of Third World nations.
   Among major currencies, the yen is the most vulnerable to
a sharp rise in oil prices, because Japan is totally
dependent on foreign oil. If a shooting war causes a
substantial disruption in supplies, the yen could slide to
165 yen to the dollar, according to Peter Cardillo, director
of commodities research at Jessup Josephtal &amp; Co. The mark,
reflecting Germany's relative dependence on foreign oil,
would also wilt to around 1.72 to the dollar, he predicted.
   Kiyohiko Yoshizawa, a corporate foreign-exchange trader at
Midland Bank in New York, said he would prefer sterling to
the dollar as a haven in a crisis. "If it's a war between the
Arabs and Israel, there's a greater possibility the Arabs
would attack Israel's ally, the U.S.," he reasoned. Moreover,
the fundamental weakness of the U.S. economy puts downward
pressure on the dollar, he said.
   Sung Won Sohn, senior vice president and chief economist
at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis, is banking on a war. "The
sooner the better, before Americans' patience runs out," he
said.
   His reasoning, shared by some others, is that the only
thing that really will help the dollar is a disruption in oil
supplies. Without such a disruption, the Germans and Japanese
would prove more efficient consumers of their oil than the
U.S., he said.
   The Norwest economist cited statistics from the
International Energy Agency that show U.S. fossil-fuel
consumption at 2.25% of gross national product, compared with
1.21% for Japan and 1.32% for Germany. (Coal, petroleum and
natural gas are all fossil fuels.)
   "There's a lot of baggage the dollar is carrying," said
Mr. Sohn, listing the heightened possibility of a U.S.
recession, lower interest rates, the federal budget deficit
and the costly savings-and-loan bailout.
   Gilbert Benz, economist with Swiss Bank Corp. in New York,
said he considers the current situation "an oil shock" but
agrees it isn't likely to help the dollar unless the shooting
starts. "The economic fundamentals in the U.S. remain weak,"
he said.
   Barring an armed conflict, Mr. Benz sees only a 25% chance
oil prices will rise above $40 a barrel this year.
   Mr. Benz called the current crisis "modest" compared with
those that followed the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74 and the
1979 beginning of the Iranian revolution. The average price
for imported crude oil went from about $3 a barrel to $4.08
in 1973 and to $12.52 in 1974, according to the American
Petroleum Institute in Washington. In May 1979, Saudi crude
fetched $40 a barrel.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $389.40 an ounce Friday, up 30 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate four million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$388.50 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Salant Corp.:
   Quarterly Deficit Widens
   At New York Apparel Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11D
</SO>
<CO>
   SLT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Salant Corp., an apparel maker operating under protection
of the bankruptcy laws, reported its fiscal second-quarter
net loss widened to $33.3 million from nearly $9 million a
year earlier.
   On a per-share basis, Salant's loss for the second period,
ended June 26, amounted to $9.64 compared with $2.62. Sales,
which were hurt by weakness at the retail level, fell 31% to
$77.4 million from $101.4 million. Sales also were
interrupted in the two weeks before Salant filed its
bankruptcy-law petition, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For July, the New York company posted nearly $2.4 million
in profit on $43.2 million of sales. The profit reflected
factors including the elimination of interest expense on
Salant's debt; the company neither accrues nor pays such
interest while it operates under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy
Code.
   Salant also estimated that in August it earned more than
July's profit on some $54 million of sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   HIGHER INCOME TAXES on the wealthy were endorsed by Dole
to offset Bush's proposed cut in the capital-gains tax rate.
The Senate minority leader broke with the White House in a
bid to resolve the budget deadlock. Dole announced his plan
just hours before he and other negotiators resumed efforts to
reach a deficit-reduction plan before Oct. 1.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chase Manhattan slashed its dividend, announced plans to
cut its staff by 5,000 and said it will set aside more than
$650 million in additional reserves against shaky domestic
loans.
                                                                                                       

   Midlantic cut its dividend sharply and said it expects a
third-quarter loss of as much as $160 million. Southeast
Banking omitted its dividend and said it also expects a
quarterly loss.
   ---
   OPEC is pumping enough oil to stave off world-wide energy
shortages at least until winter, estimates show. But
political pressure is grow ing to tap stockpiles such as the
U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
   ---
   Financial leaders of the U.S. and six other industrialized
nations said their countries are showing "solid growth"
despite high oil prices.
   ---
   Machine-tool orders jumped 27% in August, indicating
durable-goods producers plan to upgrade factories despite
economic uncertainty.
   ---
   Neil Bush was named in a $200 million civil suit over the
failure of a Colorado thrift. The action involving the
president's son, a director of the S&amp;L, and a hearing this
week on the case promise to turn up the heat on the president
over the thrift crisis.
   ---
   Charles Keating remained behind bars after a California
judge refused to lower the $5 million bail imposed last week
in the case, which stems from the collapse of Lincoln
Savings.
   ---
   The securities industry is left with little leverage to
keep commercial banks from having free rein to underwrite
securities. But it could be years before such underwriting
does much to bolster the bottom line at banks.
   ---
   Higher air fares may be in store for flights abroad. The
Transportation Department is expected to announce today that
it will allow fares to rise 5% to 10%, effective Oct. 1,
subject to approval by other nations.
   ---
   John Portman has been hit with at least 14 liens by
subcontractors who haven't been paid for work on San
Francisco's Fashion Center. Chemical Bank filed suit to
collect a $5 million line of credit from the developer.
   ---
   Striking auto workers at Ford of Canada ratified a
generous wage and benefit package that the Canadian unit of
cash-strapped Chrysler may find difficult to match.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. auto makers plan to build 9.6% more cars in the
fourth quarter than a year ago, but analysts say that is
subject to economic change.
   ---
   Hilton Hotels decided to repurchase up to 12.5% of its
stock, which has tumbled amid weak earnings and worries about
travel and tourism. A week earlier, company officials said
there were no plans for a buy-back.
   ---
   A Reichmann family plan to create Canada's biggest
domestically-owned oil producer by merging Gulf Canada
Resources and Home Oil has been stalled by rising oil prices.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 201,050,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2512.38, off 5.94; transportation 876.66, off 3.33; utilities
201.71, up 1.38.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3316.00,
off 23.43.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.75, up 0.27; spot
index 129.52, up 0.43.
   Dollar: 136.65 yen, off 1.00; 1.5785 marks, up 0.0012.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boston Edison Co.:
   Court Reverses Judgment
   Towns Won From Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BSE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Boston Edison Co. said the U.S. Court of Appeals in Boston
reversed a $39.3 million antitrust judgment against the
company.
   The company last year was ordered to pay the damages to
the towns of Concord and Wellesley, Mass., after a jury found
that wholesale rates the utility charged the towns violated
antitrust laws. The towns alleged price discrimination,
anticompetitive restrictions and price squeezing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The appeals court, however, noting that the towns could
have purchased power from other suppliers, said the towns
failed to prove that Boston Edison had a monopoly.
   Boston Edison said that the 1989 judgment hadn't been
reflected in the company's financial statements, and thus the
appeals court decision won't affect the company's earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Investors Find There's Still Gold
   At the End of the LBO Rainbow
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PAM CCI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- These may be hard times on Wall Street, but
some people who invested in the leveraged buy-out binge of
recent years are still reaping handsome profits as their
companies go public again.
   For instance, Scholastic Corp., the well-known publisher
of children's books, is planning to go public this week at
about $19.50 a share, more than 14 times the original
investment of some selling shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few of the LBO investors in NRM Steelastic will make
nearly 123 times their investment of about 11 cents a share
if the maker of equipment for tire manufacturers goes public
again at $13.50 a share, as planned. Last week, Citicorp
Venture Capital Ltd., a unit of Citicorp, cashed in its 1986
investment in Pamida Holdings, at 25 times its original
investment of 20 cents a share.
   Not that the selling shareholders are getting everything
they want: The Citicorp group had envisioned getting 75 times
its original investment in Pamida, a Midwestern discount
retail chain. The NRM Steelastic offering has been delayed;
20% of the company's revenue is tied up in Iraq. The new
issues market has been battered by weakness in the economy
and the stock market, leaving similar deals -- such as one by
Musicland -- stranded as they wait to go public.
   "In a bear market, there are limits to what you can ask
people to {pay} without offending their sensibilities," says
Roger McNamee, co-manager of T. Rowe Price Associates' New
Horizons Fund. For LBO investors cashing out, "we're talking
about the difference between spectacular and ridiculous
success."
   Scholastic will offer a test of how high a price a company
that is favorably viewed can command from shell-shocked
investors. Founded in 1920 by Maurice R. Robinson, this New
York publisher of children's books and other educational
materials has a franchise and international distribution
network widely praised by analysts.
   In 1987, after trading publicly for 18 years, Scholastic
was taken private in a leveraged buy-out by Richard Robinson,
chairman, chief executive and a son of the founder, and other
Robinson family members and company executives.
   The buy-out is generally considered a success. Revenue in
the 1990 fiscal year ended May 31 was $374.6 million, more
than double the $180.3 million in fiscal 1986. Scholastic
turned an operating loss of $6.7 million in fiscal 1989 into
operating income of $24.2 million in fiscal 1990.
   The company now plans to raise between $75.6 million and
$88.2 million by offering 4.2 million common shares to the
public at between $18 and $21 apiece; of that, 3.27 million
shares will be sold by the company and the rest by
shareholders who originally paid about $1.35 a share.
Proceeds will be used to help repay more than $46 million in
debt. After the offering, current shareholders will control
67.3% of the company, with 32.7% held by the public. The
stock will trade over the counter.
   Scholastic "has done an excellent job of increasing
profitability," says Robert Natale, new-issues analyst for
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. But when he compares the proposed
stock price to those of comparable companies, he concludes
the offering is overpriced. "Investors would do well to buy
it at $14.50 a share or less," he advises.
   Mr. Natale isn't alone in balking at the planned offering.
Mr. McNamee of T. Rowe Price points out that Mr. Robinson and
other executives were granted options in May to buy stock at
$9.64 a share, about half the planned price of the initial
public offering. While other publishing stocks have taken a
beating this year, "it hardly seems fair that they get a 100%
mark-up," he says.
   "They'll all be spectacularly wealthy," Mr. McNamee adds.
"It's just a question of playing chicken with the market and
seeing how much they can get." As does Mr. Natale, he likes
the company's prospects and hopes that it will strike a
compromise with willing investors.
   For venture capitalists eager to cash in on their
investments, last week's offering of Pamida Holdings shows
what it takes to lure skeptical investors in today's fragile
market. Pamida, publicly owned from 1969 to 1981, was bought
by an employee stock ownership plan in 1981. In 1986, a group
led by Citicorp Venture Capital bought the company in a
leveraged buy-out.
   Originally, Pamida filed in June with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for an offering of 2.8 million shares at
$14 to $17 each; of that, the company planned to sell two
million shares to raise funds. Later, the price was lowered
to $13 to $16 a share, but the offering was increased to four
million shares.
   Last week, Pamida finally went public on the American
Stock Exchange at $5 a share, with only 1.5 million shares
offered -- Citicorp Venture Capital's entire stake. At
one-third the hoped-for price of $15 a share, the discount
seemed steep enough to satisfy investors: Pamida closed
Friday at $6.375. And Citicorp Venture Capital cashed out at
25 times its original 20 cent-a-share investment.
   On the other hand, some other "reverse LBOs" on the public
equity agenda are drawing cautious reviews from analysts and
money managers. Reverse LBOs refer to companies taken private
in a leveraged buy-out that, theoretically, have matured and
are now going public to seek debt relief or allow their
investors to cash profits.
   Steelastic, an Ohio maker of tire-manufacturing equipment,
was bought in a 1986 LBO by a group of investors led by John
D. Vazzana. In 1987, Steelastic bought Goodyear's
tire-retreading equipment business; this year it bought NRM
Corp., a maker of tire building machines and other equipment.
Pro forma net income jumped to $8.2 million on sales of
$117.8 million in fiscal 1990 ended March 31, from income of
$1.1 million in fiscal 1986 on sales of $8.3 million. While
the acquisition of NRM Corp. contributed to a big jump in
sales, it also added to the company's debt load.
   To pare $48 million in long-term debt down to about $20
million, or about 25% of total capitalization after the
offering, NRM Steelastic plans an initial offering of 3.35
million shares at $12 to $15 each. The company plans to sell
2.8 million of those shares. Certain shareholders who
originally bought stock for 11 cents a share will sell the
rest.
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has put the offering on hold.
Company officials were out of the country and not available
to comment on what the invasion has done to NRM Steelastic's
operations in Iraq, which accounted for 20% of pro-forma net
sales in fiscal 1990.
   Even without its problems in the Mideast, NRM Steelastic
is vulnerable to a slowing economy. "The tire business is not
the kind of company you want to own in a recession," says
S&amp;P's Mr. Natale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A.:
   Earnings at Italian Insurer
   For the 1st Half Edged Up
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.ASG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A., Italy's largest insurance
concern, said parent-company gross earnings for the first
half rose less than 1% to 349.7 billion lire ($297.3 million)
from 346.8 billion lire a year earlier.
   Generali, which has more than 50 units world-wide, cited a
fundamental downturn in the insurance sector, especially in
foreign sales and the Italian non-life sector. An official
said increased inflationary pressure, exchange-rate
instability and the plunge in financial markets following
Iraq's occupation of Kuwait created concern about second-half
results. Nonetheless, he predicted year-end performance to be
"in line" with year-earlier profit, which rose 15% to 390.2
billion lire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First-half gross premium income rose 7.2% to 2.923
trillion lire. Net income from investments rose 14% to 733
billion lire. Income from asset sales totaled 77.8 billion
lire. Group aggregate premium income rose 8.4% to 7.311
trillion lire. Premium income from life insurance rose 8.5%
to 1.109 trillion lire, and non-life premium income rose 8.6%
to 1.814 trillion lire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How America Can Help the New South Africa
   ----
   By Denis Worrall
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   CAPETOWN -- South Africa's President Frederick W. De
Klerk, who is scheduled to lunch with President Bush today,
knows not to expect the kind of reception accorded Nelson
Mandela. Yet he is at least as important to South Africa's
future as Mr. Mandela: Archbishop Desmond Tutu has proposed
that the two men be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize jointly.
   Mr. De Klerk's decision to release all political prisoners
and unban organizations like the African National Congress,
the Communist Party and the Pan Africanist Congress, without
requiring them first to qualify their long-standing
commitment to the "armed struggle," normalized South African
politics. South African politics, for so long dominated by a
constituency of 5 million whites, have become the politics of
more than 35 million people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now a new pattern of race relations, free of apartheid and
discrimination, has to be worked out. Jobs are required on a
massive scale to keep pace with the country's 3% annual
population growth. The democratic culture in South Africa is
skin-deep: and the prerequisites for democracy -- wide-spread
literacy, adequate and equitably distributed incomes,
industrialization and urbanization, shared values, and a
shared sense of nationhood -- are at best weakly present.
   The transition to non-racialism could still be disrupted
either by a resurgence of Afrikaner nationalism, or by
intra-black ethnic rivalry, or by the violence of the "lost
generations," the young blacks who dropped out of school and
society after 1976, and are now largely beyond the reach of
the main political organizations.
   But the transition itself is irreversible. American
anti-apartheid organizations understandably claim that the
sanctions in the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986,
have been instrumental in bringing about the change. I
disagree with this view, but the disagreement is now
academic. The question Americans should be asking now is not:
"What do we do to end apartheid?" but rather "How do we help
South Africans achieve a non-racial democracy?" Mr. De
Klerk's visit is the occasion to begin to answer that
question.
   In the first place, Americans should make their experience
in race relations more readily available to South Africa. The
American lesson for South Africa is that individuals and
societies can change. Because the American attitude toward
South Africa has been so moralistic, Americans have refused
to recognize that their experience in race relations -- both
the successes and the failures of residential desegregation,
affirmative action, rights of voluntary association,
definitions of individual and group rights -- are also
relevant in South Africa's circumstances.
   No issue is more important to South Africa's future than
the form of its economy. While the present economy, with its
racial disparities in income, wealth and public spending, is
unacceptable to the majority of South Africans, the simple
expedient of "nationalization" will not work either. Here,
too, outsiders can contribute.
   South Africa will need a great deal of foreign investment,
and not just for economic reasons. Multinational
corporations, and their South African equivalents have helped
to ameliorate some of the worst of the hardships of South
African life. Will TransAfrica representatives turn up at
U.S. shareholder meetings to ask chief executives, "Why is
your company not active in South Africa?"
   Alan Keyes, a former U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations, has argued that America's objective should be to
help "South African blacks become richer rather than poorer,
stronger rather than weaker, more hopeful rather than more
desperate." By promoting "black empowerment" through the
trade unions, through education and training, and by
assisting black small business, the U.S. can create a
situation in which more equal bargaining is possible.
   Finally, while there is no need at the moment for outside
facilitators in South Africa's constitutional negotiations,
hitches will occur. Mr. De Klerk's visit gives President Bush
a chance to demonstrate that the U.S. can adopt an
even-handed approach to the situation.
   For more than a decade, many American politicians have
used South Africa to win votes in American politics. But
South Africa's significance transcends apartheid. If South
Africans can live together in peace and harmony, then no
country in the world with similar problems has reason to
throw up its hands and say: "We cannot find the answer]"
   ---
   Mr. Worrall, formerly South Africa's ambassador to
Britain, is a Democratic Party Member of Parliament.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Winners, Losers Take Stock of Glass-Steagall Battle
   ---
   Securities Industry
   Has Little Leverage
   ----
   By William Power and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Has Wall Street lost the war?
   Now that the Federal Reserve Board has let commercial
banks underwrite stocks, the securities industry is left with
little or no leverage as it tries to keep banks from having
absolute reign on its turf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even before last week's Fed move, Wall Street had seen the
writing on the wall and dropped its outright opposition to
letting banks into the securities business. Now, however, the
securities industry is left with only the hope of forging a
compromise with the banks through Congress, or forcing change
through the courts. Either avenue will be tough going.
   And as the banks win more and more power from the Fed, the
securities industry has little to do but howl its
indignation.
   "This is a regulator taking over the store," complains
Robert Downey, a partner at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and chairman
of the Securities Industry Association, Wall Street's main
trade group. He says his group "will do our darned best" to
get Congress to pass new laws that allow banks in the
securities business -- but with heavy restrictions -- and
give securities firms some bank-related privileges, too.
   Mr. Downey says the securities association stands by its
"financial reform" plan put forth last year. As he describes
the plan: "You can do anything, Mr. Bank, but you can't have
federal deposit insurance involved, and we get some kind of
access to the Fed, as banks do, in times of crisis."
   Other securities industry officials, not sure of what
regulators or Congress will do, are hoping that old-fashioned
market forces will keep the bankers in their place.
   "Banks certainly have an embarrassing record for running
the banking business in the 1980s; I guess that qualifies
them for trying our business," says Benjamin F. Edwards III,
chairman of the A.G. Edwards Inc. brokerage firm in St.
Louis. He adds, "I think we do a lousy job in the banking
business," such as in certain failures in making loans, "and
it would surprise me if the banks do a good job in the
securities business."
   Sorrell Mathes, a top stock underwriting official at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., says the underwriting business -- in
which a financial firm buys stocks or bonds from a corporate
issuer and then resells them to investors -- requires a vast
infrastructure, including a big research operation. "That is
an expensive project to build," he warns.
   Such courage aside, the securities industry is at a
distinct disadvantage going into next year's debate over
drafting new legislation, congressional staffers say. "At
this point, the banking industry doesn't have to ask for
much," said one Senate aide. "They have most of what they
want." Instead, he said, "The securities industry is being
put in a position where they have to beg for banking powers
without having much in terms of bargaining chips."
   Indeed, with the Fed giving them so much of what they
want, many bankers say they almost needn't bother arguing for
more power from Congress.
   Bankers have "less incentive" to go to a legislative
solution, said Richard Whiting, general counsel of the
Association of Bank Holding Companies, a trade group for
large banking firms. "They feel they have gotten favorable
rulings from the regulatory process."
   The Senate Banking Committee this year has held a dozen or
so days of hearings to lay the groundwork for altering the
1933 Glass-Steagall Act and the Bank Holding Company Act, two
pieces of Depression-era legislation that define the
boundaries of banking and securities. The laws, passed in
response to the wave of bank failures after the 1929
stock-market crash, divorced the banking and securities
businesses.
   Both bankers and securities firms think the Senate will
move next year to break down the barriers even further than
they have in recent years.
   "We take it as a given that the Senate will do something,"
says James McLaughlin, director of trust and securities at
the American Bankers Association. "The question is what will
the House do."
   Securities firms got some cheer on Friday from the House
banking-committee head, Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas), who
called the Fed's move "irresponsible." The congressman said
it "willy-nilly adds massive new risks to the banking system
at a time when the taxpayer-supported insurance fund is
strained to its outermost limits."
   The securities industry says that the Fed is making a
mistake with its view that the strong capital base of banks
like J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. will allow them to safely exercise
their new stock-underwriting power.
   "Drexel had plenty of capital until last year," says Mr.
Downey, referring to the now-collapsed securities firm Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc.; banks that once had adequate capital
have failed, as well. "It's just not enough to say, `Just
raise capital.'"
   If the securities association fails in Congress, it might
sue to block the banks' increasing freedoms. "We're not
ruling it out," says Mr. Downey.
   Up to now, the association's lawyers have failed to fight
off inroads into other areas of the securities business
besides stocks, such as corporate bonds. However, "equities
are the ultimate. Maybe the court would listen to that," Mr.
Downey says.
   Meanwhile, every sector of the financial-services industry
seems to be scrambling to protect its franchise -- including
the mutual-funds industry.
   "There is only one power the regulators have not given
banks: underwriting and sponsoring of mutual funds," says
Matthew Fink, general counsel of the Investment Company
Institute, the mutual fund trade group.
   Mr. Fink says his group, like the securities association,
wants a bill that replaces Glass-Steagall and the Bank
Holding Company Act. But this would be only as long as
federal securities laws governed and there were "amendments
to protect mutual funds," he says.
   (See related story: "Banks Bask in Equity-Underwriting
Victory, But New Role May Prove Symbolic for Now" -- WSJ
Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Egged On by Moms,
   Many Teen-Agers
   Get Plastic surgery
   ---
   `Dumbo' Ears, Banana Noses
   Can Be Fixed at a Price --
   And a Psychological Cost
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   As an eighth-grade graduation present, Kristina Olson got
new ears from her mother. Leigh Kane, at 17, got a new nose.
   Since last month, Danielle Borngiorno, 14, has had
narrower hips and thinner thighs. Her mother offered to pay
for breast implants, too, but Danielle decided against that,
for the time being. She is still considering chin and nose
work and a cheek implant. "Now, {it's} just like, let's go
every week and get something improved on. There are so many
things you can do," says Danielle, who lives in Brooklyn,
N.Y.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Why bother with padded bras and Clearasil when silicone
and dermabrasion promise permanence? Why spend one's
adolescence brooding about receding chins or big ears when it
is so simple to have plastic surgery?
   To the dismay of at least some psychologists and medical
doctors, cosmetic surgery is now hardly more exotic than
orthodontics among children whose parents have the
wherewithal to pay $600 or $6,000 for a surgical procedure to
improve on nature. Statistics don't exist, but many plastic
surgeons say their teen-age clientele has doubled in the past
five years and now is as much as 25% of their business.
   Nose and ear jobs remain the most popular operations. But
dermabrasion (sanding off layers of skin), breast
augmentation and liposuction (fat sucking) are coming on
strong with kids, not just with middle-aged entertainers like
Phyllis Diller. Many Asian boys and girls, overeager to
assimilate, seek to reshape the epicanthic fold in their
eyelids. Some black youths, a la Michael Jackson, see
surgeons for narrower noses and thinner lips.
   Observers critical of the phenomenon see in it pampered
children who can't tolerate the pain of being themselves.
They see a society obsessed with appearance and with
narrow-minded notions of what constitutes beauty.
   "I hear doctors defend the right of teens to have
face-lift surgery and eyelid surgery," says Frederick
Stucker, chairman of the Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
Department at Louisiana State University, "but I think we
send the wrong message when we're willing to do it for
teens." Dr. Stucker maintains that a lot of operations are
unnecessary because teenage acne, babyfat and other
"problems" usually disappear on their own as kids get older.
   Adds Norman M. Cole, vice president of the American
Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons: "A real
problem in our society is that parents want everything for
their children. Aesthetic surgery has become a commodity. `I
want my son to have a new stereo, car, nose and chin.' This
is something that deserves some careful interrogation."
Surgery to change racial characteristics, Dr. Cole says, is
"an inappropriate concession to Western images. The Oriental
eye in China is considered the most beautiful in the world.
It's a sad commentary . . ."
   Cosmetic surgeons have their own interests in the matter,
and some of them argue that plastic surgery is a real boon to
teenagers psychologically. Insecurity, self-consciousness and
a lack of self-esteem vanish once the bandages come off.
Surgery can take "years off a psychiatrist's couch," says
Walter Berman, a facial plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills,
Calif.
   "I did two kids {a 14-year-old girl and a 16-year-old boy}
this week who had a hereditary bagging of the upper eyelid,"
says Lori Hansen, a plastic surgeon in Oklahoma City, Okla.
"It made them look tired all the time. So we just took the
extra skin and fat away. Things are so easily fixed now. We
don't have to live with them."
   But critics say that in many cases parents are to blame
for wanting "perfectlooking" children, thus encouraging low
self-esteem in their offspring. "We see it often," says
Pearlman D. Hicks, a plastic surgeon in Long Beach, Calif.
"The parent tells the kid, `Your nose looks terrible. You
don't even look like part of the family.' {Parents} plant the
seed and get the kids worried."
   Nose jobs, of course, are nothing new for teen-agers. But
they once were a thing of the affluent and the disfigured.
Now, middle-class people get them almost willy-nilly. They
are a socially acceptable midcourse correction in the life of
an adolescent. New procedures, like liposuction, have been
introduced in the U.S. within the past 10 years and pull in a
lot of patients.
   Many teen-agers who have had cosmetic surgery say they are
glad they did. Why put it off and prolong the agony when they
are likely to have it done eventually anyway?
   "My mom had the same problem. She had something done about
it. I could have waited years, but I did it now," says
Abigail Clawson, 15, speaking of her nose and chin jobs last
April. Abigail, of Westlake Village, Calif., had a bump on
her nose and a receding chin. Nobody ever teased her about
her profile, but for some children, ridicule from schoolmates
can be merciless: "Is that your nose or a banana?" the kids
in Hartshorne, Okla., used to taunt Amanda Andrews, 13. For
years, Amanda would come home from school weeping.
   Explains Lorraine Hollis, Amanda's grandmother and legal
guardian: "She had a great big snoot that slumped down -- and
a little, pointed chin. It gave her a witchy look." Ms.
Hollis took Amanda in for rhinoplasty (nose surgery) and
mentoplasty (a chin implant) on her 13th birthday a year ago
this month. Now, Amanda says, "I'm happier. A lot more guys
ask me out. Even those who teased me now say, `You're looking
better.'"
   Kristina Olson, 20, of Indianapolis, used to hate to go to
school because her "Dumbo" ears, as she refers to them, stuck
out. "I couldn't enjoy life," says Kristina, who would sit in
the back of the classroom and hold her hand over one ear
while covering the other with her hair.
   Finally, her mother took her in for otoplasty -- which, in
effect, pins back protruding ears -- as a gift of "happiness
and mental health." At the age of 16, Kristina entered a new
school and "no one knew the history of my ears." Her
self-esteem and self-confidence soared.
   One young black woman, who doesn't want her name
mentioned, thought her nose was too wide. While she didn't
want to change all her racial features, the 19-year-old
thought a smaller, narrower nose would "enhance" her beauty.
   So, after white friends of hers had had rhinoplasties done
and her own father had the surgery, the Los Angeles resident,
now 21, decided to narrow her nose, too. "I don't think I'm
trying to be white," although she realizes that "a lot of
people see it that way."
   Leigh Kane, of Glen Cove, N.Y., the boy who had the nose
job at 17, says he hadn't realized his nose was out of the
ordinary until his mother told him so two years ago. "I
thought she was kidding. {She said} she noticed that it was
getting progressively worse as I got older," says Leigh, now
19. Suddenly self-conscious, Leigh had a surgeon remove a
bump on his nose and fashion a new tip. And now he feels
better about himself.
   Despite the anecdotal evidence from satisfied young
clients, medical professionals worry that youngsters aren't
prepared to cope with the perils -- physical and
psychological -- of cosmetic surgery.
   "I think the psychological risk among teens is
significantly higher than it is among {the} more mature,"
says Dr. Cole. Often, teen-agers and their parents have
unrealistic expectations that changing appearance will solve
deep-seated problems that require psychiatric attention not
cosmetic surgery.
   Dr. Cole says that several years ago he performed
rhinoplasty on a 16-year-old girl who was ecstatic with the
results at first but later returned complaining that the nose
job hadn't done the trick. She couldn't, however, articulate
exactly what was bothering her. "I think psychologically . .
. that nose wasn't the problem," he says.
   Since most surgical procedures are irreversible, operating
on teen-agers is a heavy responsibility. Patients are
routinely told that things can't be put back the way they
were after the surgery has been done. Patients are counseled
extensively before surgery, so they know the risks involved.
In most states, an 18-year-old can get plastic surgery
without parental consent. Still, some young patients and
their families have regrets.
   Dr. Cole says a colleague operated on the eyelids of an
18-year-old youngster of Korean ancestry who panicked because
his grandparents were angry. "The family was insulted," Dr.
Cole says. They felt that, in having the surgery, the young
man was rejecting his culture. He went back in desperation
seeking to have the surgery undone, but of course it wasn't
possible.
   Doctors say that to be unhappy with one's physical
appearance is simply a part of being a teen-ager, and that
maturity can be the cure. Michael Seifert, 14, of Los
Angeles, has a bump on his nose and a father who is a plastic
surgeon. The son wanted surgery. The father refused on the
grounds that Michael is too young.
   Lately, Michael has found a new girlfriend, who thinks the
bump on his nose gives him "character." He no longer wants to
go under the knife.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Portman's Debt Woes Are Being Felt
   By Subcontractors; Chemical Bank Sues
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- John Portman's debt woes may be starting to
hurt other people.
   The architect-developer, who has suspended payments on
millions of dollars of loans pending emergency talks with his
22 lenders, has been hit with at least 14 liens by
subcontractors who say they haven't been fully paid for their
work on Mr. Portman's new apparel mart in San Francisco. The
$90 million building, completed this summer, has been slow to
lease, in part because of a shakeout among clothing
retailers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "From what I understand, Portman has run out of money for
the job," said Clem Grant, president of Dual Lock Partition
Systems of Beaverton, Ore., a door maker that has filed a
lien for $87,000 of unpaid bills, due five months ago. "It
looks like we're at an impasse now, and there's nothing to do
but file a lawsuit."
   A spokesman for Mr. Portman denied that Portman Cos. has
run out of money to pay subcontractors. He said the 800,000
square-foot Fashion Center was built in just 17 months, a
speed that made a number of mid-course construction changes
necessary. Payment for those changes is now being negotiated,
he said. "It is absolutely not a question of either the
ability or the willingness to pay," insisted the Portman
spokesman.
   Separately, Chemical Bank filed a lawsuit against Mr.
Portman Friday to collect a $5 million line-of-credit loan
due Sept. 1. The New York bank, which filed the complaint in
state court here, is the second of Mr. Portman's unsecured
lenders to break ranks with a creditor committee that has
been working with Mr. Portman to come up with a collateral
pool to securitize his unsecured loans. Such dissension among
creditors on a committee isn't unusual, and some executives
close to Mr. Portman say more suits could follow.
   "We are not surprised or unduly concerned about the
lawsuit filed by Chemical Bank," Mr. Portman said in a
statement. The statement added that Portman Cos. expects the
collateral agreement to be completed shortly. Mr. Portman's
more than $2 billion of mortgage debt could be affected by
any agreement.
   It is not unusual for subcontractors on large construction
jobs to file liens for unpaid bills when a building is
finished. But several of the lienholders on Mr. Portman's San
Francisco property said they were shocked not to be paid
because the contractor who built the Fashion Center, Stolte
Inc. of Denver, had always paid promptly on past projects.
   "This is very unusual for Stolte," said Frank Greer,
president of American Masonry Inc., a Walnut Creek, Calif.,
masonry concern that has received only half of its $54,000
bill -- due Aug. 6 -- for Fashion Center work. "It shakes you
up. Twenty-seven thousand dollars may not mean much to them,
but it means a hell of a lot to me."
   Some of the claims are much bigger. Montgomery Elevator
Co. filed a lien on the Fashion Center for $656,000 of unpaid
work. Cramer Associates, an interior construction company,
filed one for $226,000. Kaiser Sand &amp; Gravel Co.'s lien is
for $131,000, and A. Ruiz Construction Co. &amp; Assocs. Inc. has
a lien on the Fashion Center for bills of $85,000, due three
months ago.
   "You're damn right it hurts," said Antonio Ruiz, president
of Ruiz Construction.
   Several lienholders also said one of the problems with the
project was an inordinate number of mid-stream change orders.
The changes, lienholders said, ran up costs and caused
confusion.
   That was also a big problem for Mr. Portman in the former
Portman Hotel in San Francisco, which he sold this year at a
large loss. That hotel ran more than $20 million over its
roughly $100 million construction budget, executives close to
Portman Cos. have said.
   Mr. Greer of American Masonry said about $6,000 of the
$27,000 he is still owed for Fashion Center work was from
change orders, many of which were caused by bad planning and
inconsistent specifications, he said. And Mr. Grant of Dual
Lock Partition said about $35,000 of the $87,000 his company
is still owed for the Fashion Center was from mid-course
additions and alterations.
   "There was one change order after the next," said Mr.
Grant. "It was a huge battle to get that building open. I
think Portman has paid just the bare minimum that they
contracted for in writing, but not all the additions and
changes they ordered verbally."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Left the Bedside,
   But Still a Nurse
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   As a nurse entrepreneur, I was very pleased to be
interviewed for your Aug. 24 article entitled "Nurses Shift
to Taking Care of Business." But you say I left my career in
nursing to start Gail Wick &amp; Associates, a consulting and
placement company. I left bedside nursing to start a
health-care consulting and placement company. I still use my
valuable knowledge and skills as a nurse to run a company
that focuses on helping health-care providers give the
highest-quality care to patients in a cost-effective manner.
I am first and foremost a registered nurse and very proud of
it.
   Gail S. Wick
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President
   Gail Wick &amp; Associates
   Health Care Recruitment &amp; Consulting
   Atlanta
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Everybody Anonymous?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Support groups are helping dieters
   And those now troubled by drink;
   And some involved in marriages
   That teeter on the brink.
   As these groups seem to multiply quickly,
   A new one's needed, no doubt,
   To support those not belonging
   And feeling sadly left out.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Nap Nippers
                                                                                                       

   One thing that you can certainly say
   For those miniature pagers and beepers:
   During long sermons and symphonies
   They sure rouse the adjacent sleepers]
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MCAWA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCCAW CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (Kirkland, Wash.) --
Peter L.S. Currie was named chief financial officer of this
cellular phone company. Mr. Currie, 34 years old, had been
the company's senior vice president for finance. He succeeds
Rufus W. Lumry, 43, who is leaving to become vice chairman of
Pace Communications. Mr. Currie has been working at McCaw
since 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kasler Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KASL
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. -- Kasler Corp. said it received a
$43.4 million contract from the California Department of
Transportation for another part of the Century Freeway in Los
Angeles.
   The contract is the 10th Kasler has received on the
freeway, which will stretch 18 miles from Los Angeles
International Airport to Norwalk, Calif., when it is
finished. Kasler is a contractor that specializes in
heavy-construction work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tyco Toys Bid for Nasta
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TTOY NAS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNT LAUREL, N.J. -- Tyco Toys Inc. said Nasta
International Inc. found Tyco's revised bid to be fair and
recommended that stockholders tender their shares.
   As previously reported, the companies signed a definitive
agreement for Tyco to acquire Nasta for a sweetened price of
$1.25 a share, up from $1. Nasta is a New York maker of
lower-priced toys.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As of last Monday 607,965 shares were tendered under the
original offer, which would increase Tyco's stake in Nasta to
86% from its current 74% interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chambers Development Job
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDVA
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Chambers Development Co. said it was awarded
a five-year recycling contract that will pay between $8
million and $38 million, depending on how it is implemented.
   The contract, with Hunterdon County, N.J., requires the
environmental services company to operate a recycling and
transfer station and to transport and dispose of the county's
solid waste, as of Nov. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacor Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11B
</SO>
<CO>
   JCOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Jacor Communications Inc. said certain
warrant holders have agreed to defer payments due them to
next Friday.
   The deferrment enables Jacor to continue discussions with
such warrant holders and other creditors to restructure
Jacor's obligations. Those warrant holders had previously
agreed to defer payments due them to last Thursday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Banks Acquire
   City Savings Bank
   Units in RTC Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GWF FFB
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Resolution Trust Corp. sold 36 branches
of City Savings Bank, a Somerset, N.J., thrift with $8.3
billion in assets, to two financial institutions.
   City Savings' 27 branches in Florida were sold to Great
Western Bank, Beverly Hills, Calif., a unit of Great Western
Financial Corp. The nine offices in the Camden, N.J., area
were sold to First Fidelity Bank, South Jersey, which is
based in Burlington, N.J., and is a unit of First Fidelity
Bancorporation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, City Savings' 66 remaining branches in New
Jersey will be reopened today as a newly chartered federal
mutual association. These branches will maintain normal
business operations while the RTC negotiates a permanent
resolution.
   Great Western, which will assume about $938 million of
deposits, paid the RTC a premium of about $9.8 million. First
Fidelity will assume about $468 million of deposits and paid
the RTC a $9.1 million premium. The RTC will advance $1.4
billion to the acquirers, and estimates that the transaction
will ultimately cost the RTC $1.5 billion.
   The RTC also announced that it sold most of the branches
of failed Great American Savings &amp; Loan Association, Oak
Park, Ill., with $623 million in assets, to two banks. First
National Bank of Chicago will acquire Great American's 13
Chicago branches, and First Financial Bank, Stevens Point,
Wis., will acquire the thrift's three branches in Peoria,
Ill. The RTC estimated its cost for the transaction to be
$71.8 million.
   Separately, the Office of Thrift Supervision reported that
withdrawals at the nation's savings and loans exceeded
deposits by $9.65 billion in April, the nation's thrift
regulator said. A month earlier, withdrawals exceeded
deposits by $958 million, the smallest deposit outflow in
eight months.
   A spokesman for the OTS said most of the outflows occurred
in California, where banks competed aggressively for deposits
in that month.
   The outflow of deposits also reflects, in part, the thrift
industry's shrinking efforts to meet new capital
requirements. The S&amp;Ls needn't hold as much capital if they
reduce their deposits. The number of S&amp;L associations also
shrank to 2,492 in April from 2,716 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBE
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Getting a Handle
   On TV Remotes
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IN A COMPLEX world, a little simplicity goes a long way.
   Doug Patton and Rick Jung have applied that rule to remote
controls for televisions.
   TV controls have become complicated and hard to use. Some
try to fit 50 or more buttons onto a surface the size of a
brick. "Most remote controls are multi-key horrors," says
Peter Edward Lowe, a Menlo Park, Calif., designer.
   So, Mitsubishi Electronics America asked Messrs. Patton
and Jung, designers from Costa Mesa, Calif., to simplify.
They designed a pen-sized control with only three buttons:
power, channel and volume.
   Instead of written clues, they used visual and tactile
clues. The power button is blue to distinguish it from the
others, which are black. Each button is a different size.
Rocker buttons permit channels to be changed or volume raised
or lowered with a single control.
   Mitsubishi says the PRM-1 remote control has been so
successful as a separate accessory, it is now being sold as a
standard part of several of the company's big-screen TVs. The
PRM-1 won a gold award this year from the Industrial
Designers Society of America. Mr. Lowe, a juror, concedes
that the device "may be hard to find, and it might roll off
the table," but he adds: "It's so easy to use."
                                                                                                       

   Political Statements
   Take Graphic Form
                                                                                                       

   BILLBOARDS are becoming more controversial.
   In San Francisco, Soviet artists, on an exchange, last
spring painted a billboard with a skeleton on water skis to
illustrate pollution. In Massachusetts, billboards will soon
start promoting the use of condoms to prevent AIDS. In West
Hollywood, Calif., a caricature of Jesse Helms lies athwart
an artist's palette, thumb hole through his forehead. The
caption: "Artificial Artofficial."
   The most controversial billboard artist, or at least the
most prolific, is Mark Heckman of Grand Rapids, Mich. Mr.
Heckman recently put up a billboard next to Interstate 196 in
the city, advertising "the seafood tuna lovers are killing
for . . . Flipper Canned Dolphin." He says the sign is meant
to remind people that although H.J. Heinz has agreed to sell
only dolphin-safe tuna, other companies are still killing the
marine mammals.
   Private backers pay for the Heckman signs. A businessman
who underwrote the dolphin sign wants to remain anonymous,
Mr. Heckman says, because a friend owns a supermarket chain.
   But Alfred Swanson, a surgeon who specializes in joint
transplants, and Peter Wege, a descendant of the founder of
Steelcase Inc., have no qualms about being known as funders
of a billboard urging people to "visit Menthol Beach," a
stretch of sand littered with cigarette butts. After that
sign appeared on the highway between Grand Rapids and Grand
Haven, Mich., the mayor of Grand Haven organized a cleanup of
that city's beach.
   Some Heckman targets strike back. Local lumber-industry
people didn't like a billboard covered with tree stumps that
warned against a "chainsaw massacre." They persuaded Dr.
Swanson to persuade Mr. Heckman to add the words "Save our
Rain Forests," thereby deflecting the criticism toward
tropical climes.
   And Gannett Outdoor, the sign company, had to talk fast to
persuade a Grand Rapids real-estate man not to cancel his own
billboard, after Gannett put up one of Mr. Heckman's signs
urging people to fight AIDS by wearing condoms. Later, a
group from Kalamazoo leased Mr. Heckman's spot to tell
people: "Abstinence] It beats AIDS."
                                                                                                       

   Trying to Bring
   Rainbow to Design
                                                                                                       

   BLACKS AND OTHER minorities appear to be under represented
in the design professions. Noel Mayo is setting out to try to
correct that.
   Mr. Mayo, who teaches design at Ohio State University in
Columbus, is compiling a list of blacks, Hispanics, American
Indians, Asians and other minorities who work as designers or
architects. So far, he has turned up 260, less than 1% of the
U.S. total in those fields.
   Mr. Mayo, who is black, gives three reasons for the low
number. Many minority young people have never heard of the
design profession, he says. They have few role models. And
minorities remain subject to discrimination, he says, though
he adds, "I don't know of any overt cases."
   Once his list is complete, Mr. Mayo, owner of a design
firm in Philadelphia, plans to send it to high schools and
colleges. He hopes they will use it to provide recruiters and
mentors for design students and fledgling design
professionals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aztar Corp. Unit's Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AZTR
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Aztar Corp. said its Ramada New Jersey
Holdings Corp. unit intends to redeem its 459,000 outstanding
shares of convertible Class A preferred stock at $9 a share,
the maximum allowed under the company's certificate of
incorporation.
   The redemption will be effective as of Jan. 4, 1991, the
gambling concern said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Matsushita Electric Grill
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   MC
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. is introducing
a microwave grill oven equipped with "fuzzy logic" technology
next month, the company said.
   The new oven lets consumers cook without the tedious
process of setting the temperature and estimating food volume
and roasting conditions, it said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Matsushita intends to produce the NEF600 grill oven at a
rate of 15,000 units a month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cintas Sets Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTAS
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Cintas Corp. said it agreed to form a joint
venture with Toronto's Cadet Uniform Rental Inc.
   The agreement marks the Cincinnati uniform concern's first
venture outside the U.S. Closely held Cadet, which rents
uniforms, has annual sales of about $24 million. Cintas has
annual sales of about $285 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   For Stroller Maker, Getting
   Insurance Wasn't Child's Play
   ----
   By Mary Baechler
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   My husband, Phil, and I own Racing Strollers Inc., the
manufacturer of the Baby Jogger, our patented stroller for
runners. We are perhaps a parody of an entrepreneurial
company; Phil had the proverbial "light-bulb" experience that
gave him the idea for the stroller, and we started the
business on our kitchen table. In the early years, we usually
went about things the hard way. Our travails in getting
product liability insurance are an example.
   We sold our first Baby Jogger in early 1984, and by the
end of the year it occurred to us that we might want some
insurance. I called three or four agents, put it on a back
burner, and eventually noticed that none had called me back.
Doesn't that seem odd, an insurance agent who doesn't call
back? When I finally got through to one, she told me that her
company did provide product liability insurance, but they
just weren't interested in anything to do with babies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some time passed. The insurance question came up again.
After all, we hadn't gone under yet] Maybe it was time to act
like a real company and have liability insurance. Besides, a
lot of our customers buying Baby Joggers seemed to be
lawyers. For some unknown reason, they liked to call us up
and give us free legal advice, which boiled down to "wait
till someone in Taiwan rips you off" and "boy, are you ever
going to get sued someday." Usually they would sum it up by
saying that it was so risky to be in business that no
sensible person would ever do this.
   So we were feeling a little more nervous, and I made
another round of calls to insurance agents. This time I
called around 10 of them -- everyone in the Yellow Pages who
had an ad mentioning business insurance. By now we realized
that we had to do a little selling on this, so I would
mention that we had an impeccable safety record, we met all
the regulations for strollers and that our first two dealers
had been pediatricians. I offered to bring in letters from
pediatricians and other physicians who were using our
stroller and not only felt it was safe, but also more stable
than other strollers because of its tripod-shaped base. Not a
nibble.
   The very few agents that I could get through to told me
that it didn't really matter what proofs we could come up
with: Since it involved little babies, no one would ever
touch it.
   Another year went by, the business was starting to support
us, and I made yet another fruitless round of calls. Now we
ran into another wrinkle.
   In 1986, we moved into our first real office and
warehouse, and our landlord asked us very nicely to get
business insurance so that he wouldn't get sued if someone
slipped on our steps. "Oh sure," we thought, "certainly we
can get this kind of insurance." After all, we'd always had
car and house insurance, our credit rating was fine and all
those little businesses one passes by in our town had regular
business insurance. Why not us?
   Wrong] This time a few agents called back voluntarily.
Gee, they really wished they could help out. It really was
too bad, but the courts had a nasty habit of ruling that if
an agency insured a company for fire, theft or premises
liability, then they were also responsible if anything went
wrong with the product. We offered to write a very specific
release. "Wouldn't do any good," we were told. Luckily, our
landlord didn't throw us out.
   A few months later, my husband took our insurance needs
out to bid once more. We were really excited when we heard a
company was interested in writing it up. Then the bid came
in: $60,000. This was a year that our sales were half a
million, with a loss of $28,000. We never thought we'd pass
up the chance to have product liability and business
insurance. But our rapid growth was killing the cash flow
anyway without this added burden.
   We were starting to run into some nasty consequences of
not having the insurance. It may have been one reason we had
such difficulties getting bank financing at that time -- why
should a bank get involved when one lawsuit could mean our
demise? We had almost gotten the stroller into the Sharper
Image Catalog, certainly a major thrill for two young
entrepreneurs. Then we lost Sharper Image at the last minute.
We hadn't the practical experience with catalogs at that time
to know that they all require product vendor insurance.
(Sharper Image did pick the stroller up later on.)
   At this same time, we had begun to work with a very
experienced businessman and consultant, Bill Blair. He had
horror stories of how customers had sued his hotels for
things like getting drunk and falling off the balcony, and he
told us that it wasn't a matter of virtue or whether we made
a good stroller. It was simply a matter of when. He said:
"Don't wonder if you're going to be sued. Just wonder when."
This was news to us; we had been naive enough to think that
if we just did our very best, and put lots of sensible
cautions in our literature, we would be protected. (Can you
hear me knocking on every piece of wood in my office?)
   Finally, in 1987, a local Conover Insurance agent, Dave
Helm, took our policy to blessed American States Insurance.
It came in with a bid for $8,000, and we jumped for it. For a
long time we thought that the reason we obtained coverage was
because we had passed the magic fourth year in business. But
this week I asked Dave Helm if that was what made the
difference, and he laughed and said: "No, I had to really go
to bat for you. The other companies I sent it to all thought
I was crazy to want to insure you."
   If there is a lesson to be learned in all of this for the
company desperate for insurance, it is that there is always
someone who will say yes if you knock on enough doors. But
you must be persistent. We went from assuming that insurance
was our natural right to realizing that, at least in the case
of liability, you have to "sell" your case to the agent just
as you sell your product. We offered customer letters,
physician references and results of safety tests. We were
even obsequious when that was appropriate. Was it worth it?
   After we got our insurance, we could really sleep easy for
the first time, knowing that all our hard work had a chance
of surviving. You have no idea how great it feels to say,
"Sure, we're covered]"
   ---
   Ms. Baechler is co-owner of Racing Strollers Inc., based
in Yakima, Wash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Group of Seven
   Issues Warning
   About Inflation
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP CANDA FORGN LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Financial leaders of the seven major
industrialized nations said that the sharp increase in oil
prices could spur inflation and slow the global economy but
that their countries are experiencing "solid growth" that "is
expected to continue next year."
   In a statement released after their one-day meeting here,
the so-called Group of Seven also said -- noting the recent
appreciation of the yen -- that current exchange rates should
lead to "continued adjustment" of external imbalances, such
as the U.S. trade deficit and the large trade surpluses of
Japan and West Germany. But it urged the U.S. to "bring the
budget summit to a prompt and successful conclusion," and
urged other countries with big fiscal deficits to increase
their savings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The G-7, which is made up of the finance ministers and
central bank governors of the U.S., Japan, West Germany,
Britain, France, Italy and Canada, also said that
"stability-oriented monetary policies and sound fiscal
policies constitute the correct policy response" to the risks
associated with the higher oil prices resulting from Iraq's
Aug. 2 seizure of Kuwait.
   There have been tensions within the G-7 -- and also
between the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department --
about the policy balance needed to control the inflation
pressures resulting from oil prices that have jumped to about
$35 a barrel from about $20 a barrel in June.
   The Treasury has urged the Federal Reserve to ease
short-term interest rates in order to boost the slowing U.S.
economy. But the Fed, citing stronger inflationary pressures
associated with the oil price rise, has resisted.
   Similarly, in the G-7 meeting, Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady resisted European calls to make blunter statements
about the dangers of inflation, an administration official
said. West Germany, Britain and Canada are especially
concerned that inflation may get out of hand, particularly if
interest rates are lowered prematurely. At a news conference
after Saturday's meeting, Mr. Brady refused to rank the risks
of higher inflation and of lower economic growth.
   "The job of government is to balance itself so that it can
navigate between these two risks so we don't put ourselves at
risk from high inflation or of lowering economic growth" he
said. "I don't think you have to get into the job of favoring
one over the other."
   Mr. Brady steadfastly denied the U.S. is headed for
recession. "I don't adopt the word recession as the way we're
headed," he said. "We're in a period of slower economic
growth; the first six months of this year were slower than we
wanted and slower than they should have been, but we still
had growth that was 1.5% higher than in 1989."
   But the U.S. is now growing more slowly than Japan and the
European Community and, therefore, is more vulnerable to
recession than most other G-7 countries.
   At his news conference, Mr. Brady refused to discuss his
recent calls for lowering U.S. interest rates to boost the
economy. "I think my comments on the Fed have been clear over
time, and I don't see any reason to repeat them," he said.
   The treasury secretary did indicate, however, that he
expects interest rates to decline if there is an enforceable
and convincing budget package from the current negotiations
between the administration and the Congress. "With regard to
interest rates, the most important thing we can do is the
obvious thing: Get a budget summit agreement which takes the
government out of the position of absorbing savings that
should be used by the private sector to generate jobs and
growth," he said.
   Along with his G-7 colleagues, Mr. Brady yesterday
attended meetings of the International Monetary Fund's
powerful policy-making body, the so-called Interim Committee,
which is chaired by Canada's Finance Minister Michael Wilson.
In those talks, the finance ministers discussed how the IMF
and the World Bank should respond to the Gulf crisis. It's
likely that their response will closely follow the
recommendations outlined by the G-7, an administration
official said. Estimates for the financial needs of the
so-called frontline states -- Egypt, Turkey and Jordan -- now
range from $13 billion to $16 billion through the end of
1991, the official said. The IMF and World Bank will hold
their annual meetings here tomorrow through Thursday.
   After Saturday's G-7 meeting, Mr. Wilson said, "it's
important we go through a period of slow growth" to prevent
an outbreak of inflation. Meantime, French Finance Minister
Pierre Beregovoy said, "Monetary policy must remain vigorous
but without excess -- we must avoid excess in any direction."
   Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major, who is
trying to wrestle U.K. inflation of about 10% a year, said
yesterday at a news conference that "inflation is the
principal evil" and that, in retrospect, there had been too
much relaxation of monetary policy in response to the October
1987 stock market crash.
   The G-7 statement also lauded international efforts to
help poorer countries hurt by the Gulf crisis and called upon
the IMF and World Bank to quickly adopt measures to help. It
said the IMF should review its compensatory and contingency
financing facility -- which lends money to countries badly
affected by external shocks -- and also the amount it lends
the countries damaged by the Gulf crisis.
   The statement also reaffirmed support for the current
international debt strategy, adding that the G-7 countries
"expect Brazil to resolve its arrears problems with its
external creditors in the context of the adoption of a formal
IMF arrangement."
   Brazil, which is currently several billions of dollars in
arrears on interest payments to its commercial bank
creditors, has submitted its economic program to the IMF and
expects to borrow $2 billion from that institution. Its bank
creditors, led by Citicorp, don't want the IMF to release
funds to Brazil until there's an agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia Is Producing
   About 90% of Its Oil Needs
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- Australia is producing nearly 90%
of its oil needs and, despite the Middle East conflict, is
"well placed" to meet its requirements, the government said.
   Alan Griffiths, minister for resources, said Australia's
oil self-sufficiency rate is up from 65% in 1983, when the
Labor Party government took office. He contended that
government deregulation of crude-oil marketing and strategies
to increase exploration have helped improve self-sufficiency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Production from Australia's biggest fields in Bass Strait
is declining, while output from northern offshore fields is
rising. Australia imports some oil, but overall is a net
exporter of energy, because it is the world's biggest coal
exporter and sells liquefied natural gas, uranium and
light-crude oil.
   The price of domestically produced crude is kept close to
international levels. Mr. Griffiths said Australia can't
artificially restrict prices for crude, because such controls
would cause producers to export more crude, reduce
exploration and force up oil imports.
   But Canberra has insisted that oil companies slow the rise
in retail prices of gasoline since the Gulf conflict boosted
world prices. Yet gasoline prices could rise four Australian
cents a liter next week, the Service Station Association
said. Gasoline already costs more than 80 cents (66 U.S.
cents) a liter in some parts of the country. A liter is equal
to 0.26 gallon.
   Mr. Griffiths said Australia has relatively low taxes on
gasoline, and cited data showing Australian gasoline users
have been paying about 74 Australian cents a liter, compared
with the equivalent of 1.62 Australian dollars (US$1.34) in
Italy and A$1.31 in France.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Cellular Phone Concerns Step Up Effort
   To Get Ordinary Consumers On the Line
   ----
   By Julie Amparano Lopez
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PAC MCAWA BEL NYN AIT USW SBC BLS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   John and Jane Doe need cellular phones. The idea just
hasn't rung a bell with them yet.
   But most mobile phone companies are hoping it will.
They're looking for ordinary consumers as they aim to expand
their market beyond business and professional customers. The
strategies range from cuts in monthly charges to photos
making comparisons to microwave ovens and TV ads featuring
storms and smashups.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Companies yearning for Ordinary Joes offer free emergency
road service and free long-distance calling on weekends.
Others try to bait the hook with cheap equipment rentals.
   Of the 4.4 million Americans with mobile phones, the vast
majority use them for business. Last year, they laid out
nearly $2 billion on cellular calls. This year, the revenue
volume is expected to reach $3.2 billion. (For the average
subscriber, that translates into a monthly bill of about
$89.)
   But a recent survey suggests how quickly the cellular
landscape could change. Conducted by Yankelovich Clancy
Shulman for Nynex Corp., the survey covered consumers with
income of more than $25,000 a year; it found that one in
every four, or about 27 million, will probably buy a cellular
phone in the next five years. About six million of those
expect to purchase one in the next 12 months.
   But costs have kept lots of people off the cellular
bandwagon. Drivers who would need a cellular phone only for
an occasional quick call have little in common with the
businessman who makes calls almost at will and passes the tab
along to his employer.
   Cellular phone owners find their wallets being drained in
inventive ways. There are high monthly charges and pricey
phone sets. For low-volume corporate customers, the cost of a
cellular telephone call during business hours ranges from 60
cents to 75 cents a minute. Off peak, a minute can cost 10
cents to 35 cents. But customers don't just get charged when
they make a call; they also get billed for each call they
receive. Furthermore, they must pay about a dime for every
busy signal and every unanswered call.
   "The consumer market is very difficult," concedes Bruce
Amundson, an official of U S West Inc.'s NewVector Group
unit. "We're still conducting research to figure out what
type of person would be a consumer and how much they're
willing to pay."
   Frederick Moran, president of Moran Asset Management Inc.,
with responsibility for heavy investments in cellular
companies, cautions that a real consumer boom won't happen
until calling rates drop rather sharply. "Then you'll find
everyone using car phones," he says, "and the cellular
companies will be carrying enormous amounts of traffic."
   Those days look just too far off to some players.
Nonbusiness use, they say, still generates far too few phone
calls and far too little revenue. "We do not view cellular
phones as a consumer device, nor do we market them that way,"
says Don Harris, vice president of corporate development for
Pacific Telesis Group's PacTel Cellular unit. "For the
foreseeable future, we see it as a business productivity
tool. Maybe 30 years down the road, it will be for consumers.
But it isn't yet."
   The enthusiasts aren't waiting.
   Take Metrophone, a joint venture of McCaw Cellular
Communications Inc. and Metromedia Inc. It recently slashed
the basic monthly service charge for casual users by 33% to
$9.95. Metrophone's monthly fees for heavy-use business
customers can run as high as $155.
   Most of the Baby Bells are jumping in, too. Their new ad
campaigns and department-store distributors talk up the
themes that consumers like to hear: affordability, security
and convenience.
   In 1984, when cellular phone sets cost about $3,000
apiece, only about 5% of Bell Atlantic Corp.'s subscribers
were nonbusiness users. To appeal to more consumers, Bell
Atlantic now offers about three hours of talk time a month
for $14.95.
   Ameritech's Mobile Communications unit is swaying
consumers with phone rentals that are practically free. For
$5 a month, consumer can have an installed cellular telephone
with speaker phone and memory dialing. A portable unit costs
only a few dollars more.
   Some phone companies appeal to another popular consumer
emotion: fear. McCaw, Ameritech, Nynex, U S West and others
run ads that all show a car careening off the road during a
severe storm. Such ads swayed Bruce McGrath, a salesman in
New York, to buy a cellular phone for his wife. "I didn't
want her to get stranded in the car in some godforsaken
place," he says.
   Cellular companies also are using department stores,
electronics retailers and auto-supply shops to zoom in on
consumers. "We're making cellular phones available in places
where consumers like to shop," says Steve Lamont, corporate
director of marketing at McCaw.
   Southwestern Bell Corp., which recently created some ads
that show a mom on the phone in the car with her kids, also
has shifted some of its print budget off the sports and
business pages to reach a wider audience.
   In April, BellSouth Corp.'s BellSouth Mobility tested a
"Security Plus" program in South Florida that, for $35 a
month, gave new customers 20 minutes of airtime, free
emergency road service and night rates of 10 cents a minute.
The program boosted new-customer sales by about 30%, and
BellSouth wants to integrate it into other markets. McCaw
says it may introduce similar plans.
   One BellSouth ad shows a cellular phone below a VCR and a
microwave oven. The appliances, now in most U.S. households,
once were considered "gadgets that few people would ever need
and even fewer could ever afford," the ad text says.
   The ad concludes: "You get the idea."
   ---
            How Some Cellular Phone Prices Compare
                                                                                                       

                                     USAGE CHARGE/MINUTE
             BASIC MONTHLY RATES    BUSINESS     CONSUMERS
  CARRIER    BUSINESS CONSUMERS  PEAK OFF PEAK PEAK OFF PEAK
                                                                                                       

 New York
                                                                                                       

   Nynex       $35.00   $25.00   $.60   $.40   $.90   $.30
                                                                                                       

 Philadelphia
                                                                                                       

   Metrophone   25.00     9.95    .45    .20    .55    .35
                                                                                                       

 Atlanta
                                                                                                       

   BellSouth    35.00    15.95    .35    .25    .85    .85
                                                                                                       

 Seattle
                                                                                                       

   USWest       34.95     N.A.    .49    .30    N.A.   N.A.
                                                                                                       

 Dallas/
 Ft. Worth
                                                                                                       

   Southwestern
   Bell         49.95    25.00    .38   FREE    .60   .30
                                                                                                       

 Washington,
 D.C.
                                                                                                       

   Bell
   Atlantic     39.00    14.95*   .50    .30    .65   .15
                                                                                                       

 Chicago
                                                                                                       

   Ameritech    29.95    14.95    .34    .20    .38   .18
                                                                                                       

  *Includes 200 free minutes   N.A.=Not available
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Nissan Motor Co. Seeks Bigger Share
   Of European Market With the Primera
   ----
   By Neil Fullick
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   NSANY EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The launch this week of Nissan Motor Co.'s
Primera marks the start of the Japanese auto giant's European
style offensive.
   With the Primera, a family car designed and engineered for
Europe predominantly by Europeans, Nissan aims to double its
European market share to about 5% by the mid-1990s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Primera-led push, said Ian Gibson, managing director
of Nissan Motor Manufacturing (U.K.) Ltd., is all about
"selling image and brand."
   Previously, Nissan suffered from a dull and boring image,
say analysts, largely because of the boxy styling of the
Bluebird model previously produced at its Sunderland,
England, plant. The Primera is rounded in design, matching
more closely the style of its European competitors, and
places an added emphasis on performance.
   Mr. Gibson says Nissan aims to price the car
competitively. The new Nissan also boasts some special
features, like a multilink suspension system and the most
advanced engine available in its sector, all of which places
it a "step ahead of rivals," he said.
   John Lawson, of Nomura Research Institute, said the
Primera is more than just a change from one model series to
the next. "It's a step change in quality and positioning of a
car in the market place," he said.
   Nissan hopes its new image will be firmly in place by
1992, when it plans to launch a new model to replace its
Micra at the small end of the car market. The model again
will be a European design for Europeans, different from the
current Micra, although it might adopt the same name, a
company spokesman says.
   Nissan decided to produce the Primera before the new small
model because its European distribution network is more
geared to the upper end of the family car market.
   Additionally, says Mr. Gibson, the company felt the larger
family car could make a more distinct impact on what is
traditionally a trendier end of the market. Cars at the upper
end can adopt a wider range of specifications and features so
there is more chance that one will stand out against another.
   The Primera will run up against Ford Motor Co.'s Sierra,
General Motors Corp.'s Vectra/Cavalier and Peugeot S.A.'s
405.
   Nissan became the first Japanese car maker to assemble
cars in Europe when production started in 1986 at the
Sunderland plant. By 1992, Nissan will have spent #640
million ($1.206 billion) developing the site, the company
said.
   The U.K. production facility will be producing 100,000
units each of the Primera and Micra by 1993, half of which
will be exported to European markets, according to Nissan
plans. Nissan proposes to produce 100,000 Primeras by next
year, about one-third more than the Bluebird production but
less than a third the number of Sierras, Vectras/Cavaliers or
Peugeot 405s made in Europe.
   But more than available volume, image has been a main
stumbling block for Nissan sales in Europe, hindering its
penetration of markets, analysts said. The Primera is the
first serious European challenger from the Nissan camp, they
said.
   Nissan's Mr. Gibson acknowledged the Bluebird didn't make
a great impact on the fleet-sales market but argued that it
was successful in the private sale market.
   Nevertheless, burdened with Nissan's dull image, the
Primera is "unlikely to jump in as a best seller," said Nick
Ireland, of Robert Fleming &amp; Co. Ltd. "Improving your image
is a slow process. You have got to reckon it will be a slow
starter. Word of mouth will be the main selling factor for
the car."
   Where Nissan aims to attack rivals with the Primera is on
key issues of performance, including a new multilink
front-wheel-drive suspension system, Mr. Gibson said. Placing
the system on a front-wheel-drive car is a "world first," Mr.
Gibson said, and offers the sort of handling normally
associated with a sports car or a car further up the price
range.
   Mr. Gibson noted the car is competitively priced, Nissan
having keenly considered prices of rival vehicles in coming
to its own pricing decision. The basic price range of the
Primera is #8,023 to #13,643 pounds, comparable to the
Sierra, Peugeot 405 and Vectra, though slightly higher than
the Bluebird.
   But Mr. Gibson said he hopes the strong European element
in the car will be a selling point. The car has been designed
to a European concept and many of its technical features are
typically European, rather than Japanese, he said.
   The only part of the Primera to be imported from Japan is
the transmission, the company said. Nissan is buying
components for the car from 177 European suppliers, 120 of
which are British.
   Analysts say the home-grown approach could help sway
Britain's important fleet buyers, many of whom are strictly
patriotic. Knowing that a major part of the vehicle is made
in the U.K. and to European tastes could help sell the
Primera to the lucrative company car market.
   With the Bluebird, 10% to 20% of the U.K. plant's 77,000
unit-a-year production was sold to the fleet market, with the
rest going to the retail sector. Mr. Gibson said the company
hopes to double its U.K. fleet sales while maintaining its
position in the private retail sales market.
   Mr. Gibson said he hopes to break the mold of the West
German market, which is dominated by a consumer desire for a
homemade products that handle well on that country's
high-speed roads. He said he sees the European-conceived
model as attracting customers traditionally geared toward
Audi AG, Volkswagen AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) and
Daimler-Benz AG.
   Together with imports from facilities outside Europe,
Nissan sales take slightly less than 3% of the European
market, with its biggest markets in Britain and West Germany,
Mr. Gibson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Tale of Two Parties
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Last week's Massachusetts primary for Governor
demonstrated once again why it is competition that makes
politics work, and that it is the lack of competition that
breeds voter cynicism and apathy. Now New York is
demonstrating the same thing.
   In Massachusetts, John Silber's surprise victory in the
Democratic primary has reinvigorated an intellectually
bankrupt party and given it a better chance to hold on to the
Governor's mansion after the Dukakis debacle. But Mr. Silber,
the fiery president of Boston University, barely squeaked by
the anti-democratic rule that no one can run in a primary if
he does not win 15% or more of the delegates at a state
convention. Except for a public outcry over his possible
exclusion, party bosses probably would have succeeded in
barring Mr. Silber from the primary ballot.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the New York Republican Party, the bosses succeeded in
handpicking their candidate, and their party is now paying
the price. The party is in danger of permanent collapse, and
the man principally responsible is State Senator Roy Goodman,
who picked Gubernatorial Candidate Pierre Rinfret by leafing
through his address book. Mr. Goodman was looking for an
alternative, any alternative, to New York University Dean
Herbert London, already the Conservative Party nominee. Mr.
Goodman and other bosses wanted a less conservative and more
pliable candidate.
   As soon as Mr. Goodman rammed his choice through a party
convention, it developed that Mr. Rinfret, an economist of
eccentric views, was not even a registered Republican. Mr.
Rinfret was said to have promised to spend $600,000 of his
own money on the campaign, but it now develops he hasn't done
that either.
   Indeed, Mr. Rinfret has done little but embarrass
Republicans. Last week, he denounced Jack Kemp as a "traitor"
and a "lackey for Governor Cuomo." He then threatened to "go
sailing" until the election if the party didn't come up with
$1 million. On Friday, he finally promised to stay in the
race -- for now.
   But Republicans have lost a golden opportunity to
challenge the Cuomo fiscal record, which more and more
resembles that of Michael Dukakis's Massachusetts. Worse, the
Rinfret disaster threatens to lower Republican voter turnout
to dangerously low levels. That could hand control of the
State Senate to the Democrats, giving that party the power to
gerrymander New York into a one-party state. Senator Goodman
himself could be swept away in a sudden Democratic tide.
   There is still some hope for New York Republicans. The
state election code allows the party to replace any candidate
who leaves the state for an extended period of time. If Mr.
Rinfret were indeed to "go sailing" until the election, then
Republicans could nominate the estimable Mr. London to lead a
united front against Mr. Cuomo. A Cuomo victory would still
be likely, but a laughing-stock landslide wouldn't be.
   The biggest challenges to effective democracy today are
the efforts of entrenched interests to stifle new ideas and
political competition. The Democratic reinvigoration in
Massachusetts and the Republican collapse in New York both
suggest that the cure for the alienation and apathy that
pollsters constantly find among voters is to bring back the
rough-and-tumble of real, competitive politics.
   There are lessons here for both parties. The near debacle
in Massachusetts came in the state headed by the national
Democrats' most recent standard-bearer, after all, and
clearly even the rank and file of their own party is looking
for something new. The Republican collapse comes in the state
most dominated by respectable, go-along, slice-of-bread,
permanent-minority Republicans. There is still a lot of that
sentiment in Washington as well, and Republicans should look
where it leads.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Don't Punish the Banks, Liberate Them
   ----
   By Ron Chernow
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   We stand on the eve of this century's third great wave of
financial reform, as giddy stock markets and merger fever
once again yield to fear and retrenchment followed by reform
and regulation. The bull market of the early 1900s and the
rise of big trusts led to the 1912 Pujo hearings, spurring
the Federal Reserve Act a year later. The 1933 Pecora
hearings exposed Wall Street's Jazz Age excesses, speeding
passage of the Glass-Steagall Act. Now the savings and loan
crisis and the mounting toll of bad property, LBO and Third
World loans will force a fundamental revamping of the U.S.
banking system.
   Once again reform will come when cool heads are least
likely to prevail and when the political power of the banks
stands at its nadir. Many of today's banking problems,
indeed, have roots in the sensational Pecora probe, which
straddled FDR's national bank holiday of March 1933. A
disenchanted public wanted to slay the bankers rather than
hear their problems. Not surprisingly, the reform that
emerged had a strongly populist tinge, reducing the scope of
banks' activities and fragmenting the banking system. The
fragmented banks, epitomized by the S&amp;Ls, were unable to
carry diversified portfolios or spread their risks over
different businesses. This is a recipe for risk and failure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As our own post-Crash recession looms, once again populist
indignation will demand that the culprits be stripped of
their powers, like children of their toys. But the next
reform cycle must favor deregulation and consolidation of the
banks, rather than further atomization -- political passions
to the contrary. The last crumbling remnants of
Glass-Steagall (the 1933 act that separated commercial from
investment banking) and the McFadden Act (the 1927 law that
forbade interstate banking) must fall. By granting J.P.
Morgan &amp; Co. the power to trade and underwrite corporate
stocks, the Federal Reserve Board last week took a momentous
step in the right direction. Such a change will satisfy no
public craving for revenge. Rather, it will seem as if
brazen, self-serving bankers are being rewarded for their
blunders just when they should submit to condign punishment.
   Things were simpler in the New Deal. After the 1929 market
crashed, Main Street surveyed the wreckage with
"Schadenfreude." The political outrage gathered force only
when people began to trace their joblessness to Wall Street
speculation. Wall Street financiers -- yesterday's idols --
were suddenly pilloried by a pugnacious new populist hero,
Senate counsel Ferdinand Pecora.
   In retrospect, the Glass-Steagall Act seems a historical
"non sequitur." It addressed glaring evils, such as the
ability of commercial bankers to waylay depositors into risky
securities investment. But it didn't curb speculation or
repair the banking system's instability.
   Glass-Steagall's architects wanted to insulate savings
from speculation. Safe, humdrum commercial banking would be
shielded from volatile investment banking. The result has
been otherwise. For 20 years now, our commercial banks have
courted disaster. The list of their lending fiascoes --
shipping, real estate investment trusts, farmland, oil, Third
World debt, leveraged loans, commercial property -- is truly
astounding. Unless we assume that all commercial bankers are
dunces, we must suspect some deep, systemic flaw behind this
flirtation with disaster.
   By no coincidence, the tide of bad loans has risen with
the defection of corporate clients to the capital markets and
depositors to money-market funds. As corporations have
bypassed banks to issue securities, commercial banks have
been saddled with less creditworthy customers. In the 1920s,
Latin debtors issued bonds. In the 1970s, they resorted to
banks because bondholders would have balked at their
sovereign junk. Bolstered by creditworthy clients, investment
banks have seemed safer havens than commercial banks,
subverting Glass-Steagall's intention.
   Meanwhile, the geographically segmented banking system
created by the McFadden Act turns regional downturns into
full-blown banking catastrophes. Instead of large,
diversified national banks, such as England, France, and
Germany enjoy, the U.S. supports 13,000 localized banks. In
the 1920s, many Southern and Western banks failed when oil
and agriculture slumped. In the 1980s, the S&amp;Ls eerily
re-enacted this precedent. A bank's fortunes are now tied to
Texas oil, Nebraska wheat or Boston real estate. When the
regional economy falters, the bank fails; these bank failures
then aggravate regional distress.
   National banks could resist local downturns through
offsetting profits in prosperous regions. Banks that offered
a fuller range of financial services than Glass-Steagall
permits wouldn't be victimized by changes in the way
companies finance their operations. They could simply shift
emphasis along with their clients. With diversified
portfolios, banks could more readily enforce prudential
limits on the amount loaned to any single country, company,
region or industry. And since banks increasingly package
loans into securities, the distinction between commercial and
investment banking has become meaningless.
   A system of diversified, national banks would encounter
the historic American antipathy toward concentrated financial
power -- the main reason for the splintered U.S. banking
system -- an antipathy aggravated by recession. Populist rage
will boil over as property, Third World and LBO disasters
dangerously drain the deposit insurance fund.
   Some differences between the present and the 1930s do
offer hope. This time, banking reform will occur against a
backdrop of foreign competition. In the 1930s, American banks
were global powers and could afford some shrinkage of their
domestic market share. Today, the four biggest U.S.
commercial banks scarcely make the world's top 50. Seven of
the 10 largest banks are Japanese; two are French. It's hard
to rail against concentrated financial power when America's
giants are dwarves abroad.
   Americans may also be shedding their sentimental faith in
small-town banks. In the 1920s and 1930s, thousands of
small-town banks foundered upon corruption or mismanagement,
but political anger was directed against the New York banks,
which had for the most part survived intact. (Franklin
Roosevelt feared deposit insurance would prop up small-town,
Republican banks.) The S&amp;L crisis has again shown how fraud
and cronyism can riddle small banks. Perhaps taxpayer
disenchantment with the thrifts may create a new receptivity
toward national banks. The growth of strong regional banks
over the past decade -- thanks to regional banking pacts --
will buffer any raw power plays by New York banks.
   Back in the days of Pierpont Morgan or Jacob Schiff, there
was some truth in the stereotype of the all-powerful banker.
When capital was scarce, bankers lorded it over companies and
investors. Now multinational corporations that issue debt and
institutional investors that buy it have slashed the power of
financial intermediaries. In the 1980s, companies
circumvented banks, selling debt straight to institutional
investors. Banks compete with clients. General Electric
Financial Services, with $91 billion in assets, would rank
fourth if listed as a commercial bank, nosing out J.P. Morgan
&amp; Co., GE's traditional banker.
   The power of investment bankers has eroded too. This
sounds strange in an age when yuppie bond traders and
deal-makers earn astronomical salaries. But trading and
deal-making are secondary functions of the financial system.
They have grown important because of a crisis in the primary
system: the provision of money for business, whether through
commercial bank credit or issuing securities. And in this
primary activity, fierce competition is shrinking margins.
Wall Street's "creativity" in the 1980s was a desperate
attempt by commercial and investment banks to find
comparative advantage in a commodity business.
   One advantage of deregulating commercial banks right now
is that for the moment they cannot capitalize excessively on
new opportunities. Hobbled by scant capital, poor credit
ratings and low stock prices, they lack the means to expand
rapidly. Best to let the tiger out of the cage when he's not
hungry. The Federal Reserve should insure a gradual
transformation of the system through friendly,
well-capitalized mergers. The process has in fact already
begun, as out-of-state banks buy up ailing thrifts.
   Politicians who understand the need for reform, but fear
being tarred as buddies of the banks, may want to portray the
repeal of Glass-Steagall as a populist assault on investment
bankers -- the fat cats of the 1980s. As commercial banks
enter capital markets, they will intensify the pressures in a
profitless underwriting scene. Nor need politicians fear that
these guests at a bleak banquet will reap "obscene" profits.
Nobody will be making much money from underwriting anytime
soon.
   Universal banks will make the current regulatory structure
obsolete. A new federal regulatory structure based on
function must be designed. In exchange for new powers,
universal banks will have to accept stricter, broader
supervision from banking authorities; as an additional
safeguard, some form of risk-based deposit insurance would
enforce discipline on the use of small depositors' money.
   Reforms in banking regulation can make bank failures less
likely, but they can never eliminate them. Nonetheless, a
broader range of bank powers, joined with tougher
supervision, seems preferable to the mix of narrow powers and
lax supervision that has led to the frightening present
impasse. The need to face unpleasant realities is urgent:
More than a thousand commercial banks are already in trouble
and the downturn has just begun.
   ---
   Mr. Chernow is the author of "The House of Morgan"
(Atlantic Monthly Press, 1990.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Authority
   To Probe TV Station's
   Proposed Reshuffling
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.HAC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The top French broadcasting authority will
examine proposals this week for a power reshuffle in
faltering young television station La Cinq.
   But the plans, put to the Supreme Audiovisual Council last
Friday, could run into problems because they hand control of
the station to Hachette, a media group that already owns a
hefty chunk of French publishing and broadcasting interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Council warned Hachette earlier this year, when it
acquired an initial 22% stake in La Cinq, that it was
concerned by the concentration of media power. According to
the proposals now on the table, Hachette would raise its
stake to 25% and friendly banks would take a further combined
20%, giving it effective majority control.
   At the same time publisher Robert Hersant, the controlling
shareholder who submitted the reshuffle plans to the Council,
would cut his stake to 10% from 25%. Under French law, no
shareholder may own more than a quarter of any television
channel's capital.
   The future of unprofitable La Cinq, which began
broadcasting in 1986, has been up in the air since Mr.
Hersant successfully fought off last year's bid for control
by Italian media magnate Silvio Berlusconi and French
businessman Jerome Seydoux. Their failure gave Hachette
chairman Jean-Luc Lagardere, who has been seeking a role in
French television for several years, his opportunity to move
in, acquiring 22% of the station in May.
   Mr. Hersant, whose press empire includes Le Figaro, one of
France's largest newspapers, was also believed to be
disenchanted with the channel's poor financial performance.
Despite heavy investment, audience ratings remain low at La
Cinq and the station is estimated to be running a 2.2 billion
franc ($416.9 million) deficit this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Aluminum
   Making a Dent
   In Auto Industry
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC G.AUD G.VOW AL T.AL F NSANY GM RLM AA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aluminum makers' efforts to break into the lucrative
automotive industry have idled over the years. But now, they
may be about to pick up speed.
   This summer, Honda Motor Co. pulled in with its Acura NSX,
which it bills as the world's first all-aluminum car in
production. This acclaimed lightweight sports car can go from
0 to 60 miles an hour in 5.6 seconds. Problem is, with a
price tag of $60,000, it can make the average consumer's
heartbeat go from 60 to 0 in about the same time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though the Acura NSX is a high-performance car whose price
stems from much besides its metal content, cost has been a
perennial problem for aluminum in its automotive crusade.
Aluminum is half the weight of steel, making it more fuel
efficient and environmentally friendly. But it also costs
about four times as much -- a trade-off that car makers have
been reluctant to make.
   Aluminum's high cost and wide price swings, combined with
the hefty investment needed to convert to aluminum, makes
many in the auto business queasy. "It's not very near term,"
says John Johnson, senior research engineer at General
Motors' research labs. Adds Kidder, Peabody metals analyst
Robert Hageman: "This can be overdone."
   Aluminum, says steel maker USX Corp.'s automotive
marketing manager Peter T. Peterson, is merely a "transitory"
solution. "With the inherent cost and fabrication problem of
aluminum, the auto makers are naturally leery." Unless
aluminum makers can convince car companies that it is in
their financial interests to convert to aluminum, the metal
will never make a dent in high-volume, lower-cost cars.
   That may change now, because of possible increases in
federal fuel-efficiency standards and changes in the aluminum
industry's technology and marketing tactics. Nowadays, says
C. Fred Fetterolf, president of Aluminum Co. of America, "you
could get pretty close to an all-aluminum {mass-produced}
car."
   That isn't just bluster. The amount of aluminum on the
average car will rise to 600 pounds in 2000 from 140 pounds
now, says Stewart Spector, an aluminum analyst. Though such
projections may prove optimistic, the aluminum industry's
efforts to get more of their metal in cars appear to be
finally turning the corner.
   The Persian Gulf crisis, reinforcing fuel-efficiency
concerns in Washington, promises to strengthen aluminum's
hand. A bill before Congress would raise auto makers'
fuel-economy standards 20% by 1995 and 40% by 2000. Under
these regulations, which carry financial penalties, aluminum
would look a lot brighter to auto makers, which have shrunk
their cars about as much as they can.
   Though mass-produced all-aluminum cars remain a futuristic
concept, the future is fast approaching. Alcoa has entered a
partnership with Audi AG, a unit of Volkswagen AG, to produce
an aluminum-intensive car, and Alcan Aluminium Ltd. is
working with Ford Motor Co.'s Jaguar subsidiary on another
aluminum-loaded model. Both are expected in the 1992 model
year. Alcan and Alcoa hope the cars will show other auto
makers the possibility for mass-produced aluminum vehicles.
   In parts applications, too, aluminum is winning more
converts. Honda uses aluminum for all of its engines, and
Nissan Motor Co. plans to have only aluminum engines by 1995.
Even General Motors Corp., which previously abandoned
aluminum engines after problems during the 1970s with its
Chevrolet Vega, has returned with aluminum engines in
Cadillac, Saturn and Corvette models. How far aluminum can
go, says Mr. Johnson, the GM research engineer, "is just a
matter of fuel-efficiency numbers over time."
   The budding partnerships between car and aluminum makers
represent a reversal in the industry's marketing strategy,
from piecemeal applications -- a fender or body panel here, a
wheel or casting thereto entire cars. For decades, aluminum
makers relied on such approaches as eye-glazing appeals about
gasoline mileage and glossy ads with petite women lifting
aluminum parts. In the late 1970s, Reynolds Metals Co. pushed
its "Automotive Diet Plan." Alcoa offered rebate certificates
to encourage owners to recycle rather than junk cars with
significant amounts of aluminum. "They just didn't buy it,"
says David W. Schlendorf, manager of Alcoa's aluminum vehicle
program.
   Volatile aluminum prices also have "been very damaging to
our efforts," adds William O. Bourke, Reynolds's chairman and
chief executive officer, who worked at Ford before joining
the No. 2 U.S. aluminum producer.
   Even when the government introduced strict fuel economy
standards after the energy crises of the 1970s, aluminum's
gains proved tenuous. If a car was near the bottom of one of
the weight classes that the Environmental Protection Agency
factors into its mileage estimates, the auto maker might
substitute an aluminum part, dropping the car into a lighter
class and boosting its fuel-efficiency rating. But the next
year, the car company would find a cheaper alternative to the
aluminum part, or redesign the car.
   Frustrated with meager 4% annual growth in the metal's use
on cars, aluminum companies have turned to ties with the auto
makers -- "fewer parts and more partnership," in the industry
vernacular. Alcan, in addition to its venture with Jaguar,
hired a roving team of marketing and technical experts to
make contacts with auto makers. Alcoa, already working with
Audi and others, last month created a new position for
world-wide automotive products, a $500 million-a-year
business for the company. Reynolds has been working
principally with Ford and is considering offers from three
Japanese companies to form partnerships.
   But alliances and contacts alone won't make auto makers
buy the costly metal. So aluminum companies and their
automotive partners are trying to find a cheap way to
mass-produce aluminum cars.
   Alcoa thinks it has found one in its "space frame." The
Pittsburgh producer says the space frame, a car's interior
skeleton made of aluminum extrusions and castings, would be
cheaper than a frame made of welded steel, because it is
easier to make and install. Alcoa's Mr. Schlendorf says the
space frame will overcome the cost obstacles and put
mass-produced aluminum-intensive cars on the road.
   "Aluminum will become the structural frame {for cars}, and
it will do it on an economically viable basis," predicts
Chuck Haddad, Ford's manager of advanced engineering. Mr.
Haddad says aluminum frames could save processing and welding
costs associated with steel, ultimately reducing the size of
assembly plants by two-thirds. The lighter cars that would
result, he adds, could lead to smaller tires, wheels and
engines, saving more money.
   Alcan, the Canadian giant, is also developing an aluminum
body structure, this one made with aluminum stampings.
Honda's new all-aluminum Acura uses a "unit-body" frame that
weighs 462 pounds, 40% less than steel.
   Of course, steel isn't standing still. After napping for
decades, the industry is starting to defend its turf. It has
tried to reduce its tooling costs. It is increasing efforts
to make automotive steel more corrosion-resistant. And it has
found ways to decrease automotive steel's thickness while
making it stronger.
   Aluminum frames, says Mr. Peterson, USX's automotive
marketing manager, "mean a major shift, a major rethinking in
strategy. I don't think that's going to happen."
   Adds metals analyst Charles Bradford: "It's important that
{aluminum makers} go after this market, but the economics of
it aren't as good as they think they are."
   Says Mr. Peterson, whose sales to auto makers will exceed
$500 million this year: "It's a rather large crap game, isn't
it?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dole Endorses
   Higher Taxes
   For the Rich
   ---
   Minority Leader, in Break
   With White House, Bids
   To End Budget Impasse
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole, breaking
with the White House in a bid to resolve the budget deadlock,
endorsed higher income taxes on the wealthy to offset
President Bush's proposed cut in the capital-gains tax rate.
   The Kansas Republican went public with his overture
yesterday just hours before he and seven other negotiators
from Congress and the Bush administration resumed their
closed-door talks on a deficit-reduction deal. Those
four-month-old talks, aimed at cutting the federal budget
deficit by $50 billion in fiscal 1991 and $500 billion over
five years, have assumed new urgency as the Oct. 1 start of
fiscal 1991 approaches -- threatening government chaos in the
absence of a budget accord.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is unclear whether Sen. Dole's position has enough
support in either party to herald a breakthrough. For many
Democrats, something less than a 33% top rate, as Sen. Dole
suggested, would not be high enough to shift more of the tax
burden to the rich. It is certain to inflame some
Republicans, especially in the House, who demand a
capital-gains tax cut but adamantly oppose higher taxes. And
as Sen. Dole himself acknowledged, House GOP support is
critical because Democratic congressional leaders have
insisted that any deficit-cutting deal must have the votes of
a majority of Republicans in both the House and Senate.
   In the wake of President Bush's retreat from his
no-new-taxes campaign pledge, negotiators tentatively have
agreed to tax increases on a variety of things such as luxury
goods and alcoholic beverages. But some Republicans had
calculated that if income taxes weren't raised, they could
argue that the president hadn't really broken his vow. They
also want to preserve their identity as the anti-tax party
going into the November elections.
   Sen. Dole suggested the trade-off between a capital-gains
tax cut and higher income-tax rates during an appearance on
CBS News's "Face the Nation" with Senate Democratic Leader
George Mitchell of Maine. Democrats previously proposed a
similar exchange, with a top marginal rate of 33% or 35% for
the richest Americans.
   Sen. Dole said negotiators should explore "how we can
increase taxes on upper-income {taxpayers} in a way that will
pierce the so-called bubble, but maybe not go clear to 33%."
   The "bubble" refers to an anomaly in the tax code whereby
the wealthiest Americans pay a 28% top marginal rate, while
some higher-income taxpayers who make less pay a 33% top
rate. Ending the anomaly would raise revenue, but, more
important, would help satisfy the Democrats' demand that the
rich shoulder more of the tax burden. Because lower
capital-gains taxes would mostly benefit the wealthy,
Democrats have made higher income-tax rates their price for
supporting a tax cut.
   Earlier this year, some administration officials privately
discussed a plan to eliminate the bubble with a new, 31% tax
rate. The result would be a tax increase for the richest
families but a cut for many more families who are now within
the bubble range. Total government revenue would be
unchanged, allowing the president to argue he hadn't raised
income taxes.
   Sen. Dole has split with the Bush administration before,
notably a year ago when he helped resolve a similar budget
impasse by unilaterally jettisoning a capital-gains proposal.
Last week, he peeved administration officials by suggesting
that the capital-gains provision be stripped from any
deficit-reduction pact, and be passed separately in a package
containing revenue-losing provisions and Democratic spending
initiatives.
   Sen. Dole likewise bared his own pique toward the
administration negotiators -- White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu, Budget Director Richard Darman and Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady. "I don't know what else they've got to do
this year," he said, "but I've got a lot of things I'd like
to do."
   The remark reflects Mr. Dole's zeal for legislating and
his frustration with the budget standoff that is slowing
congressional action on many other issues. A traditional
Republican for whom cutting deficits is more important than
cutting taxes, Sen. Dole called for a budget agreement "with
or without capital gains."
   In remarks after the CBS program, Sen. Dole all but washed
his hands of the issue. "My view is the White House ought to
negotiate capital gains," he said. "If any of the rest of us
say anything, it will be perceived by some in the White House
of being disloyal. So let Sununu work that out. He's the
expert . . . I just want to get {a budget agreement} done. I
think we're really sort of a laughingstock now."
   Sen. Mitchell reiterated Democrats' claim that White House
insistence on the tax cut was holding up an accord.
Republicans dispute that, and negotiators do remain far apart
on questions of defense and domestic spending cuts, tax
increases and methods of enforcing any agreement over five
years. Sen. Dole noted the other differences, but agreed with
Sen. Mitchell that "right now the big hurdle is capital
gains."
   Failure to reach a budget agreement this week threatens
congressional Democratic leaders' plans to pass a short-term
spending bill. Such a bill is essential to keep the
government financed in the first weeks of the fiscal year
because regular appropriations.
   Action is also needed to delay at least $85 billion in
automatic across-the-board cuts, which would be required by
the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law. But the Bush
administration and GOP lawmakers have said that in order to
maintain the pressure on negotiators, they would try to
defeat any attempt to avert fiscal crisis until a budget pact
is reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900924-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900924-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Safra Affair: A Saga of Corporate Intrigue
   ---
   Why Robert Smith Left American Express Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In July 1989, just weeks before American
Express admitted its secret campaign against Swiss banker
Edmond Safra, Robert F. Smith retired as chairman of American
Express Bank. At the time, the company gave no explanation
for Mr. Smith's departure from the post he had held for
nearly five years.
   In fact, several former American Express executives say,
Mr. Smith was under pressure to resign after company lawyers
spent months investigating a series of questionable financial
transactions, including dealings between a prominent Mexican
businessman and Mr. Smith's son, a Shearson Lehman Hutton
stockbroker in Boston; bank payments to contractors on a home
Mr. Smith was building on New Hampshire's Lake Winnipesaukee;
and the banker's purchase of a $40,000 antique car with a
check from American Express bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Mr. Smith and American Express assert that no
evidence was found of illegal activity on Mr. Smith's part.
Mr. Smith admits only to a single technical violation of New
York state banking laws. In a statement, American Express
said: "Any allegations or suggestions that Bob Smith caused
the company or its clients any losses or that he
misappropriated company or client funds are totally
incorrect. Mr. Smith was a dedicated professional who made
important contributions to the company during his tenure."
   Former aides defend Mr. Smith's conduct, saying the banker
was the victim of an internal struggle with former American
Express president Louis Gerstner, whose corporate allies so
disliked Mr. Smith they referred to him as "Hitler." These
people say Mr. Smith angered Mr. Gerstner by, among other
things, refusing to report to him instead of James Robinson.
   While playing down Mr. Gerstner's role in his departure,
Mr. Smith acknowledges the breach with the former American
Express president, whom he terms "an arch enemy." After Mr.
Smith refused to report to him, "Gerstner was taking snipes
at me whatever I would do," Mr. Smith says now. Mr. Gerstner
now chief executive of RJR Nabisco Inc., declines comment.
Others trace Mr. Smith's fall from favor to 1987, when he and
other executives looked into the possibility of buying
American Express Bank in a leveraged-buy-out.
   Mr. Smith's formal troubles began in 1988, when company
accountants called into question his dealings with the
Mexican businessman, a major American Express Bank client who
had opened brokerage accounts with Mr. Smith's son Robert at
Shearson's Boston office.
   "We had difficulties with the guy. He threatened to move
his account," says Mr. Smith. "He wasn't happy with our
service. I said, `Look, we'll put the account over with my
son, but basically I'll manage it for you.'" Mr. Smith was
cleared of any conflict of interest after a lengthy internal
review, according to him and some of his associates.
   No sooner was that matter resolved than investigators
questioned Mr. Smith's use of bank funds to purchase a 1954
Cadillac Eldorado convertible. According to Mr. Smith and
another former bank executive, Mr. Smith had approached
Robert Budenbender, the bank's chief financial officer,
several years before and asked for a $100,000 cashier's check
to use as proof of credit at an auction of antique cars. An
avid car collector, Mr. Smith agreed not to use the check to
purchase a car, since doing so might amount to an
unauthorized loan. He used the check twice as agreed, but on
a third occasion he used it to purchase the 1954 Cadillac.
The following week, these people say, Mr. Smith gave Mr.
Budenbender a $40,000 personal check to reimburse the bank.
   "Technically," Mr. Smith acknowledges, "that's a violation
of New York state bnaking laws. Theoretically, I should have
gone down to another bank and gotten my own check. I should
have done it with someone other than my own bank."
   Finally, Mr. Smith acknowledges that he authorized the use
of bank funds to repay contractors working on his New
Hampshire home. Mr. Smith says this was done as a convenience
while he was on overseas trips, that the amounts involved
were minuscule and that he promplty repaid them each time he
returned.
   Mr. Smith denies being pressured to resign, saying he
elected to retire after tiring of corporate politics.
Whatever the case, he remained an American Express consultant
for a year after his retirement. He now lives in New
Hampshire.
   (See related story: "The Safra Affair: A Saga of Corporate
Intrigue --- The Vendetta: How American Express Orchestrated
a Smear of Rival Edmond Safra --- Top Aide to James Robinson
Oversaw Two Who Spread False Stories World-Wide --- Officers
Deny Doing Wrong" -- WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
