<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Star Banc Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STRZ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAR BANC Corp. (Cincinnati) -- Mark T. Johnson, president
of this bank holding company since 1984, will retire July 31.
He is 59 years old. Oliver W. Waddell, chairman and chief
executive officer, will assume the position.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, July 13, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8% low, 8 1/16% near closing
bid, 8 1/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.075% 30 to 44 days; 8.025% 45 to 59 days;
7.95% 60 to 89 days; 7.875% 90 to 119 days; 7.825% 120 to 149
days; 7.80% 150 to 179 days; 7.70% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.03%
30 days; 7.98% 60 days; 7.93% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.71% one month; 7.73% two
months; 7.75% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.12% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.03% one month; 8.03% three months;
8.08% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.95% 30 days; 7.88% 60 days; 7.85%
90 days; 7.81% 120 days; 7.77% 150 days; 7.72% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% one month; 8 1/4%
- 8 1/8% two months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% three months; 8 1/4% - 8
1/8% four months; 8 1/4% - 8 1/8% five months; 8 5/16% - 8
3/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 1/4% three months; 8 5/16% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.81% 13 weeks; 7.75% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.95%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.90%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.60%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.78%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Liposome Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LIPO
</CO>
<LP>
   LIPOSOME Co. (Princeton, N.J.) -- Horst Witzel was named
to the board of this pharmaceuticals maker, expanding its
membership to seven. Mr. Witzel, 63 years old, is a member of
the supervisory board of Schering AG, the German
pharmaceutical company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wells-Gardner
   To Post Sharp Rise
   In 2nd-Quarter Net
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   WGA
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Wells-Gardner Electronics Corp., benefiting
from improved product mix, stronger demand and lower costs
for materials, expects to report second-quarter per-share
earnings climbed to a range of 19 cents to 23 cents, said the
company's chairman, chief executive officer and president,
Frank J. Myers.
   Getting a boost from both a big tax credit and the Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles, the maker of electronic products
expects to post net between $715,000 to $865,000. Net will
include a tax credit of between $265,000 to $340,000, which
will contribute about 7 cents to 9 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those earnings would mark a sharp increase from the
year-ago net of just $1,000, or less than a penny a share;
the earlier period's results were hurt by a $107,000 loss
from discontinued operations.
   Sales in the latest period, Mr. Myers said in an
interview, will be up 61%, to about $14.5 million, from $9
million in the year-ago period when results reflected a soft
export market and higher costs for materials.
   Mr. Myers attributed Wells-Gardner's substantial sales
increase primarily to "greater demand" for the company's
large screen video monitors. Also contributing to the
increase is what he called the "outstanding performance" of
the video game, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, the success of
which has boosted demand for the company's video monitors.
   Early this year, the company re-entered the color
television business under a private-label contract with
Majestic Industries Inc., Mr. Myers said. The TV business is
expected to contribute about $10 million to annual sales. He
said the purpose of getting back into the television business
is its ability to make contributions to earnings and to help
the company put excess capacity to work.
   The re-entry followed the company's earlier
discontinuation of its switching power supply line and its
touch-screen panel operation in a move to concentrate on
video operations. Mr. Myers said the company's future focus
will be on moves designed to "improve efficiency."
   He said the company expects a "substantial increase" in
sales and at least break-even earnings in the third quarter
ending September 30.
   Mr. Myers concluded by saying, "Wells remains strong with
no debt" and is "positioned for profitable growth."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Corporate Bankruptcies
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese corporate bankruptcies totaled 515 cases
in June, down 19% from a year earlier, Teikoku Data Bank, a
private credit research concern, said.
   The value of liabilities left behind by the failed
companies totaled 88.19 billion yen ($597.9 million), up 7.4%
from the year-earlier month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   June was the third consecutive month in which the total
amount of liabilities grew on a year-to-year basis,
indicating the increasing number of large-sized bankruptcies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Oil Exporters
   In Persian Gulf
   Limit Output
   ---
   Nations Expect Bigger Share
   Of OPEC Production
   When Demand Increases
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Persian Gulf oil exporters will hold their output down now
in return for larger shares of OPEC production later.
   That is the chief trade-off in the move engineered by
Saudi Arabia last week to prop up the price of oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "When assessments of demand for OPEC's oil show the
momentum for a new production ceiling, possibly by the fourth
quarter, those with the capacity to produce should be given
more than their usual pro rata shares of the increase," said
a senior oil official in one Persian Gulf producing country.
   This suggests that the emerging new emphasis on higher oil
prices rather than larger output shares by some leading
Middle East members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries could be short-lived. These countries,
including Saudi Arabia, OPEC's biggest producer, hold most of
the world's spare producing capacity as well as the bulk of
its oil reserves and have long maintained that they should
receive bigger shares of any increases in demand for OPEC
oil.
   Still, the five oil ministers who met in Saudi Arabia last
week, from the kingdom as well as from Iraq, Qatar, Kuwait
and the United Arab Emirates, called for a freeze in the OPEC
production ceiling near its current level of 22.1 million
barrels a day and urged all 13 member nations to adhere to
their output quotas. There also were new pledges by OPEC's
chief quota violators, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates,
to support the production limits. And there were indications
from the Saudis that they might agree to a temporary drop in
their percentage share from the 24.5% of the production
ceiling so vigorously defended in the past.
   These developments reversed the recent sharp drop in the
price of oil and set the stage for what is now expected to be
a relatively calm midyear conference for OPEC's 13 oil
ministers rather than the stormy, prolonged sessions
previously anticipated. The conference begins July 26 in
Geneva after a one-day meeting of the eight ministers on
OPEC's influential monitoring committee.
   "Now, with a framework for at least a temporary agreement,
there is a feeling of cautious optimism rather than the worry
it was all going to spin out of control," said a senior OPEC
official.
   The United Arab Emirates officially confirmed its
willingness Friday to return to the OPEC fold with a quota of
1.5 million barrels a day, 25% less than it is currently
producing. Mana Said Otaiba, the country's oil minister, said
the output cuts would begin immediately. He also endorsed a
call by the Iranian oil minister for a $2 increase to $20 a
barrel in the OPEC reference price.
   OPEC long ago set $18 a barrel as its "minumum" reference
price for a basket of seven crudes. But the basket's average,
which usually lags by several dollars the price of the U.S.
benchmark crude, had recently fallen to the year's low of $14
a barrel.
   The Emirate's acceptance of the quota it had previously
rejected was the crucial point in Saudi Arabia's plan to
restore the OPEC basket average to $18. The Saudis expected
to do that by curbing OPEC's runaway output, which has been
averaging more than one million barrels above the production
ceiling of 22.1 million barrels a day. Before the Emirates
announcement, Kuwait had reaffirmed its commitment to reduce
output from 1.7 million barrels a day to its OPEC quota of
1.5 million no matter what the Emirates did.
   There was industry skepticism that neither Kuwait nor the
Emirates would drop production all the way to the lower
levels or hold it there for long. But OPEC sources noted that
the prestige of several heads of state, including King Fahd
of Saudi Arabia, is on the line. Some, such as President
Saddam Hussein of Iraq, have been vociferous in blaming
Kuwait and the Emirates for the one-third drop in oil prices.
   Whatever the doubts, the Persian Gulf proposals resulted
in a rebound in oil prices. By Thursday afternoon, the latest
weekly average of the OPEC basket of seven crudes had climbed
back to $15 a barrel. Some oil officials, including the
Emirate's Mr. Otaiba, suggested that the average of the
basket will again reach the minimum reference price of $18 by
the time OPEC meets.
   If not, the production ceiling still could be an issue at
next week's OPEC meetings. The Persian Gulf proposals would
suggest an increase of 400,000 barrels a day to 22.5 million
in the third-quarter ceiling to accommodate the Emirate's new
quota of 1.5 million if all other quotas remain the same. But
Ginandjar Kartasasmita, Indonesia's oil minister, said in
Jakarta last week that he opposes any proposal to increase
the ceiling as long as the OPEC benchmark price remains under
$18.
   Some Persian Gulf sources said, however, that it may not
be necessary to increase the ceiling much if at all. There
were suggestions that some of the exporters may allow
temporary cuts in their volumes to help make up the new
allotment for the Emirates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Home on the Range
   Means Saki, Slippers
   For Some Cowboys
   ---
   Lazy 8 Hasn't Been the Same
   Since Japanese Bought It;
   A Deep Bow for the Boss
   ----
   By Bill Richards
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.ZCH
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DILLON, Mont. -- Dust swirls around a bunch of ranch hands
in chaps, boots and sweaty Stetsons as they brand the new
calf crop here at the Lazy 8. Cattle bawl, ropes twirl,
cowboys yip and hoot.
   Suddenly, a giant tour bus lumbers into this cowboy idyll.
The bus pulls up to the corral and stops with a loud hiss of
air brakes. Eleven Japanese men in business suits file off
and furiously begin snapping pictures. The cowboys strike
poses. They're used to this drill. After all, these guys may
act like tourists, but they're the real bosses of the Lazy 8.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Or, at least, that's been the case since Zenchiku Ltd.,
Japan's largest beef purveyor, bought the 77,000-acre spread
two years ago. The visitors are mostly senior officers from
Japanese banks and pension funds -- "big investors" in
Zenchiku, says John Morse, 49, who runs the ranch.
   As the businessmen step gingerly around cow pies, Mr.
Morse bustles about, lining up his cowhands for the cameras
and extolling the ranch's assets through an interpreter. The
guests grin and bow. But from the back of the pack comes a
mutter, in perfect English, "This ought to be good. We sure
paid top dollar to get it."
   Indeed they did. But for $12.6 million, Zenchiku got a
boothold deep in the heart of the Old West. Just down the
road lies Bannock, once the capital of the Montana Territory.
Virginia City, fabled ghost town, lies a rifle shot further.
   Given the Japanese fascination with almost anything having
to do with cowboys, it was probably only a matter of time
before they showed up here. Zenchiku's purchase of the Lazy 8
set off a stampede by Japanese investors, who have spent
nearly $100 million on beef-processing facilities in the U.S.
Now hardly a week goes by, says John Barrows, publisher of
the Dillon Tribune, when rumors don't fly that some Japanese
buyer has picked up another feedlot or packing house.
Zenchiku is one of the few to have tried ranching, though.
   With Japan getting ready to dismantle its rigid quotas on
beef imports next spring, that nation's food giants sense a
bonanza on the range. Historically, Japan's 120 million
consumers have spurned red meat; the average Japanese eats
six times as much fish as beef. But the Japanese are
beginning to develop a healthy appetite for hamburgers and
steaks.
   Zenchiku's experiment here has drawn intense interest, not
just from big U.S. and Japanese food companies but also from
folks here in Beaverhead County (population 8,000 people,
90,000 cattle). "People are wondering whether we're going to
be the Honda of the livestock industry," says Mr. Morse.
   Not Honda, exactly, but the Lazy 8 is no Ponderosa,
either. Just inside the ranchhouse door a row of slippers is
neatly laid out for the visitors from Japan. Mr. Morse ushers
his guests into the sprawling living room, which sports
Western and Oriental art and a 60-mile view of the Bitterroot
Mountains. The bar dispenses Japanese beer and saki. A
Japanese garden just outside the front door is raked daily.
   Kazuhiru Soma, a 26-year-old Zenchiku marketing trainee,
mingles with the visitors, speaking Japanese. Zenchiku sent
him and a co-worker here to learn the cowboy trade from the
ground up -- literally, as it turned out. Mr. Soma, who has a
black belt in karate, says the first time he went to wrestle
a calf to the ground to be branded, he tried judo. "I figured
it works on people, why not cows?" Mr. Soma ended up in the
dirt. The calf scampered away.
   To win the two-year assignment, Mr. Soma had to write an
essay for his corporate superiors explaining why he wanted to
go to Montana. He'd grown up in a Tokyo suburb and hadn't
ridden a horse until he arrived here, so he based his essay
on Westerns he watched as a youngster.
   In his new Stetson, scuffed boots and saucer-size belt
buckle, Mr. Soma certainly looks the part of the cowboy. He
drives a shiny Ford Bronco with a bumper sticker that says
"Have a Nice Day" -- in Japanese. But old habits die hard.
When he makes a new acquaintance, he whips out a business
card from a jeans pocket.
   Mr. Soma and Tommy Fukutomi, Zenchiku's other imported
cowboy, call Mr. Morse "Sacho" -- sort of the Japanese
equivalent of "Top Dog." When they are finished talking to
him, they bow and back out of the room. "It's the Japanese
way of showing respect," Mr. Morse says.
   Zenchiku has replaced the traditional ranch hierarchy,
where orders flowed from the ranch house to the bunk house,
with Japanese-style consensus management. Each week, the Lazy
8 cowpunchers mosey into a barn for what Mr. Morse calls "an
open forum discussion." The cowboys talk about "calving
goals" and "fundamental principles" with Ed Fryer, the
ranch's 39-year-old foreman.
   "We try to combine everybody's experience to reach our
goals," says Mr. Fryer, a tall, lean man in faded Levis, who
sounds somewhat more like a manager of a Toyota plant than a
cow boss.
   Some of the changes have drawn a cool reception from the
hands. When Zenchiku decided each of the ranch's 2,800 head
of cattle had to sport an ear tag with its computer ID
number, the cowboys balked. "The men had practical problems
from a workload standpoint," Mr. Fryer explains.
   Management and cowhands eventually talked things out. But
the new emphasis on togetherness may have spooked some
cowboys, traditionally loners. About half the ranch's work
force has departed since Zenchiku's arrival. The rest, says
Mr. Fryer, "seem to have evolved to our style of doing
things."
   Zenchiku has triggered some local xenophobia. When the
company bought the Lazy 8, the Tribune ran a letter from an
angry woman accusing the company of "taking over our ranching
business." Mr. Barrows's predecessor published a cartoon
showing a pair of cows with Japanese flags branded on their
rumps asking if they had to moo in Japanese. "There are just
too many World War II memories hanging around for some people
to be comfortable about this," says Sonja Williams, curator
of the Beaverhead County Museum.
   Mr. Morse sought to defuse local hostility by delivering
an "annual report" on the ranch last fall at Western Montana
State College here. About 130 people showed up, more than
turned out for the governor on his last visit. Zenchiku is
also careful to buy local, including about $200,000 in farm
machinery from a Dillon tractor dealer. "People keep score,"
Mr. Morse says.
   In any event, Zenchiku seems to be on target with its
major goals -- better productivity and raising a strain of
beef that will tickle the Japanese palate. The company feeds
its cattle a special mixture of barley, corn and sorghum in
an effort to achieve redder meat with bright, white fat.
Japanese consumers think the yellow-tinged fat generally
found in U.S. beef smells bad when cooked, Mr. Morse says.
Each animal is tracked on the ranch computer from birth to
the slaughterhouse. Zenchiku's hands visit packers to make
sure each animal is cut and trimmed to Japanese
specifications.
   The payoff for such rigid ranching can be enormous.
Japanese consumers don't flinch at spending $50 a pound for
Japanese-raised "Waygu" beef. Zenchiku is shooting for the
choice-to-prime niche, which goes for about $20 a pound in
Japan.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Morse is pondering a new role for the Lazy
8: as an executive retreat. He envisions Japanese businessmen
jetting here, donning cowboy duds and sitting around
discussing weighty issues with top U.S. officials. Some 250
Japanese have already visited the ranch, usually on their way
to Las Vegas. Today's group will be off to Colorado for golf
in the morning, after a barbeque dinner of homegrown steak --
and rice.
   "We're a stop on the tour," says Mr. Morse, readying a
stack of horseshoes and ties bearing the Lazy 8 brand for his
guests. "This is every Japanese businessman's fantasy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Buiness Brief -- Pic `N' Save Corp.:
   Standstill Pact Is Extended
   By Retailer, Girard Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<LP>
   Pic `N' Save Corp. said it extended its standstill
agreement with Girard Partners L.P. until after July 29 from
July 15, a move that gives other potential bidders for the
Domingus, Calif., discount retailer additional time to
develop proposals.
   Under the agreement, both companies agreed not to solicit
proxies or consents for control of the company. Pic `N' Save
added over the weekend that it had extended the date of its
annual meeting to Aug. 29 from Aug. 15. Holders of record
July 29 will be able to vote at the meeting. Girard holds a
6.7% stake in Pic `N' Save.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, Girard Partners, a partnership controlled by
David H. Batchelder, said it planned to make a bid for Pic
`N' Save and indicated that if it succeeded it would sell the
company. Pic `N' Save then said its board authorized its
investment bankers to seek bids for the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Coffee Producers Incurred $4 Billion in Losses
   In Past 12 Months After Collapse of Price Accord
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Coffee-producing nations incurred losses of
around $4 billion during the past 12 months, following the
collapse of an agreement to support prices, International
Coffee Organization officials say.
   "The economic situation of African countries, notably
Uganda, Cameroon, Rwanda, Burundi and Ethiopia, is critical,"
says Owusu Akoto, chief economist of the organization, which
acts on behalf of producing and consuming nations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bulk of these African countries' total exports come
from coffee sales, and they are suffering under a huge
foreign debt burden, he says. South and Central American
producers such as Colombia, Guatemala, Costa Rica and El
Salvador are also hurting, Mr. Akoto says. But they managed
to pare their losses to some extent by raising the volume of
their exports to a market that wanted to buy their better
quality "mild arabica" coffee, he says.
   International coffee production of 90 million bags of
coffee was already well in excess of consumption totaling 80
million bags in 1989, Mr. Akoto says. And producers sold an
extra 10 million bags from their stockpiles.
   As a result, average international coffee prices collapsed
to around 69 cents a pound from $1.15 at the end of June
1989. Despite a rally from lows of 72 cents a pound earlier
in the year, New York futures prices of high grades of coffee
are currently around 85 cents, down from 1989 peaks of $1.60.
The poorer-quality robusta futures that are traded in London
are #558 a metric ton, equivalent to 45 cents a pound,
against 99 cents in the summer of 1989.
   "After being protected by the coffee agreement for many
years, producers didn't know what it was like to be in a free
market," says Rob de Jong, a director of E.D. &amp; F. Man
(Coffee) Ltd. There was a rush to sell, he says.
   Since production, helped along by a good Brazilian crop,
could rise to as much as 100 million bags, officials say,
only a drought, frost or a new agreement will succeed in
lifting prices.
   Moreover, some 10 million bags are in inventories of
Western consumers; so European and U.S. merchants and coffee
manufacturers aren't rushing to buy coffee, dealers say.
   Unless the price of coffee rises, Colombia and other
Central American producers will be squeezed this year, Mr.
Akoto says. They don't have sufficient stocks to boost export
volumes.
   Consuming and producing nations will discuss differences
at a meeting next Monday and lay the groundwork for a
resuscitation of the coffee agreement in September, says
Nestor Osario, Colombia's delegate at the International
Coffee Organization. Colombia, in particular, needs a higher
coffee price to be able to fight cocaine producers.
   So far, however, the two main players in the agreement,
the U.S. and Brazil, are still far apart in their aims,
delegates say.
   The U.S., the world's biggest consuming nation, will
accept a support mechanism that responds to free market
forces, U.S. officials say. Export quotas that were
previously applied to lower or raise supplies of coffee
should be allocated on a fairer basis, officials say.
   Since Central American nations produce the mild coffee
that consumers require, they should be allowed to sell more
coffee, officials say. The agreement broke down last year
because Brazil, the biggest producer of coffee, refused to
reduce its own export quota. Brazil was and still is prepared
to accept free market conditions, delegates say. Since coffee
accounts for only a quarter of its total exports, Brazil is
under less pressure than other producers.
   That stance is still unchanged, a Brazilian delegate says,
but the nation is open to dialogue when meetings begin later
this month.
   Regardless of what happens at the meeting, the worst could
be over for the coffee market, Mr. de Jong of E.D. &amp; F. Man
says. Consumption is improving, and over the next decade East
European markets will boost coffee sales. East Europeans
drink only two pounds of coffee per capita annually, he says,
whereas consumption in Western Europe is around 12 pounds per
capita.
   Unfortunately for producers, however, any rise in
consumption this year won't be sufficient to match
production, Mr. Akoto says. Manufacturers haven't followed
the free market and cut prices sufficiently, he says.
   In Britain, for example, the Office of Fair Trading is
investigating coffee manufacturers, he says.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   The week ahead may not show as steep a climb in oil prices
as last week's $1.89 trading rise for the August contract on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, but market watchers do
expect crude futures prices to continue to move higher. The
impetus: The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
forged a strategy for curbing its production, which had
contributed to a world oil glut. Saudi Arabia's acceptance of
a lower output percentage and fierce lobbying by other
Persian Gulf oil ministers elicited promises of production
cuts from OPEC's worst two quota violators -- Kuwait and the
United Arab Emirates.
   Meanwhile, gasoline futures will continue to be firm
because a significant supply of an important high-octane
gasoline additive remains unavailable. An explosion 10 days
ago at an Arco Chemical Co. plant in Channelview, Texas,
stopped production of the substance, methyl tertiary butyl
ether, for at least several weeks, according to the company.
Authorities late last week were investigating, with some
skepticism, the Islamic Liberation Front's claim that it was
responsible for the refinery disaster that killed 17 people.
                                                                                                       

   Gold
                                                                                                       

   Has gold bottomed out?
   Traders will be watching to see if gold's rebound late
last week is just a blip or longer lasting.
   The August gold futures contract advanced a total of
$10.10 an ounce Thursday and Friday following Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments Thursday that the central
bank may be ready to lower interest rates to offset rising
rates of commercial banks.
   "It's the first time I can recall a Fed chairman signaling
ahead of time that rates may be changed," one analyst said.
   On Thursday, August gold rebounded from a low of $352.00,
which was an intraday loss of $3.60 an ounce, to close $3.90
higher at $359.50. On Friday, the August contract surged as
high as $369.00, which represented an intraday gain of $9.50,
before easing somewhat to end $365.70, a net gain of $6.20.
All told, this amounted to a swing of $17 an ounce from
Thursday's low to Friday's high, a very volatile reaction to
Chairman Greenspan's comments.
   Several factors still could restrain gold's climb,
however. For one, it's unclear how unsettled the market
remains because of Saudi Arabian gold sales, which hit the
metal early last week and caused sharp price declines for the
fourth time since March. Also uncertain is whether producers
will take advantage of the rally to sell and stifle the
advance, as has often happened before.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Soybean futures prices are likely to continue to rebound
this week following the release, after the close of trading
Thursday, of government figures showing smaller than expected
stockpiles of soybeans and higher than anticipated exports.
Soybean futures rallied Friday in reaction to the report,
with the November soybean contract gaining two cents a bushel
to settle at $6.325 a bushel. Due apparently to the unusually
wet spring that kept farmers from planting as many soybeans
as expected, stockpiles by Aug. 31 will have fallen 20
million bushels from earlier estimates to 275 million
bushels. By Aug. 31 next year, the government reduced its
soybean stockpile estimates by 80 million bushels to 265
million bushels. The government's latest six-to-10 day
forecast for the Midwest may boost corn futures prices. The
National Weather Service forecast called for above average
temperatures across many Midwestern growing regions, which
could limit corn pollination in some areas, analysts said.
Corn futures for December delivery gained 1.5 cents a bushel
Friday to settle at $2.6725 a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Howtek to Report Profit for 2nd Period,
   Predicts Sharp Growth Through 1991
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   HTK
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Howtek Inc., citing increased orders and sales of its
color-printing systems, expects to report a profitable second
quarter and predicts sharp sales and earnings growth through
1991.
   In an interview, Howtek President David Bothwell said the
company's second-quarter net income was about $400,000, or
five cents a share, on sales of $5.8 million. Mr. Bothwell
said he was "comfortable" with a recent analyst's estimate
that Howtek, of Hudson, N.H., will earn 75 cents a share this
year and $2 a share in 1991. He said he expects sales of $30
million this year, up from last year's $18.4 million, and he
estimated a "conservative" $48 million sales figure for 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Accounting isn't completed for the 1990 second quarter,
and Mr. Bothwell said sales and earnings could both be "a
little higher" than his projections when final results are
reported next week. In last year's second quarter, Howtek
posted a loss of $1.7 million on revenue of $4.5 million. The
company hasn't had a profitable year since it started in
1984. Its stock has been a controversial investment.
   Short sales of Howtek on the American Stock Exchange rose
969,937 shares in June, amid concerns about heavy competition
and the failure of past positive announcements to translate
into earnings. Past analysts' estimates have also proved
greatly over-optimistic. The Howtek short position was equal
to 107 times daily trading in the previous month, vs. the
average Amex stock's short ratio of 23% of daily volume.
   Mr. Bothwell declined to discuss the short position. He
attributed a recent price rise in the company's shares to
discussions with analysts in which the company has disclosed
its positive outlook. Howtek's shares, which traded as high
as $27 since going public in 1984, have risen to $13.75
apiece from a low of $9.375 last month. Trading volume has
also picked up sharply.
   "Howtek is now stepping out and telling its story," Mr.
Bothwell said. During a "transition year" of product
diversification, he added, "we were very quiet. Now we've
turned the corner. This will be our third consecutive
profitable quarter."
   Howtek reported net of one cent a share in the last
quarter of 1989, and two cents a share in the first quarter
of 1990.
   Mr. Bothwell said Howtek is benefiting from its newer
product lines and greater reliance on higher-margin
proprietary products. He said the company's Colorscan system,
used in the color printing of newspapers and magazines, has
become its fastest-growing area. The company's earliest
products were color printers and scanners that attempted to
aid desktop publishing in the office.
   In the second quarter, Mr. Bothwell said, Howtek shipped
and installed 14 Colorscan systems, priced at between
$150,000 and $300,000. Contract closings on 11 of those
systems took place at an American Newspaper Publishers
Association meeting in Las Vegas, Nev., last month, he said.
In 1989's second quarter, Howtek sold and installed two
Colorscan systems.
   Orders for a new printer and scanner designed for use with
personal computers have "exceeded our business plan
requirements," Mr. Bothwell said. "The interest in both
products is extremely high." He declined to give figures on
orders for the printer, which retails for $2,995, or the
scanner, which lists at $1,995. Both products are computer
peripherals and were unveiled at a trade show in April.
   Because of Colorscan and the initial reaction to the
color-printing peripherals, "we're comfortable forecasting a
60% to 70% growth rate" in sales over the next two years, Mr.
Bothwell said.
   Heavy expenses for marketing, and the acquisition of
inventory to meet orders and projected future demand, means
cash flow wasn't positive in the second quarter, Mr. Bothwell
said, despite the expected net of five cents. He said he
expected cash flow to turn positive in the third quarter.
   Asked about an accounting dispute reported in Howtek's
recent proxy statement, Mr. Bothwell said the company has put
the problem behind it. According to the proxy statement and
Mr. Bothwell, Howtek's board dismissed Deloitte in May 1989
after the accountants questioned certain accounting
practices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CAT FNM AXP HI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caterpillar Inc. -- $150 million of 9 3/8% senior notes
due July 15, 2000, priced at 99.30 to yield 9.484%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 102 basis points
above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A-minus by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Household Financial Corp. -- $150 million of 9 5/8% senior
subordinated notes due July 15, 2000, offered at 99.774 to
yield 9.66% through an underwriting group led by Lehman
Brothers. Rated single-A-3 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P,
the noncallable notes were priced at 122 basis points above
the Treasury's 10-year note.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $400 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 13 classes by Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-94, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities. Price and yield data weren't
immediately available.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $200 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in eight classes by Nomura
Securities International. The offering, Series 1990-96, is
backed by Fannie Mae 10 1/2% securities with a weighted
average coupon rate of 11.125% and weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 29.10 years. Among classes for which
details were available, yields ranged from 9.25%, or 84 basis
points above two-year Treasury securities, to 9.67%, or 130
basis points over 10-year Treasurys.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS

   American Express Credit Corp. (U.S.) -- $150 million of 9%
Eurobonds due Aug. 9, 1993, issue price of 101.025, reoffered
at 99.85 via Lehman Brothers.
   Czechoslovakian Trade Bank (Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka)
-- 250 million marks of 10% bonds due Aug. 2, 2000, at 100
3/4 to yield 9.8%, via Commerzbank. Guaranteed by
Czechoslovakian State Bank. Noncallable. Fees 2.
   Japanese Telecom (Japan) -- 60 million marks of 9 1/4%
private placement bonds due Aug. 3, 1995, priced at 101 3/4
to yield 8.9%, via IBJ Deutschland. Guaranteed by IBJ Tokyo.
Fees 1 7/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Dominion Redemption
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UDI CP
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- United Dominion Industries Ltd., an industrial
holding company with interests in steelmaking, said it plans
to redeem on Sept. 1 all of its 9.25% cumulative redeemable
retractable Series 3 preferred shares outstanding for 25
Canadian dollars (US$21.59) a share, plus accrued dividends.
   About 2.2 million of the shares were outstanding at last
report. United Dominion is 55.4%-held by Montreal-based
Canadian Pacific Ltd., a resource and transportation concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Study Says Gains
   In Pay to Exceed
   Inflation in '91
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pay raises in the U.S. will outpace inflation
next year more than any time in the past three years, a
survey by the Conference Board found.
   The Conference Board, an independent business research
group, said pay increases for U.S. salaried workers will
average about 5% this year and are expected to rise to an
average of nearly 5.5% in 1991. The findings were made in the
board's annual private-sector salary survey, which covers 537
companies in various industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The board's current projection for the rise in inflation
for 1991 is 4.5%, while pay increases for exempt employees
are expected to rise to 5.5%. Exempt employees are workers
such as salaried professionals and supervisors who are
excluded from overtime provisions of the federal wage and
salary laws.
   The report noted salary increases would be greatest in the
diversified services and insurance industries, with gains
averaging about 5.5% this year and 5.6% in 1991. Wholesale
and retail trade companies reported the lowest salary
increases, averaging 5% both this year and next. Average
increases for nonexecutive salaried workers in manufacturing
will be 5% in 1990 and slightly higher next year.
   Executives will receive slightly higher pay increases than
other salaried workers both this year and next, with
increases averaging 5.5%.
   Of the companies surveyed, 82% are using at least one
variable pay program, the board said. Eligibility for
variable compensation that once was mostly limited to
executive and sales personnel is now being extended to other
employee groups, the board said.
   The variable pay programs "provide an alternative to fixed
salary costs while enabling employers to foster, enhance and
reward various forms of achievement," said Elizabeth
Arreglado, Conference Board compensation specialist.
   The most popular form of variable pay is special cash
awards for outstanding individual contributions, which was
used by 38% of those polled. About 30% offer incentive pay
for employees who reach specific performance goals; 29% use
recognition programs; 27% have current pay profit-sharing
plans; 23% give lump-sum merit awards; 18% offer team
incentives; 11% have gain-sharing and skill-based pay
programs; and 6% have two-tier pay plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consolidated Enfield Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.ENF T.CGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Consolidated Enfield Corp., formerly Enfield
Corp., said it acquired 1,224,489 common shares of Consumers
Packaging Inc. from Federal Pioneer Ltd. for 17.5 million
Canadian dollars (US$15.1 million).
   Consolidated Enfield, a holding company indirectly
controlled by Toronto financiers Peter and Edward Bronfman,
said the shares were purchased to fulfill its obligation to
Group Schneider S.A. of France, as part of Schneider's C$300
million acquisition of Federal Pioneer earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated Enfield said that as a result of the share
purchase, it owns 50% of the 20.8 million Consumers Packaging
common shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Retail Price Index Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's retail price index rose 0.4% in June
from May and was up 9.8% from a year ago, the Central
Statistical Office said.
   The underlying level of inflation, which excludes mortgage
payments and community tax charges, was up 6.9% in June,
compared with 7.0% in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The statistical office said the 9.8% annual rise was the
highest since March 1982, when the advance was 10.4%. The
office attributed the rise to higher housing costs, as well
as further increases in gas and electricity prices. The
office noted that sharp falls in some food prices were offset
by increases in other foods.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Idaho Power Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IDA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IDAHO POWER Co. (Boise, Idaho) -- Larry R. Gunnoe, 54
years old, will become president and chief operating officer
Sept. 1., succeeding Wayne W. Anderson, 64, who will retire.
Mr. Gunnoe will also succeed Mr. Anderson on the board. Mr.
Anderson will remain president and a board member of
Ida-West, an Idaho Power subsidiary. Mr. Gunnoe's post as
Idaho Power's vice president of distribution will be filled
by Douglas H. Jackson, 53. Idaho Power also appointed John B.
Carley, 56, to its board. Mr. Carley, president of
Albertson's Inc., a grocery chain, fills one of two vacancies
created in June by retirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Channel Home Centers Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHANNEL HOME CENTERS Inc. (Whippany, N.J.) -- Leon Berger
resigned as chairman and president of this home-improvement
store chain. Mr. Berger, 67 years old, is succeeded as
president by Joseph Nusim, 54, who also was named chief
executive officer, succeeding Malcolm L. Sherman. Mr.
Sherman, 59, was named chairman. Mr. Nusim had been
president, chief executive officer and a director of Makro
Inc., a warehouse club with nine stores based in Cincinnati.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allcom Trading Co. Formed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Hungary's state mineral trading company,
Mineralimpex, and international energy trader Phibro Energy
AG have formed a joint venture international mineral trading
company, a Mineralimpex official said.
   The company, called Allcom Trading Co., began operations
July 1, trading "nonferrous ores, aluminum and oil products,"
the Hungarian official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The official said Hungarian law prohibited the new company
from trading certain minerals, including iron ore and
domestically produced crude oil.
   The Mineralimpex official didn't specify the breakdown of
shares in the partnership, but Hungarian joint ventures
usually have been split 50-50 between Hungarian and foreign
partners in the past.
   The Mineralimpex official didn't give any further details
of the venture, and Phibro officials weren't available to
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Auto Exports
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Automobile exports more than doubled
in June, but were still below last year's levels, the Trade
and Industry Ministry reported.
   South Korean auto makers sold 27,240 cars overseas in
June, compared with 12,365 cars in May. The June total was
down 2.2% from a year ago, the ministry said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   June sales growth, although helped by Hyundai's
introduction of a new subcompact, Scoupe, was based on
recovering demand in the U.S. market, officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark, Creditors Reach an Accord;
   Firm to Settle Disputes With Ex-Officers
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   SM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. reached a settlement with its
creditors in bankruptcy court, but neither side is crowing
about the reorganization plan they expect to be confirmed
today.
   As part of the settlement, creditors accepted pennies on
the dollar. Southmark, meanwhile, staked its future on a
troubled Houston thrift, all that is left of the company's
grand dream of a real estate and financial services empire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To win creditor approval of the plan, Southmark had to cut
yet another deal with Gene E. Phillips and William S.
Friedman, the company's former chairman and vice chairman,
respectively. The two were ousted from management last year,
but negotiated a severance agreement that gave them control
of $68 million of Southmark assets.
   In court Friday, Southmark agreed to settle contract
disputes with the former officers and signed over to them a
Las Vegas shopping center in exchange for a discharge of the
company's debts there. In return, Messrs. Phillips and
Friedman agreed to end their opposition to the reorganization
plan, removing the last major roadblock to the plan's
approval by Judge Steven Felsenthal.
   Adoption of the plan would end the roller coaster ride
Southmark has been on for much of the past decade. When Mr.
Phillips took over the company in 1980, it was a nearly
defunct real estate investment trust with just $450 million
in assets. He quickly built it into a $9 billion
conglomerate, patching together 550 brokerage firms, property
management companies, syndicators and mortgage lenders he
acquired with the aid of Michael Milken's former junk-bond
factory at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
   But the real estate collapse in the Southwest thwarted his
plans to construct "the Merrill Lynch of real estate." By the
time it filed for bankruptcy-law protection a year ago,
Southmark listed only $300 million in assets and a whopping
$1.9 billion in debts. And that wasn't the worst of it.
Lawyers for the Office of Thrift Supervision claimed $900
million in potential deposit losses at Southmark's wholly
owned San Jacinto Savings Association, and defendants in
hundreds of class-action lawsuits asserted claims of $850
million more.
   Faced with years of litigation and bankruptcy costs of $1
million a week, Southmark and its lenders decided to
negotiate. "The plan is the only viable alternative," said
Andrew DeNatale, a creditors' committee attorney.
   Under its terms, Mr. DeNatale's clients get $76 million in
cash and a package of securities in a reorganized Southmark.
Shareholders and class-action litigants get modest equity
stakes in the new Southmark, which would liquidate all of its
assets except for Houston-based San Jacinto.
   Southmark struck a separate deal with the Office of Thrift
Supervision. The regulators agreed to drop their bankruptcy
claims if the firm agreed to contribute $100 million in
additional capital to San Jacinto. Although the infusion
would make the thrift marginally solvent, regulators offered
no assurances that forbearance for San Jacinto would
continue.
   Analysts expect regulators to seize the thrift regardless.
"Name one big S&amp;L that has survived with a lot of land
holdings in Texas," challenged Frank Anderson, an analyst at
Stephens Inc., an investment banking firm at Little Rock,
Ark. Even if regulators remain tolerant, San Jacinto faces a
daunting fight in overbanked Houston against competitors that
have been reconstructed with federal assistance.
   San Jacinto has only a "a hope and a prayer," conceded
Southmark Chairman Arthur G. Weiss, "but it's not even a
close call. It's settle or spend years in court."
   Mr. Weiss and the Southmark board will resign after
confirmation, to be replaced by a new slate chosen by
creditors. Glen Adams, who directed the liquidation last year
of Great Western Sugar Co., will become president and chief
executive.
   Mr. Adams will have a mandate in the plan to investigate
questionable transactions by Southmark and to bring lawsuits
for recovery. "There's potential for substantial recoveries,"
said Southmark's investment banker William D. Forster, a
managing director of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   A court-appointed examiner urged Southmark to sue Messrs.
Phillips and Friedman for mismanagement, and former Southmark
auditor Grant Thornton for negligence. Creditors already have
sued Messrs. Phillips and Friedman to recover the $68 million
in Southmark assets the two men got in the severance
agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hubbell Inc. Acquires Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HUBB BRIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORANGE, Conn. -- Hubbell Inc., a maker of electrical and
electronic products for commercial, industrial, utility and
telecommunciations markets, said it acquired the Marion,
N.C., assets of the Brand-Rex Telecommunications unit of
Brintec Systems Corp., Willimantic, Conn. It declined to
disclose the amount of the cash transaction.
   Hubbell said the acquired assets produced sales of about
$17 million last year, and make a broad range of parts used
in telecommunications applications. It said the acquisition
"represents a major addition to Hubbell's expanding
participation in the premises-wiring market for industrial
and commercial applications."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kollmorgen Multiwire Division
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIMSBURY, Conn. -- Kollmorgen Corp. said it signed a
letter of intent to sell the assets and business of its
Multiwire division to Winthrop Investment Corp., a New York
financial holding company.
   Terms weren't disclosed. But Kollmorgen said the sale,
taken together with the recently reported sale of the
discrete wiring part of its PCK Technology division, wouldn't
significantly affect results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A maker of motors and electro-optical systems, Kollmorgen
earlier had said it would close the Multiwire division if it
failed to find a buyer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcoa Accepts Provisions
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Aluminum Co. of America said its directors
voted to accept all provisions of Pennsylvania's new
anti-takeover law. The legislation, signed into law April 27,
allows publicly owned concerns to exclude themselves from all
or part of its anti-takeover provisions within 90 days of
passage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alcoa also said its directors acted to redeem all rights
outstanding under the company's 1986 shareholder rights plan.
These rights currently trade with Alcoa common stock. A
redemption price of five cents per right will be paid Aug. 25
to shares of record Aug. 3.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIO
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STATE OF CONNECTICUT -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
said it confirmed its double-A rating on general obligation
bonds of the state, which plans to sell $325 million of the
bonds Tuesday. In April, the rating concern downgraded the
bonds' rating from double-A-1. Moody's said that Connecticut
has strong backing for its bonds, but that it has exhausted
reserves and its finances are "vulnerable to economic
slowdown."
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LIONEL Corp. (New York) -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
said it downgraded to Caa from single-B-2 its rating on this
specialty toy maker's 8% convertible subordinated debentures,
due 2007, and 12.375% subordinated notes, due 1996. The
rating concern's move affects about $64 million of Lionel
debt still outstanding from the two issues, which initially
totaled $70 million. Moody's didn't elaborate on the rating
change.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   LIONEL CORP., whose debt was recently downgraded, is a New
York toy retailer. The company's business was misstated in
Monday's edition. Lionel Corp. is unrelated to closely held
Lionel Trains Inc., Mount Clemens, Mich., which manufactures
toy trains under the Lionel name.
   (WSJ July 18, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Kodak Hopes Electronic Imaging Clicks,
   As Company Faces Fuzzy Photo Future
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Faced with stagnant growth, Kay R.
Whitmore, Eastman Kodak Co.'s new chairman, is hitching the
company's future on an emerging technology.
   Mr. Whitmore, who two years ago pushed for Kodak's foray
into pharmaceuticals, now says the company's impetus for
growth must be electronic imaging. That's a switch for top
management at Kodak, which for years has focused on
traditional film photography, its core business for more than
a century.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But with that aim comes great risk. Kodak has thrown its
hat into the ring with Sony, Canon and Matsushita, rivals
that have considerably more knowledge of electronics than
Kodak. It's a race that even the most optimistic Kodak
watchers doubt the company will win.
   "Once you move to electronic imaging, you must be
successful in electronic hardware, and why should one think
that Kodak will be successful in that?" says Eugene Glazer,
an analyst at Dean Witter.
   "There's a dozen companies already superior to Kodak" in
electronic hardware.
   But Mr. Whitmore, who also became chief executive officer,
believes his hand has been forced by the eclipse of
traditional photography. The absence of new technology has
damped picture-taking activity. Also hurting film and paper
demand is slow birth rates, which means fewer toothless
smiles to photograph.
   "To protect the long-range viability of our photography
business, we've got to get into electronic imaging," Mr.
Whitmore said. "The question is how to do that in a way that
creates value and doesn't consume all your resources. That's
the challenge for this management group."
   Kodak is now spending one-quarter of its $1.3 billion
annual research and development budget on electronic imaging;
the technology broadly refers to filmless cameras that record
pictures on computerized disks then play the images on
display screens. In years past, electronic imaging had been a
divisive issue at Kodak because many employees feared the
technology would replace the company's traditional
photography business of film and paper.
   But Mr. Whitmore has calmed concerns, for now, by saying
Kodak will strive to be leaders in both areas. "He's taken a
definitive stand," says Roger Van Heyningen, who supervises
Kodak's electronic imaging research efforts.
   Kodak managers have recognized for more than 20 years the
impact this new field could have on the company. But past
chief executives had ducked taking a definitive stand on its
importance, insiders say. By contrast, Mr. Whitmore, in his
very first speech a month ago to employees after taking over
the reins from Colby Chandler, said Kodak will have as its
aim "being the world's best in both electronic and
{traditional} imaging," Mr. Van Heyningen says. "It was very
encouraging."
   What that means in practical terms, though, is still
unclear. Kodak has already introduced some hybrid products,
which combine film and electronics. So, too, have the
Japanese. But the day when electronic imaging plays a major
role at Kodak, if ever, is well past year 2000. Kodak's own
internal forecast is that by 2010, 30% of all pictures will
be captured through electronic means rather than film, as the
expense of systems fall and amateurs use them.
   Meanwhile, the 57-year-old Mr. Whitmore has few fast
horses to ride in Kodak's other core businesses of
information systems, chemicals and pharmeceuticals while it
waits for electronic imaging to develop. That means
bottom-line improvements are likely to come from lowering
costs and trimming fat, although Wall Street complains that
Kodak uses the liquid diet approach when liposuction is
needed. Last year, Kodak eliminated 10,000 positions and now
has 137,000 employees.
   Kodak's Sterling Drug unit, which the company hoped would
offset slow growth in photo sales, remains a question mark.
Mr. Whitmore is betting that Sterling will develop new drugs,
and the unit is pursuing research ventures with other drug
companies. At best, however, Sterling won't make a meaningful
contribution to earnings until the second half of the decade.
   Mr. Whitmore's ability to position Kodak could be severely
hampered by the settlement of a patent lawsuit that Kodak
lost to the Poloroid Corp. Damages will be determined by a
U.S. District Court in Boston, although no one knows when the
ruling will be made. Mr. Whitmore said if the judgment falls
in the range of analysts' estimates -- from $1 billion to $2
billion -- Kodak won't have to sell assets. Many analysts
believe Kodak will have to take such steps if the company has
to pay more than $2 billion, and Sterling is usually
mentioned as the most likely candidate.
   Mr. Whitmore denied rumors that he had put Sterling on the
block, but he declined to say how Kodak would pay
higher-than-expected damages. Asked which business segment he
was least enamored with, he responded, "Today I'm enamored
with all of them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Laugh You May, but Remember,
   It's Floating and the Titanic Isn't
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A 120-foot vessel billed as the world's
largest paper boat has completed its maiden trans-Atlantic
voyage guided by an albatross.
   Well, the boat LOOKS like a paper hat, with a high peak in
the middle and a high point on each end. It DID cross the
Atlantic, albeit in the hold of a ship. And an albatross (a
sculpture) WAS part of its cargo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Origami Line boat, dubbed the QM -- which could stand
for Queen Mary, Queen Mother or Question Mark -- will be
gawked at for a week or so in the North Cove yacht basin on
the Hudson River near the southern tip of Manhattan. That's
just fine with its creator and captain, sculptor George
Wyllie. Stretching the imagination is part of the motive for
building the boat, he says.
   The 69-year-old Mr. Wyllie, a Scotsman who served with the
Royal Navy and as a customs officer before turning to art
full-time, says the boat "is as near to paper as you can get
it to be," given its size.
   Mr. Wyllie won't identify the "top-secret" special
translucent material; but he says it's "like paper yet not
quite like paper -- like some newspapers are not quite like
newspapers." Inside the boat is the "engine," a big question
mark.
   The boat was conceived for Glasgow's 1989 Mayfest to
underscore the erosion of Britain's maritime pre-eminence and
the decline in shipbuilding on the River Clyde.
   For U.S. consumption, the boat's manifest includes
notations from Adam Smith, the Scottish economist who penned
"The Wealth of Nations." Mr. Wyllie says Wall Street has
forgotten "The Theory of Moral Sentiments," Mr. Smith's
companion treatise on conscience and morality.
   A paper boat is "something poetic, something we all
enjoyed, or should have enjoyed, when we were young," he
says. "It's kind of like making love," he adds. "If you ask
too many questions about it," it loses something.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   The Techies' Challenge to the Bean Counters
   ----
   By Donald N. Frey
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   World technological competition in both manufacturing and
services is increasing rapidly, requiring a high level of
technical sophistication on the part of companies' senior
management. However, we in the U.S. have a competitive
disadvantage in having fewer technologically oriented chief
executives than our principle trading competitors, Japan and
Germany.
   The U.S. selection process for CEOs is different from
those in either Japan or Germany. As a result, American
companies end up with more financially oriented types. This
country's universities turn out proportionately fewer
engineers -- and many more MBAs than either competitor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What to do?
   On occasion drastic action is required. As a board member
of a heavy machinery company, I watched a non-technical CEO,
with no competent technical advisers, almost put the company
under with over-cost and under-featured products made with
obsolete manufacturing processes. It took forever (or so it
seemed) for the board to handle the issue because many of the
board members were buddies of the chief executive. Others
were non-technical types who had difficulty understanding the
problem. But after some false starts, we miraculously found
within the company a technically competent engineer, who was
fast becoming an excellent businessman and made him CEO. In
four years he has turned the company around in spectacular
fashion.
   This approach is not commonly taken because identification
of potential CEOs within the technical ranks of a company is
rarely done. It is also of little use to hope that American
culture will suddenly begin to require increased technical
capabilities from CEOs. Nor is it feasible for the
non-technical CEO to go to a few seminars and master the
subject.
   A more practical solution to the technology-management
problem is for the non-technical chief executive to get one
or more trusted advisers (at senior staff or preferably
senior operating levels) who are technically competent --
particularly in application.
   I served in such a role at Ford Motor Co., from the late
1950s into the late '60s. I started as a translator of
technical terms at senior executive meetings. Surrounded by
the then-ubiquitous financial-control types (we called them
"bean counters" or "beanies"), I decided to learn how to
discuss technical issues such as product features, quality or
manufacturing issues in financial terms.
   The beanies had enormous political power at Ford, and so
it was the better part of valor to join them rather than
constantly fight. Of course it didn't hurt that my team put
some useful customer features in our products -- disc brakes
and radial ply tires among them. We also cleaned up some
serious product quality problems: leaking windows, power
steering pumps and transmissions. But these advances might
have been less appreciated had I not learned to express their
importance in language the beanies could understand.
   I was also interested in getting the support of sales and
manufacturing types to get my ideas sold (sometimes against
resistance to change), but this meant learning to translate
my technical message into yet another language. I well
remember being asked in the seemingly endless efforts to get
approval for the original "Mustang" (for which I was project
manager, and Lee Iacocca the sponsor) what the net,
"non-substitutional" increase in vehicle sales volume would
be with the car -- that is, the number of cars that could be
sold without cannibalizing our existing market. Since the
Mustang was a completely new vehicle concept, no one really
knew.
   One of the corporate market research types was given the
question of substitution to answer. He knew from me that the
stand-alone break even volume was about 84,000 units. A week
later he reported that the increased volume, net of
substitution, would be 86,000 units. I called and asked him
how he got the number. He said he liked the car and its
concept. Networking worked]
   We sold well over 400,000 units the first year, and to
this day I really don't know what the net volume was. But
since the gross margin on the Mustang was so high, we made a
ton of money in total.
   The trusted technical advisers should have the following
essential characteristics:
   -- The ability to understand and explain in simple, clear
language the latest technologies;
   -- The ability to translate relevant technology into
company-relevant business objectives;
   -- The ability to network widely into non-technical
company sectors (i.e. sales, manufacturing, finance);
   -- A strong track record of putting new technology
successfully into practice.
   The latter point is crucial. A track record of success in
the marketplace with a new technological innovation is a
must. Too many non-technical CEOs turn to their heads of R&amp;D
for technical advice. If the head of R&amp;D has not had the
experience of working in the marketplace, his or her advice
will not be peppered with the patience and appreciation of
complexities one develops through real marketing experience.
New technology in use involves many more issues than R&amp;D]
   Identification of technical advisers is itself an art.
CEOs looking for such advisers must take the time to pinpoint
those in the company who actually drive new technology into
practice and who can explain the innovation to non-technical
types. If the CEO spots such people among the company's
younger engineers, he should help to get them started up the
ranks.
   Having dealt with a never-ending series of financial types
in my own life, I eventually concluded that they do have the
company's best interests at heart and are well meaning. Their
problem is that financial control and measurement is all they
know. But important measures of customer satisfaction or
market share are not quantifiable before a new product goes
to market; too often the financial types do not realize that
beans must be earned before they are counted.
   That's where the technological advisers should come in.
The technologists can straighten out the bean counters before
they undercut a new product. But the technologists can do so
only if they are either operating at the top levels of
management or are directly advising at that level -- with at
least as much influence as the beanies. That's where the
Japanese and Germans have America beat. Proven technology
advisers can help the U.S. get ahead of its competitors'
power curve.
   ---
   Mr. Frey, former CEO and chairman of Bell &amp; Howell, is
professor of industrial engineering and management science at
Northwestern University's department of industrial
engineering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merc's Halperin
   Is Said to Become
   President of Comex
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- David A. Halperin, executive vice president of
the New York Mercantile Exchange, has accepted an offer to
become president of the Commodity Exchange, a person familiar
with the two exchanges said.
   Mr. Halperin declined to comment on his new job, pending a
meeting of the Comex board Wednesday. The board is expected
to vote on the appointment at that time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Comex is the nation's largest gold, silver and copper
futures exchange. But it is a distant fourth in size behind
the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
and the New York Merc.
   Mr. Halperin's stay at the Merc was short-lived, having
moved there last December 1989 from the position of executive
vice president at the Comex. Mr. Halperin took the job at the
Merc as part of the Merc board's reorganization plan for the
exchange.
   A senior official at the Merc said that the 47-year-old
Mr. Halperin will be missed, calling him "a top-flight
administrator."
   One Merc administrator thinks Mr. Halperin's departure
might be a roadblock in the current attempt to merge the
Comex and the Merc, New York's largest commodity exchange. He
noted that Mr. Halperin was a part of the core group at the
Merc who were privy to its negotiating positions in the
merger talks.
   Exchange officials have indicated that within a month or
so the discussions were expected to produce one or more
merger plans that would be presented to the members of both
exchanges for a vote.
   The last president of the Comex, Arnold Staloff, a former
senior official at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, was
brought in with considerable fanfare in August 1989. He
resigned May 1. Some say Mr. Staloff's resignation was due to
the highly charged political atmosphere of the exchange. Mr.
Halperin, having worked at the Comex for eight years, is
likely to be familiar with the environment.
   Before Mr. Staloff took the Comex presidency it was widely
believed that Mr. Halperin was a candidate for the job. Four
months after Mr. Staloff took office, Mr. Halperin left the
Comex to take the Merc position.
   Before becoming executive vice president at the Comex, Mr.
Halperin was senior vice president in the areas of finance,
administration and development. He is a certified public
accountant and, prior to joining Comex, worked as controller
of Columbia University and as an audit supervisor for Coopers
&amp; Lybrand.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McCormick Indicates Operating Profit
   For Current Year Will Top Fiscal '89
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   MCCRK
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   McCormick &amp; Co. is "on target" for meeting its fiscal 1990
goal of about $1.31 a share in operating earnings, Bailey A.
Thomas, president and chief operating officer, said.
   Including a one-time gain of $6.3 million, or 15 cents a
share, from the sale of land, that target suggests net income
for the year of about $1.46 a share, or about $61 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year ended Nov. 30, the Hunt Valley, Md.,
specialty foods company posted earnings from continuing
operations of $52.5 million, or $1.20 a share, including a
gain on the sale of Brazilian operations of about six cents a
share. A one-time gain on sale of real estate made net to
$135.5 million, or $3.09 a share.
   McCormick hopes to maintain its projected 15% growth rate
in per-share operating earnings for the next several years,
Mr. Thomas said in an interview. Key elements of that
strategy include a push to develop microwave seasonings for
the U.S. market and expansion of the company's international
business, particularly in Europe.
   Within the U.S., Mr. Thomas said, McCormick is committed
to using technology to increase its 40% share of the consumer
spice and seasoning market. The company's successful switch
from metal to plastic packaging, launched in 1987, is
complete, and the research department is now working on
microwave seasonings.
   Because microwave cooking times are so short, many
seasonings don't fully permeate the food. "The development of
a flavor in any form comes from the process of cooking," Mr.
Thomas said. "The longer you cook food, the stronger the
flavor."
   To lick the problem of microwave blandness, McCormick is
working on a "secret" process to create seasoning blends that
release their flavor much more quickly. "When you put it in
your microwave, it will taste like you cooked it for 45
minutes or even three hours," Mr. Thomas said. Over the next
few years, McCormick plans to introduce improved spices to
both consumers and food processors.
   International operations, primarily in Mexico and the
U.K., accounted for nearly a third of McCormick's $1.2
billion in sales in fiscal 1989. But the opening of Western
Europe's economic borders in 1992 offers greater
opportunities for McCormick to expand its foreign business,
Mr. Thomas said.
   "Many companies are asking us to assist them as they
expand overseas," Mr. Thomas said. Such big U.S. industrial
customers as McDonald's and Burger King in the fast-food area
and Kraft General Foods in food processing are asking
McCormick to build facilities overseas to serve their needs.
   McCormick would also like to tap more of the consumer
spice and seasoning markets in continental Europe.
Unfortunately, Mr. Thomas said, "the world isn't waiting for
McCormick to enter their spice markets," so the company will
probably have to acquire a local spice firm.
   "We won't pay a ridiculously high price," Mr. Thomas said.
"But we may be forced to pay in order to get an initial
presence on the continent."
   To keep current and future spice processing plants
adequately supplied, McCormick is also implementing a "global
sourcing" plan, he said. Working in partnership with native
growers and traders in such countries as Brazil, Turkey and
China, McCormick is trying to minimize the traditional price
volatility in commodity spices through steady supplier
relationships.
   "What we bring to the venture is the marketing and
technology," Mr. Thomas said. "What our joint-venture partner
brings is knowledge of the market," especially the local
political situation. Both partners benefit from the stable
price and long-term selling relationship.
   Because of such partnerships with suppliers in Israel,
Egypt, Morocco and the U.S., McCormick no longer has to buy a
six-month supply of basil and store it until it can be used,
Mr. Thomas said. "We get it as we need it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   LIVE NEV FH ZAP RP.C TCGN ROR CDNC UJB UVOL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange an- nounced two
new listings, and the American Stock Exchange six. Two of the
new listings are initial public offerings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Live Entertainment Inc., a Van Nuys, Calif., maker and
retailer of entertainment software products, joins the big
board Wednesday, under the symbol LVE. It previously traded
over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   Nuevo Energy Co., an independent oil and gas company based
in Houston, began trading last week as an initial public
offering under NEV.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, Essex Financial Partners L.P., a
Virginia Beach, Va., multistate savings and loan holding
company, begins trading limited partnership units on Tuesday,
under ESX.
                                                                                                       

   Foundation Health Corp., a Rancho Cordova, Calif., managed
health care services company, began trading last week as an
initial public offering under FH.
                                                                                                       

   Helionetics Inc., a maker of electronic power conditioning
products in Irvine, Calif., began trading under ZAP. It also
trades on the Pacific Stock Exchange, and previously traded
over-the-counter.
                                                                                                       

   Rhone-Poulenc S.A., a French pharmaceutical and chemical
company, began trading contingent value rights on a
"when-issued" basis, under RCV.WI.
                                                                                                       

   Tecogen Inc., a Waltham, Mass., maker of packaged
co-generation systems and gas-fueled air conditioners, which
previously traded over-the-counter, begins trading Thursday,
under TGN.
                                                                                                       

   Universal Zoltronics Corp, a Mt. Kisco, N.Y., maker of
high-voltage power conversion systems, which also previously
traded over-the-counter, begins trading Thursday, under UVL.

   The contingent value rights are being issued in connection
with Rhone-Poulenc's purchase of a majority stake in Rorer
Group Inc., on the basis of one right for each share not
owned by Rhone-Poulenc. The Amex expects them to be
distributed by the end of the month, when Rorer will be
renamed Rhone Poulenc Rorer Inc. In the event the shares of
this company are trading below $98.26 on July 31, 1993, the
right requires Rhone Poulenc to pay holders the difference,
to a maximum $46.26 a right. The rights would cease trading
on that date, unless Rhone Poulenc extends them one year with
a maximum value of $44.14.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Chicago Board Options Exchange said
Cadence Design Systems Inc., a San Jose, Calif., maker of
software for integrated circuit design automation, and UJB
Financial Corp., a Princeton, N.J., banking company began
trading under CDQ and UJB, respectively.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CONTINGENT VALUE RIGHTS being issued on the American Stock
Exchange in connection with Rhone-Poulenc S.A.'s purchase of
a majority stake in Rorer Group Inc. are scheduled for August
distribution. Their maximum value at July 31, 1994, if Rorer
extends them one year, would be $54.12 each. Yesterday's
edition incorrectly stated the distribution date and maximum
value.
   (WSJ July 17, 1990)
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   UNIVERSAL VOLTRONICS Corp., a Mount Kisco, N.Y., maker of
high-voltage power conversion systems, begins trading on the
American Stock Exchange tomorrow under the symbol UVL. It is
54%-owned by Thermedics Inc., Woburn, Mass. Universal's name
was incorrect in Monday's edition.
   (WSJ July 18, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Defense Giants'
   Quarter Profits
   May Elude Hits
   ---
   Consensus Has McDonnell
   And General Dynamics
   Disputing Cost Overruns
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GD GQ LK ML NOC RHR ESY LOR RTN BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The aerospace industry is confronting a big question as
second-quarter earnings reports begin to filter out: Just how
bad will it be for McDonnell Douglas Corp. and General
Dynamics Corp.? Or will it be bad after all?
   The two defense contractors disclosed last month that they
would probably face write-offs because of delays in
developing the A-12 attack plane for the Navy. Now, though, a
consensus seems to be emerging on Wall Street that the
companies -- especially McDonnell Douglas -- may be inclined
to hold off recording any such adjustments. Instead, they
would signal that they underestimated their costs on the
program by a certain amount, but are contesting who will pay
for the overrun -- the companies or the government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All you need to do is say a claim is being filed, rather
than declare the loss up front," Paul Nisbet of
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. says. "And then you wait
until the matter is adjudicated."
   But he adds that there seems to be some "disagreement
between General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas over how they
should handle the situation." Industry observers indicate
that General Dynamics may, on its own, register a charge to
earnings, given that it was booking a profit on the A-12
program for some time. McDonnell Douglas, by contrast, never
did this. And given that the company's loan agreements with
its bankers are tied to its net worth, or assets minus
liabilities, McDonnell Douglas has a special incentive to
avoid write-downs whenever it can.
   The companies, both of which are based in St. Louis,
decline to comment on the A12. So do two Defense Department
spokesmen.
   Were the companies forced to take a second-quarter hit on
the A-12, it could be substantial. Several securities
analysts, including Peter Aseritis of First Boston Corp. and
Jerry Cantwell of Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co., estimate that each
company could be in trouble to the tune of $300 million
before taxes.
   Admittedly, though, the analysts arrive at this figure in
a roundabout way: The companies are said to have underbid
Grumman Corp. on the A-12 contract by $1 billion. Figuring
that perhaps $400 million of that sum was legitimate, because
General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas have significantly
more experience with stealth aircraft technology, that leaves
$600 million to account for, and this amount is then split
between the two.
   Besides the A-12, there could be a few other surprises.
   Howard Rubel of Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc. is wary that
General Dynamics may soon have to take a charge on the
single-channel ground and airborne radio system, or Sincgars,
project for the Army. Moreover, market watchers warn that
Lockheed Corp. might report some sort of write-off as a
result of its decision in May to pull its aircraft operations
out of Burbank, Calif.
   And McDonnell Douglas recently suggested that it may have
"serious cost problems" on several other fixed-price
development pacts with the Pentagon.
   But what many believe is McDonnell Douglas's biggest
thorn, the C-17 cargo plane, shouldn't draw blood in
second-quarter results.
   During a tour earlier this month at the sprawling C-17
factory in Long Beach, Calif., company officials emphasized
that no write-offs on the program were in sight. "We're right
up on the bulkhead" of the contract's cost ceiling, but
"we're going to make it," asserts John Capellupo, deputy
president of McDonnell Douglas's transport aircraft unit.
   He adds that the company's MD-80 commercial jet line
turned around during the second period. "We promised 34, and
we did 34," Mr. Capellupo says. This success should help
offset continuing high development expenditures on the MD-11
three-engine jet.
   Such success also would help damp rumors that McDonnell
Douglas is headed for a bankruptcy-law filing or that the
company's Long Beach facilities will be sold. Speculation to
that effect has been circulating through the financial
markets for the past few days, as has talk that Chairman John
McDonnell is going to resign. The company says all of this is
"absolutely false." But people at the company say that during
the next couple of days, Mr. McDonnell will hold a news
conference and meetings with employees, where he will explain
how he expects to cut $700 million a year in operating costs;
thousands of layoffs are likely to be announced, and the work
force is jittery.
   Meanwhile, Martin Marietta Corp., Northrop Corp. and the
parts supplier Rohr Industries Inc. all look poised to turn
in solid, if unspectacular, results for the quarter.
Companies more oriented toward defense electronics, including
E-Systems Inc. and Loral Corp., are expected to show
year-to-year gains. Raytheon Co. already has logged an 8%
increase in profit for its latest three months.
   But the clearest winner, as usual, will be Boeing Co. The
Seattle-based company delivered 100 commercial aircraft
during the second period, up from 81 a year earlier. The
latest number includes 15 747400s, Boeing's most profitable
product.
   "The theme for the quarter," Mr. Rubel of Cyrus J.
Lawrence says, "is that you've got to own Boeing" stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Further Easing by Fed Needed to Send
   Market Beyond 3000, Many Analysts Say
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Only a few days ago, investors had all but
given up hope that the Federal Reserve would cut interest
rates soon, and they were nervously awaiting the onslaught of
second-quarter corporate earnings.
   But on Friday the Fed eased rates; the Dow Jones
Industrial Average climbed to yet another record high, even
briefly tiptoeing across the 3000 mark for the first time.
But have the stock market's worries about profits gone away
-- or even moderated?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not likely. "When the market wasn't doing well, people
felt rates were going up and earnings were going down," says
Byron Wien, U.S. investment strategist at Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co., who predicted at the start of this year that the
industrials would reach 3000 in the second half. Now, he
says, investors' fears of higher rates and slumping profits
are easing.
   But for the market to make major progress from here, Mr.
Wien says, rates will have to come down even more, or
earnings will have to go up. And since the latter isn't
likely to happen in a big way, the push will have to come
from lower interest rates, he says.
   On Friday, the Federal Reserve pushed the federal funds
rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to
just over 8% from 8 1/4%, making good on Chairman Alan
Greenspan's remark Thursday that rates would have to fall to
alleviate a credit crunch. But, as promised, the cut was
modest -- too modest to cheer investors about the prospect of
a surge in economic growth that would significantly help
corporate earnings.
   A quarter-point move "in the fed funds rate isn't likely
to engender much more than a marginal improvement in
corporate profitability," says Brian J. Fabbri, chief
economist at Midland Montagu Economics.
   In terms of truly stimulating economic growth and
therefore corporate profits, "it's the effect on the consumer
that counts," Mr. Fabbri says. And a quarterpoint drop
probably won't lead to the kind of bank-loan rate cuts that
might make consumers feel better about consuming, he says.
   It would probably take another quarter-point drop in the
federal funds rate to inspire banks to cut the prime rate,
the benchmark lending rate, Mr. Fabbri says.
   Peter Anderson, president of IDS Advisory Group, a
Minneapolis money management firm, says he believes the Fed's
interest rate moves will do little to help corporate
profitability in the short term. That's because the Fed will
use interest rates only to stave off a recession -- not to
stimulate the economy in its present condition, he says.
   For example, if Congress reaches an accord soon that lops
$50 billion or $60 billion off the budget deficit, the Fed
may allow interest rates to fall further, but only to offset
the economic damage that would be done by the tax increases
and spending cuts such an accord doubtless would include, Mr.
Anderson says.
   Still, despite interest-rate concerns, some analysts think
the stock market has room to move up. Mr. Anderson says the
Dow industrials could rise well past 3000 this year. If
earnings on the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index total $26
to $27 a share this year, while investors are comfortable
with stocks selling at 15 times earnings, that would equate
to an industrial average of about 3250.
   "Eventually, at the turn of the year, investors will
become more value-oriented in the market," Mr. Anderson says.
"People's concerns about earnings erosion will begin to
dissipate."
   Edward M. Kerschner of PaineWebber thinks the Fed's credit
ease could give companies reason to believe "capital will be
reasonably available for sound and ordinary business needs. .
. . This easier policy could give the profit outlook a boost
later this year and into 1991. Businesses that had been
reluctant or even unable to move ahead because of fears of
unavailable credit will now find those concerns mitigated."
   He predicts the stock market could move up an additional
10% to 20% over the next 12 to 18 months, putting the DJIA at
a fully valued 3250 to 3550. But that will only happen if
rates fall another half percentage point, Mr. Kerschner says.
   Other analysts are more cautious. Ricky Harrington,
director of asset management at Marion Bass Securities,
Charlotte, N.C., worries that "the Dow is making new highs,
yet we continue to have narrow breadth. . . . That doesn't
mean we can't move to 3100, but it means you take a somewhat
defensive approach to this market. Right now, money managers
are all playing the same game. They are all buying the same
stocks. If they're not buying Procter &amp; Gamble, then they are
sitting on the sidelines."
   And in the short term, the outlook for interest rates
continues to worry many analysts.
   Late last year, Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at First
Fidelity Bancorp., envisioned that by now the economy would
be showing lower inflation, lower interest rates and
corporate profits flattening out after declining. Although
inflation may be ready to fall and profits are improving
some, the interest rate picture remains troublesome, he says.
   "A mere quarter-point decline in the fed funds rate will
not reinvigorate the economy," Mr. Levy says, "nor will it
amelioriate the credit conditions Greenspan spoke about." He
says the credit crunch has to do with softening credit demand
associated with the weak economy. "Better now to be invested
in companies whose earnings are certain to meet
expectations," he says. "In the near term, we need those
profits to sustain the recent stock market gains."
   David B. Bostian Jr., chief investment strategist at
Jesup, Josephthal &amp; Co., notes that the stock market's
initial response to the Fed's easing "was euphoric, and in
the short term, investors forgot about all of the earnings
concerns."
   But this week, "the market may refocus on earnings," he
says. It probably would take another half-point interest rate
cut to generate enough "economic buoyancy" to help corporate
profits.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The stock market continued its record-setting rally in
heavy trading, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average poking
through 3000 for the first time.
   But although the average established its second straight
record high, it didn't hold above that mark as profit-taking
and futures-related selling sent the market well below the
highs of the session in late trading.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which surpassed 3000
just after 1:30 p.m. on its way to an intraday gain of more
than 33 points, finished 10.40 higher at 2980.20. For the
week, the average posted a gain of 75.25 points, or 2.6%.
   The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index also
established a record high by climbing 1.01 to 200.33,
breaking the previous mark of 200.21, set June 4.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index finished just below their all-time peaks as a
result of the market's pullback.
   The S&amp;P 500 added 1.87 to 367.31 and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index gained 1.60 to 341.22; their record highs of
367.40 and 341.98, respectively, were also set June 4.
   For the week, the S&amp;P 500 rose 2.5% and the New York Stock
Exchange Composite rose 2.3%, as did the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index.
   Big Board volume totaled 215.6 million shares, marking the
first time since midMay that the exchange posted back-to-back
sessions of more than 200 million shares. On Thursday, 211.5
million shares changed hands.
   Indications that the Federal Reserve is moving in the
direction of lower interest rates fueled the market's latest
rally, traders said, as did several waves of programs linked
to stock-index arbitrage. But index-arbitrage selling --
where traders sell stocks and offset the positions in futures
to capture fleeting price differences -- surfaced in the
final hour of trading to weigh down the market. The Dow Jones
Utilities Average, seen as an interest-rate barometer, closed
0.32 lower at 206.17.
   Although utility stocks were left out of the market's
rally, the Dow Jones Transportation Average jumped 22.63 to
1187.59 as railroad and airline issues posted especially
sharp gains.
   Railroad stocks rallied after Salomon Brothers commented
favorably on the short-term prospects for the sector. Analyst
Michael Lloyd told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
that industry traffic was stronger than expected last month,
and he singled out two railroad firms as beneficiaries:
Norfolk Southern, which rose 1/4 to 45 1/8, and Consolidated
Rail, which climbed 1 1/2 to 50 5/8.
   Conrail also was the subject of positive comments from
PaineWebber analyst Anthony Hatch, who told the investor
report his second-quarter earnings estimate of $1.22 a share
"might be well short by as much as 20 cents a share" because
of its strong June traffic.
   USAir Group paced the rally in the airline sector by
advancing 1 1/2 to 25 3/4. AMR, the owner of American
Airlines, gained 2 to 63 3/8; UAL, the owner of United
Airlines, rose 1 to 160 3/4; Delta Air Lines gained 5/8 to 74
1/4; Southwest Airlines added 1/2 to 27 1/2, and Alaska Air
Group rose 3/4 to 23 1/2.
   Gene Jay Seagle, director of technical research at Gruntal
&amp; Co., said the rally in transportation stocks is "giving the
signs of confirmation that we want" in terms of the Dow
Theory. The theory holds that an advance in the Dow
transportation average lends support to a rally in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.
   Precious-metals stocks, buoyed by a rise in gold prices,
also were especially strong; August gold futures climbed $6
an ounce, to $365.70, in New York trading.
   Battle Mountain Gold rose 5/8 to 11 1/2, Homestake Mining
added 5/8 to 18 3/8, Newmont Mining went up 1 1/2 to 46,
Placer Dome gained 3/8 to 16 3/8, ASA Ltd. advanced 1 3/4 to
47 1/2 and American Barrick Resources added 7/8 to 20.
   Motel 6, the most active NYSE issue, jumped 2 3/4 to 22 as
6.7 million partnership units changed hands. Accor, a French
hotel, catering and tourism company, agreed to acquire Motel
6 for $22.50 a unit.
   Castle &amp; Cooke, which said several major companies have
expressed interest in acquiring its Dole Food unit, rallied 6
to 36 1/2 as 2 million shares changed hands. The company
retained Goldman Sachs as an adviser on the possible sale of
Dole.
   Computer Associates International was second on the most
actives list as trading remained heavy in the wake of its
statement Thursday that second-quarter revenue dropped
"substantially" from a year ago and earnings may also be
lower. The stock, which plummeted 6 1/2 Thursday, dropped
another 3/8 to 9 7/8 on 6.5 million shares.
   Sears Roebuck fell 3/8 to 34 1/4 after estimating that
second-quarter earnings from continuing operations would be
65 cents a share, down from 95 cents a year earlier.
   Alcan Aluminium slipped 5/8 to 23 1/4 on 2.4 million
shares. The company reported that second-quarter earnings
dropped 65.6% from a year earlier; the latest results fell
short of analysts' expectations.
   Genentech went down 1/2 to 29 after reporting that
second-quarter net income fell 44.8% from a year earlier. The
company also said it expects to record a loss for the year,
reflecting costs tied to its merger with Roche Holdings of
Switzerland.
   Nynex lost 5/8 to 78. The staff of the New York Public
Service Commission recommended that the regulatory panel
require the company's New York Telephone unit, which is
requesting a $919 million rate increase for next year, to
instead reduce rates by $81 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Republic New York Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS RNB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   REPUBLIC NEW YORK Corp. (New York) -- David Rubin was
named chairman and Saul Langer senior executive vice
president at Republic Factors Corp., a subsidiary of this
bank holding company. Mr. Rubin, 64 years old, retains his
post as president and chief exeuctive officer; Mr. Langer,
52, continues as head of the New York office of the factoring
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   U.CHR LATAM JAPAN EUROP LABOR HMC FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAKE ART IN AMSTERDAM?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Dutch court has lifted a bank-account freeze it imposed
on Christie's Amsterdam after experts questioned the
authenticity of an auctioned painting, a Christie's spokesman
said.
   A painting that Christie's listed as Odilon Redon's
"Fleurs des Champs" was sold at a May 22 auction in Amsterdam
for 1.1 million guilders (about $595,000), reportedly to a
Japanese gallery. But the buyer withheld payment after doubts
were raised as to the painting's authenticity, the Christie's
spokesman said.
   The spokesman added that four weeks after the sale the
Paris-based Wildenstein Foundation, which is preparing a
complete catalog of the artist's work, said it didn't believe
the work attributed to Redon by Christie's was genuine. In
response, the spokesman said, the Dutch seller of the
painting obtained a court order freezing the Christie's
account until the seller received the auction proceeds.
   "But the condition of sale has a provision that Christie's
doesn't have to pay if a payment is not received from the
purchaser," the spokesman said; the court thus lifted the
bank-account freeze.
                                                                                                       

   ARGENTINA'S PHONE SERVICE
                                                                                                       

   The Spanish company that bought part of Argentina's
national telephone company will invest $1 billion over five
years to improve service, officials said. They stressed,
however, it may take two years to repair old lines or provide
new ones to all the Argentines who want them. "To demand
immediate improvements is practically impossible," said Jose
Luis Martinez de Bustamante, the president of Telsur, the new
company. Last month, the Spanish telecommunications monopoly
Telefonica led the consortium that bought the southern
section of Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE STOCKS
                                                                                                       

   The number of individual shareholders of Japanese stocks
increased for the fourth consecutive year in 1989, up 11.3%
to 24,090,000, according to an association of Japanese stock
exchanges. The share of Japanese stocks held by individuals
in 1989 increased 0.2 percentage point to 22.6%, the first
rise in 14 years. The share held by financial institutions,
excluding investment trusts, and by securities companies
decreased.
                                                                                                       

   LABOR PACT IN EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   East German factories hit by strikes agreed to raise
wages, shorten work hours and protect the jobs of 350,000
workers for one year. The contract was negotiated by the West
German labor union IG Metall and its East German affiliate
and covers workers at 164 factories in the Berlin area.
Management said the pact might hasten the closing of some
struggling enterprises.
                                                                                                       

   MAKING HONDA ACCORDS IN TAIWAN
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Honda Motor Co. said it would start making Accord
cars in Taiwan in August. Honda officials said initial
production is set at about 1,000 units a month. Already, the
company has been producing Civic cars in Taiwan through a
local concern, San Yang Industry Co., which is 13.5% owned by
Honda's U.S. subsidiary. Officials said San Yang would also
handle production of the Accord cars. They said Honda decided
to add the Accord line in light of the recent rapid growth in
Taiwan's auto market.
                                                                                                       

   ITALIAN ENERGY REPORT
                                                                                                       

   Italy asked the European Community to launch a discussion
with the U.S. and Japan on energy, including the topic of
imposing taxes on energy consumption. In a report, the
Italian government said the rapid growth in global energy use
demands an international effort to cut consumption, save
energy and promote renewable sources of energy. The report
said the EC's energy goals until 1995, drafted in 1985, are
outdated because oil prices have dropped sharply since then
and the 1986 accident at Chernobyl has shattered confidence
in nuclear power.
                                                                                                       

   REPORTING ON JAPAN'S ROYALTY
                                                                                                       

   Japanese newspapers have called on the Imperial Household
Agency to respect press freedoms, a spokesman for the Japan
Newspaper and Publishers' Association said.
   The highly secretive Imperial Household Agency, which
manages the affairs of Japan's imperial family, last month
tried to block publication of a candid wedding photograph of
Prince Akishino and Princess Kiko. Most newspapers used the
picture, which showed the bride affectionately smoothing the
prince's hair. The agency then banned the photographer, a
member of the Tokyo Press Photographers Association, from
imperial events.
   Under agency guidelines, copyright to all pictures taken
inside the Imperial Palace, including those taken by the
foreign press, belongs to the Imperial Household Agency.
   The publishers' association is requesting that copyright
control be given to association members -- some 170
newspapers and television stations.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Thailand's parliament approved in principle a bill under
which producers of fake goods bearing world-famous brand
names would face a maximum $16,000 fine or four years in
jail. . . . Nigerians who smoke in public places could be
jailed for up to two years under a decree published by the
military government. The law prohibits smoking in movie
theaters, elevators, schools, offices and on public
transportation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Venezuela Raises Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   CARACAS, Venezuela -- The government raised active
interest rates, or the rates banks charge on loans, to 43%
Friday, a 10 percentage-point rise.
   Officials said passive rates should rise above 35%.
Passive rates are what banks pay the consumer on savings
accounts and money-market funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move was designed to stop the decline of the bolivar,
which in the past two weeks has fallen to record levels,
stopping just short of 50 bolivares to the dollar. The
government hopes the higher interest rates will encourage
investment in savings accounts and money-market funds, and
slow dollar purchases, the central bank said.
   The government slashed active interest rates only six
months ago, saying that the bolivar was stable at about 42 to
the dollar. But when banks began paying passive interest
rates of as low as 20% -- while inflation is running at about
35% -- people began to buy dollars instead.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Army Plans to Cut
   ROTC Programs
   At 50 U.S. Colleges
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Army, as part of a budget-cutting drive,
said it will phase out reserve officer training programs at
50 colleges and universities across the U.S.
   The announcement is a symbolic turning point for the Army
as it struggles to bring personnel and spending plans in line
with post-Cold War budget realities. While the schools
involved have produced relatively few officers in the past
few years, the service's civilian and uniformed leaders
nevertheless debated for months whether to cut politically
popular officer-training programs. Such programs give the
military high visibility on campuses while providing large
amounts of scholarship aid to students.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move means that nearly one out of every eight Army
Reserve Officers' Training Corps units nationwide will be
disbanded by the fall of 1991. The affected schools are in 27
states and range from Dartmouth College and other large
institutions to such small schools as Bemidji State
University in rural Minnesota.
   Army ROTC programs also will be consolidated at dozens of
other campuses, but officials said details of those shifts
haven't been worked out. So far, Air Force and Navy brass
have avoided closing officer-training units because they face
proportionately smaller long-term cuts in the number of
officers and enlisted troops.
   Over the next five years, the Army will need at least
20,000 fewer officers than envisioned under earlier budget
scenarios. Well over half of the reduction will be realized
by cutting the projected number of newly commissioned ROTC
officers.
   Kim Wincup, the Army's top personnel official, said in a
recent interview the Army is determined to reduce by 20% the
number of new officers produced by ROTC programs. Currently,
ROTC programs turn out about 7,400 second lieutenants a year.
   But before the announcement, Maj. Gen. Wallace Arnold, who
runs the Army's ROTC programs, said that "every student with
an {ROTC} scholarship will be allowed to get a commission."
To achieve the cutbacks, the Army intends to recruit fewer
new cadets, reduce the number of nonscholarship students
taking ROTC courses, and increase competition among graduates
seeking active-duty assignments.
   If Congress demands deeper personnel cuts than the Army
currently plans, ROTC is certain to go through another
shake-up, and thousands of additional would-be officers will
be encouraged -- or forced -- to leave the program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Producer Prices
   Climbed 0.2%
   During June
   ---
   Retail Sales Were Up 0.5%,
   Hinting That Spending
   May Be Turning Around
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's latest economic reports
suggest that inflation is somewhat under control and that
consumer spending may be experiencing a modest upturn.
   Producer prices for finished goods rose a moderate 0.2% in
June, following a 0.3% increase in May and a 0.3% decline in
April, the Labor Department said. In a separate report, the
Commerce Department said retail sales rose 0.5% in June, the
first increase in three months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "These two reports give us a win-win situation at least in
the short term," said Ron Schreibman, vice president of the
National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors in
Washington.
   The new figures may have contributed to the Federal
Reserve's decision to ease its grip on credit Friday for the
first time since December.
   For the most part, analysts said they were encouraged by
the June producer price figures even though, excluding foods
and energy, prices of finished goods rose 0.6%. About half
the increase was in tobacco and automobiles.
   However, on the down side, economists said a lower rate of
inflation often reflects a weakening in production stemming
from a slowdown in demand.
   In the 12 months ended in June, overall producer price
inflation was 3.1%, the department said.
   Prices of intermediate goods, which have had some
processing, declined for the second month in a row, falling
0.2% in June after a 0.1% drop in May.
   Prices of crude goods also decreased, plunging 2.4% last
month, after significant drops in the three previous months.
   The producer price index measures the prices factories and
other producers receive for their goods. It doesn't track
services.
   Also sparking a bit of hope for the strength of the
economy, retail sales totaled $147.82 billion in June, after
falling 0.6%, to $147.04 billion in May, the Commerce
Department said.
   "The retail trade report gives us more confidence that the
consumer has not totally withdrawn from the retail market,"
said Stacy Kottman, an economist for the Economic Forecasting
Center at Georgia State University.
   "Consumers are still being conservative; they are still
being cautious, but if we had had a fourth month of decline,
we would have to start talking recession," Mr. Kottman said.
   Sales of durable goods -- items expected to last more than
three years -- declined 0.1% in June, following a 0.3%
decline in May. Sales of nondurable goods increased 0.9% in
June, after falling 0.7% the previous month.
   Automobile sales edged up 0.1% in June -- for the first
rise in four months -- following a 0.2% drop in May.
   Furniture sales dropped 1.9%. Building materials sales
increased 1.3%. Purchases at apparel and accessory stores
moved up 0.7% and department-store sales jumped 2.9%.
   Excluding automobile sales, which fluctuate widely from
month to month, overall retail sales were up 0.7%.
   All the numbers are adjusted for seasonal variations.
   ---
                      PRODUCER PRICES
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Labor Department's producer price indexes
(1982=100) for June, before seasonal adjustment, and the
percentage changes from June 1989.
                                                                                                       

   Finished goods ......................... 117.9    3.1%
     Minus food &amp; energy .................. 126.3    3.4%
   Intermediate goods ..................... 112.9    0.2%
   Crude goods ............................ 101.0  - 3.0%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Wholesale Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's wholesale prices in June edged down 0.1%
from May but increased 0.9% from a year earlier, the Bank of
Japan announced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DIA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   THOMSON CSF, a French manufacturer of military equipment,
was selected by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service to provide the technological system for producing a
new generation of "green cards" for resident immigrants in
the U.S. The cards themselves will continue to be made in
Arlington, Texas. Thursday's edition incorrectly said the
cards would be made in France.
   (See: "International: World Wire" -- WSJ July 12, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   RODERICK A. YOUNG was named president and chief operating
officer of Diasonics Inc. Mr. Young's title was misstated in
Friday's edition.
   (See: "Who's News: Diasonics Inc." -- WSJ July 13, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Excel Industries
   Says Profit Rose
   On Ford Sales
   ---
   Automotive Window Maker
   Rebounds on Strength
   Of New Product Lines
   ----
   By Carlee R. Scott
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   EXC F
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ELKHART, Ind. -- Excel Industries Inc., buoyed by
increased sales to its largest customer, Ford Motor Co.,
expects to report second-quarter per-share earnings "as much
as 10 cents a share higher" than the year-earlier 36 cents a
share, or $2.3 million.
   James J. Lohman, president and chief executive officer,
said the improved results mark a faster-than-expected rebound
for the maker of automotive windows, which previously
projected "three down quarters in a row," beginning with the
fourth quarter of 1989. The latest period's profit
improvement came on a slight increase in sales to about $77
million from $75.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Excel is the leading independent supplier of window
systems to the North American automobile, truck, bus, van,
military and recreational vehicle markets. Although the
automotive market has been in "some sort of a recession," Mr.
Lohman said in an interview, "we've been able to maintain
{our position} with new products."
   Mr. Lohman called the company "pleased as punch" about
Excel's recent performance. "We outperformed the industry,
you could say."
   While the second quarter showed improvement, the executive
noted that results for the first half were "significantly
under" the year-earlier six months because of the lackluster
first quarter, when slowing production by automotive industry
customers sent earnings plunging 55%.
   Mr. Lohman said Excel is placing more of its products,
particularly modular window systems, on new models "that we
didn't have before."
   "We have a lot of products on the new Ford Explorer and
Escort and the new version of the Ford Aerostar all-wheel
drive minivan," Mr. Lohman said. Such expanded lines have
"given us new volume while industry sales have been down for
the first six months."
   In addition to being Excel's largest customer, Ford is
also its largest shareholder, with a 40% stake. "We sell
about 55% to 60% of our products to Ford," Mr. Lohman said.
The company expects to become Ford's exclusive window
supplier by 1995.
   Excel's automotive window products account for about 74%
of its total sales. Its other major customers include
Chrysler Corp., General Motors Corp. and Nissan Motors.
   The company also makes injection-molded interior parts,
such as interior door handles and dipsticks, through its
Nyloncraft Inc. subsidiary, its most recent acquisition.
   For 1990, Mr. Lohman said he is currently projecting Excel
will match last year's per-share earnings of $1.18, or $7.6
million, and record "exactly the {$277.1 million in} sales we
did in 1989."
   Sales of modular windows have been very "bullish," he
said. But softness in the recreational-vehicle industry has
hurt sales to that segment. Mr. Lohman noted, however, that
the RV market "only counts for about 10% of our total sales."
   At the beginning of this year, Excel completed the
placement of $30 million of subordinated convertible
debentures with two institutional investors. Mr. Lohman said
the financing was a way to "pay down debt and to provide a
basis for acquisitions."
   Mr. Lohman said the company has a goal of splitting growth
equally between acquisitions and internal expansion. "We've
been pretty much on target in the last five to six years,"
Mr. Lohman said.
   "We are very much in the marketplace for good companies to
complement our current business base," he said.
   Currently, 15%-20% of Excel's business is non-automotive,
or what it calls the transportation-related industry,
including recreational vehicles, mass transit, heavy trucks
and military. "We ideally would like to see that 50%," Mr.
Lohman said.
   The company last year entered into a technology-exchange
agreement with Wilhelm Schade, a closely held West German
auto parts concern. "We joined so we can jointly participate
in the world-car concepts" that may be developed by Ford and
GM, Mr. Lohman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Deification of Nelson Mandela
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   As a white South African with an M.A. in political
science, I would like to respond to your June 19 editorial
"Mr. Mandela's Friends." America's reception of Nelson
Mandela has been magnificent, but also, I fear, fatally
flawed. Americans forget that when Mr. Mandela left prison he
discarded more than his shackles. Sloughed off too was his
infallibility, a purity bred of 27 years in living martyrdom.
And speaking his first post-prison words into a microphone in
Cape Town, he willingly embraced a new and far more potent
role -- that of politician.
   This is being forgotten in his American deification, and
the oversight could prove costly. When a politician is given
adulation to the degree Mr. Mandela is receiving, an
abridgment of the political dynamic occurs: No longer are the
political hustings the field upon which a man is measured;
instead, in Mount Sinai-like fashion, pronouncements become
invested with a value that is more a product of their lofty
origin than their critical content.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It might also be prudent for Americans to consider the
effect their welcome is having on the rest of South Africa,
and especially on the white community. By according Mr.
Mandela statesman-like recognition, the inference to white
South Africa is tacit: You have been discounted. You may have
de jure standing, but de facto we'd rather speak to Mr.
Mandela. We'll let you know what we decide next week.
   And this is a big mistake. No meaningful settlement will
ever grace South Africa unless all parties are involved. And
if you alienate the most powerful of these -- the whites --
you will find South Africa an impossibly difficult equation.
   Nelson Mandela may well be the answer, but let him do the
proving. In the game that is South Africa he remains a player
-- not a referee.
   Mike J. Hoare
   Waco, Texas
   ---
   Mr. Mandela's visit understandably generated much
attention and discussion. The effervescent, but respectful
acclaim he received came from all points on the demographic
spectrum with few exceptions. The breadth and intensity of
his enthusiastic reception by Americans transcend the
increasingly general acceptance of the urgent causes he
espoused.
   Why? Why this uncommon, public adulation -- even from some
individuals who had not been especially concerned about
apartheid, or sanctions, or politics, or civil rights in
South Africa? It's because we were in the presence of a
phenomenon.
   Here before us (either at public gatherings or on live TV)
was a political leader who passionately believes in a cause,
who spoke directly, reasonably, unambiguously, forcefully and
tactfully. He said what he believed; and, because of how he
expressed himself, many believed what he said.
   For too long in the U.S. we have endured (and encouraged)
politicians on national, state and local levels who tell us
what they perceive the public wants to hear. We tolerate
incumbents and candidates who avoid tackling the many
problems existing in our society and who prefer to occupy
themselves -- and us -- with fluff and puff. Rather than
confronting reality, our politicians seem to recoil from it.
   The criteria for a successful political speech, or TV spot
announcement, continue to be: 1) Say nothing, but appear to
say something; 2) don't offend or antagonize anyone; 3) play
upon people's emotions and feelings; and 4) collect campaign
contributions so that you can buy more TV time in which you:
1) Say nothing, but appear to say something; 2) don't offend
or antagonize anyone; 3) play upon people's emotions and
feelings -- and, of course, 4) collect campaign contributions
so you can buy more TV time.
   Is it any wonder that fewer and fewer Americans are
voting?
   Is it any wonder that we celebrate the forthrightness of a
Mandela?
   Charles Spencer
   New York
   ---
   Your editorial was most welcome. One would think that Mr.
Mandela's identification with the African National Congress
qualifies him for sainthood. If the South African problem is
resolved without a significant input from Chief Gatsha
Buthelezi and his moderating influence, some form of
communism may ultimately result.
   Norman MacDonald
   Needham, Mass.
   ---
   You do not understand the political thinking in the Third
World. The fact is, irrespective of any impressions drawn
from some of the so-called "responsible, moderate" leaders,
Third World countries do not share any common interest with
the Western world, particularly, the U.S. To you, Moammar
Gadhafi and Yasser Arafat are terrorists. In Third World
countries they are nationalist leaders and freedom fighters
of their people. You will never understand the thinking of
the Mandelas, because to do so will be in conflict with your
political culture.
   By the way, who is Mr. Buthelezi? The Western press always
knows about leaders in Africa whom the Africans themselves do
not know about. How can somebody who was a favorite of former
President Reagan be a genuine African leader?
   Except in the U.S. nobody in Africa knows Mr. Buthelezi as
a leader of any kind. He is a chief among the Zulus, and his
supporters among his tribesmen are fighting other members of
the Zulu tribe who are opposed to him. The Western press
always looks for stooges in Africa. Currently, Mr. Buthelezi
and Jonas Savimbi are your favorites.
   Back in the days when Zimbabwe was known as Southern
Rhodesia, there was also a "responsible, moderate" African
leader named Bishop Musorewa. Whatever happened to him and
the millions of his followers in Southern Rhodesia now known
as Zimbabwe? He went the way of all stooges -- into oblivion.
   Have you forgotten that like Yasser Arafat, Mr. Mandela
was also once branded a terrorist because he stood for the
freedom of his people. History is the greatest equalizer.
   Jeff Williams
   Alhambra, Calif.
   ---
   We have visited South Africa twice and can compare its
accomplishments with the profound poverty in Kenya, Tanzania
and Mozambique. In 1981 we were surprised to see integration
being established in many unexpected areas. Although we abhor
apartheid, we felt honest, constructive attempts were being
made to abolish it.
   This spring we returned to see if we might have
misinterpreted what we thought we saw earlier. But we were
reassured by the loving concern of so many blacks and whites
for their homeland. We also saw many changes in the easing of
restrictions on blacks. It was very apparent that the ANC
represents only a minor segment, if a very vocal one, of the
black population and that many stories appearing in our
papers are of incidents taken out of context.
   We ask why, if South Africa is such a terrible country, do
so many blacks pour into it from all over Africa and so few
leave?
   Mrs. George D. Leydic
   Birdsnest, Va.
   ---
   The recitation of Mr. Mandela's praise for terrorists is a
sad reminder that this courageous and intelligent man is
probably not the national black leader that South Africa and
the world need on the road to peace. His consistent calls for
the violence of sanctions and sabotage continue unabated, and
he seems unable to grasp that he must reach out to all South
Africans if a new society is to be created.
   A rereading of his eloquent statement at his early-1960s
trial gives an eerie sense that time has stood still for Mr.
Mandela while he was behind bars. Though those bars are gone,
nothing has really changed in his mind. Tragically, he is
still a captive of his own creation, the terrorist African
National Congress, with his radical wife guarding the gates.
Let us pray that he can break out.
   Jack Hood
   Wilmington, Del.
   ---
   While on the other side of Los Angeles Mr. Mandela was
surrounded by 80,000 disciples, mostly black, cheering
"Mandela, Mandela," I looked down from my hotel room and saw
a ghastly example of a decaying democracy. Do those cheering
thousands know what tragedy there is in their own back yard?
Are they giving their money and performing their native
dances on behalf of the black, brown and white adults and
children sleeping on the streets in the City of Angels?
   The previous night, before retiring, I had looked down to
see rows of coffinesque cardboard boxes in the Bank of
America parking lot. I assumed they were there to be gathered
by trash haulers in the morning. But come morning, a tragic
scene greeted me: One by one the cardboard boxes began
shaking, then the flaps opened and from each, like a hatching
pupa, a man emerged and stepped out. But these men,
predominantly black, were not hatching into a world of
beauty. Instead, they wandered over behind a dumpster to
answer calls of nature.
   As these men had slept in their cardboard cocoons, Mr.
Mandela had slept with dreams of making South Africa
democratic. As these men wandered in their desolate world,
80,000 souls with their new Mandela T-shirts and buttons,
with their hero's face shining before them, had satisfied
their consciences by performing and providing Mr. Mandela the
funds to right the wrongs of apartheid.
   Have they dared to look at the tragedy on the streets of
America? Do they acknowledge how democracy has treated its
very own? Did Los Angeles Mayor Thomas Bradley drive Mr.
Mandela past the Mission on Main Street and hold his head
high and say, "Look what we have accomplished"? Wake up
America] Look behind the facade of Beverly Hills and North
Rodeo. Throw your Mandela money to your black brothers, with
their festering sores. Someday they may turn your palaces and
gaudy shops into furnaces. Mayors of American cities and
newspaper editors, look to yourselves. Don't wait for a
president or for representatives in Congress to help. They
are too far away and think only of their own welfare and
re-election.
   Norman E. Mann
   San Diego, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcan Reports Net
   Declined by 66%
   In 2nd Period
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AL T.AL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Blaming soft prices and rising costs, Alcan
Aluminium Ltd. said second-quarter net income fell 66% from a
year earlier, a steeper drop than analysts expected.
   Alcan said net was $84 million, or 35 cents a share,
compared with $244 million, or $1.05 a share, a year earlier.
Revenue in the second quarter was $2.17 billion, compared
with $2.4 billion in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a classic situation: Costs are rising, the commodity
price is dropping, and their margins are being squeezed,"
said Julian Baldry, an analyst at Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc.
in Toronto.
   Mr. Baldry, who has been bearish on aluminum stocks since
last year, said Alcan's earnings will continue dropping
quarter-over-quarter in the second half. He expects Alcan to
report third-quarter net of 31 cents a share and
fourth-quarter net of 25 cents a share. He said his estimate
is based on aluminum ingot prices falling to about 60 cents a
pound by the end of the year. Aluminum ingot prices averaged
about 70 cents a pound in the second quarter.
   Alcan's earnings were "worse than I had feared," said
Thomas Van Leeuwen, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
But Mr. Van Leeuwen and other U.S. analysts see an
improvement in the second half. "There isn't any reason to
think that things will be as glum in the third quarter," Mr.
Van Leeuwen said.
   Attention this week will be on Alcan's two big
competitors. Aluminum Co. of America will report its
second-quarter earnings today, an Alcoa spokesman said.
   Reynolds Metals Co. will report today or tomorrow, a
Reynolds spokesman said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Alcan
closed down 62.5 cents at $23.25. But while Alcan shares
slipped Friday, Alcoa and Reynolds followed the broader
market higher. Alcoa closed up 50 cents at $68.75, while
Reynolds closed up 25 cents at $63.25.
   Alcan said shipments of aluminum ingot in the second
quarter rose slightly to 202,000 metric tons from 197,000
metric tons a year earlier, while shipments of fabricated
products dropped to 379,000 metric tons from 396,000 metric
tons. A metric ton equals 2,204.62 pounds.
   Alcan said earnings in Latin America fell significantly in
the second quarter because of economic conditions in Brazil.
The company said that profit was down in Europe as well,
largely because of an economic slowdown in the United
Kingdom. Earnings in North America were down from a year
earlier but showed some improvement over the first quarter,
the company said.
   "While metal prices in the second quarter were
unsatisfactory, industry fundamentals remain stable, with
inventories under control and operating rates high," said
David Morton, chairman and chief executive officer. He added
that continuing, albeit slower, economic growth "gives us
reason to be confident in our outlook for the industry and
Alcan."
   For the first six months, Alcan had net of $256 million,
or $1.09 a share, compared with $513 million, or $2.21 a
share, a year earlier. Revenue was $4.36 billion, compared
with $4.70 billion. Total shipments of ingot and fabricated
products in the first six months were about flat at 1,148,000
metric tons, compared with 1,150,000 metric tons a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Machine:
   While Brokers Suffer,
   A Mutual Fund Firm
   Thrives in Stock Surge
   ---
   High-Performer Vanguard
   Keeps Its Investors Happy
   With Service, Low Costs
   ---
   Is `Little Guy' Wrong Again?
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   VALLEY FORGE, Pa. -- It's 9:08 a.m., and the opening bell
hasn't yet rung at the New York Stock Exchange. But Vanguard
Group Inc.'s money machine already is pulling in cash at a
rate of $115 million a day, much of it from small investors
betting that the stock market will go higher still.
   The phone calls are pouring in so fast that what Vanguard
calls its Swiss Army has been mobilized to answer them. This
army consists of reservists: employees such as Curtis
Hilliard, a Vanguard lawyer. No matter that he spent five
years with the Securities and Exchange Commission before
joining Vanguard to handle complex legal documents. Right now
he is fielding a call from a small investor in Scotch Plains,
N.J. Sometimes things get so busy, Mr. Hilliard says, that
"you see the chairman down here answering the phone."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overhead, a digital display keeps the troops posted on how
well the phones are being answered. At the moment, it shows
just one caller, who has been on hold for only two seconds.
In the battle among big mutual funds for the individual
investor's dollar, answering the telephone quickly can clinch
a sale, while a busy signal can send a frustrated buyer to a
competitor.
   This year most mutual funds are doing well. Stockbrokers
are scraping for business, but 1,100 mutual funds that invest
in stocks are being flooded with new money, as many small
investors seem to have shrugged off memories of the 1987
crash. Investors big and small have sunk $12.1 billion more
into stock mutual funds than they have withdrawn this year,
already outstripping the $5.8 billion net inflow for all of
1989. The money is helping to fuel a bull market in stocks
that on Friday pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average above
3000; it closed at a record high of 2980.20 on volume of
nearly 220 million shares.
   If dollars continue to flow into the nation's $268 billion
pool of stock funds at the current pace, this will become the
industry's best year ever for stock-fund sales, topping even
the record year 1986.
   Vanguard, with $21 billion in stock-fund assets under
management, seems likely to become one of the biggest
winners. It already ranks as the third largest distributor
and manager of equity funds behind American Funds Group, with
$22 billion, and Fidelity Investments, with $43 billion.
Vanguard says net cash inflow into its stock funds so far
this year is running slightly ahead of 1989, a record period
for the firm, when it was flooded with cash after briefly
reopening its top-performing Windsor Fund to new investors.
   Despite predictions of slumping profits and industry
consolidation after the 1987 crash, earnings of mutual-fund
management companies have remained buoyant. Prices of shares
of publicly traded management companies such as Dreyfus Corp.
and Pioneer Group Inc. have rallied to within 25% of their
1987 highs, and the price on shares of Franklin Resources
Inc. hit an all-time high this past April. Few mutual-fund
managers laid off employees after the crash; nobody at
Vanguard got a pink slip.
   By contrast, shares of big stockbrokerage firms such as
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc., Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and
Paine Webber Group Inc. are still trading at about half their
'87 highs. The brokers continue to report lower earnings,
layoffs and write-downs.
   A number of investors say they turned to mutual funds
after unhappy experiences with stockbrokers. Natalie Whitney,
a retired World Bank employee from Vienna, Va., began buying
stocks in 1975 through a large retail brokerage firm. The
outcome, she says, was "just horrendous. I had just got
divorced. He started putting me in shorts and margins, all
the sort of stuff that sophisticated people should be doing.
Within six months I was down to zero."
   She turned to mutual funds because, she says, they seemed
to offer good performance over the long run. Since then she
has put much of her money into six Vanguard mutual funds. She
says she picked Vanguard because she was impressed by its
long-term record and its low expenses.
   Marcia Lach, a retired marketing manager for Time
magazine, says her investing through stockbrokers "was one
disaster after another." So for more than 10 years, she says,
she kept her money in a money-market fund. Early last year,
she began putting it into stock mutual funds. Now, says Ms.
Lach, who lives in New York, she has a quarter of it in
Vanguard funds, which attracted her because of their
efficient record-keeping and low expenses.
   Many full-service brokerage firms are beginning to sense
that lots of small investors have lost interest in buying
individual stocks. Thus, a number of firms have started their
own stock funds. But many brokerage firm officials still
insist that a substantial number of investors value the
advice of a broker.
   Baltimore's Legg Mason Inc., a regional brokerage firm,
has continued to generate healthy earnings and gets few
customer complaints. But Chairman Raymond Mason concedes that
the fund managers are tough competitors. "The beauty of being
a Vanguard or a Fidelity is that they offer everything, so
they always have something that's doing well," he says. "The
brokers don't know what to do. They've been whiplashed by
1987 and all they've gone through. If the markets perform
well, they'll get their confidence back. The brokers haven't
been pushing that hard."
   If anything, the crash may have helped the mutual-fund
companies. Individual investors, burned back then by brokers'
recommendations, seem less fearful of entrusting their money
to diversified mutual funds managed by professional portfolio
strategists. When the funds perform poorly, the small
investors tend to blame it on their own timing. "We didn't
find much in the way of recriminations after the crash," says
John Brennan, Vanguard's 35-year-old president. "Our
investors accepted it was their decision" to invest when they
did.
   Could the small investors' timing be off again? This year,
Mr. Brennan says, "the level of interest in equities is
significantly greater. Whether it's well-timed or not is
always the question."
   Adds Robert Christy, a Vanguard telephone representative:
"A lot of people seem to be getting back into the market,
though it doesn't seem like an opportune time to me. I look
at what people do and I say, should I do the opposite? Once I
did that. In March, I saw people getting out of international
{funds}, so I got in." The funds performed well during the
second quarter.
   Mr. Christy, who works in Vanguard's shareholder services
department, is preparing for the lunchtime onslaught of phone
calls between 12:30 p.m. to 1 p.m. The other busiest time is
between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m., when shareholders -- anticipating
the close of the stock market -- call to switch money among
funds.
   Vanguard's first mutual fund, the Wellington Fund, is one
of the country's oldest, organized in December 1928. It took
the fund seven years to grow to $1 million in assets. "I
didn't eat so well in those days," says Wellington's founder,
91-year-old Walter Morgan, who still comes to the office
twice a week.
   Vanguard is unusual among mutual-fund management companies
in several respects. For one, it is owned by shareholders of
the funds it manages. For another, it relies far more than
most on word-of-mouth; by Vanguard's estimate, Fidelity
spends seven times as much on print advertising, and Dreyfus
six times as much.
   How do Vanguard's executives and employees profit? They're
all awarded a hypothetical stake in the company -- "phantom"
shares paying a yearly dividend. The amount depends on a
complex formula that compares Vanguard's investment
performance and its operating expenses with those of its
competitors. But the formula doesn't reward employees simply
for pulling in assets, because Vanguard doesn't want unhappy
shareholders who were lured into a fund they don't really
want to own. How much is this yearly dividend worth? A
$26,000-a-year junior supervisor typically would hold about
300 shares; this summer, such an employee got a dividend of
$12.98 a share, or $3,888.
   Fund Action, an industry newsletter, estimates that the
average fund manager earned $362,000 last year. Vanguard says
its fund managers' salaries are competitive with those of
other fund groups, adding that it gets its cost advantage
from greater efficiency and from the fact that the
shareholder-owned firm doesn't face the same pressures as its
competitors to turn a profit.
   Vanguard takes a tight-fisted approach to other costs,
though. Its bland suburban offices here offer a sharp
contrast to the more opulent digs of its competitors; some
Vanguard fund managers operate out of offices that are hardly
bigger than a closet. Last year, Vanguard trimmed one-eighth
of an inch off the size of its newsletter in order to save on
postage; the firm estimates the move will save it $50,000 per
mailing.
   The actual owners of Vanguard Group -- the shareholders of
its mutual funds -- collect no dividends, but benefit from
the low expenses. Vanguard imposes no up-front sales charge,
or "load," and its yearly expenses typically consume only
$3.50 per $1,000 invested in its funds, compared with a
mutual fund industry average of $10.90.
   Rival companies take a different tack. "We don't believe
it's necessary to be the lowest cost producer," says James
Riepe, a managing director with T. Rowe Price Associates who
worked at Vanguard from 1969 to 1981. "Vanguard has had some
funds that haven't done very well, and having a low expense
ratio hasn't helped those shareholders."
   As for performance, Vanguard ranks in the top 10% of all
fund families over periods of one, three, five and 10 years,
according to Kanon Bloch Carre &amp; Co., a Boston mutual-fund
research firm; only American Funds Group gets a higher rating
from the research firm.
   For the modern mutual-fund company, however, making money
for shareholders isn't the only goal. It's just as important
to keep new money flowing in efficiently, helped along by
telephone representatives who answer calls promptly,
prospectuses that arrive in the mail only days after
requested and fund statements that are always accurate.
   Executives of Vanguard consider its aura of effortless
efficiency so important that they have contingency plans to
deal with a power outage, a snafu at the local phone company
or a snowstorm that keeps phone reps from getting to work.
The company's new $8 million data center has its own
electricity generators, and Vanguard has contracted with a
local supplier to provide diesel fuel should there be a
prolonged power cut. "The business has to go on," says Mr.
Brennan.
   Vanguard's biggest fear is what Chairman John Bogle calls
"the 202 scenario." That's a doomsday vision in which
Vanguard's phone system breaks down, shareholders panic, and
the half-mile-long road between Route 202 and Vanguard's
Valley Forge, Pa., headquarters is jammed with cars bearing
panicky shareholders anxious to reclaim their money in
person.
   April 1987 was the closest Vanguard ever came to that
nightmare. When the bond market plunged that month,
shareholders rushed to redeem their shares. On April 7 alone,
Vanguard's representatives answered 27,000 calls.
Shareholders, desperate to get through to a phone rep, were
kept on hold for an average of 80 seconds. A new telephone
system, introduced the year before, almost failed to handle
the volume of calls.
   So Vanguard created the Swiss Army, a force of lawyers,
accountants and money-market-fund managers who can be
mobilized to answer calls when they begin to back up. On Oct.
19 and 20, 1987, as the stock market collapsed and partly
rebounded, the Army fielded many calls. The average telephone
volume on those two days matched that of the previous April
7, but shareholders typically got to a rep in 20 seconds.
   This time around, there was little panic selling. Most
callers were interested in finding out how far the market had
fallen and assuring themselves that Vanguard was still in
business.
   The $115 million Vanguard now takes in on an average day
begins arriving at 6:30 a.m., when the mail is collected from
the Valley Forge post office. Other cash arrives by
electronic transfer directly from shareholders' bank accounts
or is collected at two centers that Vanguard maintains for
walk-in customers.
   Much of the money these days is going into the Vanguard
Index Trust-500 Portfolio, an index fund that buys and holds
the stocks that make up the Standard &amp; Poor's 500. Index
funds are this year's hot product.
   Joe Feldman, an international tax consultant currently
based in Oxford, England, owns four different Vanguard stock
index funds. He chose Vanguard, he says, because "they are
the efficient player. They're the one with the linoleum
floors."
   Vanguard and other fund companies execute investors' buy
or redeem orders only once a day; a fund's share price is
determined after the markets close at 4 p.m. But investors
hungry for information have pushed the companies to operate
round the clock. After Vanguard's phone banks close at 5
p.m., an answering service takes over, typically fielding 750
calls a night.
   Many of the callers who speak with Vanguard's telephone
representatives seem mainly interested in talking about the
market. Sitting across the aisle from Mr. Hilliard, the
lawyer, is Jana Koser, a senior telephone representative, who
is taking a call from a Philadelphia man who wants to know
how Vanguard's giant Windsor Fund fared the day before. It
closed down 14 cents, Ms. Koser tells him.
   The caller goes on to chat. He says he has made his money
owning and managing apartment buildings and now has $400,000
in the mutual funds that he hopes to turn into much more. "I
try to swing for the home run," he says. "I'm fairly good at
it. But if I wind up eating the meatball, as they say, I can
always switch and hold for the long haul. After all, who
wants to lose money?" By the end of the conversation,
however, he admits to having lost money in his junk-bond fund
and his gold fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   The National Tries to Counter Slow Start
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Five and a half months after its launch as the nation's
first sports-only daily newspaper, the National is still
wrestling with problems ranging from getting late scores into
its various editions to squelching rumors that star columnist
Mike Lupica is leaving.
   Yes, the National is doing something about the late
scores, and no, Mr. Lupica says, he isn't leaving. But it
remains uncertain whether the National can find a day-to-day
audience and continue to woo advertisers after charter
discounts expire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The problem of late scores was in the spotlight last week
with the National's coverage of the baseball All-Star Game. A
rain delay stretched the game out so that 30% of the press
run for the New York market, including some in the city
itself, had nothing on it. The cover of those papers showed
the New York Jets' new No. 1 draft choice, Rob Moore. In
contrast, all of USA Today's readers in New York got a
front-page report on the game.
   That wasn't the National's first such problem. Often the
paper has been unable to provide all of its readership with
late scores, particularly from West Coast games. Because it's
an all-sports publication, says editor Frank Deford, "people
have placed us on a standard nobody else was {held to}.
People expected all of our editions to have everything" in
terms of late scores. But thousands of copies meant for
readers in the East and Midwest were going to press too
early. That has made it appear that competitors -- notably
USA Today and major metropolitan newspapers -- were beating
the National at its own game.
   The partnership that owns the National, headed by
publisher Peter O. Price, says it has found a solution.
Starting July 9 in Chicago and New York, the paper started a
late final edition, which goes to press at 3:30 a.m. Eastern
time. This edition became possible only after the National
added enough printing sites and worked out distribution bugs,
Mr. Price says. The paper is distributed by Dow Jones &amp; Co.,
publisher of The Wall Street Journal.
   The new edition already has made a difference. Last
Wednesday, about 70% of the National's New York circulation
of 90,000 got a swinging Jose Canseco on the cover and five
pages on the All-Star Game, with the final score, inside.
Without the new edition, Mr. Price estimates, only about half
of New York readers would have had a story on the game.
   "We promised our readers we'd be the ultimate sports
paper, and with the new final edition, we've delivered," says
Mr. Price.
   Gannett Co.'s USA Today had some problems with its own
All-Star game coverage. Gene Policinski, managing
editor/sports for USA Today, says at least half of the
paper's 1.8 million nationwide circulation got a front page
photo of Julio Franco and several stories of the finished
game inside. Other readers got stories of the game in
progress. On most nights, two-thirds of USA Today's
circulation gets all final scores.
   The National is still grappling with another challenge:
differentiating itself from the competition, notably USA
Today's statistics-filled sports pages. Already, Mr. Price
and Mr. Deford have trashed some of the novel ideas that were
supposed to set the National apart. Gone is a weather map
with forecasts for sports-mad cities and a "Real World"
summary of non-sports news. The "Playground" page, full of
crossword and trivia games, has been cut back, as has
international coverage. Posed cover photographs and
illustrations have largely been dropped in favor of action
photos.
   The National continues to focus on next-day coverage of
professional games, but tries to set itself apart with a
gossip page and local columnists and a sprinkling of
magazine-length feature stories, such as a piece on Lynette
Woodard, the first woman to play for the Harlem
Globetrotters. Added to that formula has been a once-a-week
color photo essay, such as one last week on pastoral scenes
from the Tour de France bicycle race, and articles by a
three-person investigative team, including a look at how
sports agents take advantage of clients.
   The National already has spent at least $25 million on the
launch and will spend millions more on its expansion beyond
New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. Mr. Price says the purse
strings haven't been tightened by his rich partner, Emilio
Azcarraga, who owns the Mexican media company Televisa, and
has said he will spend $100 million to see the National fly.
   Mr. Price denies reports that the National will abandon
local coverage in major cities, saying research and focus
groups indicate local fans buy it when they want more
coverage than their local paper provides. Mr. Deford says he
is hiring columnists who will anchor each local edition. A
San Diego edition started up in June, with San Francisco to
follow by the end of this month, Dallas in August, Detroit in
September, Boston in October and more later.
   Mr. Price says circulation ranges from 175,000 to 200,000,
with roughly 90,000 in New York, about 40,000 each in Chicago
and Los Angeles, and the rest in other markets. On most days,
the paper falls short of its six-month target of 200,000
readers. Mr. Price says the National expects to hit that
level consistently by fall. He also claims its readers
average 32 years of age and $45,000 in household income,
making them richer and younger than readers of most daily
newspapers' sports pages.
   Hungry to build readership, the National has reverted to
some time-honored gimmicks. Last month, it started a "Win It
All" sweepstakes offering "hundreds of fabulous prizes" in
hopes of boosting newsstand sales. In September, it will add
bulk distribution of daily copies to airlines and hotels, a
method USA Today also uses to reach the business traveler.
Bulk circulation means the airlines and hotels buy copies at
a discount and give them to customers for free.
   The National is expected to apply for a certified audit by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations early next year, which
should enable it to draw more national advertisers.
   "We are still waiting for proof," says Richard Weigand,
media director for Saatchi &amp; Saatchi DFS-Pacific in Torrance,
Calif., whose Toyota Motor Sales client is a charter
advertiser in the National. "We wouldn't be in the National
if we didn't think it had a good chance. But the longer I
wait for the audit, the antsier I get."
   As for Mr. Lupica, the National's fiery columnist who was
wooed from the New York Daily News, he is staying put. He
admits, though, that it hasn't been easy. "I probably had a
more difficult period of adjustment because of my own
diminished readership in New York," Mr. Lupica says. "But as
we get more cities, it will get better. We are finally coming
out of our shakedown cruise."
   ---
                   Sizing Up the National
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 Launched: Jan. 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

 Estimated circulation: 90,000 in New York, 40,000 in
Chicago, 40,000 in Los Angeles
                                                                                                       

 Cities to be added this year: San Francisco, Dallas,
Detroit, Boston, Miami/Fort Lauderdale, Washington,
D.C./Baltimore
                                                                                                       

 Cost to launch: $25 million
                                                                                                       

 Cost before it turns a profit: $100 million over five years
                                                                                                       

 Average ad pages per issue: five
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   An All-American Boy Turned Spy
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Ronald Kessler's account of an all-American boy who grew
up to be a KGB spy should provide some comfort to those who
lay awake wondering whether, in the Gorbachev era, espionage
literature will become passe. "The Spy in the Russian Club:
How Glenn Souther Stole America's Nuclear War Plans and
Escaped to Moscow" (Scribner's, 320 pages, $19.95) is in some
sense the nonfictional counterpart to John Le Carre's "The
Russia House." Both books suggest that even in the springtime
of European peace, the primary aim of U.S. and Soviet spies
will be unchanged -- to decipher the nuclear potential of the
other side.
   Mr. Le Carre's Soviet physicist aimed to uncloak the
Soviet arsenal and reveal its weakened dagger. Mr. Kessler's
true-to-life villain works the other side. Glenn Souther, we
are told in a dramatic first chapter, was potentially "one of
the most important spies in U.S. history."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kessler, a former reporter for this newspaper and for
the Washington Post, and a veteran espionage writer, zeroes
in on the central issue for any spy tale: motivation. Talking
to virtually everyone in Mr. Souther's life who mattered --
up until he defected in 1986 -- he finds that Mr. Souther's
Indiana childhood was far from the idyll it seemed. Though
popular in his church choir and a charmer of ladies, Mr.
Souther also was obsessed with practical jokes and liked to
don the uniform of a Confederate Army soldier. Mr. Kessler's
thesis -- that treason against the state was an expression of
rage against an icy father -- sounds cliched, but rings true.
   After joining the Navy in 1976, Mr. Souther immediately
began breaking rules by sending home classified pictures of
Soviet aircraft. Stationed in Europe as a petty officer on
the USS Nimitz, Mr. Souther read up on communism, decided
that U.S. society was flawed, and in 1980 walked into the
Soviet embassy in Rome and offered his services to the cause.
He then plunged into a world of secret drops, radio codes,
specialized cameras and invisible ink. After he confessed to
his Italian wife that he was spying on the "imperialists,"
she tried to alert the Navy, but was brushed off as an
unhappy spouse.
   After he divorced his wife, no novelist could have planned
Mr. Souther's career any better. He got an honorable
discharge, joined the naval reserve and enrolled in Old
Dominion University, majoring in Russian. It all was part of
a Soviet plan to enhance his chances at doing high-level
intelligence work.
   In 1984, he was assigned to the supersensitive naval
intelligence center in Norfolk, Va. -- which keeps a
computerized list of U.S. nuclear targets. In his job of
enlarging spy-satellite photos, Mr. Souther apparently had
free rein over the entire building, "a spy smorgasbord." As
Mr. Kessler says, "Souther had access to all of American's
nuclear war plans."
   The Navy comes off poorly, not only for ignoring a tip but
also for overlooking more than a few telltale signs. Mr.
Souther kept a library of books on communism and frequently
denounced the U.S. government. And he drew attention to
himself by spending far beyond his apparent means.
Incredibly, his security clearance was upgraded to top secret
even after he was convicted for jumping on a female college
student and biting her neck.
   Mr. Kessler shares a lode of spycraft -- such as how
satellite photos are analyzed -- and he recognizes that
"there is a conflict between good security and using
intelligence effectively."
   Where the tale breaks down is in Mr. Kessler's inability
to reach the most essential sources. His efforts to interview
Mr. Souther were cut off last year when the latter, out of
his element in Moscow, killed himself. Mr. Souther's KGB
contacts also are beyond the author's reach. The result is
that we see his spying at one remove, through the lenses of
associates and girlfriends. Mr. Kessler relates far too much
of their impressions and hurt feelings.
   How often did Mr. Souther meet his Soviet masters? What
secrets did he steal? Mr. Kessler reports that the Soviets
paid the deceased spy an uncommonly public tribute, comparing
him to the legendary Kim Philby. Pravda, in fact, praised him
for having had access to "plans of the U.S. Navy's operations
in a nuclear war." Thus, Mr. Kessler concludes that "while
the Soviets never flatly said Souther gave them America's
nuclear war plans . . . a reasonable person would conclude .
. ." But a conjecture based on a eulogy published in Pravda
surely is open to question.
   There also is the tiny matter that, since Glenn Souther's
defection, the Cold War has all but evaporated. Though Mr.
Kessler is sharp on the fine points of spying, one wishes he
had paid more attention to the larger question of what
changes may be in store for espionage now that West and East
feel so chummy. By almost ignoring these changes, "The Spy in
the Russian Club" seems oddly dated. Though most of it occurs
in the 1980s, the tale of a naval seaman who falls for
Marxist ideology and plunges into a world of invisible ink
seems, against the background of recent headlines, no less
remote than a story from the time of the czars.
   ---
   Mr. Lowenstein is a staff reporter for the Journal in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Judge Orders Teamsters to Disclose
   Full Details of Labor Contract With UPS
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal court ordered the Teamsters union
to provide full details of a proposed labor contract with
United Parcel Service of America Inc. to all union members
eligible to vote on the pact.
   The order by U.S. District Judge Stanley Harris granted a
petition filed by five members of Teamsters for a Democratic
Union, a dissident Teamsters group. The dissidents want to
see all contract documents, including all 30 supplements that
apply to particular segments of the work force, before taking
a stand on whether to ratify the pact. The Teamsters
international has provided each member with just the basic
contract and the supplement that covers that member.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court order was issued as UPS and its customers began
bracing for a possible strike when the current contract
expires at the end of this month. The union and local leaders
have recommended that the 140,000 members who work for UPS
reject the company's offer. The union could call the walkout
if more than 50% of those voting opt to reject it.
   Sheila Pekar, president of Internal Audit Bureau Inc., a
consulting firm based in Hamlin, Pa., sent a letter to its
clients urging them to "consult with retail accounts
concerning the possible need to change" from UPS to other
carriers.
   Ms. Pekar's clients, who include apparel makers now
entering a peak shipping period, use UPS to ship consumer
goods. She noted that UPS spokesmen are optimistic about a
settlement, but don't rule out the "possibility" of a strike.
   Alan Caminiti, a UPS spokesman, said that Teamsters
members who work for UPS are paid at least 78 cents an hour
more than other Teamsters and have been offered "a very good
package." He added, "Our people understand the competitive
pressure we're under."
   Judge Harris said his injunction is part of "a saga of
litigation" between the dissident group and the union. The
dissidents won similar court orders against the
international's leaders during contract-ratification
balloting in 1987 and 1988. They say they want to see all the
UPS supplements partly to judge whether certain types of
workers are being shortchanged.
   Teamsters officials weren't available for comment. Judge
Harris noted that the union contends that the dissidents
don't need all the information they seek and that they
already have decided how to vote anyway. But, he said, it's
not up to the international to determine how much of the
information is enough and when members should stop thinking
about how to vote. The only possible harm to the union
leaders would be "the loss of another political battle with
the TDU," Judge Harris said.
   The latest UPS "final" offer, somewhat sweetened from an
offer made late last month, includes a wage increase of 50
cents an hour, or about 3%, each year for three years, and a
cost-of-living increase, capped at 20 cents an hour, in the
second and third years of the contract. It also includes new,
lower-wage tiers for newer employees. And, it calls for an
increase of 35 cents an hour in the employer contribution to
the union health and welfare fund and to its pension fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Wild-West `Shrew' Untamed
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Before a word is uttered in the New York Shakespeare
Festival's production of "The Taming of the Shrew," there are
happy hints that a rollicking good time is in store. The
lights come up on a set of a dusty frontier town that looks
like it belongs in "High Noon" or "Stagecoach." The music, at
first a sweet Elizabethan melody played by trumpets and
recorder, changes to a merry two-step in piano and bass. A
crow caws and tumbleweeds spin across the stage. Could this
be "Annie Get Your Gun?" Shakespeare's sparring lovers, Kate
and Petruchio, look a lot like Annie Oakley and Wild Bill
Hickok. You just about expect them to interrupt the rope
tricks and the gun games and burst into a chorus of "Anything
You Can Do I Can Do Better."
   It can't be easy to do "The Taming of the Shrew" these
days without provoking feminist indignation. On the surface,
Shakespeare's story of a headstrong maiden subdued by a
masterful husband doesn't work well in a world where even
Disney is letting spunky heroines have their way. Writing
nearly a century ago about Kate's final speech -- the one
that begins "Thy husband is thy lord," -- George Bernard Shaw
wrote: "The last scene is altogether disgusting to modern
sensibility. No man with any decency of feeling can sit it
out in the company of a woman without being extremely ashamed
of the lord-of-creation moral. . . ."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thanks to A.J. Antoon's farcical and ironical direction,
this "Shrew" is unlikely to offend anyone with Shavian
sensibilities. The lovers are as well matched intellectually
and emotionally as any in a Shaw comedy of the sexes. In
keeping with the celebrity mania of Joseph Papp's Shakespeare
Festival, which in the winter season headlined Kevin Kline as
Hamlet and Raoul Julia as Macbeth, the hero and heroine are
played by two actors famous in other media. Morgan Freeman
(Petruchio) recently starred in the films "Driving Miss
Daisy" and "Glory," and just finished work on the movie
version of Tom Wolfe's "Bonfire of the Vanities." Tracey
Ullman is the television comic of a thousand faces.
(Incidentally, Ms. Ullman, an Englishwoman, is about the only
non-American to appear in Mr. Papp's Shakespeare marathon,
which is now at its halfway mark.)
   Ms. Ullman plays Kate with a tomboyish fury. She swaggers
and spits like a cocky cowpoke, and twirls her gun as deftly
as Annie ever did. Her tantrums are torrential -- no mere
stamp of the foot for her; she falls down on her stomach,
flailing her arms and legs. At the same time, there's an
undercurrent of vulnerability about her, when she steals an
admiring glance at Petruchio, the only man who's ever
possessed enough self-confidence to appreciate her spirit.
   Some actresses have overcome the problems of the final
speech -- the one that so embarrassed Shaw -- by winking at
the audience as if to say that they are letting their
egotistical husband believe he's the king of the castle where
in fact they're really the power behind the throne. Ms.
Ullman's delivery has none of that coyness. It's a fierce
defense of her loyalty to the man who is both her "protector
and friend," as feminist Germaine Greer wrote when she gave
the play her stamp of approval in "The Female Eunuch."
   Mr. Freeman brings both an electric sexuality and a
certain nobleness to the role of Petruchio. Swagger for
swagger, he's as cocksure as Ms. Ullman, and it's as much fun
watching the shrew tame her tamer as it is the other way
round. There's also a moral dimension to his crazy bullying
of Kate. He employs a quite solemn tone when he gives his
speech about killing a wife with kindness; by his outrageous
behavior, he hopes to bring Kate to a deeper understanding of
his love and the roles of husband and wife.
   There are a few stand-outs among the supporting cast, all
of whom are adequate, if not memorable. Mark Hammer appears
to have been inspired by Slim Pickens, that staple of old
Westerns, for his buffoonish interpretation of Gremio, an
elderly suitor to Kate's goody-two-shoes sister Bianca.
William Duff-Griffin gives a marvelously hoity-toity
performance impersonating Vincentio, the rich father of
another of Bianca's ardent suitors. And Norris M. Shimabuku
is hilarious as a Chinese tailor abused by Petruchio. He is
alternately servile and contentious, blending two Asian
stereotypes from old movies in a way that might anger some
humorless Asian-American media watchdogs.
   The actors and actresses use a mishmash of accents. Most
of the supporting cast lay on broad Western drawls, which
work surprisingly well. Petruchio's cigar-chomping sidekick
Grumio sounds like he just played the Borscht Belt. Mr.
Freeman has a languorous Southern accent, which adds to his
sex appeal but is sometimes too soft to compete with the
frenetic action. Ms. Ullman lapses into Cockney sometimes,
like Eliza Dolittle.
   Mr. Antoon has streamlined the play, by deleting the
introduction, which has nothing to do with the plot anyway,
and by making a few cuts here and there to speed up the
action. His tinkering also includes switching the names of
several of Petruchio's servants to Western monickers -- Joe
Bob, Beau and Sugarsop. Normally, I'd be inclined to grumble
about a director's monkeying around with Shakespeare's text,
but these changes do suit the zany tone of the production.
   That zaniness ended abruptly the evening I saw "Shrew."
Just after the curtain was figuratively drawn at the outdoor
Delacorte Theatre in Central Park, a man in a ten-gallon hat
appeared on stage and begged our indulgence as he launched
into a lugubrious speech about the plight of the National
Endowment of the Arts. It's hard to attend an off-Broadway
play these days without being required to sit through such
partisan politicking -- attacks on Jesse Helms, charges of
censorship. At least, Mr. Papp had the courtesy to save his
spiel for the end, permitting the audience the option of
leaving. But it ruined the afterglow of his charming play. No
matter what side you stand on in the NEA dispute, you're
liable to walk out of the theater seething, not singing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Anti-Nuclear
   Sentiment Spurs
   Boycott of GE
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE PHG G.SIE DIA J.TOS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Anti-nuclear politics are influencing purchases of medical
equipment at some hospitals.
   Upset over General Electric Co.'s involvement in the
manufacture of nuclear materials for weapons, Huguley
Memorial Hospital in Fort Worth, Texas, purchased $2.7
million of diagnostic equipment from a GE competitor. For the
same reason, Central Kansas Medical Center in Great Bend,
Kan., shunned GE medical equipment and made orders of about
$1.8 million with another manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "GE's nuclear involvement played a 100% role in our
decision," says Roger Baker, the head of the radiology
department at Huguley Memorial Hospital. Based on his
recommendations, he says, the hospital administrators last
year purchased a CT scanner from Philips N.V., a Dutch
company, and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine from
Diasonics Inc., whose MRI business now is owned by Toshiba
Corp. "Under no circumstances would I have accepted GE
machines. If it would have come to that, I would have put my
job on the line," he says.
   Such boycotts are part of a campaign started by a Boston
activist group, Infact, in June 1986. The group has published
a list of nine hospitals around the country that it says are
shunning GE medical equipment, at an estimated loss of $7.2
million since the boycott began. (Infact says the boycott has
spread to GE's appliances and light bulbs as well. It
estimates the total impact at $60 million.)
   However, other manufacturers to which hospitals are
turning, including Philips and Siemens AG, are also defense
contractors. "It is a difficult situation," concedes a
spokesman for Physicians for Social Responsibility, a group
of doctors and health-care professionals based in Washington
that endorsed the GE boycott last September. "But it's
important to single out one company to send a message to all
others. We also realized that because GE has substantial
business in medical equipment in the U.S., the boycott would
be effective."
   GE declines to discuss details of the boycott, saying the
impact has been negligible. Nevertheless, the Fairfield,
Conn., company, with annual revenue of $55 billion, is
concerned enough that its marketing managers accompany
salesmen in negotiations with hospitals that raise the
nuclear issue. "The salespeople aren't the best qualified to
present our position in this matter," says Ford Slater, a GE
spokesman.
   GE's position, he says, is that the company is "simply
following the nation's defense policy." Mr. Slater says the
marketing people also underscore GE's involvement in
community and philanthropic activities to show GE as a
company concerned with community welfare, not one
contaminating the environment with radiation, as the
activists claim.
   GE Chairman John F. Welch Jr. asserted at the company's
stockholder meeting recently that it was the nation's "strong
defense policy" in the 1980s that "brought about the changes,
to a great extent, in Eastern Europe. And we are proud of the
part that we played in participating in that change."
   The boycott has raised the question of whether health care
is being compromised by anti-nuclear policy at the boycotting
hospitals. GE, which has a dominant share of the medical
diagnostic equipment market in the U.S., asserts it is. "We
believe that GE medical systems are used by so many
health-care institutions because they were judged on their
capacity to help provide a superior level of patient care,
and that this is the proper criterion for evaluating such
technology," GE says in letters it has sent to some
hospitals. "Quality of care will surely suffer if political
criteria are substituted."
   Mr. Baker, the radiologist at the Huguley Memorial
Hospital, disagrees. Other machines "are just as good," he
says. "The images {produced by the machines} are a little
different. It's something you get used to." Moreover, he
says, the Diasonic MRI machine was priced $250,000 lower than
GE's, and the Philips CT machine it purchased was $500,000
lower. Still, he says, "there was a lot of pressure from the
members of the hospital administration committee to buy GE"
because other hospitals in the area had purchased GE
machines.
   Mr. Baker says the hospital committee investigated
diagnostic machines made by all major manufacturers and
eventually "accepted my recommendations."
   Central Kansas Hospital leased its MRI machine from
Diasonics in the fall of 1989, at a cost of $1.4 million over
five to seven years. "We did take performance as one of our
criteria. We wouldn't buy equipment that was inferior," says
Gemma Doll, a Dominican sister who was the head of the
hospital board when it decided to boycott GE equipment.
   "GE sent its representatives to try to convince us to buy
their machines," she says. "They pointed out GE's community
activities. But we felt we had to take a stance."
   A shareholder proposal calling for GE to get out of the
nuclear business -- it makes neutron "triggers" for weapons
and nuclear fuels for commercial power plants -- has come up
at GE annual meetings in one form or another every year since
1980. The proposals have never managed to garner more than
10% of the vote cast at the meetings. At the stockholder
meeting in April, the latest proposal received 6.2% of the
votes.
   But the nuclear issue dominated the public discussion
portion of the meeting. Despite a repeated urging by Mr.
Welch that shareholders move on to another topic, activists
persisted. Says a spokesman for Infact, where three dozen
full-time staff are involved in the GE boycott: "It's a
campaign that won't go away."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Sweet Revenge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   This takes the cake. House Democrats Friday, in the name
of fiscal responsibility, voted to freeze the office expenses
appropriated for former Presidents. Rep. Andy Jacobs was
bellowing something about "millionaires." Tension between the
executive and Congress is natural, but it seems more than a
little gratuitous for these Members to be reaching back to
whack four American Presidents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Britain Can Live With the EMU and Like It
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's pound sterling for a time last week
became the darling of the foreign exchange markets, having
moved to a nicer neighborhood, in the vicinity of $1.80 and
three deutsche marks. Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major,
hobnobbing with the likes of EC President Jacques Delors in
Houston, nonetheless felt it necessary to reassure the
British industrialists back home. Not to worry, he said, a
stronger pound will do British industry no harm.
   One wonders why reassurance was necessary. Strong
currencies have certainly done no harm to the industries of
France, the Netherlands, Ireland and Austria, to name a few
examples. The four are tied to the Deutsche mark and they
have learned to like it. France, Ireland and Holland are part
of the EC's Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM). Austria is not a
member of the EC but would like to be and fixed its schilling
to the mark long ago. Last year, it enjoyed a 4% growth in
GNP, as did, for that matter, Germany. Holland did even
better and Ireland, too, hit a 4% growth rate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If having a strong currency did none of these countries
any harm, what exactly is England's problem? It's a bit hard
to say. Both England and the United States enjoyed strong
growth in the mid-1980s, when both had put their currencies
on a much stronger footing. There has been a significant
learning curve in England since the bad old days of Labor
governments, when the conventional wisdom was that a country
could devalue its way to prosperity, but the idea that a
strong currency makes industry "uncompetitive" dies hard.
Over time, and sometimes after not very long, it does just
the opposite, forcing fundamental improvements in industrial
efficiency and damping down inflation and the consequent wage
demands.
   There are some technical aspects to Britain's inflation
problem. Financial deregulation in the 1980s -- all in the
interest of enhancing London's role as a major international
capital market -- has left Britain more vulnerable to "hot
money flows." Bank of England operatives claim that the lack
of any controls over the movement of capital makes it harder
to manage the pound. When real interest rates in England are
raised, for example as part of the Bank's efforts to
discourage borrowing, the hot money comes flowing in from
abroad, defeating efforts to restrict the supply of money and
credit, and hence, the bank's efforts to contain inflation.
   It also is often argued that British inflation is not as
high as it seems, because the rate was affected by the new
community services tax, which is included in the Consumer
Price Index. Whereas the CPI reading is approaching double
digits, the underlying inflation rate, by various estimates,
is only 6% to 6.5% annually.
   But somehow these arguments don't hold up very well when
used by those who insist that Britain is not yet ready to
enter the ERM. For one thing, why is it that the countries
that do belong to the ERM have so little problem with hot
money flows? For another, 6.5%, although not as high as 9.5%,
still is high compared to the rates the ERM countries have
been enjoying. Moreover, it is high enough to cause the
British economy and Mrs. Thatcher significant problems. For
example, British labor is again getting restive under the
pressures of inflation.
   When the pound began its recent rise, there was much
speculation that Britain was preparing to enter the ERM,
which no doubt further contributed to the currency's
strength. But Mr. Major, while reassuring British
industrialists, also tried to discourage the idea that entry
into the ERM was imminent. Market hopes were further dashed
by that strange outburst by Britain's Secretary of State for
Trade and Industry, Nicholas Ridley, who managed to get
himself quoted in the Spectator Thursday as having uttered
violently anti-German remarks. He equated any surrender of
British sovereignty to giving it to Adolph Hitler, which
didn't sound much like the Thatcher administration was ready
to enter a monetary union dominated by the Dmark. Mrs.
Thatcher later took Mr. Ridley to the woodshed and said his
views were not the views of her government.
   Mrs. Thatcher was probably genuinely shocked at her
secretary's remarks, especially after having just returned
from an economic summit that went surprisingly well. But
quite possibly she has not yet chomped down on the bullet
that entry into the ERM represents. The Brits are in a bit of
a muddle in that they don't seem willing to throw in with the
continent on this issue and yet they bridle at suggestions
from the continent that maybe European Monetary Union (EMU)
will just have to go along without them, on a two-track
system. Mr. Major's alternative idea, creating a new "hard"
European Currency Unit (ECU) that would be publicly
circulated as money that could be spent in any of the 12 EC
member nations, has received a polite reception from the EC,
but there is little sign that the other members are prepared
to back off on the Delors plan for monetary union. The Major
idea has some merit, as it happens, in that it would give the
ECU a public test, supplementing the use already being made
of ECUs as a unit of account in commercial transactions. But
Britain still risks the possibility that the EMU will go
trotting off without her.
   Indeed, the Delors plan, which was endorsed by the EC
Council of Ministers in Madrid just over a year ago, came
into play at the beginning of this month. Stage one is a
relatively easy one, calling for full liberalization of
capital movements within the community and greater
cooperation of member nations on economic and monetary
policy. There is no hard and fast timetable for stage two but
the requirements get a lot tougher. At that point a European
System of Central Banks (ESCB) would be set up and the
process of transferring monetary policy decision making from
national authorities to this new EC creature would begin. The
third stage of the plan calls for locking exchange rates
irrevocably and transferring all monetary power to the ESCB.
At that point the ESCB would also control exchange market
interventions involving non-EC currencies.
   The merits of a single currency are fairly obvious. The
time and money spent exchanging currencies and trying to
hedge against exchange rate fluctuations is very costly to
industry, and for that matter, to individuals. There are
legitimate worries that the ESCB would conduct monetary
policy at the level of the lowest common denominator, giving
all of Europe inflation, but the Germans are determined not
to let that happen, or at least seem so.
   So the question is, what is England waiting for,
particularly given the good track record of the other ERM
nations? Maybe it is waiting for the likes of Mr. Ridley to
give their OKs. Maybe it will happen tomorrow. Presumably,
Mrs. Thatcher knows the answer, but she isn't telling.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keep the Republican Faith
   ----
   By Peggy Noonan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   I have been asked to speak about what Republicans are, and
what we must be in the future -- not only in order to win,
but to lead wisely and justly. I can remember what we were,
once, back in the mists of the past.
   I was born in the Democratic precincts of Brooklyn, New
York in 1950, and I grew up with people, the children and
grandchildren of the immigrants of Europe, who thought -- as
I was taught to think -- that the Republican Party, forgive
me, was the party of rich dullards. In our neighborhood,
Democrats were cops and firemen. Republicans had profoundly
uninteresting jobs, like . . . insurance company vice
president. They always seemed like that great cliche --
country club guys, fat, a little self-satisfied, kind of
snoozy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic leadership in those days had something to
say. Let's get this country moving again, let's help people.
In the early '60s they lowered the top tax rates, cut capital
gains, reminded us that a rising tide lifts all boats. They
saw communism not only in military and political terms but in
moral terms -- and they led an America able to articulate its
opposition, its superiority, its faith. Liberals had heart;
conservatives had adding machines. Liberals wanted to help
people; conservatives kept the books, and fretted about the
red ink.
   It all started changing in the late '60s, you know how and
the reasons why. By the '70s, the Democrats, still the
majority party, seemed like a giant bound, unable to free
itself from the assumptions of the recent past. A party
whipped by special interests -- tied down by what had become
almost an addiction to high taxes and high spending, in the
thrall of what George Bush called the "idea boutique" at
Harvard Yard -- a party farther than ever from the common
man's common-sense understanding of the world.
   Across the nation you could see the stirrings of
discontent. In California, a tax revolt; in middle America,
the anti-abortion movement, composed largely of traditional
Democrats who could no longer tolerate the position of the
party of their parents; in the East, a newly sophisticated
anticommunism that was grounded in both passion and
scholarship. Throughout the land, a simmering sense of enough
is enough.
   The Republican Party awoke from its post-Watergate
slumber. Suddenly it was saying wait a minute -- you can't
tax the little guy to death -- you can't tax him 40%, 50% on
his overtime -- you can't take his freedom from him and let
government call all the tunes -- you can't let the economy
stop pumping out the jobs the people need. We backed low
taxes, low spending, enduring values, a strong defense.
   And along came Reagan. And because of the ideas he
represented we owned the '80s. Suddenly, almost without
noticing it, the Republican party became the party of the
people. Protector of the people, protector of their
interests. And one day we looked around and realized: My God,
we're not only on the side of the guy at the country club
anymore -- we're on the side of the waiters]
   The differences between the two parties were not always,
in a cultural sense at least, clean-cut or unambiguous. But
the point is, we had the issues -- we were on the right side
of the issues -- and the key now, for the future, it seems to
me, is simple: Don't give those issues up.
   The message of the '80s, the era of the great Republican
resurgence, is: We are at our best when we believe. We are at
our best when we are in tune with the country, and respectful
of it, when we try not to be more like the Democrats, but
more like us. As we owned the '80s, we can own the '90s. And
we can, before this decade is out, take Congress.
   The economy of course is still the issue. We've all been
very happy the past 10 years to have two presidents with high
popularity ratings. They deserved and deserve them. But I
operate with the theory that when there is peace and
prosperity the American people find reasons to like their
president, reasons to see their charm and low-key humor. And
when we don't have prosperity, they find reasons to decide
their president is an unattractive, charmless dolt. (They did
it to Carter.) Not because they're cynical, but because they
hire presidents to run things, and they want results.
   We Republicans still have the advantage on the economy,
because to the men and women of America we're still seen as
the grownups on this issue. But we must be true to what we
are. We must continue as the party of low taxes, the party of
lower spending.
   We must not lose the tax issue. We must not lose it for
reasons having to do with responsible governance: If we go
down the road we went down in the '70s, our least effective
decade -- if we become "low budget liberals" and let the
budget grow -- if we go down that road it will hurt the
economy and we will stop being the job-producing wonder of
the world. We'll stop being the party of hope, the party of
the people. And we cannot lose this issue for political
reasons: If we become like the Democrats, we will suffer
their fate.
   President Bush has been statesmanlike in telling Congress
he'll do a great deal, go to great lengths, to end the budget
mess. Reagan was criticized in the media, and by some
thoughtful voters, for seeming sometimes intransigent,
confrontational, unwilling to talk. Bush has avoided that
charge.
   It's right and legitimate that he should tell the
Democrats, "I'll consider anything to make serious progress."
It's good to be reasonable, in a crisis, to declare your
openness to all ideas. But if the ideas offered are,
ultimately, the same old bad ideas -- "We'll spend, and you
raise the taxes to support us" -- then it will be right and
reasonable for the president to push away from the table and
"cut himself a walking stick." That was Tolstoy's phrase
when, at the age of more than 80, he walked out on an unhappy
marriage after almost 50 years. He was endlessly patient --
just like a Republican.
   If, in the next few weeks or month the president sees that
no serious structural reform is possible -- that no serious
attempt will be made to control waste, to gain control of
domestic spending; if he comes to suspect that even if he
raises taxes the Democrats won't control spending, and once
again the Republican Party will have the job of "tax
collector for the welfare state" (and every time we go down
this wrong road the Democrats win, because they always seem
to be spending money to help the poor while we'll seem to be
taxing middle-America to bail out bankers and pay lawyers);
if no serious progress occurs it will be right and legitimate
-- and statesmanlike -- for the president to push away from
the bargaining table, stand up, acknowledge what's happening,
declare that an impasse has been reached, and tell the
Democrats: I'm taking it to the people.
   The 1990 elections are three months away, and there is
still no more fruitful and legitimate issue for us, and for
the country, than wasteful spending, than a budget out of
control, than congressmen raising taxes -- there is no more
potent issue than this.
   There isn't a man or woman in America who doesn't know
that the budget's out of control -- every American over the
age of 12 knows it -- and the funny thing is they're not
tight, they're not skinflints, they just want to know the
money's going to good use.
   People are becoming newly re-sensitized to taxes, from New
Jersey to California, they're starting to get clobbered
again. And there's another part of the mix: an anti-incumbent
spirit that is sweeping the country. Everywhere, at the
dinner table, the PTA meeting, the cocktail party, you can
hear it: Throw the bums out. As the majority of Congress are
Democrats this is not exactly bad news. If we take this issue
to the people, the people will support us. I always want to
say to my old friends in Washington: Trust the people. After
all, they had the wit to trust us.
   Someone told me the other day, "But George Bush doesn't
like confrontation." Well, George Bush likes peace and
progress -- but I saw him in 1988 when he was 14 points down,
and when it's time to fight, he can mix it up with the best
of them. The part of him that was an 18-year-old fighter
pilot revs up, and with an absolute lack of ferocity, with a
kind of gentlemanly conviction, he hits every target.
   So my hope is that this party will take the tax and
spending issue to the people -- because the people are on our
side. And sometimes you only make progress in a negotiation
when you end it. You remember when Ronald Reagan let the
Soviets, in one of their big flamboyant rejections of the
U.S. position, walk away from the arms talks. It was a big
break, big news, headlines that said "Arms Talks Collapse."
Reagan was criticized, as usual. But he said, in his sunny
way, "Don't worry, they'll come back." And they did.
   A second issue on which the people trust us -- an issue
which ought by rights to be ours -- is crime. You all know
the facts, the statistics, how crime most grieviously hurts
the poor and middle class. I would add only that this is an
issue that resonates powerfully with my generation, the baby
boomers. We grew up during the great explosion of crime in
America -- grew up hearing our parents say, wistfully, "We
didn't even have to lock our doors at night." We're nostalgic
for what we never knew.
   Books like "In Cold Blood," movies like "The Boston
Strangler" infused our art and imaginations when we were
young -- and we have children now, and are afraid. We
Republicans must be the leading anti-crime party. There are
those who worry about the departure of communism as a cutting
issue. But, for those who want to help the oppressed and the
helpless, in domestic terms, crime is the communism of the
'90s.
   Another issue: I will tell you frankly that I believe
corruption -- the political corruption of our great cities,
the abuses of the machines, a story so constant and pervasive
that it's always in the papers in New York, but on page 12
because it's not news anymore -- this is another great issue
for us. We are ripe for a Teddy Roosevelt or two -- we are
ripe to seize this issue, because it speaks of the crumbling
of the cities, the anxiety of the suburbs and the abuse of
the poor. The machines are Democratic -- the corruption is
Democratic -- and a poor woman who spends two hours waiting
for a city-run ambulance when her husband has a heart attack
is a victim who deserves our attention. She and others like
her will, in time, join us if we begin to speak forcefully
for their interests.
   Another issue, a delicate one, abortion. Lee Atwater is
right -- we are the party of the big tent -- and we old
roustabouts stick together as much as we can. If we are to be
a modern, viable party then we know that debate and
dissension must be a part of us. We care about ideas and can
argue for justice. We have room for disagreement, we don't
shun people for being politically incorrect.
   But I will tell you that I feel strongly that we must
continue to be the party that speaks against abortion, that
speaks to the conscience of the nation.
   I think that no one, pro- or anti-, is entirely 100%
comfortable with his or her position on this issue. We all in
our hearts have our doubts, and our questions. We all in our
hearts, in our best selves, in our private lives, lean
against abortion.
   Both George Bush and Ronald Reagan have said, eloquently,
that abortion on demand coarsens us as a people. You are
familiar with their arguments. But I have a hunch. The
technology of abortion is changing, and more and more it will
come down to one woman, or one couple, standing alone and
deciding. And if we are the party that tells her, or them,
no, rethink it, think twice and three times -- they will not
resent it.
   I think the national defense is still a potent issue,
because the American people have common sense. They know
perfect peace and lasting tranquility have never happened in
the history of man and likely never will. A strong America
defense is still the greatest peace-preserving force in the
history of man. Fifty years without a world war -- it was
American strength, and the taxes sacrificed by the American
people to maintain it -- that did that. And when something
works, don't be in such a hurry to make radical change.
   Another issue looms on the horizon, coming ever closer. We
must make a connection with America's new immigrants. So many
of them hold the enduring values for which we stand, and yet
those values do not necessarily translate into Republican
allegiance by any means. I do not know what is the modern
equivalent of the local political club -- my people became
Democrats originally because the local Democratic boss made
sure you had a turkey at Christmas -- I don't know what is
the modern equivalent of that presence, but it would be in
our interests to figure it out.
   And a word, in closing, on what I think is, right now, a
great challenge to us as a party. It's subtle, in a way. It's
that, after 10 years in power, the people will come to see us
as the Washington Party, when it is we who have opposed the
mischief and machinations and self-interest of that town.
   We are not the party that splits the difference with the
Democrats in big rooms on the Hill, we're not the "insider
party," we are not the party of the bureaucracy, of the
federal government, of centralized power of Washington. We
are the opposition in power. We forget this at our peril.
   And so what we are talking about this fall, in 1990, in
every congressional race and state Senate contest, is the
continuance of our right and ability to govern this nation --
this great and moving nation, this most generous country on
earth, this most yearning place -- a party, still, worthy of
the people, protector of their interests -- a party that
keeps the faith, that remembers we are at our best when we
believe.
   If we only remember what we believe we will own the '90s
-- and we will be right, and we will win.
   ---
   Miss Noonan, who wrote speeches for President Reagan and
for George Bush, is the author of "What I Saw at the
Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era," (Random
House, 1990). This is adapted from a speech she gave Friday
to the Republican National Commmittee in Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   South Korean Stock Market Nears 12-Month Low
   Due to Heightened Political Tensions in Seoul
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- South Korean political squabbling neared 12-month
highs last week, and in reaction, the Korean stock market
neared its 12-month low.
   Fistfights in the National Assembly, strong threats by
minority opposition party assembly members to resign en masse
and the nation's media on a protest strike, while unusual
even for Korea, aren't enough to imperil the nation. But it
was serious enough to worry the already jittery Korean
investor and accelerate the fall of the bear market. The
market fell about 4% this week, ending Saturday at 689.19
points, just slightly above the 1990 low of 688.66 recorded
April 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the market again breaking the psychological 700
barrier, Korean securities firm analysts are again predicting
that the market will continue to fall to about the 650 level,
where it was right before the 1988 summer Olympics here. At
that point, Korean stocks will be bargains, as measured by a
price-earnings ratio, and the market should begin its long
awaited rebound. Analysts are reluctant to be quoted saying
that because it invokes the ire of Korean investors who
attack brokerage houses whenever the market falls.
   Worries about inflation or the government tightening
credit in order to cure it is worrying investors. But, in
general, the economic news from Korea is good.
   Instead, it is clear that political news is what is
manhandling the market. At the center of the tumult last week
was the ruling party's broadcast "reform" bill, which it
railroaded through the National Assembly Saturday. The bill
creates a third nationwide television network, the first that
isn't government-owned. Advertisers have been agitating for a
third network to provide more advertising time in an
extremely tight market. However, opposition politicians who
strongly opposed the bill say it doesn't give that third
network enough independence from government control.
   The government counters that it must meddle to prevent the
business conglomerates that will jointly own the station from
lowering the standards of programming. But Koreans are
distrustful of the government's motives because the
government still interferes with news reporting despite
general democratic reforms.
   Because the ruling Democratic Liberal Party, a recent
creation of the merger of three conservative parties, has a
73% majority in the National Assembly, the bill was pushed
through despite objections. The ruling party also pushed
through 25 other bills.
   For the past year, the market has seemed immune to
economic news and any attempts by the government to stimulate
the market. In fact, some measures of the government have
been followed by a further decline in the market. A recently
created stock market stabilization fund tried to shore up the
market Friday and Saturday, but it failed as the individual
investors who dominate the Seoul exchange went on a selling
spree.
   Union workers at the Korea Broadcasting System, Munhwa
Broadcasting System and even the Christian Broadcasting
System and the Roman Catholic Radio Pacis decided to go on
strike. The stations are still broadcasting. But the strikes
are worrisome to the government because officials fear that
because the strikes have such a high profile, they may touch
off other strikes in the country. A political strike at the
Korea Broadcasting System last spring was blamed by the
government for provoking a strike at the Hyundai shipyards
that the government suppressed with force.
   The ruling party has said it won't accept the resignations
of the opposition politicians, but opposition party officials
say they will resign to provoke a crisis. They also vow to
take their protests to the street.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   In Tokyo, stocks closed higher, backed by scattered early
morning buying in oil stocks and high-technology shares later
in the afternoon, traders said. The Nikkei index of 225
issues closed at 32644.37 points, up 69.05.
   At mid-morning Monday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index had
advanced another 256.65 points to 32901.02.
   Trading on Friday was quiet despite considerable strength
for Japanese bonds from the yen's rally. The currency's
advance stemmed from U.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan's comments Thursday that the Fed was poised to ease
its policy to offset a possible credit market tightening,
traders said.
   Share prices in London finished a mild session stronger as
an inspiring start to Wall Street and futures-led buying
underpinned an otherwise dull market. The Financial
Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index rose 11.7 points to
2382.2.
   Some dealers were clearly surprised that the broad-based
index was able to post any gain, in light of the fact that
the recent slew of corporate downgradings and profit warnings
hasn't yet abated. But traders said the downgradings would
only be significant for sentiment if and when they started to
affect stocks perceived as blue-chip, quality earners and
those known as the "backbone" of British industry.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Brussels, Amsterdam and Madrid; lower in Stockholm
and unchanged in Milan. South African gold stocks closed
above Thursday's levels.
   Prices closed higher in Hong Kong, Taipei, Wellington and
Singapore, and lower in Sydney, Seoul and Manila.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                               Jul 12     Jul 11     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ......................  338.2      334.4    +  4.1
   Britain ...................  704.0      702.1    -  2.4
   Canada ....................  393.3      389.9    -  9.1
   Japan ..................... 1305.2     1304.0    - 21.1
   France ....................  553.4      552.0    -  2.4
   Germany ...................  310.8      306.7    +  8.9
   Hong Kong ................. 2584.6     2570.9    + 23.3
   Switzerland ...............  232.3      232.1    +  5.3
   Australia .................  332.4      329.0    +  0.4
   World index ...............  530.3      528.3    -  6.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Price of Silence
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congress is finally in full cry about the $300 billion
savings-and-loan debacle, blaming political foes, the thrift
industry and now President Bush's son. Things can sure get
nasty when 535 people try to change the subject.
   As November elections loom, scapegoats are suddenly in
season. The cry is to stop "fraud" by "S&amp;L crooks," whoever
these mysterious shysters might be. The Senate fell all over
itself to pass a bill to let judges throw life sentences at
"S&amp;L kingpins," and a House committee whooped through a bill
to assign 600 more FBI and 300 Secret Service agents to
investigate. While fraud should be punished, the main purpose
of the shouting is to deflect attention from the real causes
-- and remedies -- of the S&amp;L mess.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Put the S&amp;L Crooks in Jail," says a new banner in
Illinois Democrat Frank Annunzio's committee room.
Apparently, he doesn't mean Fernand St Germain, the former
House Banking Committee chairman and Mr. Annunzio's soul mate
through years of doing the thrift industry's bidding. A new
Common Cause study reports that Mr. Annunzio received $51,620
from S&amp;L interests in the 1980s, the eighth-highest total
among current House Members.
   New Jersey Democrat Robert Torricelli was so upset he
denounced the Common Cause study on the floor of the House
last week. Mr. Torricelli made his last big public splash as
the leading defender of Jim Wright's ethics. He was
unimpressed by special counsel Richard Phelan's evidence that
Mr. Wright threatened to expose one S&amp;L regulator as a
homosexual and browbeat others to go easy on Democratic
campaign contributors.
   We could go on (and will in the future), but the point is
that the essential cause of the S&amp;L debacle is in danger of
being lost amid the political name-calling. That cause is an
industry that was born in, and thrived on, political
influence. Congress created, and then nurtured with such
subsidies as federal deposit insurance, a special banking
industry for housing. If that lesson is lost, the solutions
will elude us forever.
   The lesson is symbolized by Mr. St Germain, whose close
ties to S&amp;L lobbyists eventually cost him his seat in
Congress. Mr. St Germain personally raised the level of
deposit insurance for thrifts to $100,000 from $40,000 in the
dark of night on March 5, 1980. Years later, he -- aided by
then-Speaker Wright and House Democratic whip Tony Coelho --
helped weaken legislation that would have solved the crisis
at an early date. They had plenty of accomplices, many of
them lathered with the $11.7 million in 10 years of
thrift-industry campaign contributions documented in the
Common Cause study.
   Fraud no doubt made things worse, but here some
distinctions need to be made. If Charles Keating and other
S&amp;L operators steered thrift assets for personal use, that's
fraud and should be punished. But the key point is that Mr.
Keating and others could flourish because the system staked
them the taxpayer guarantee of deposit insurance. Even
without committing fraud, they had the legal right to
speculate on risky loans because they had this giant subsidy.
In a phrase that should be repeated again and again, their
risk was "socialized" on all of us.
   Neil Bush's problems, on the other hand, appear to be of a
different sort. As a director of the Silverado thrift, he had
a normal fiduciary duty to shareholders. The federal civil
suit that may yet be brought against him would be for
neglecting that fiduciary duty, not for any fraud. Neil
Bush's apparent conflict of interest is that as a director he
voted to approve loans to a business partner. There is no
need to condone this, but unless one is operating solely at
the level of political opportunism, Neil Bush does not appear
to symbolize the thrift debacle.
   Nonetheless, the mythology of "fraud" will build until
George Bush explains to the country what really caused the
thrift crisis. If he doesn't, Senator Howard Metzenbaum will
continue to make things worse by attacking those willing to
buy failed thrifts that end up in government hands. His
extraordinary one-day inquisition last week sent a message
that any thrift buyer can someday expect to appear before his
committee.
   In retrospect, it's clear that the biggest mistake of the
Bush presidency has been failing to educate the public about
the thrift debacle's roots when it first proposed its bailout
legislation. Even 18 months later, the Brady Treasury still
has nothing to say about deposit insurance, while Democrats
are circling around the President's son. All of us -- and Mr.
Bush himself -- may yet pay for this inexplicable silence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Samsung's Plans to Open Auto Plant
   Elicit Vigorous Opposition in Korea
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.SSG FREST J.NDM C.HYU C.KMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Samsung Group's recent announcement
that it plans to open an auto assembly plant in Korea next
year has sparked strong opposition from the nation's five
existing auto makers and posed a difficult choice for the
government.
   Samsung Heavy Industries, a unit of Samsung Group, South
Korea's major business conglomerate, has announced plans to
build 1,200 large-sized commercial vehicles in Korea next
year and to boost output to 3,800 units annually by 1995.
Parts would be supplied by Nissan Diesel of Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association, however,
has asked the government to reject Samsung's application for
permission to import technology to make the vehicles.
   The government's power to stop new entries into the auto
business was abolished recently as part of a new industrial
liberalization policy. The government can, however, restrict
imports of technology if they are deemed to be harmful to an
industry or the economy in general.
   KAMA, which represents Hyundai Motor Co., Daewoo Motor
Co., Kia Motors Co., Ssangyong Motor Co. and Asia Motors Co.,
said Samsung's entry into the commercial vehicle business
would create a serious oversupply problem that would damage
the domestic auto industry.
   Analysts note, however, that although Korea is well
stocked with auto makers, the four Korean concerns that make
large commercial vehicles are unable to supply more than
about 70% of the 20,000 trucks and 10,000 buses that Koreans
buy each year.
   In Japan, by comparison, four companies meet a domestic
demand of 100,000 vehicles, analysts say.
   Because of the high sensitivity of the issue, the
government is now faced with a very difficult choice, says
Huh Kyung, assistant director at the ministry's
transportation machinery division.
   By opposing Samsung's application, Mr. Huh says, KAMA is
asking the government to reverse its free competition policy.
   "Basically, it is against the ongoing liberalization
policy of the government to reject private projects," Mr. Huh
says. He adds that the government might have to delay the
decision.
   While the ministry considers Samsung's application, the
five auto makers are mounting major lobbying and public
opinion campaigns opposing it.
   In a proposal to the government, KAMA predicted that
Korea's commercial vehicle market, which currently enjoys
growing demand due to an extraordinary construction boom,
will face a sharp decline in demand beginning next year and
will be oversupplied by 1992.
   KAMA also asserted that some of the Nissan technology
Samsung plans to use has already been imported by Ssangyong
Motor Co. Duplicating the technology would be detrimental to
the local economy, the proposal warned.
   Analysts note, however, that behind the auto makers'
strong opposition is their concern about a possible entry by
Samsung into passenger car business.
   Despite Samsung's denials, analysts here believe that
Samsung's commercial vehicle project is a first step toward a
venture in the passenger car business, which has been the
group's major goal for many years.
   In the mid-1980s, Samsung vigorously sought a business
partnership with Chrysler Corp. for the manufacture of
passenger cars. The deal was aborted at the last moment by a
government law prohibiting repeated or excessive investment
in certain areas. Recently, the group unsuccessfully
contacted Honda Motor Co. and other foreign automakers for
technical and other assistance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Credit Results
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Credit Corp., a unit of
Westinghouse Electric Corp., said second-quarter earnings
fell 7%, to $36.9 million from $39.6 million. The finance
company said results reflected an increase in reserves,
because of market conditions and growth in loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Inflation Rate in '90s
   May Hinge on Politics
   ----
   By Henry F. Myers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Inflation has been behaving a bit better
recently. The U.S. consumer price index rose only 0.2% in May
and producer prices just 0.2% in June. But what is likely
over the longer run, over the decade of the 1990s?
   Some well-known economic forecasters are surprisingly
sanguine -- surprisingly in view of the past two decades of
relatively high inflation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a recent research report, Edward Yardeni, the director
of economics at Prudential-Bache Securities, forecasts that
the consumer price index will drop to 4% by year end from
4.6% on a December-to-December basis last year. By 1993, he
predicts, the annual inflation rate will be between 2% and
3%. And he sees "a good chance that in the 1990s the United
States will be among the countries with the lowest inflation
rates in the world" even though he also predicts the American
economy will keep growing.
   Mr. Yardeni lists the forces that he expects to damp
inflation in the 1990s.
                                                                                                       

   "The supply side of the global economy," he says, "is
likely to expand as rapidly as the demand side." The upshot:
"Companies will find that prices will be harder to raise,"
and executives will be under pressure to cut costs.
                                                                                                       

   Increasing this pressure, he says, will be a surge in
world trade as "more and more countries adopt free-market
economic systems." So, "global competition will intensify"
and "keep a lid on inflation." And he expects oil prices to
rise "no more than 3% to 5% per year, on average," though he
acknowledges the risk of another oil shock.
   In addition, Mr. Yardeni sees some helpful trends in the
U.S. He says that "productivity growth should improve
dramatically," with labor shortages providing "the major
driving force." He believes both wage inflation and upward
pressures on employee benefit costs "should moderate."
Moreover, "lower interest rates and the restructuring of
corporate balance sheets towards more equity, and less debt,
should lower financing costs for many companies" and "reduce
pressures to raise prices."
   Finally, Mr. Yardeni predicts that the world's central
bankers will keep fighting inflation with their monetary
policies.
                                                                                                       

   On that count, Mr. Yardeni gets support from Mickey D.
Levy, chief economist at First Fidelity Bancorp.
                                                                                                       

   Looking at the inflation outlook a couple of years ahead,
Mr. Levy says:
   "I am decidedly optimistic, more than the Federal Reserve,
more than the administration and more than the consensus
forecasts. I think that the Fed wants lower inflation and is
backing it up with action. And we're just starting to reap
the rewards."
   Three years ago, he says, the Fed started to tighten
credit, and "initially it hurt profits. In the next stage,
unit labor costs have started falling." In the second half of
this year, he sees the consumer price index down to a 4%
annual rate of increase, and in 1991 he puts it at 3 1/2%. He
notes that recently the U.S. has had "five good months of the
producer price index and two good months of the consumer
price index."
   The producer price index, which measures the prices that
factories and other producers receive for their goods, fell a
bit in February, March and April and rose only 0.3% in May
before posting its 0.2% increase for June. From June 1989 to
June 1990, Mr. Levy notes, intermediate goods rose only 0.2%,
and crude materials fell 3%.
   But what if unemployment rises? Will the Fed stick to its
guns? "By and large, yes," Mr. Levy says, despite the
inevitable political pressure to ease credit in an effort to
stimulate the economy and bring unemployment quickly back
down.
                                                                                                       

   Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a Sedona, Ariz., newsletter
that surveys 51 economists monthly, finds the consensus
outlook for inflation next year mildly optimistic. On the
average, the Blue Chip group expects the increase in consumer
prices to narrow from an anticipated 4.8% this year to 4.2%
next year.
                                                                                                       

   The highest inflation forecast for 1991 among the Blue
Chip economists comes from Michael Evans of Evans Economics
in Washington. He expects the CPI to surge 5.7% next year, up
from the 5.2% rise he anticipates for this year.
   "I don't think inflation is licked at all," Mr. Evans
says. He lists five reasons: "Wage gains will continue to
rise." Productivity growth will be "anemic." Service costs,
and especially medical costs, will keep surging. The dollar
will slide a bit, and therefore import prices will climb. And
"energy costs will rise substantially."
   In the 1990s, Mr. Evans expects inflation to average 6% a
year. He believes that new environmental legislation will
raise industry's costs significantly. In the mid-1970s, he
comments, environmental laws were a major force behind the
steep inflation.
   In addition, he expects productivity to rise only about 1%
a year, partly because he anticipates "relatively little
investment" in the 1990s. And he thinks many industrial
costs, especially energy costs, will climb sharply. He also
says "the budget deficit will be forever" and will tend to
lift costs.
   So, whose forecast is most likely to be borne out during
the decade ahead? Many of Mr. Yardeni's arguments seem highly
persuasive. Most of them perhaps can be summed up in the
notion that the world seems to be facing few shortages likely
to accelerate inflation.
   But even though most of the forces he cites don't stem
directly from monetary policy, the Fed will, of course,
continue to play a major role, and it will remain subject to
political pressures favoring inflation. So, any forecast of
inflation tends to turn partly into a forecast of political
trends. And predicting political trends can be even dicier
than predicting economic ones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Xtra Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS XTR
</CO>
<LP>
   XTRA Corp. (Boston) -- Lewis Rubin, president of this
truck-leasing concern, was named to the additional post of
chief executive officer, succeeding Charles F. Kaye, who
resigned last March. The company also named as directors
Martin L. Solomon and Francis J. Palamara, expanding the
board to nine. Mr. Solomon, a managing director and general
partner of Value Equity Management I L.P., owns about 14% of
Xtra. Mr. Palamara is a self-employed business consultant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Scott Paper Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SPP
</CO>
<LP>
   SCOTT PAPER Co. (Philadelphia) -- Peter Harf was named a
director of this paper-products concern, enlarging board
membership to 14. Mr. Harf, 44 years old, is chairman and
chief executive officer of Banckiser Group and its flagship
company, Joh. A. Benckiser G.m.b.H.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Charges
   Insider Trading
   Of Contel Issues
   ---
   `Unknown' Investors Cited
   For Options Purchases
   Ahead of Merger News
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTC GTE Z.CSU Z.SBK S AXP SLH PA GE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
charged an "unknown" group of investors with insider trading
of Contel Corp. securities in connection with the company's
plan to merge with GTE Corp.
   Only about 30 hours after the accord between the two phone
companies was announced, the SEC received a temporary
restraining order from the U.S. District Court in New York
blocking 12 U.S. and foreign banks and securities firms from
disposing of Contel stock and options. The agency contended
that paper gains from transactions through the foreign banks
totaled nearly $1.1 million. Rudolph Gerlich Jr., an SEC
assistant enforcement director, said the agency expects
Contel trading profit through American Express Co.'s Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. unit, Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. and
Advest Inc. to total roughly an additional $1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   None of the banks or securities firms are charged with any
wrongdoing. But they will be asked by the SEC for the names
of their customers, who will then be deposed by agency
lawyers as to why they bought the securities.
   The SEC said it was forced to move quickly -- even before
it could determine the identity of any defendant -- because
the options settle a day after they are sold. That means that
the money would be turned over to the investors and "the
money can be gone pretty fast," Mr. Gerlich said.
   The $6.2 billion deal, announced Thursday morning, was
preceded by purchases of thousands of Contel options
contracts on the American Stock Exchange floor, according to
SEC and Amex data. The SEC said in its complaint that for
July 5, 6 and 9, total Contel call option volume on the Amex
was 329 contracts. But during the two days before the
announcement of the deal, that volume jumped nearly 20-fold
to 6,546 contracts, the agency said.
   The SEC said that the defendants made their transactions
in accounts at the three U.S. brokerage firms and Credit
Suisse and Compagnie de Gestion, Geneva, through Swiss
American Securities Inc. of New York; Union Bank of
Switzerland, Geneva, through Execution Services Inc. of New
York; Confide Finance S.A. of Bellevue, Switzerland, through
Kidder, Peabody & Co.; and Simonbank of Dusseldorf, West
Germany, through Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., a unit of Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co.
   The charges are the second major SEC insider-trading
complaint in the past few months focusing on investments
through Switzerland. In January, the SEC charged several
firms and investors with insider trading in Rorer Group Inc.
securities before that company's acquisition by Rhone-Poulenc
S.A. Those trades were done through Discount Bank Ltd. and
Cambio Valorenbank AG, Swiss banks that weren't charged with
any wrongdoing.
   Call options give an investor the right, but not the
obligation, to buy shares of stock at a certain price within
a given time. They generally move in tandem with the price of
the underlying stock.
   The charges came as little surprise to traders on the Amex
floor. "There was a completely different trading pattern in
the options" than usual, said one trader. An SEC official
said the pattern was so blatant that "you just couldn't miss
it."
   Securities lawyers remarked at the surge of volume.
"There's either some innocent person with a good explanation
or a real dumb person who's really in trouble," said
Washington securities lawyer Peter Romatowski.
   The accord between the two phone companies had been
brewing for several months, the SEC said. The agency's
complaint said GTE first considered Contel as a possible
target in late 1989 or early this year, but decided not to
contact the Atlanta-based company. In late April or early
May, Stamford, Conn.-based GTE renewed its consideration of a
deal, but Contel ended the talks after preliminary
discussions.
   Early this month, the talks reheated, and the two firms
agreed on July 5 that they would merge. Top executives agreed
to announce the accord on July 12. In the interim, draft
documents were exchanged between lawyers for the two
companies and GTE investment bankers were notified.
   ---
               Contel Options Heat Up
                                                                                                       

       (Aug. 30 calls, in number of contracts)
                                                                                                       

      DAY         VOLUME   CLOSING PRICE   NET CHANGE
                                                                                                       

     Monday          10         3/8          + 1/8

     Wednesday    2,519         15/16        + 1/2
                                                                                                       

             Offer Announced Thursday Morning
                                                                                                       

     Thursday     1,096         5 1/2        + 4 9/16
                                                                                                       

   Source: American Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Financing Small Business:
   Small Firms Flock to Stock Market to Get Financing
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   HOLX CNTO ENZN JAPAN J.YTB EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   INITIAL OFFERINGS may increase at an even faster pace in
coming months.
   Some 132 companies went public during the first six months
of 1990, raising $6.9 billion, according to IDD Information
Services, a New York securities data concern. That's 28% more
offerings pulling in 16% more money than in the same period
last year, when 103 companies raised $5.9 billion. Some
investment bankers predict even sharper increases in the
second half of this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co., a San Francisco investment
bank, says it took five companies public in this year's first
half and already has plans to take eight more public in the
next three months. The recent strength of the stock market
has persuaded many investors to return to equities and the
stocks of small, emerging-growth companies, says Sanford
Robertson, managing partner. Investors, who last flocked to
new issues in 1983, once again are "looking to new stock
offerings as a major investment vehicle," he adds.
   The speculative companies that often signal the end of a
new issues market have yet to appear, says John Michaelson, a
managing director of Needham &amp; Co., a New York investment
banking firm. "It's still a selective market for going
public." Most of the companies that are going public already
have well-established businesses and strong managers, he
adds.
   The market for new issues also has benefited from the
strong market performance of many new issues recently.
Hologic Inc., a Waltham, Mass., maker of diagnostic X-ray
systems, was one of the star performers. Hologic shares,
which were first traded at $14 on March 1, have more than
doubled to $29.25.
   ---
   SMALL U.S. FIRMS in low-tech businesses are finding new
money in Japan.
   Although Japanese investments in high-technology U.S.
businesses have won the most attention, less glamorous
companies are getting some money, too. Chicago's MASI Ltd.,
which recently launched a joint investment banking venture
with Tokyo's Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking Co., says it recently
raised $45 million for two U.S. companies in mature
manufacturing businesses. One is a $30 million Illinois-based
rubber goods maker; the other a $70 million Iowa-based
machine tools company. Japanese corporate and individual
investors bought the shares in the two firms.
   Such companies often have a difficult time obtaining
financing from U.S. sources. But Japanese investors like them
because their shares are lower priced than shares in
comparable Japanese concerns, says Jack Campbell, a MASI
principal. The Japanese investors "want to put their money in
companies that do business in a predictable economic
climate," he adds.
   European investors also are looking to finance some mature
manufacturing companies here, says Chet Borgida, a partner at
Grant Thornton, New York. "Many of these investors are
risk-averse and looking for the stability that these
companies provide."
   ---
   PUBLICLY HELD TECH firms say private capital is getting
easier to find.
   Last December, Centocor Inc. raised $13 million entirely
from private investors, including Canaan Partners, Bessemer
Venture Partners and Morgan Capital Corp. Another
biotechnology concern, Enzon Inc., raised about $25 million
from private investors. Investors received new preferred
shares in the company and interest-bearing convertible stock.
   "Private markets offer companies access to investors that
often aren't interested in their public stock at that time,"
says Michael Goldberg of Montauk Capital, a New York
investment banker. For small companies out of favor with
public investors, "it's also less risky than trying to go the
public route," he adds.
   Private investors like these deals because the stock
they're purchasing is priced lower than the public stock. The
yields from these investments can be higher than many venture
capital deals, says Jeffrey Jay of Canaan Partners, a
Rowayton, Conn., venture capital firm. The value of Canaan's
investment in Centocor, for example, has increased fourfold
over an eight-month period.
   The financings also benefit existing shareholders because
the new capital allows firms to continue necessary research
without hurting profits.
   Dr. Goldberg, who currently is working on three private
placements for small public companies in health care, says
the number of such deals will increase. "It allows both the
company and the investor to be flexible in their financing.
And it turns out profitable for both," he says.
   ---
   THE TROUBLE AT U.S. THRIFTS has franchise owners
scrambling for capital.
   Franchise owners, who received much of the financing for
their businesses from savings and loan institutions and
commercial banks, are finding these institutions reluctant to
lend them money lately. The institutions and their regulators
often consider the loans, usually used to finance real estate
purchases and building construction, too risky.
   Bankers have tightened lending standards for franchise
owners, says Pat Boroian, president of Francorp Inc., a
consultant based in Chicago. As their assets have shrunk,
these lenders are under increasing pressure from regulators
to reduce new loans to franchises, he adds.
   A Minnesota bank, which last year received authorization
to lend as much as $200 million to franchises, has pulled the
plug on its program, Mr. Boroian says.
   In the last six months, applications from franchise owners
for financing have risen 10% at Franchise Finance Corp. of
America, one of the largest U.S. providers of capital to
franchises. Many of the new applicants are those that can't
get money from the S&amp;Ls, says Morton Fleischer, founder of
Franchise Finance. The Scottsdale, Ariz., company recently
raised $1.2 billion to finance real estate purchases by
owners of fast food franchises and truck stops.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Secret Service Would Get Green Light
   For S&amp;L Probes in Bill Passed by House
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House-passed appropriations bill would
authorize the Secret Service to initiate investigations of
savings and loan fraud and would direct the Internal Revenue
Service to step up its tax enforcement against foreign-owned
U.S. companies.
   The $20.7 billion measure won easy approval on a 300-72
roll call, but the expanded power for the Secret Service is
provoking a behind-the-scenes turf war with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation over control of savings and loan
cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Secret Service officials have quietly welcomed the
initiative, the White House has lined up behind the Justice
Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, whose
representatives scrambled unsuccessfully to put any such
Secret Service operations under the authority of Attorney
General Richard Thornburgh.
   "There are more FBI guys up here than investigating the
S&amp;Ls," joked Rep. Silvio Conte of Massachusetts, the ranking
Republican on the House Appropriations Committee. And while
all sides promised to coordinate efforts, Mr. Conte and House
Democratic Caucus Chairman Steny Hoyer of Maryland used their
positions to establish a legislative record allowing the
Secret Service to initiate investigations where the FBI isn't
directly involved.
   The underlying measure, which goes next to the Senate,
funds the Treasury Department, Postal Service and much of the
White House's own operations for the new fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1. IRS funding would grow almost $633.7
million, to $6.13 billion, and the bill requires the agency
to use at least $10 million of the new money to crack down on
foreign-owned businesses.
   The administration has protested this provision, but
politically the issue has drawn support from a striking
coalition of Republicans, opposed to raising new taxes, and
industrial-state Democrats looking for a vehicle to strike
back at competing Japanese companies.
   By a 201-178 margin, the House rejected a proposal to cut
2% from all accounts other than the IRS. But the committee
leadership agreed separately to freeze allowances for former
presidents at the current fiscal 1990 level of $1.8 million.
Reflecting concern over former President Reagan's trip to
Japan last year, where he reportedly received $2 million in
speaking fees, the bill directs the Treasury to report in six
months on how to reduce expenditures in such cases. The
measure gives the Secret Service authority to accept private
donations to offset security costs in cases where a former
president travels for the purpose of earning a speaking fee.
   Among White House accounts, the Office of Management and
Budget would grow to $49.3 million. After late-night
negotiations between the administration and the House
Government Operations Committee, Director Richard Darman was
able to sidestep a move to strike an estimated $4.5 million
for the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs.
   Government Operations Committee Chairman John Conyers, who
met Friday with Mr. Darman and White House counsel C. Boyden
Gray, said he was satisfied that an "agreement in principle"
had been reached on changes sought by Congress in a
long-running fight over the role of the office in determining
regulatory decisions. The Michigan Democrat is among critics
who have demanded greater access to internal documents and
justification on any cost-benefit analysis used in future
cases. Mr. Conyers indicated concessions made by the White
House could expedite new authorization legislation pending in
his committee.
   The House action came as Senate Appropriations Committee
Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.) signaled he would seek to
cut military spending to the level called for in the House
budget resolution. But he said he would trim back as well on
increases in House-passed appropriations bills for domestic
and foreign aid accounts. Discretionary appropriations for
non-defense programs would be $4.8 billion less than the
House, but to preserve some flexibility under Gramm-Rudman
rules, outlays would be pared back by only $3 billion.
   Mr. Byrd's defense numbers are more favorable to the
Pentagon in some respects than the Senate Budget Committee's
initial recommendations. But by accepting the House ceiling,
he is also demanding an estimated $1.5 billion more in
direct-outlay cuts than the Senate Armed Services Committee
bill reported last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Corporate Credit Quality
   Fell in Quarter, S&amp;P Says
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate credit quality fell sharply in the
second quarter, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said.
   The rating concern, part of McGraw-Hill Inc., said it
lowered ratings on about $190 billion of debt in the quarter
and raised ratings on $34 billion. The number of downgrades,
207, greatly exceeded the 50 upgrades.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two large debt issuers, Ford Motor Credit Co. and Chrysler
Financial Corp., contributed heavily to the volume of
downgraded debt in the latest quarter. "In addition, non-U.S.
corporate rating changes were all negative," S&amp;P said. It
also noted bank holding companies had 23 downgrades but only
one upgrade.
   Separately, S&amp;P said municipal credit quality remained
weak in the second quarter, largely because of downgrades
among housing issues and ratings of National Rural Utilities
Cooperative Finance Corp.
   S&amp;P estimated that it lowered ratings on $14.5 billion of
municipal debt and raised ratings on $8.8 billion. Downgrades
totaled 139 in the quarter, and upgrades 45.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gulf Canada Ends
   Plan for Test Well
   In Arctic Ocean
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA GOU AN CHV
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. said it canceled
plans to drill a 60 million Canadian dollar (US$51.9 million)
exploratory oil well in the western Arctic Ocean because of a
lack of industry support for the project.
   The decision means that no new wells will be drilled this
year in Canada's Beaufort Sea region, which leads into the
Arctic Ocean. Gulf Canada, an energy concern, is a unit of
Toronto-based Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., which is
controlled by the Reichmann family. It had proposed to drill
as many as four wells in the region over the next three
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Frank Mitton, manager of Gulf Canada's northern
operations, said the company will decide in the next few
months whether to carry out its plans to drill the remaining
wells. Mr. Mitton said Gulf's decision to cancel the well was
unrelated to an earlier ruling by a Canadian environmental
panel. The panel had recommended that the Canadian government
reject Gulf's plans because the company was unprepared to
deal with a major oil spill. "We cannot drill the well
because we don't have sufficient industry support for it,"
Mr. Mitton said.
   The well was to have been located about 18 miles east of
Gulf Canada's big Amauligak oil field. Several oil and gas
finds have been made in the Beaufort Sea but none of the
discoveries has been brought into production.
   Gulf is the second company that has canceled an Arctic
exploration program this year. Amoco Canada Petroleum Co., a
unit of Chicago-based Amoco Corp., recently canceled plans to
drill two wells in the Beaufort Sea, because of insufficient
interest from its partners. Amoco plans to carry out some
seismic work this summer.
   Ed Zederayko, an oil industry analyst, said low energy
prices and reduced federal government exploration incentives
are causing more companies to defer their offshore drilling
plans.
   But a spokesman for Chevron Canada Resources Ltd., which
was to have held about 22% interest in Gulf's proposed well,
said Chevron was committed to going ahead with the plan.
Chevron Canada, a unit of San Francisco-based Chevron Corp.,
"has an ongoing interest in the North," he said.
   The Canadian Environmental Impact Review Board had
recommended earlier this month that government regulators
reject Gulf Canada's Arctic drilling plan because of the
potentially devastating effects of an oil spill on the area's
environmentally sensitive coastline. The board, which is made
up of representatives from the federal government, the
governments of the Yukon and Northwest Territories and the
Western Arctic Inuit natives, criticized Gulf Canada and the
government for their "startling lack of preparedness" for
dealing with a major oil well blowout.
   Canada Oil and Gas Lands Administration, the government
regulators, had yet to issue its decision on whether it would
accept the environmental board's ruling.
   Gulf Canada officials estimated that a hypothetical
worst-case well blowout could release 40,000 barrels of oil a
day for 66 days, or 10 times more oil than was released when
Exxon Corp.'s Valdez tanker ran aground in Alaska last year.
They said the cleanup of such a spill could be beyond Gulf
Canada's financial capabilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM HIT PHG J.SRP SNE AAPL J.TOS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Fate of the Earth
   Plays Out on PCs
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   HOW would you like to change the Earth's past and shape
its future?
   That's the concept behind SimEarth, a personal computer
game created by Will Wright, the Berkeley, Calif., author of
SimCity, last year's hit computer game with highbrows that
let players rebuild actual cities, such as San Francisco
after the 1906 earthquake and Hamburg after it was bombed in
1944, or design imaginary cities from scratch.
   SimEarth extends this idea to the planet itself, giving
players a chance to change the course of the Earth's history
by altering environmental forces. A few inspired choices, and
"dinosaurs won't die off but will rule, and humans won't ever
appear," Mr. Wright says.
   Mr. Wright hopes that SimEarth, which will be available on
Apple Macintosh computers next month and on International
Business Machines compatibles soon afterward, will raise
awareness about the intricate connections among natural
forces. In the game, for example, it's a challenge merely to
lay the conditions for multicellular life, much less to spark
the Renaissance. Indeed, promoting civilization is hard: Mr.
Wright says a player bent on improving humanity's lot may
have to unleash a meteor shower that puts an entire
prehistoric people at risk. "Without periodic extinctions,"
he says, "evolution may not occur."
   In designing a program to simulate the possible lives of
the Earth, Mr. Wright joins a growing tradition. Computer
models came into fashion in the 1970s, when the Club of Rome
issued a gloomy warning on environmental trends based on a
simulation. Today, such models lay the basis for everything
from forecasting the depletion of the ozone layer to
predicting next week's weather.
   Mr. Wright doesn't take too gloomy a view. A skillful
player can keep the Earth alive until the Sun explodes five
billion years from now. And even then, Mr. Wright affords the
player the tools to colonize outer space.
                                                                                                       

   Laptop Makers in U.S.
   Look to Japan for Color
                                                                                                       

   NEW color screens will whet people's appetites for laptop
computers, but they may upset the balance of power between
U.S. and Japanese computer makers.
   The Japanese are the dominant suppliers of these critical
parts, and the specter of a shortage has U.S. companies
hustling to nail down long-term supplies of color displays
for laptops, especially screens that use an advanced
active-matrix technique just now coming on the market.
   U.S. companies fear a repeat of the the 1980s, when
Japan's behemoths gained control of the market for memory
chips by pricing these parts at below cost to drive U.S.
suppliers out of the business. As a result of that coup, U.S.
computer makers have paid more for memory chips, a major
materials cost for their products.
   Among U.S. computer makers, IBM seems least likely to be
caught in a bind. It struck a deal last year to produce these
screens jointly in Japan with Toshiba. Hitachi and Sharp also
are offering these displays to U.S. companies. Once volume
production begins next year, they will sell their now-pricey
color screens at below cost in order to prime demand,
predicts Stanford Resources Inc., a San Jose, Calif., market
researcher.
                                                                                                       

   Making Networks as Fast
   As Machines They Link
                                                                                                       

   DESIGNERS are starting to pay attention to a thorny
problem involving increasingly powerful desktop computers
used by engineers and scientists.
   Almost all of these computers are linked with other
machines, and the networks aren't getting any faster. As a
result, the raw speed of the new workstations is being wasted
when users share or swap data, which occurs often.
   Designers are tackling the problem by building devices
that transfer data among workstations and among different
networks of machines at a hundred times the current speed of
10 million bits of data a second.
   The National Science Foundation, the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory and many private companies are funding
efforts to build speedier networks, which will change the
nature of computing by making it possible for a scientist to
receive live video or realistic color models on a
workstation.
   But this change won't be painless. Current standards for
networks, such as Ethernet and Token Ring, may need to be
overhauled or even scrapped. And so will current desktop
computers used by researchers. "This is probably the single
most interesting problem that I'm dealing with," says Andreas
Bechtolsheim, a computer designer at Sun Microsystems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Recording Music on CDs
   Isn't Around the Corner
                                                                                                       

   CONSUMERS won't be able to record on blank compact disks
for a few years.
   Equipment that both records on and plays CDs is considered
a sure-fire hit with consumers, but a combination of factors
have kept such machines off the market so far.
   Officials at Sony Corp. and N.V. Philips, which control
patents on most CD technology, say that a few technical
problems remain before such products are finished, but that
the biggest hurdle is persuading the music industry to
withdraw its opposition to recordable CDs, which the industry
thinks will reduce sales of prerecorded CDs.
   After seeing the music industry delay the introduction of
digital-audio tape, there's little optimism that fears about
recordable CDs can be dispelled quickly. "We expect the same
(opposition) . . . so we won't force-feed this," says a Sony
executive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel Moves to Trim Military
   But Avoids Some Painful Budget Issues
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Armed Services Committee's $289
billion defense spending bill takes some cautious first steps
toward slimming down the military, but it avoids the most
painful budget-cutting decisions confronting the Pentagon.
   Despite voting to eliminate 100,000 active-duty troops,
more than 42,000 civilian jobs and $10 billion of new
hardware purchases in fiscal 1991, the committee postponed
final decisions on how, or even whether, to proceed with
major weapons programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill, announced last Friday, delays full-scale
development or procurement of the Air Force's C-17 troop
transport and Advanced Tactical Fighter, a fleet of new
carrier-based attack planes and superquiet attack submarines
envisioned by the Navy, and the Army's proposed LH
helicopter.
   Lawmakers said the cuts reflected a new "fly before you
buy" strategy intended to more thoroughly test equipment
before it enters full-blown production.
   Significantly, though, none of these top-priority programs
-- carrying a total price tag of about $200 billion by the
late 1990s -- were killed. Neither the lawmakers' comments
nor documents released by the panel indicate the committee's
long-term intentions involving those high-profile weapons.
   Likewise, the panel sidestepped thorny questions about
long-term troop withdrawals from Europe, South Korea and
elsewhere -- all of which are bound to be hotly debated as
the bill winds its way through Congress. The committee did
mandate bringing home 50,000 American troops from Europe by
the end of 1991. But Sen. Alan Dixon (D., Ill.) said GOP
opposition blocked his bid to lock in deeper troop cuts there
by 1995. "We are going to revisit that again on the floor,"
he told reporters.
   Chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.) described the committee's
spending plan as a "manageable glide path toward a major
restructuring of our military establishment and the way it
does business." The committee cut $18 billion in spending
authority from President Bush's defense budget for the fiscal
year starting Oct. 1. But critics in the House and even some
members of his own committee are pushing for between $3
billion and $6 billion in additional cuts.
   The panel realized some relatively easy savings by
canceling more than a dozen smaller programs, including a
troubled air-defense system for the Army and certain chemical
bombs and munitions. Many of the items already were targeted
for cuts by the Pentagon.
   Other proposed terminations, though, are likely to end up
in bitter floor fights. Proponents of the so-called National
Aerospace Plane, intended to take off from a regular airport,
fly faster than any previous aircraft and go directly into
Earth's orbit, once again are expected to seek Vice President
Quayle's help to retain Pentagon funding for the ambitious
research project. The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, which is funding part of the work, has argued
that the project will die without hefty Pentagon support.
   Lockheed Corp., the prime contractor for a proposed
multibillion-dollar, jam-resistant satellite communications
network slated for termination by the committee, is gearing
up to try to save that program. Alan Chase, Lockheed's vice
president for business development, said that company
officials were "dismayed, if not shocked" by the panel's vote
to cancel the Milstar program, which has been supported by
both the administration and Congress.
   The company had been counting on Milstar to keep revenue
strong at a time when many of its major aircraft lines are
winding down. Although budget figures for Milstar remain
classified, it was expected to be the major factor in the
growth of Lockheed's surveillance, verification and
communications business. The company had projected revenue in
that segment of its operations to increase to $4.5 billion
annually by the mid-1990s from $3.25 billion last year.
   The panel's bill also includes:
   -- About $3.7 billion, or $1 billion less than the White
House requested, for the Strategic Defense Initiative. Some
lawmakers proposed using language that blasts the
administration's hefty SDI spending plans as "thoroughly
unrealistic," rules out "significant increases" for SDI in
the foreseeable future, and urges the Pentagon "to adjust its
plans appropriately." Sen. John Warner (R., Va.), the ranking
GOP member of the committee, told reporters that the
committee merely "postponed the battle to the floor" of the
Senate.
   -- A nonbinding timetable to slash nearly 500,000 of the
country's 2.1 million active-duty troops over the next five
years, with the Army taking the biggest percentage cut. It is
slated to shrink more than 30% by 1996 under the committee's
scenario. But lawmakers, as expected, rejected Pentagon
proposals for comparable cuts in reserve forces; and they
added nearly $880 million to the White House's request for
equipment earmarked for reserve units.
   -- A 25% cut in the military's intelligence-gathering
budget over five years, starting with a 5% reduction in
fiscal 1992. As part of that effort, Sen. Warner said,
lawmakers will study "whether or not there are many
overlapping and redundant" operations that should be
eliminated.
   -- Reducing funding for the B-2 Stealth bomber to $3.75
billion, or about $400 million less than the Pentagon wanted.
The Air Force still would buy two of the radar-evading planes
in 1991.
   -- Eliminating all funds to deploy nuclear-tipped MX
missiles on specially equipped railroad cars, a decision
expected to be opposed by many GOP lawmakers.
   -- Adding more than $830 million to help clean up
pollution from military facilities and, for the first time,
focus the attention of Pentagon researchers on world
pollution problems.
   ---
   Rick Wartzman in Los Angeles contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Early-July Sales
   Of U.S.-Built Cars,
   Trucks Rose 2.5%
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of domestically built vehicles were
surprisingly strong in early July, causing guarded optimism
that the industry's lingering sales slump is easing.
   Auto makers reported that sales of U.S.built cars, trucks
and vans rose 2.5% in the first 10 days of July to 255,493
from 249,298 vehicles a year earlier. Following the trend of
recent months, Japanese auto makers reported a 36% gain in
sales of their U.S.-built cars in the period. Chrysler Corp.
posted a double-digit percentage decline, leading a 2.5% drop
in domestic car sales by the Big Three.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The overall early-July sales gain came on the heels of
robust sales in late June. Early-July sales ran at a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7.3 million cars -- the
first time since February that the annual rate of car sales
in the first 10 days of a month topped seven million. Sales
in the period the previous year ran at a 7.4 million clip,
according to a Commerce Department formula.
   Car dealers were pleasantly surprised by the improved
results, especially because the Big Three auto makers
recently raised base prices on 1990 models after trimming
some buyer incentives.
   "You've got a buyer out there today who's really not
afraid of anything, unless he loses his job," says Hoot
McInerney, owner of several new-car dealerships.
   The stronger sales results, combined with lower inventory
levels, make it less likely that auto makers will be forced
to offer steep incentives in order to clear lots for 1991
models coming out this fall. The results also make it easier
for auto makers to boost vehicle production in the third
quarter as they had planned.
   Sales of trucks and vans improved in the first 10 days of
July more than car sales. Domestic auto makers said
lighttruck and van sales rose 5.6% to 99,273 vehicles, while
sales of U.S.-built cars rose less than 1% to 156,220
vehicles.
   The market "was stronger than I figured," said David
Healy, an auto industry analyst with Barclays de Zoete Wedd
in New York. "My temptation is to raise my {industry sales}
forecast for the year." But Mr. Healy said he wants to see
what happens in the mid-July sales period before making such
a move.
   General Motors Corp.'s car sales stayed about even with
sales a year earlier but saw an 18% gain in truck sales. The
company attributed that increase to across-the-board gains in
its Chevrolet and GMC Truck units. However, sales of the auto
maker's new plastic-body minivans have been weak. So far this
year General Motors has built 90,089 of the vehicles but has
sold only 62,326.
   Chrysler lost ground with its cars and trucks. The No. 3
U.S. auto maker's domestic-car sales fell 19% despite
advertisements in which company chairman Lee Iaccoca seeks to
compare Chrysler cars favorably with Honda Motor Co. models.
Chrysler truck sales dropped 14% partly because its Jeep
Cherokee models are facing stronger competition.
   The biggest challenge in that segment comes from Ford
Motor Co.'s Explorer, which helped raise Ford's truck sales
6.1%. Ford's car sales remained flat.
   Nissan Motor Co. said its sales appeared weaker because
sales in the previous year were greatly boosted by
incentives. Nissan also blamed the decline on lower
availability of its Sentra subcompact, which will be replaced
with a redesigned version in September.
   Total sales of U.S.-built vehicles plus imported vehicles
sold by the Big Three in early July increased 1.8% from
262,625 vehicles a year earlier.
   ---
                            CARS
                                                                                                       

                                1990      1989      %Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM .....................   676,000    599,684   + 12.7
   Ford ...................   375,000    337,400   + 11.1
   Chrysler ...............   175,000    185,531   -  5.7
   Honda ..................   102,702     81,324   + 26.3
   Mazda ..................    55,788     46,624   + 19.7
   Nissan .................    22,678     27,710   - 18.2
   Toyota .................    53,480     45,142   + 18.5
   Nummi ..................    51,500     47,441   +  8.6
   DiamStar ...............    39,030     27,793   + 40.4
   Suba-Isu ...............     9,526          0      ...
   Total .................. 1,560,704  1,398,649   + 11.6
                                                                                                       

                           TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

   GM .....................   415,000    396,914   +  4.6
   Ford ...................   355,000    283,400   + 25.3
   Chrysler ...............    98,000    131,827   - 25.7
   Nissan .................    27,052     25,965   +  4.2
   Suba-Isu ...............    12,282          0      ...
   Total ..................   907,334    838,106   +  8.3
   ---
           RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a

                               1990         1989      x-%
                            Jul 01-10    Jul 01-10    Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM total vehicles ........ 124,089    116,267   +  6.7
     Domestic car ...........  75,003     74,304   +  0.9
     Imported car ...........   4,645      4,182   + 11.1
       Total car ............  79,648     78,486   +  1.5
     Domestic truck .........  44,434     37,605   + 18.2
     Imported truck .........       7        176   - 96.0
       Total truck ..........  44,441     37,781   + 17.6
                                                                                                       

   FORD total vehicles ......  83,181     82,055   +  1.4
     Domestic car ...........  48,266     48,458   -  0.4
     Imported car ...........     998      1,628   - 38.7
       Total car ............  49,264     50,086   -  1.6
     Domestic truck .........  33,917     31,969   +  6.1
                                                                                                       

   CHRYSLER total veh .......  36,809     44,779   - 17.8
     Domestic car ...........  16,608     20,449   - 18.8
     Imported car ...........   1,284      1,807   - 28.9
       Total car ............  17,892     22,256   - 19.6
     Domestic truck .........  18,719     21,744   - 13.9
     Imported truck .........     198        779   - 74.6
       Total truck ..........  18,917     22,523   - 16.0
                                                                                                       

   HONDA domestic car .......   7,517      6,623   + 13.5
                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA domestic car ......   4,930      1,694   +191.0
                                                                                                       

   NISSAN total vehicles ....   3,787      5,322   - 28.8
     Domestic car ...........   1,663      2,639   - 37.0
     Domestic truck .........   2,124      2,683   - 20.8
                                                                                                       

   MAZDA domestic car .......   1,154        414   +178.7
                                                                                                       

   MITSUBISHI-c .............     775        716   +  8.2
                                                                                                       

   SUBARU domestic car ......     304          0   +100.0
                                                                                                       

   ISUZU domestic truck .....      79          0   +100.0
                                                                                                       

   Total cars ............... 163,147    162,914   +  0.1
     Domestic ............... 156,220    155,297   +  0.6
     Imported ...............   6,927      7,617   -  9.1
                                                                                                       

   Total trucks .............  99,478     94,956   +  4.8
     Domestic ...............  99,273     94,001   +  5.6
     Imported ...............     205        955   - 78.5
                                                                                                       

   Total domestic veh ....... 255,493    249,298   +  2.5
                                                                                                       

   Total vehicles ........... 262,625    257,870   +  1.8
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 7 selling days in the most recent period and
7 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Clears Bill to Ensure
   Access by Disabled People
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted 916 for a bill designed to
ensure disabled people access to a broad range of work,
commercial and social activities. President Bush is expected
to sign the bill.
   The legislation, considered by some to be the most
significant civil-rights measure in more than 25 years, would
ban discrimination in public accommodations, employment,
ground transportation and telecommunications. The measure
would cover all but the smallest establishments and
employers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For generations, society has viewed people with
disabilities as citizens in need of charity. . . . Today, we
are shedding these condescending and suffocating attitudes,
and widening the door of opportunity," said Sen. Edward
Kennedy (D., Mass.), chairman of the Senate Labor Committee.
   The Senate vote backed a compromise wrapped up by
House-Senate conferees and approved Thursday by the House,
377-28. The final agreement included protection for workers
afflicted with acquired immune deficiency syndrome; an
earlier version would have permitted employers to transfer
them.
   The bill also deleted an amendment that would have let
disabled job seekers or employees sue members of the Senate
for alleged job discrimination. While such suits would be
possible against private employers, disabled people alleging
discrimination by members of Congress would have to take
their complaints to special House and Senate boards.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Poland Privatization Bills
   Advance in Parliament
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- Poland's Solidarity-led government took its
radical economic overhaul plan a step further, as the Sejm,
or lower house of parliament, passed two separate bills to
privatize the more than 80% of industry owned by the state
and to create an agency to oversee the changes.
   The legislation requires Senate approval, but the measure
isn't expected to face opposition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bills allow for the sale of shares of state
enterprises under an Agency for Ownership Transformations,
which will evaluate companies and put those in the best shape
on the auction block first.
   Reacting to public concerns that foreign investors or the
former Communist elite "nomenklatura" would be the only ones
with the needed capital to buy state property, the government
promised that "privatization coupons" would be issued to all
citizens for buying part of the state-owned property.
   Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz also promised that
citizens will be allowed to buy shares on an installment
basis and, in some cases, on favorable credit terms.
   Employees will be allowed to purchase as much as 20% of
their companies' shares on preferential terms. Foreign
investment will be at the discretion of the ownership
agency's head.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Analysts Say Soviet Democratic Shift
   Is Genuine but See Problems for Moscow
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. intelligence analysts say the Soviet
Union's move toward democracy is probably irreversible, and
they believe the nation will become a multiparty democracy in
the 1990s.
   This assessment, according to senior administration
officials familiar with the intelligence analyses, is
tempered with warnings that the road to Soviet democracy will
be rocky. The analysts say that the Soviet economy is headed
for more chaos and fragmentation, that several of the 15
Soviet republics will be leaving the union and that the
Kremlin will face a new wave of ethnic violence and strikes
as national groups and independent trade unions gain power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, says a senior administration official, explaining
the intelligence community's view: "There's a real decent
chance that democratic trends will continue and be
consolidated. It's better than 50-50." The official says the
Soviet Union's current experiment with democracy at every
level of government "goes much deeper" than the attempts at a
liberal system during the feeble pre-Bolshevik Kerensky
government in 1917. And, the official adds, "It will be
harder to resist."
   This generally positive assessment reinforces President
Bush's and Secretary of State James Baker's personal
admiration for Mikhail Gorbachev, who unleashed the
democratization process and hopes to be its beneficiary, and
it may be one reason Mr. Bush is standing so firmly by Mr.
Gorbachev.
   Even if a hard-line dictator were to oust the current
regime, the intelligence community doesn't believe he could
block the march of democracy for more than a few years. "At
this point, they can't totally arrest it," the senior
official says.
   But in this analysis, the good news about democracy is
balanced by bad news for Soviet leaders on just about every
other front. U.S. analysts say that as power flows from the
Kremlin to Soviet republics and local governments, violence
will grow. "Newly enfranchised ethnic majorities will be
settling scores with local minorities," the official says.
   On top of these troubles, U.S. analysts take a dim view of
Soviet economic prospects. Exports of oil and weapons are
expected to keep falling, further squeezing the supply of
hard currency needed to finance imports of food and consumer
goods. The country's external debt and trade deficit are
expected to mount ominously.
   The intelligence agencies don't offer any precise
predictions on the political outcome of all this. Mr.
Gorbachev is expected to hang on to political control for the
foreseeable future, but the central government and party he
heads are expected to lose power. In any case, the analysts
say, he's unlikely to be in power for the decade or more that
will be required to carry out even those reforms that have
already been started.
   The intelligence agencies now take a generally more
positive view of maverick Russian Republic chief Boris
Yeltsin, who caused a stir Thursday by publicly resigning
from the Soviet Communist Party. Mr. Yeltsin used to be
written off as a lightweight demagogue. But, said the
official who discussed the agencies' analysis: "We overuse
the word `demagogue.' Yeltsin is a complex figure. He's the
most obvious national figure" among the reformers.
   The intelligence community concedes that some of Mr.
Yeltsin's behavior has been bizarre and self-destructive,
probably indicating a mild emotional or psychological
problem. But he is viewed as a first-rate political
strategist, someone who is more intelligent than he seems and
is worthy of U.S. respect.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Greenspan Statement Intended to Damp
   Expectations of New Moves to Cut Rates
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Tom Herman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   By describing Friday's credit-easing move as a technical
matter, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan has
signaled that further moves to cut interest rates shouldn't
be expected soon.
   The Fed took action that resulted in a modest cut in the
so-called federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge
on loans to each other. That move, which caused the rate to
drop to just over 8% from its previous level of 8 1/4%, could
cause other short-term interest rates to fall as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fed's rate-cutting move came after a week of seemingly
contradictory pronouncements by the Fed chairman.
   In a private meeting with senators last week, Mr.
Greenspan argued that because the civilian jobless rate had
fallen to 5.2%, the Fed had little room to stimulate the
economy without sparking inflation.
   Then, in congressional testimony on Thursday, Mr.
Greenspan made the unusual announcement that the Fed might
ease modestly, not to help a sluggish economy but rather to
"offset" any effect of the credit crunch on bank-loan rates.
   The message behind those confusing statements: The Fed's
easing move should be viewed as a one-time correction and not
as the first of a series of easing moves.
   The Fed's action comes after weeks of intensifying
pressure from the Bush administration to cut rates. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady had even taken the unusual step of
complaining publicly about interest rates in a series of
recent interviews.
   Administration officials were pleased with the Fed's
action Friday. But they also understood that the Fed chairman
was doing so grudgingly. "There is a consistent pattern of
lagging" at the Fed, one official said. "This is better than
nothing, but it's late and insufficient."
   In any event, the Fed's move should ease the pressure Mr.
Greenspan will feel Wednesday, when he is scheduled to give
Congress his mid-year review of monetary policy.
   On Wall Street, the Fed's action was seen partly in a
political context. The move "certainly doesn't hurt
politically," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at
Chase Manhattan Bank. "It takes some of the pressure off the
Fed and alleviates some of the criticism . . . regarding Fed
restrictiveness."
   Despite Mr. Greenspan's elaborate qualifications, Mr. Fine
believes the Fed will have to take more rate-cutting action
this year. "I think further ease will come, but not for a
while, not until they see definitive evidence of a
sustainable moderation in inflation," he said.
   The credit-easing move had a calming effect on long-term
interest rates, which fell slightly after the Fed's action.
Nevertheless, some investment managers fear the Fed may be
easing too soon. "I think the Fed is a little premature" in
easing credit now, said Wayne F. Wong, managing director at
Marinvest Inc., a money-management firm based in New York.
"The faster you ease, the sooner inflation will come back."
   In explaining his plans to ease credit, Mr. Greenspan
cited bank data showing that rates banks charge on loans have
risen slightly relative to the federal funds rate. He also
noted that growth in the nation's money supply has been
sluggish recently. According to Fed sources, Mr. Greenspan's
conclusions were drawn partly from banking data that weren't
readily available to the public.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Freightways Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CNF
</CO>
<LP>
   CONSOLIDATED FREIGHTWAYS INC. (Menlo Park, Calif.) --
Donald E. Moffitt, 58 years old, was named to the new post of
executive vice president, finance, of this transportation
concern. Mr. Moffitt, who retired as vice chairman of
Consolidated in 1988, has been managing financial
restructurings of several transportation companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bird Corp. Says Profit
   From Ongoing Lines
   Gained in 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIRD
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bird Inc., meeting with financial analysts
here, said it expects earnings from continuing operations to
be 45 cents to 50 cents a share for the second quarter,
compared with one cent a share in the corresponding quarter
last year.
   Despite depressed conditions in the housing market, the
building materials distributor said its performance improved
with the help of concentration in its repair and remodeling
sector, and with its plant modernization programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-ago second quarter, ended June 30, 1989, a
$5.3-million gain on the sale of one of Bird's units, plus a
tax-loss carryforward of $3.3 million, brought final net
income to about $9 million, or $2 a share. Sales were $32.7
million.
   Final results for the 1990 second quarter are to be
released later this month.
   Earnings from continued operations for the first six
months of 1990 are expected to be approximately 60 cents a
share, compared with 11 cents in the year-ago period.
   The Westwood, Mass., concern said that it plans to sell a
40% interest in its Housing Group in a private placement of
securities. The offering is managed by C.J. Lawrence, Morgan
Grenfell Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Balancing Amendments
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tomorrow the House will vote for only the second time in
history on a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.
The last time, in 1982, the vote in favor was 236 to 187, but
it didn't win the necessary two-thirds. The vote this time
will be close. But even if it passes, the danger is the
winning amendment will treat the symptoms of deficit spending
without applying the needed cure: effective restraints on
spending.
   Democratic House leaders bottled up the balanced-budget
amendment in committee for years, even though this year a
solid majority of 249 Members sponsored it. The only chance
of getting a vote in the full House was to persuade 218
Members to sign a discharge petition bringing it to the
floor. Enough Members were leery of offending House leaders
that the petition languished.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The amendment finally broke free last month when GOP Rep.
Chuck Douglas threatened to reveal the names of those
co-sponsors who were hypocritically refusing to sign the
discharge petition. There was a sudden rush of Members to
sign it.
   However, all balanced-budget amendments are not made
equal, and there are sharp differences between the two
versions to be voted on tomorrow. Members will first vote on
a proposal by Texas GOP Rep. Joe Barton, which requires a
balanced budget unless three-fifths of Congress agrees to a
deficit. Increases in government revenues would be limited to
the growth of national income, similar to the Gann limit that
curbs spending in California. A three-fifths vote of Congress
would be needed to raise the limit.
   After the Barton amendment, Members will vote on one by
GOP Rep. Larry Craig and Democratic Rep. Charles Stenholm. It
would not explicitly restrain government spending, and
requires only a majority of both Houses to balance the budget
through higher taxes. Only the one with the most votes goes
on for a final up-or-down floor vote.
   We have always been skeptical of how much a
balanced-budget amendment could restrain the spending habits
of a wily Congress. Members are expert at creating off-budget
spending, and the 1974 Budget Act, which was supposed to curb
spending, has been waived by Congress 398 times in the past
decade. We've felt there was as much chance that an amendment
would lead to higher taxes as it would curb spending.
   Even so, we recognize that tomorrow's vote is an important
one. Here is a short guide to determine the extent to which
your representative is serious about controlling the size of
government:
   If a Member votes for both the Barton and Craig-Stenholm
amendments, he or she clearly wants to impose restraints on
how much of the taxpayer's money Congress can take. A vote
against both amendments is a clear endorsement of the
tax-tax-spend-spend mentality. But if a Member votes against
the Barton amendment and for the Craig-Stenholm amendment,
they are trying to snow the voters. In effect, they are
telling them they want to limit government borrowing, while
they oppose the amendment that restrains the spending machine
that creates the need for borrowing.
   The Barton amendment is too cumbersome for our tastes,
although we doubt that will be the basis of many votes cast
for or against it. But at least it recognizes that the
fundamental problem facing the country is not primarily the
size of the deficit, but the total resources the government
extracts from the private sector as spending. The
Craig-Stenholm approach makes attempts to raise taxes more
visible, but doesn't do enough to make it more difficult to
pass them into law. Members who support it, but not the
Barton amendment, should be in for some tough questions from
voters this fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Thornburgh
   Has Ruled Out
   Bush Inquiry
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said he
wouldn't appoint an independent counsel to investigate Neil
Bush, the son of the president, in the $1 billion failure of
a Denver thrift, unless Mr. Bush is accused of a crime.
   Led by Rep. Patricia Schroeder (D. Colo.), 12 Democrats on
the House Judiciary Committee requested Friday that Mr.
Thornburgh appoint an impartial investigator to look into
Silverado Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association. Rep. Edward
Feighan of Ohio later withdrew his support, calling it an
"error," leaving the Democrats short of the support needed to
request an independent prosecutor. Such a request requires a
majority of the Democrats on the committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neil Bush is already facing an administrative hearing in
September for his role as a director of Silverado. While a
director, he failed to disclose his business associations
with two major Silverado borrowers who later defaulted on
loans. One of those men, Denver developer Kenneth Good, also
loaned Neil Bush $100,000, which he never was asked to repay.
   Mr. Thornburgh said that even if Democrats secure the
necessary support, it's unlikely he would name an independent
counsel because the Justice Department doesn't investigate
civil matters. "I am not aware of any evidence or any
allegation from a credible source that Neil Bush has
participated in any criminal activity," he said on ABC News's
"This Week" yesterday.
   But Democrats on the Judiciary Committee have alleged the
potential for criminal conduct at Silverado. Moreover, they
said at least the appearance of a political conflict of
interest exists. One Silverado borrower and bondholder, Larry
Mizel, raised $1 million for Republican candidates in 1984.
   "The case has criminal implications that should be
aggressively investigated, but the potential for political,
financial, and personal conflicts of interest . . . raise
serious questions about the Department's ability to conduct a
fair and vigorous investigation," said a letter to Mr.
Thornburgh from the committee Democrats.
   S&amp;L losses have been piling up for a decade, but heading
into this fall's congressional elections, both parties are
trying to capitalize on the scandal. Democrats have zeroed in
on Neil Bush's woes with federal regulators, while
Republicans have pointed to large campaign contributions to
Democrats from Charles Keating, who sought to have senators
intervene on behalf of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan Association.
The president is feeling the heat, particularly from his own
party, resulting from his backtracking on his no-new-taxes
pledge, a reversal necessitated partly by the S&amp;L losses.
   Edward Rollins, co-chairman of the National Republican
Congressional Committee, said that Neil Bush earlier should
have agreed to sign a consent order with federal regulators,
ending the matter. "I think obviously he should have done it,
but Neil Bush think's he's innocent," he said on NBC News's
"Meet the Press" yesterday.
   Under the administrative hearing proceedings for Neil
Bush, he faces punishment no worse than an admonishment not
to engage in similar actions again. Earlier this year, five
other Silverado directors signed consent agreements under
which they agreed not to work in the banking or S&amp;L
industries again. Federal regulators also are considering a
$200 million civil suit against Silverado directors,
including Mr. Bush.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philippine Economy Is at a Crisis Stage
   ---
   Aquino's Rule Faces
   Ambitious Recovery Agenda
   ----
   By Steven Jones
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA -- The ailing Philippine economy is at a critical
juncture, with further deterioration possible. The government
has begun to address the problem with an ambitious package of
economic and fiscal reforms, but few analysts are betting on
a rapid recovery.
   Growth is slowing as once-robust consumer spending tapers
off. Budget and trade deficits are widening. Inflation and
interest rates remain stubbornly high. Power outages continue
to bedevil manufacturers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign investors and tourists, scared away by the bloody
December 1989 coup attempt, have yet to return in large
numbers. The shellshocked stock market dives with every rumor
of a new coup.
   There appears to be no end to the rumors. Worries persist
that dissident soldiers are regrouping for another armed
effort to topple the government of President Corazon Aquino.
The December insurrection was the sixth and bloodiest attempt
to overthrow Mrs. Aquino, who came to power in 1986 after
President Ferdinand Marcos was ousted by a military
rebellion.
   Communist guerrillas, meanwhile, who oppose the renewal of
leases on U.S. military bases, continue to threaten violence
against U.S. military personnel and others alleged to be
involved in counterinsurgency activities. Negotiations with
Washington on a new bases agreement are scheduled to resume
in August.
   At the same time, Mrs. Aquino's administration
increasingly is viewed as being at odds with itself as well
as with Congress. Early posturing for the 1992 presidential
election threatens to slow the already snail-paced
legislative process and derail administration programs aimed
at raising the living standards of the nation's 62 million
people, most of whom are poor.
   Whether the teetering economy steadies or starts sliding
depends foremost on the avoidance of another coup attempt or
other serious political dislocations. Whether the economy
rebounds depends largely on the Aquino administration's
ability to deliver recently promised reforms aimed at cutting
the yawning budget deficit, streamlining trade and industry
policies, and bringing back foreign investors.
   Economists and businessmen say Mrs. Aquino's time frame
for action is tightening. Election spending starting in 1991
could give the economy an illusory fillip and provide
politicians with an excuse to further postpone needed fiscal
reforms.
   "The big question is whether the economy will be
outward-looking or inward-looking. The momentum is with the
outward-looking guys," says a foreign economist. "But things
have to get done before the actual start of campaigning in
late 1991," the economist warns.
   Indeed, if Mrs. Aquino fails to act decisively and soon,
businessmen and economists say she will endanger not only her
reform package, but also her residual good will among the
business community that backed her against Mr. Marcos. "She
has maybe six months, or she will lose her remaining support
among businessmen," says a prominent manufacturer.
   Late last month, Finance Secretary Jesus Estanislao
announced -- and the cabinet approved -- broad reforms that
he said address "all the major problems of the economy." The
package aims to lower interest rates, curtail protectionism,
increase exports and raise government revenue through tax and
tariff reform.
   Despite the cabinet's endorsement of the package, major
turf battles are expected to be fought between technocrats in
the Finance Department and protectionists in the Department
of Trade and Industry. Influential industrialists already are
beginning to lobby against certain reforms. The industrial
sector is based on import-substitution manufacturing that,
despite some previous liberalization moves, remains largely
protected from overseas competition.
   Indeed, the Harvard-trained Mr. Estanislao predicted tough
times ahead for many protected industries as tariff rates
drop. He also said that the package likely would lead to
higher inflation in the short term-averaging 13.5% on an
annualized basis for the next six months, compared with the
government target of 12%.
   "When you go through a period of reform, there will be
some bitter pills to swallow," Mr. Estanislao said. "But we
are doing our best to put in some sweetness." The long-term
effect, he said, will be a trade and investment regime that
favors the consumer.
   Mr. Estanislao, who was named finance secretary in a
cabinet shuffle after December's coup attempt, is winning
high marks from many businessmen and economists for his tough
stand on deregulation and reform. His intentions also are
welcome news to the International Monetary Fund, foreign
banks and other lending institutions that are members of the
Philippine debt-rescheduling agreement reached last year. The
country's total foreign debt is currently about $28 billion.
   A review team from the IMF has been in Manila for the past
week, measuring the country's economic performance and
policies against goals set in the 1989 debt-rescheduling
agreement. The issuance of IMF credits to the Philippines
depends on the country meeting the performance goals at
regular intervals.
   Although the December coup attempt has played havoc with
certain of the country's indicators, especially the money
supply, private economists and diplomats say the IMF's main
concern is the widening budget deficit, which is blamed for
fueling high interest rates and inflation.
   At the current rate of spending, and without additional
revenue, the budget deficit for 1990 could hit 65 billion
pesos ($2.86 billion), more than double the 33 billion-peso
target in the agreement with the IMF. Most of the funds
needed to cover the budget gap to date are being raised
locally through Treasury bills, which are currently carrying
interest rates of about 24%.
   "The underlying problem is the size of the fiscal deficit
they are trying to fund," says a Philippine economist.
Political risk, of course, compounds the interest-rate
equation.
   Bank-lending rates are now ranging from 25% to 27%,
presenting a major impediment to business expansion and new
investment. "With 25% rates, who can afford to borrow and
buy, and who can afford to build?" asks Rafael Buenaventura,
president and chief executive officer of Philippine
Commercial International Bank.
   Because almost 40% of the budget goes to foreign-debt
payments, there is little room for budget cutting. But
economists and businessmen say the government could make more
efficient use of the money it spends.
   It is revenue-raising measures that Mr. Estanislao is
targeting, though it will be difficult for him to find enough
new money to sharply narrow the budget gap this year.
Congress has already approved an increase in the so-called
sin taxes on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes that is
expected to bring in an additional 4.8 billion pesos a year.
   A streamlining of the tariff system and a general lowering
of rates is expected to raise revenue collected on imports,
half of which are now estimated to slip through without
payment of tariffs or other charges. The government also is
expected to announce soon an expansion of its program for
pre-shipment inspection of imports that is now conducted by
the Swiss firm Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A., known
as SGS.
   The Finance Department and the Central Bank of the
Philippines also plan to reduce bank costs as a way of
lowering interest rates. Bankers expect that a tax on a
bank's gross receipts and a withholding tax on interest
income will be abolished or reduced. They also expect reserve
requirements to be lowered.
   Mr. Estanislao would like to abolish a costly
gasoline-price subsidy, but this is a politically sensitive
issue and appears unlikely this year. The December coup
attempt followed a round of fuel-price increases.
   Whatever the final makeup of Mr. Estanislao's reform
package, economists and businessmen expect that this year and
next will be difficult ones for the economy. The outlook
beyond 1992 may well depend on who follows Mrs. Aquino as
president -- and the chances of Mrs. Aquino running again
can't entirely be discounted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Suspenseful Reading
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some people got rich quickly
   And they were in seventh heaven --
   A storybook tale of success
   That's now up to Chapter Eleven.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Generation Rap
                                                                                                       

   I can't stand youths, no, not at all,
   Whose skin is taut and peachy,
   And who look blank when I recall
   Mae West or Don Ameche.
   -- Dick Emmons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `People Mover' to Be Built
   At Newark Airport by '94
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.ROL CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
authorized a $378 million people mover system at Newark
International Airport.
   The system, scheduled for completion by 1994, will
transport passengers between the airport's terminals and
parking lots and replace most of the current on-airport bus
routes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Von Roll Transport Systems Inc., Thun, Switzerland, will
design, construct, operate and maintain the system, which
will consist of automated vehicles on fixed, elevated
guideways. The company has built similar systems in Australia
and England.
   The system is part of a major Port Authority redevelopment
program; officials project that Newark will be handling 40
million travelers a year by the late 1990s, double last
year's volume.
   The Port Authority also approved a $40 million project to
convert Newark's North Terminal to a Continental Airlines air
cargo facility and build a 160,000-square-foot hangar
adjacent to it.
   Continental, the principal unit of Continental Airlines
Holdings Inc., received a commitment from the New Jersey
Economic Development Authority to finance the project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Robert Levine Joins Nomura's U.S. Unit
   To Head New Credit Research Group
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NOM WNEWS GE
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The U.S. subsidiary of Japan's Nomura
Securities Co. named Robert Levine, a top Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co. official, to head a new department to conduct credit
research and design new fixed-income products for
corporations.
   Mr. Levine's hiring is a key step in Max C. Chapman Jr.'s
effort to convert Nomura's American operations from a
mediocre broker-dealer to a competitive U.S.-style investment
bank. Since he became co-chairman of Nomura's U.S. unit in
October 1989, Mr. Chapman has been pulling Nomura away from
being a firm that mainly acted as a middle-man buying and
selling stocks and bonds for customers to one emphasizing
aggressive asset and liability management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At its core, credit research involves determining how much
debt a company can carry and still operate successfully. But
Mr. Levine said that he and the team he will build would go
beyond that, "assessing corporate strategies with an eye to
evaluating different options that a corporation has." Credit
research, he added, "is really the engine that drives the
assessment of corporate securities."
   At Kidder, which he joined in 1977, Mr. Levine was a
managing director and president of Kidder, Peabody High Yield
Asset Management Inc., which Wall Street sources said managed
about $750 million. In 1989, he created the first publicly
underwritten asset-backed bond involving high-yield debt.
   Mr. Levine, 45, will be a senior vice president at Nomura
Securities International Inc., the U.S. subsidiary, beginning
today. He is the third senior Kidder executive to be lured
away by Mr. Chapman since he came to Nomura. Mr. Chapman is a
former president of Kidder.
   Two of Mr. Chapman's goals have been to develop Nomura's
capability to apply sophisticated, quantitative methods that
use computers to do securities trading and to assist U.S.
companies in converting their heavy debt loads to stock. He
also intends to aggressively manage and commit Nomura's own
capital, something that traditionally risk-averse Japanese
firms aren't known for.
   Mr. Chapman's efforts are especially important to Nomura's
parent company in Tokyo as well as its U.S. operations.
American securities firms such as Salomon Brothers Inc.,
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., and Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. -- all more
technologically advanced -- have invaded Nomura's own
domestic market using mathematically oriented techniques and
derivative instruments, such as futures and options, to trade
Japanese stocks in Tokyo.
   To address these issues, Mr. Chapman has already hired an
expert in derivative products, two of Wall Street's
best-known program traders and a leading trader of takeover
stocks, or risk-arbitrager.
   Mr. Levine, with a background in designing new bond
products for corporations, will fit into this group, said Mr.
Chapman. "High quality credit research is essential to our
efforts in committing capital and merchant banking," said Mr.
Chapman.
   Apart from some previous investments in U.S. leasing, real
estate and merger companies -- all of which are related to
its investment banking business -- Nomura hasn't actively
engaged in merchant banking, which involves taking a stake in
a company for investment reasons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gallimard Family Members
   To Give Up Control of Firm
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.BNP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Two of the siblings who had fought for control of
the famed Gallimard publishing house have agreed to sell
their shares to a bank, setting the stage for the family to
lose majority control, an investment firm said Friday.
   Terms weren't disclosed. If the sale is completed, it
would place 54.3% of the shares in France's largest
independent publishing house in outside hands, marking the
end of 79 years of family control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Francoise Gallimard and her brother, Christian, have
agreed to join their younger sister, Isabelle, in selling
their shares to the state-owned Banque Nationale de Paris,
according the international investment bank Henry Ansbacher.
   Ansbacher was retained by Francoise in January to
determine the value of the publishing house.
   Francoise, 49, and Christian, 46, had been trying to wrest
control of the company away from another brother, Antoine,
42, the firm's president and its largest single shareholder.
   According to Ansbacher, Francoise and Christian decided to
follow their younger sister's example by selling their
shares, giving Banque Nationale de Paris a total of 36.8% of
the Gallimard shares. Other outside shareholders control
17.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Delays
   Plans to Market
   Hyundai's Sonatas
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C C.HYU FIA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chrysler Corp. is delaying plans to market by next year a
midsized car built by South Korean auto maker Hyundai Motor
Co.
   Last year, Hyundai agreed to provide Chrysler with a
version of its Sonata sedan to sell as 1992 models through
Chrysler's Jeep-Eagle dealerships. But the No. 3 U.S. auto
maker said Friday that the two companies "have now agreed to
focus on a more highly differentiated version of the
successor to the Hyundai Sonata," which analysts don't expect
to arrive until 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler, of Highland Park, Mich., and Hyundai had already
planned to make their two versions of the car look different.
But they apparently decided further changes were needed that
couldn't be completed by the fall 1991 launch of the 1992
models.
   "The only way to be successful selling those cars through
Chrysler will be if Chrysler gives them their own distinctive
styling cues," said Christopher Cedergran, an analyst with
J.D. Power &amp; Associates, an Agoura Hills, Calif., research
and consulting firm.
   A Hyundai official in Canada, where some Sonatas are
built, said his company expects delays of several months in
the Chrysler agreement, which calls for Chrysler to buy up to
30,000 cars a year.
   Still, Willy Lee, assistant to the president for corporate
planning at Hyundai Auto Canada Inc., said his company will
be able to deliver about 10,000 cars to Chrysler during the
arrangement's first year in 1991.
   Mr. Lee said the pricing of the cars is the primary
sticking point between the companies. He said Chrysler "is
requesting our parent company to share certain portions of
the incentives" that Chrysler thinks will be necessary to
sell the car in the U.S. Chrysler didn't comment on the
pricing issue.
   Hyundai hasn't been very successful selling the Sonata in
the U.S. to date. Last year in the U.S., Hyundai sold just
35,000 of the cars, which compete head-on with the Toyota
Camry and Honda Accord. Sales through June this year in the
U.S. and Canada are running even lower. "That may be an
element of the deal's being held back," Mr. Lee said.
   The slow sales have caused Hyundai's Bromont, Quebec,
plant to run far below its annual capacity of about 100,000
vehicles -- a problem the Chrysler deal was supposed to help
alleviate. Mr. Lee said the plant will assemble only 40,000
units this year. Hyundai is thinking about shifting some
Excel subcompact car production from Korea and possibly
adding a new minivan-type vehicle to make the Bromont
facility more efficient.
   Chrysler's talks on possible product marketing and
development ventures with Italian auto maker Fiat S.p.A are
further complicating the relationship with Hyundai.
   Chrysler officials and analysts said the Fiat talks may
result in Chrysler getting a version of a Fiat car that would
make the low-volume version of the Sonata less important in
Chrysler's line-up.
   The Hyundai venture was deemed important to Chrysler when
it was signed last year because Chrysler was the last U.S.
auto maker without ties to a car maker in South Korea. At the
time, South Korea was an increasingly important source of
low-cost cars. But that adavantage has slipped away from
South Korean companies recently because of rising labor and
other costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stotler, Led by Board of Trade's Chief,
   Appears to Have Financial Difficulties
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Stotler Group Inc., a futures brokerage company
whose chairman, Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann, also is chairman of
the Chicago Board of Trade, apparently is having financial
difficulties.
   The firm hasn't been able to maintain the minimum amount
of capital required by the Board of Trade to support its
current level of customer business, exchange members said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They said rumors about the firm's financial health were
widespread at the exchange, but the exact problem wasn't
known. One futures trader who clears, or processes, his
trades through Stotler said the company was returning an
unknown amount of funds to certain customers Friday in order
to reduce the capital "cushion" Stotler is required to
maintain. Other futures industry officials said they believed
Stotler was seeking a capital infusion late last week.
   Neither Mr. Mahlmann nor Thomas Egan, Stotler's chief
executive officer, returned repeated telephone calls to the
firm Thursday and Friday.
   If a quick fix can't be found to boost Stotler's capital,
the exchange or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has
the power to force a futures brokerage firm to bow out of the
customer business, or accept orders for liquidation of
positions only.
   Stotler, which remained in operation as of late Friday, is
a pillar of the grain-trading establishment at the Board of
Trade, tracing its roots to an Illinois grain firm founded in
1919. The firm has about 300 branches and affiliates lining
Main Streets of small towns throughout the Midwest.
   But like most local futures trading firms, it is minute
compared with the multi-billion dollar behemoths of Wall
Street, which increasingly dominate the fast-growing
financial futures segment of the industry. Stotler had
shareholders' equity of $8.5 million as of March 31,
according to its latest financial statements. During the
1980s several old-line futures firms folded or merged with
other firms in response to competitive pressures.
   The company's capital deficiency appeared to be the result
of Stotler and its subsidiaries not providing adequate
reserves against a rising amount of funds in customer
accounts, according to the head of another Board of Trade
firm, who asked to remain anonymous. He said the firm is
rumored to be in a dispute with regulators, at the Board of
Trade, the CFTC, or both, over the classification of assets
Stotler was using to support its customers business.
   Commodity regulations require that futures brokerage firms
maintain cash or liquid assets, such as government
securities, in a separate account equal to at least 4% of
so-called segregated customer funds. The required set aside
can be higher depending on a firm's configuration.
   Restrictions are put on a firm's activities when its
capital falls below the equivalent of 7% of customer funds.
The dispute may be over the relative liquidity of the assets
Stotler is counting as capital, exchange members said.
   Stotler's capital levels don't appear to have been
suddenly reduced by any significant trading losses in the
futures markets, exchange members said.
   Mr. Mahlmann, while not active in the day to day
management of Stotler, owns about 10% of the company's stock,
according to a prospectus prepared at the time of the
company's initial public stock offering in 1988.
   Despite focusing most of his attention on exchange duties
in recent years, Mr. Mahlmann has been at Stotler "night and
day" for the past few days, a Board of Trade employee said
Friday.
   The Board of Trade doesn't publicly disclose when member
firms, most of which are closely held, fall below net capital
requirements.
   Stotler Group's stock didn't open for trading Thursday on
the American Stock Exchange; on Thursday morning, the Amex
said there was "news pending" about the company. The stock
last traded at $7.875 a share; trading in the stock remained
halted Friday.
   Stotler Group went public in August 1988 at $11 a share in
a stock and debt offering that raised more than $20 million
in capital for the firm, according to the prospectus.
   ---
   Scott Kilman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nicholas-Applegate Sees 1990 as Year
   When Small Issues Regain Some Glamour
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   GEF MCCS COST OS NVLS IMNX INTC HURC INAI NTRS MRIS PRCO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nicholas-Applegate Capital Management Inc., known for
picking winners in the treacherous over-the-counter market,
sees 1990 as the year when small stocks begin to regain some
of their former glamour.
   "It's a double-win situation," says Fred C. Applegate,
president of the six-year-old San Diego company. He expects
1991 earnings of the companies in the firm's two growth
portfolios to surge more than three times as fast as a
projected 5.2% for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500. And he says
there's finally evidence that investors are willing to pay
more for that rapid earnings growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The firm manages $2.3 billion, most of it in two funds
holding small- and medium-sized stocks for more than 70
institutional clients. Its strong record has attracted even
such staid clients as the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Yale
University.
   Though small stocks have lagged the market for years, in
Mr. Applegate's view, "1990 is the year of transition." Over
the past 20 years, he says, investors have paid 50% to 100%
premiums over the market's multiple of earnings to buy
emerging growth stocks, which now sell at little or no such
premium to the market.
   "Small to medium growth (stocks) are starting to perform
better," he says, though he cautions: "Small by itself still
doesn't have the wind at its back."
   Neither Mr. Applegate nor Arthur E. Nicholas, chairman and
chief investment officer, are Johnnies-come-lately to the OTC
market. Since 1977, Mr. Nicholas's emerging growth investment
strategies have produced average compounded annual returns of
24.9%, first at San Diego Trust &amp; Savings Bank, where he was
a portfolio manager, and later at a $2.5 billion investment
subsidiary of Security Pacific Corp., where he was chief
investment officer. That's where he teamed up with Mr.
Applegate.
   The two spun off their own firm in 1984 with three clients
and $40 million to manage. The vastly larger firm now has two
growth-stock portfolios: an "emerging growth" group of
companies with market value below $500 million (the median is
$193 million); and a larger, "growth equity" group with a
median capitalization of $1.6 billion. More than half the
stocks traded over-the-counter. Through the end of May, the
portfolio of the smaller stocks rose 7.9% and the other one
jumped 13.9%, compared with a 0.9% climb in the Nasdaq
Composite Index and a 3.7% rise in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500.
   A 100% annual turnover rate isn't unusual for the 30 to 50
stocks in the two portfolios. With both portfolios usually
fully invested in stocks, their managers seek companies
growing 20% to 30% a year. The firm also does in-house
analysis of improvement in earnings or narrowing of losses.
Here's a sampling of the firm's holdings:
                                                                                                       

   Intel is an example where earnings momentum is crucial,
according to Jack C. Marshall, portfolio manager of the
larger, growth equity group. He bought some shares last year,
before the semiconductor maker reversed a string of quarterly
earnings declines. Despite some disappointments, Mr. Marshall
says he became convinced Intel's business was improving as it
became a dominant supplier for desktop computers. Longer
term, he expects the company to grow at an annual clip of 20%
or more.
                                                                                                       

   Medco Containment Services, a Fair Lawn, N.J., provider of
low-cost prescription drug programs to employer health plans,
attracted Mr. Marshall earlier this year with revenue growing
at about 40% annually.
                                                                                                       

   Costco Wholesale, a membership warehouse merchandiser, is
praised for being quick to close weak outlets in one market
even while it expands in another. "They don't ride a lot of
their poor stores very long," Mr. Marshall says.
   Nicholas-Applegate generally avoids owning more than four
days' average trading volume of a stock, to ensure that it
won't be stuck with too large a position. "But if we really
like a story and everything is coming through as we expected"
there may be some exceptions, says Catherine Avery, manager
of the emerging growth portfolio.
   Ms. Avery's picks span a number of sectors, in keeping
with the firm's "bottom-up" approach to picking stocks of
companies with strong individual merits. She partook of the
recent offering of K Swiss, a maker of casual footwear that
she expects to grow more than 20% a year.
                                                                                                       

   Oregon Steel was chosen before reporting improved earnings
but after it became clear that the company would be a
supplier of materials for two large natural gas pipelines
approved by federal regulators, says Ms. Avery. As the only
West Coast supplier for the pipelines, which will terminate
in California, Oregon Steel is in a good position, she notes.
The balance sheet is in "good shape."
                                                                                                       

   Novellus Systems of San Jose, Calif., with 55% gross
profit margins, easily fits the Nicholas-Applegate profile. A
designer and maker of equipment used in producing
semiconductors, Novellus is expected to announce two new
products later this year and plans to expand into Japan, Ms.
Avery says. She calls the balance sheet "clean," projecting
per-share earnings of about $2 in 1990 and $2.50 to $2.75 in
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Immunex is one of her favored biotechnology stocks. The
company is due to appear this month before a Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel for review of its GM-CSF, a
product that stimulates output of white blood cells. While
the panel will review the use of the product in treating
recipients of bone marrow transplants, she says there is
widespread anticipation that it might eventually be used for
other treatments.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Nasdaq Composite Index ended off its highs, up 1.27
points, or about 0.27%, to 468.44. OTC advancers led
decliners, 1,083 to 869. National Market System volume
totaled 123,750,000 shares, up from 119,081,400 Thursday.
   Intel led the most active list with a 1 1/4 point gain to
50 on volume of more than 2.9 million shares.
   A new issue, Environmental Elements, was also high on the
list with volume of more than 1.9 million shares. The
company, which provides large-scale, customer-engineered air
pollution control systems, went public in a 2.3 million-share
offering priced at $16.50. The stock began trading Friday at
19 5/8, and closed at 20 1/2.
   Hurco plunged 6 1/4 to 12 1/4 in heavy trading after
several analysts cut their earnings estimates for the
company. Hurco disclosed late Thursday that its machine tool
business was slow in both the U.S. and the U.K.
   IntelliCorp fell 2 1/8 to 4 3/4 after announcing that it
expects to report a loss for the fourth quarter ended June
30. The company had operating profit of three cents a share
in the year-earlier fourth quarter.
   Northern Trust rallied 2 1/8 to 29 1/2 after reporting
second-quarter profit of 77 cents a share, up from the 76
cents it earned a year earlier.
   Marshall &amp; Ilsley tumbled 1 1/4 to 30 1/2 after reporting
second-quarter profit of 81 cents a share, off from last
year's 93 cents a share.
   Pricor fell 1 to 5 5/8 after J.C. Bradford cut its
earnings estimate for the company and lowered its rating on
the stock, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First RepublicBank Says
   Holders Clear Realignment
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- First RepublicBank Corp. said it appears to have
won sufficient votes from bondholders and shareholders to
confirm its plan to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code.
   If the company's preliminary tabulation is upheld by the
federal bankruptcy judge overseeing the case, the vote would
represent a setback for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which in 1988 seized the First RepublicBank banking network
and sold it to NCNB Corp. of Charlotte, N.C.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDIC, which claims First RepublicBank owes the agency
over $1 billion, has requested that the judge appoint a
trustee to liquidate the company's remaining assets.
   First RepublicBank's plan, on the other hand, calls for
the company's assets to be managed and sold by a board of
directors controlled by creditors. Under the plan, the
company would establish a fund to pay the FDIC pending the
outcome of several lawsuits filed in federal district court
here challenging the propriety of the agency's 1988 bank
seizures.
   Richard Carrington, the company's chairman and chief
executive, called the vote "gratifying" and added: "It will
be interesting to see whether this particular event serves as
a catalyst in setting settlement talks" in the district court
cases.
   Meanwhile, a trial is set to begin today in bankruptcy
court to decide whether First RepublicBank's reorganization
plan or the FDIC's liquidation plan is in the best interest
of creditors. First RepublicBank isn't related to First
Republic Bancorp of San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Consumer Prices Probably Weren't Held
   Down Much by June's Lower Fuel Costs
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lower energy costs probably won't work quite
as much magic on the service-heavy consumer price index as
they did on June producer prices.
   The June CPI, due out Wednesday, is expected to maintain
its recent habit of outpacing the more heavily
energy-dependent producer price index, which rose only
slightly in Friday's report. This week's other major
indicators include: the May trade deficit, which is expected
to widen after April's sharp shrinkage; June industrial
production and capacity utilization, which are likely to
slow, and June housing starts, which are expected to remain
soft.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The CPI has shown a much more stubborn pattern through
the first half," said Michael R. Englund, economist for MMS
International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., New York. For one
thing, there's been no abatement in the fastest-rising
component: health care services. For another, the PPI
benefits much more directly from a drop in oil prices.
   Mr. Englund said he expects June's sharply lower energy
costs to continue holding down the PPI during July. But he
added that tamer energy costs are "unlikely to have the same
effect in the CPI," noting that energy makes up about 8.8% of
the PPI and 7.6% of the CPI. MMS expects the disparity
between the indexes to hold for all of 1990; its forecast
calls for a 4.8% year-over-year jump in the CPI and a 4.2%
increase in the PPI.
   Roger Brinner, chief economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, Boston,
noted another reason that the PPI can be expected to lag
behind CPI rises: the aging expansion. "Producer prices are
much more sensitive to the business cycle than services," he
said. As the industrial sector slows, "you'll see much more
softness in the PPI than the CPI," he said. Only recently has
the service sector begun to show signs of softness.
   The consensus view expects a 0.3% increase in the June
CPI, up slightly from May's rise of 0.2%. Economists said
that food prices continued to moderate in June but that lower
crude-oil prices hadn't yet worked their way down to retail
gasoline prices. Service costs in general, and medical care
in particular, are thought to have continued a steady march
upward. Apparel prices were expected to slide again in June
after May's giveback to earlier sharp gains.
   Tomorrow's report on the May trade deficit is expected to
disclose backsliding after April's contraction. The consensus
view calls for a widening to $7.7 billion from April's $6.9
billion. "We haven't lost our appetite for foreign goods,"
said DRI/McGraw-Hill's Mr. Brinner. He expects the trade gap
expanded to "at least $8 billion," noting the likely jump in
imports presaged by already reported April customs-duty
receipts. Exports are also thought to have increased,
although not as much.
   Some economists said oil imports jumped in May as prices
slipped, suggesting some summer stockpiling against
cold-weather needs.
   The recent lackluster employment data for June pretty much
set the tone for industrial output and capacity utilization
data due out tomorrow. Industrial output is expected to eke
out a gain of 0.2%, following May's 0.6% increase. Capacity
utilization is expected to be unchanged at 83.6%.
   Housing starts, due out Wednesday, are expected to
continue the sluggish level of recent months with an annual
rate of 1,150,000 units during June.
   ---
                   CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended July 13
                                                                                                       

                                             CHANGE
                                          (from prior
                              TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     July 2 (in billions)     $818.2           + $8.8
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     July 2 (in billions)   $3,276.1           + $4.9
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     July 2 (in billions)   $4,058.0           + $3.5
                                                                                                       

   Producer price index
   June                        117.9           + 0.2%
                                                                                                       

   Retail Sales
   June (in billioins)       $147.82           + 0.5%
                                                                                                       

   Auto Sales
   Early July, total vs.
   year-ago                  156,220           +0.59%
                                                                                                       

   Consumer credit

                                                                                                       

   New Jobless Claims
   Week ended June 30        350,000           - 4.1%
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Business inventories (Mon.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Industrial Production (Tues.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Capacity utilization (Tues.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Trade deficit (Tues.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Consumer price index (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Housing starts (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Building permits (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prudential-Bache Plans
   New Marketing Strategy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In the battle to pull in new mutual-fund
customers, Prudential-Bache Securities is planning a new
strategy: Let 'em in free.
   Prudential-Bache, which runs the country's 13th largest
fund group with $17 billion in assets, has asked the
Securities and Exchange Commission for permission to sell its
mutual funds to customers of other broker-sold mutual funds
-- without charging a sales commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Prudential-Bache spokesman declined to comment on the
filing, noting that the SEC still hasn't declared it
effective. But others note that, while Prudential-Bache, a
unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, may be the
largest fund group ever to make such an offer, its offer
isn't unique.
   "We've done it for three years, and we're not the first,"
said Edward Mahoney, president of AMEV Advisers Inc., which
allows owners of other broker-sold funds to buy AMEV funds,
provided they show proof that they sold the other fund within
the previous 60 days.
   The idea is to allow a broker to switch a customer between
funds without the client's being charged two sets of
commissions.
   What has Prudential-Bache got to attract other fund
customers? Kanon Bloch Carre &amp; Co., a Boston mutual-fund
research firm, gives high marks to Prudential-Bache's utility
fund, its intermediate-term government-bond fund and its
convertible-bond fund. But overall, Kanon Bloch ranks
Prudential's fund family as 40th out of 94.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Tapie Expected to Disclose
   Financing for Adidas Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Bernard Tapie and his lead banker are promising
today to confound the skeptics who said he would have trouble
completing his takeover of West German sporting goods giant
Adidas AG.
   After a week's negotiations, his lead banker said it has
arranged the financing package that Mr. Tapie had said he
would disclose today. Credit Lyonnais's Societe de Banque
Occidentale unit announced Friday that it has more offers of
funds than Mr. Tapie needs. (One of Mr. Tapie's other main
banks, Credit Agricole, said Friday that it didn't have
enough information to make a decision.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Mr. Tapie has refused so far to disclose the
price of the Adidas purchase, it seems likely to be well
above the 889 million French franc ($160.5 million) market
valuation of Bernard Tapie Finance S.A., his main holding
company. So far, the flamboyant French financier hasn't
explained how he will fund the takeover or how it will affect
his other companies.
   Because of that, French securities regulators last week
ordered trading suspended in Bernard Tapie Finance and its
two listed subsidiaries, industrial scale-makers Terraillon
S.A. and Testut S.A. It was after the suspension that Mr.
Tapie promised to disclose financial details today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Broker's Suspension
   Worrying Market Insiders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Tuffier-Ravier-Py &amp; Associes' brokerage firm was
suspended from trading Friday, following an inability to
settle its bills. Stock market insiders now fear the action
will frighten some foreigners away from the French market.
   Tuffier, one of the five largest French brokerages, is the
largest to run into financial trouble following France's 1988
stock market deregulation. It is the main unit of the
brokerage group Tuffier &amp; Associes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tuffier said its brokerage arm posted a 62 million-franc
loss ($11.3 million) in the first five months of the year,
after a 16 million-franc net profit for 1989, down from a 52
million-franc net profit for 1988.
   In practical terms, the suspension means that Tuffier's
stock brokerage activities are frozen where they were at the
end of the day Friday, when the suspension was announced. The
suspension may not directly affect the group's other
subsidiaries, which weren't mentioned in the exchange
authorities' statement.
   If the brokerage doesn't return to business, a rescue fund
will reimburse cash deposits up to 500,000 francs, and share
transactions up to 2.5 million francs.
   Foreign experts say they hope the incident won't seriously
affect investment in the French market. "When a business in
the marketplace does have trouble, it does make people
nervous generally," said Geoffrey Kelly, a director of
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd., Barclays Bank's London
investment banking unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Car Makers Plan 11.6% Rise in Output
   From Depressed Third Quarter of '89
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC J.MZD NSANY J.MOT SBRU J.IZM TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Despite recent cutbacks by Ford Motor Co. and
continuing weak sales, U.S. auto makers still plan to boost
domestic car output by 11.6% in the third quarter from anemic
year-earlier levels.
   Slow sales are forcing Ford to cut 11,300 cars from its
original third-quarter production plans. However, the No. 2
auto maker still plans to build 11.1% more cars in the
current quarter than a year earlier and is adding to its
third-quarter truck output schedules.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, the 10 major U.S. auto makers plan to build
1,560,704 cars in the third quarter, about 162,000 more than
a year earlier. Truck production is forecast to rise 8.3% to
907,334 vehicles.
   Their latest plans are an indication that auto makers
still expect a modest second-half rebound in consumer demand
despite some analysts' concerns about the sluggish U.S.
economy. The plans also reflect how restrained output earlier
in the year is paying off in the form of lean summer
inventories.
   But a major force behind the overall increase in U.S. car
production for the quarter is the growing strength of the
U.S. operations of Japanese auto makers. Plants owned by
Japanese auto makers or operated as joint ventures with U.S.
companies are expected to build 334,704 cars in the
July-September period, a jump of nearly 59,000 from the third
quarter of 1989. These operations will build 21.4% of all
domestic cars in the period, compared with 19.7% a year
earlier.
   Most auto makers should be able to hold to their
third-quarter production schedules because stocks of unsold
cars are low, analysts say. On June 30, the car industry had
an estimated 59-day supply of cars, which is at the low end
of historical norms, said analyst John Qualls of Hill &amp;
Knowlton Inc. That compares with an uncomfortably high 75-day
supply of cars a year earlier.
   "Unless the bottom falls out of the market, I don't see
any problems for the industry," Mr. Qualls said.
   Thus, auto makers may be able to spend less on sales
incentives to move out 1990 models by the start of the new
model year Oct. 1, analysts said. Reduced incentives and
increased production would help third-quarter profit at Ford
and General Motors Corp. At Chrysler Corp., however, company
officials have said reduced output of minivans and cars will
sharply depress third-quarter profit.
   Auto makers are still forecasting that sales in the third
and fourth quarters will improve from weak 1989 levels
despite signs of sluggish U.S. economic growth. Most company
officials say they expect U.S. car and light truck sales to
total about 14.5 million vehicles, roughly flat with last
year.
   Car makers are drawing comfort from surveys such as one by
the Consumer Research Center that shows 8.1% of Americans
plan to buy a car in the next six months, up from 6.7% in
June 1989. "We've been getting fairly good readings in both
May and June," says Fabian Linden, the center's executive
director.
   Other analysts are not so sanguine. They say car sales
could be dragged down by a slowing national economy and by
prospects of a tax increase.
   Among the Big Three U.S. auto makers, GM plans the biggest
jump in third-quarter car output -- a 12.7% increase from
year-earlier levels. But that largely reflects production
levels at this time last year that were the lowest since
1970, when a strike shut many of the company's plants. GM
plans to increase its light truck production for the quarter
by 4.6%.
   Ford has cut its quarterly car production forecast since
last month, partly because of its plan to shut down its
Mustang assembly plant in Dearborn, Mich., for a week in
July.
   On the truck side, Ford has boosted its third-quarter
production schedule since June and is running some assembly
plants on overtime. Ford now plans a 25.3% increase from
year-earlier levels. Earlier, the company planned an 18.8%
increase.
   Chrysler, which closed a subcompact car plant in Detroit
this year, projects that quarterly car production will drop
5.7% from a year earlier. Chrysler's truck production will be
off a whopping 25.7%, mainly because the company plans to
shut its two minivan plants for a month each to retool for
the redesigned 1991 Chrysler minivans.
   All Japanese auto makers with U.S. operations are planning
increased car production except Nissan Motor Corp., which
projects an 18.2% drop because of retooling for the
redesigned 1991 Sentra subcompact model at its Smyrna, Tenn.,
assembly plant.
   ---
                            CARS
                                                                                                       

                                1990      1989      % Chg.
                                                                                                       

   GM .....................   676,000    599,684   + 12.7
   Ford ...................   375,000    337,400   + 11.1

   Honda ..................   102,702     81,324   + 26.3
   Mazda ..................    55,788     46,624   + 19.7
   Nissan .................    22,678     27,710   - 18.2
   Toyota .................    53,480     45,142   + 18.5
   Nummi ..................    51,500     47,441   +  8.6
   DiamStar ...............    39,030     27,793   + 40.4
   Suba-Isu ...............     9,526          0      ...
   Total .................. 1,560,704  1,398,649   + 11.6
                                                                                                       

                           TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

   GM .....................   415,000    396,914   +  4.6
   Ford ...................   355,000    283,400   + 25.3
   Chrysler ...............    98,000    131,827   - 25.7
   Nissan .................    27,052     25,965   +  4.2
   Suba-Isu ...............    12,282          0      ...
   Total ..................   907,334    838,106   +  8.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Many Suchard Minority Holders
   Steamed Over Philip Morris Offer
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MO Z.JAC U.PRU EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philip Morris Cos.' $3.8 billion takeover bid for
Switzerland's Jacobs Suchard AG has big international
investors upset. The reason: favorable treatment for Klaus
Jacobs, Suchard's Swiss majority shareholder.
   Money managers and analysts say the proposed acquisition,
which gives Mr. Jacobs a 120% premium over other
shareholders, is a pointed example of the risks of investing
in foreign markets, especially as a minority shareholder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The big issue here is the lack of minority shareholder
protection in many Continental European countries," says
Rudolf Leuthold, a managing director at J.P. Morgan
Investment Management Inc. in London. Says Joni Nelson, a
partner at Rogers &amp; Wells, a New York law firm: "It shows the
difference between how shareholder rights are perceived in
Continental Europe and elsewhere."
   Money managers warn that U.S. pension funds and other
investors, who are currently investing billions of dollars in
European stocks, could find themselves in similar situations
if local laws aren't changed.
   Philip Morris has agreed to purchase from Mr. Jacobs all
the voting shares of Colima Holding AG, a closely held
company that holds 62% of the voting rights in Suchard.
Through Colima, the U.S. tobacco and food company is making a
cash tender offer for the balance of the shares outstanding
-- there are five classes -- of Suchard, a Swiss coffee and
chocolate company.
   It will pay 1,660 Swiss francs ($1,184) for registered
shares and 8,500 francs ($6,063) for bearer shares, the par
value of which is five times that of the registered shares.
Both classes carry voting rights. Philip Morris also is
offering to pay 758 francs for participation certificates,
which have no voting rights. These prices -- as well as those
for warrants outstanding -- represent a premium of 26.7% from
the average daily closing price for the six months ending May
25.
   By contrast, Philip Morris is paying Mr. Jacobs 3,644
francs for each registered share, a huge 120% premium from
the 1660 francs being offered everyone else.
   "We, along with a number of investors, aren't terribly
happy, but there's not much we can do," says David Thomas, a
director at Equitable Life Assurance Society in London.
Britain's big Prudential Corp. PLC also is grumbling. And on
behalf of British institutions, the Association of British
Insurers has complained to the Association of Swiss Stock
Exchanges.
   "You have a U.S. company buying a Swiss company that has
U.S. shareholders who appear to be being discriminated
against," says Francis Finlay, chairman and chief executive
officer of Globe Finlay Inc., a New York-based international
money management firm.
   In U.S. and British takeovers, all shareholders generally
must be offered the same price. But that's not the case in
many European countries. Besides Switzerland, portfolio
managers specifically point to West Germany, the Netherlands
and Sweden as countries where foreign and minority
shareholders often get a raw deal.
   Philip Morris says it doesn't know how much of the 36%
minority stake is held by non-Swiss investors. Suchard
executives in Zurich didn't return telephone calls. "It is at
times like this that you get irritated that you are a
minority shareholder," says Henry de Vismes, head of
international investments at Citicorp's Citibank private
bank, which doesn't own any Suchard shares.
   Particularly upsetting to some investors is the fact that
Mr. Jacobs' 62% voting power represents no more than 30% of
Suchard's capital. And, says Sarah Lavers, an analyst at
Schroder Securities Ltd. in London: "If you look at any other
food company, the bid for the {Suchard} minority shares is
undervalued."
   Money managers say that in almost all other recent big
food acquisitions, purchasers paid a per-share price that was
at least 19 times earnings. But in the Suchard deal -- even
though Philip Morris's total costs come to a multiple of 26
-- the U.S. company's offer to minority shareholders
represents a price-earnings ratio of only 14.4 for registered
shares and 14.8 for bearer shares. Mr. Jacobs' stake, on the
other hand, is being bought at a multiple of 31.7, according
to a British investor.
   "One feels they {Philip Morris} didn't play fair as a U.S.
or U.K. company should," says Schroder's Ms. Lavers.
   And there's a pitfall for minority holders who might
choose not to sell. The offering document states that Philip
Morris intends to use a large chunk of Suchard's earnings to
boost the Swiss company's growth, which "may entail a
reduction of dividends." J. P. Morgan's Mr. Leuthold says:
"This is very prominently placed in the offering document and
amounts to a threat. You'd think that a company like Philip
Morris, which is a consumer-products manufacturer, would be
concerned about its image."
   Globe Finlay's Mr. Finlay concludes: "Our clients are left
with the option of being an oppressed minority or a
disadvantaged seller."
   A spokesman for New York-based Philip Morris argues that
the purchase of Mr. Jacobs's stake and the tender offer are
two separate transactions. He also notes that Swiss
authorities have ruled that Philip Morris's offer complies
with a voluntary takeover code adopted by the Swiss
exchanges' association last September. It calls for all
shareholders to be treated equally.
   The spokesman adds: "Although we aren't required under
Swiss law to go any further {after buying the majority
stake}, we are making an offer at a 27% premium."
Furthermore, he contends that after subtracting Mr. Jacobs's
acquisition of parts of Suchard that Philip Morris doesn't
want, his net receipts drop to 2,352 francs a share, a
premium of 42%, rather than 120%. Philip Morris regards its
acquisition and Mr. Jacobs's repurchases as a package deal.
   Dean LeBaron, trustee at Batterymarch Financial Management
in Boston, asserts that a controlling stake in a company "is,
in fact, worth a substantial premium."
   Mr. Leuthold of J.P. Morgan agrees that a majority stake
is worth more. "But," he contends, "120% seems to be plainly
excessive." Others see Philip Morris's contention that Mr.
Jacobs is really getting only a 42% premium as a red herring.
"It was his choice to buy back parts of the business; that
doesn't mean other shareholders should get penalized," says
Ms. Lavers of Schroder Securities. Some analysts also argue
that while Philip Morris's tender offer might pass muster
with Swiss authorities, the company is maneuvering on
technicalities.
   Still, not everyone is angry at Philip Morris. William
Green of RCB Trust Co., a manager of money managers in
Stamford, Conn, says that the tobacco company is merely
acting in the best interests of its shareholders. He also
sees a silver lining in the Suchard deal in that it could
accelerate further liberalization of the Swiss stock market.
   Rosalind Altman, chief international strategist at N.M.
Rothschild International Asset Management Ltd. in London
(which is related to Philip Morris's adviser), says: "This is
an encouraging step; nobody lost money." In the past, that
hasn't always been the case in Switzerland and other
Continental European markets. Shareholder rights "is an issue
that's very important for the future of European stock
markets and international investors," she adds.
   Penny Dobkin, Boston-based fund manager of the Fidelity
Europe Fund, says: "Just because we're American doesn't mean
our rules are right or that they are going to be accepted."
Due to receive 758 francs for each Suchard participation
share she bought at 600 this spring, she says: "I'm getting a
good gift."
   Nicholas Bratt, managing director at Scudder Stevens &amp;
Clark Inc., points out that most people who invest in Swiss
stocks are professionals and should know the risks. "You knew
you were going to be treated as a second or third-class
shareholder, and you made a conscious decision," he says.
   Noting that foreigners are still being offered a chance to
sell at a profit, Rogers &amp; Wells's Ms. Nelson says: "People
who have been given a Jaguar seem to be complaining that they
didn't get a Ferrari."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Employers' Use of Accident Records
   Raises Specter of Blacklisted Workers
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Are workers who are hurt on the job being blacklisted?
   That's the central question in a dispute over an employer
practice that is growing fast nationwide: the use of accident
records to screen applicants for physically demanding jobs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Louisiana consumer group is raising a storm targeting
Employers' Information Service Inc. of Gretna, La., for
collecting and selling reports on workers' compensation
claims and injury-related lawsuits filed by thousands of
people in several Southern states.
   Meanwhile, a Fort Collins, Colo., company is amassing
injury records from around the country on a data base that it
says now contains files on 7.5 million Americans. Some 4,000
employers paid the company, Avert Inc., to run checks on
200,000 prospective workers last year, twice as many as the
year before.
   Proponents of the practice -- popular in such heavy
industries as construction and oil -- say that injury records
can help employers judge if an applicant poses an
unreasonable liability. Given soaring costs for health-care
and workers' compensation insurance, companies say they can't
afford to hire workers who may be unfit or at high risk for
accidents. Another concern is fraud -- workers who jump from
job to job, collecting money for hard-to-confirm injuries
such as stress or back strain.
   "If someone's always falling off scaffolding, there's
probably something wrong," says Michael J. Moore, a Duke
University economist who studies workers' compensation. Adds
Norman D. Bates, a Framingham, Mass., corporate liability
consultant: "You don't want to hire a walking disaster who's
going to end up costing your company lots of money in worker
comp claims."
   Injury records represent one of several means -- including
skills exams, drug tests and credit checks -- that are
gaining in use as concern grows among companies about the
quality and character of workers.
   But privacy experts and others charge that a lack of
safeguards leaves injury and workers' compensation records
open to abuse. They say employers, in their zeal to cut costs
and keep their workplaces "problem free," may be unfairly and
illegally discriminating against applicants who have made
legitimate claims. If compiling and consulting such records
increases, some worry, people may grow reluctant to report
accidents or pursue workers' compensation -- simply for fear
of reducing their appeal to future employers.
   "If you build up these data bases, that works against the
whole concept of healthy people and healthy workplaces," says
Alan F. Westin, a Columbia University professor and former
government consultant who advocates privacy protections for
job applicants.
   In Baton Rouge, David Czernik, director of the Louisiana
Consumers League, is seeking constraints on the use of injury
records through a campaign to shed light on Employers'
Information Service. In speeches to consumer groups,
testimony before a congressional panel and at rallies of
previously injured workers, Mr. Czernik has charged that the
organization's files constitute a blacklist. And, he
maintains, workers -- even healthy ones -- are unknowingly
being rejected from jobs because they are on file. "It's
frustrating and victimizing for the individual who wants to
get back into productive work," he says.
   Employers' Information Service disputes Mr. Czernik's
claims, and he can't point to hard evidence. But he cites
local workers whose experiences have them worried, such as
22-year-old John B. Lavergne of Ville Platte, La. Mr.
Lavergne says he still suffers pain from a February incident
when he hurt his back while lifting 55-gallon drums on an
oil-drilling rig off the Louisiana coast.
   Mayronne Enterprises Inc. of Harvey, La., which operated
the rig, paid Mr. Lavergne's medical bills and salary while
putting him on light duty for two months. But in April, he
says, he was suddenly let go. A supervisor told him the
company wouldn't pay workers' compensation for his
disability, he says, and told him "they were going to make my
life miserable if I saw a lawyer about it."
   The supervisor "claimed they were going to put my name in
a computer and I would never get another job," says Mr.
Lavergne. He has since hired a lawyer to file a claim -- now
pending -- to recover the medical costs and lost wages
allowed under workers' compensation.
   Mayronne, which is fighting the claim, denies that anyone
threatened Mr. Lavergne. But Mike Mayronne, president,
acknowledges that the company contributes data to and uses
Employers' Information Service. "We use that as a source to
try to weed out people who've been involved in lawsuits and
litigation in this industry and to help scrutinize people
that we hire," Mr. Mayronne says. "You want people who don't
have any complications."
   Mr. Mayronne says Mr. Lavergne was hired despite a
previous back-injury claim with another company. "He's
compensated, and the next thing you know he's got another
back injury," Mr. Mayronne says. "We took a chance, and we
got burned on him." While not accusing Mr. Lavergne of fraud,
Mr. Mayronne says doctors weren't able to substantiate his
medical claims. "Nobody's got a problem with anybody who is
legitimately hurt," Mr. Mayronne says. But "a lot of people
are trying to take advantage."
   Mr. Mayronne complains that multimillion-dollar disability
claims in the oil services business have helped push the
company's workers' compensation insurance premiums to nearly
$30 per $100 of payroll this year, from $24 in 1987. "It's
out of sight," he says.
   Also contributing to a rise in workers' compensation rates
nationwide are soaring health-care costs. Medical expenses
now comprise 40% of the total workers' compensation bill, up
from 30% a decade ago. Compensation for lost income accounts
for most of the remainder. Private employers lost 76 workdays
per 100 workers because of occupational injuries in 1988, up
from 70 in 1987, according to the latest Bureau of Labor
Statistics data. The average claim, meanwhile, rose to an
estimated $9,225 last year from $8,811 in 1988, says the
National Council on Compensation Insurance, which helps set
premium rates in 32 states.
   By comparison, checking past injury claims is relatively
cheap: as little as $4.50 for each person through Employers'
Information Service and $5 through Avert.
   Both companies say their activities are legal, coming
under the same federal law that allows credit-reporting
agencies to gather and sell personal financial information.
That law demands that applicants be told when they're
rejected because of data in a consumer report, and both
companies inform injury-data users of that rule.
   But at the same time, employers who consult injury records
must tread carefully to avoid breaking state laws that govern
how such reports may be used. In many states, including
Louisiana, employers can't legally reject an applicant merely
because of prior injury claims.
   That's a restriction Mr. Czernik contends is "widely
ignored." But in their literature, both Employers'
Information Service and Avert warn employers not to reject
workers solely on the basis of their reports. They suggest
using the data to help verify information on applications,
plan pre-employment physical exams and place workers in the
right jobs.
   "This is a red flag for further inquiries," says Rutledge
C. Clement Jr., an attorney for Employers' Information
Service to whom the company referred calls. But asked how
abuses are prevented, he says: "There are no guarantees."
   Organized in the 1960s as a nonprofit organization,
Employers' Information Service collects information on
employees both from "member" companies and public records.
Mr. Clement declines to say how many workers are documented
in the organization's files, how many inquiries are made each
year or how many companies belong. He says only that
membership has dropped to "several hundred" from many times
that a decade ago, before economic woes in the Gulf Coast
region shut down many construction and oil companies.
   Industrial Foundation of America Inc. of Odessa, Texas,
one of a handful of concerns similar to Employers'
Information Service, declined to discuss its operations.
Avert, which says it is the only national provider of injury
records, has doubled its business annually since starting in
1987. Revenue is expected to total $4 million over the next
year, says Michael D. DeWitt, Avert's marketing director.
   Avert compiles its data base largely by buying computer
tapes and copying records from state agencies that administer
workers' compensation. Some 39 states make public certain
records of claims, lawsuits and other injury-related matters.
   Hensel Phelps Construction Co., Greeley, Colo., started
checking applications against Avert's files two years ago as
part of a screening program that includes special physical
exams to test the strength of prospective workers. As a
result, incidents of back strain have dropped 27%. Still, the
fact of previous claims "wouldn't necessarily mean we'd
eliminate" applicants, says Michael J. Pennington, director
of safety and health.
   Allowing that workers whose claims are on record could
fall prey to unscrupulous firms, Mr. DeWitt says Avert relies
on the discretion of its clients to follow the law when using
its files. "I'd hate to see someone not get a job simply
because he's filed a claim," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Accor Bets
   On No-Frill
   Lodgings
   ----
   By Charles Fleming and Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ACC SIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Accor S.A., which agreed late last week to acquire Motel 6
L.P., has seen the future of the hotel business and it's a
no-frills overnight package.
   In a news conference and interviews on both sides of the
Atlantic, executives of the French company and the U.S. chain
of economy motels said the alliance will make Accor a global
force in budget lodging, which they termed the fastest
growing and most profitable segment of the industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Motel 6 purchase almost doubles the number of rooms
owned by Accor, prompting Gerard Pelisson and his longtime
co-chairman Paul Dubrule, to proclaim Accor the world's
biggest hotel group with 132,000 rooms, well ahead of
Marriott Corp.'s 109,600. Mr. Pelisson dismissed Holiday
Inns, with its 350,000-room inventory, as "nothing more than
a booking service now," because of its large number of
franchised rooms. Best Western apparently would fit in that
same category.
   While analysts said they generally approve of Accor's
strategy, some worry that the expensive Motel 6 purchase
could be a risky jump. Accor's past U.S. experience has been
disappointing and the U.S. lodging industry is beset by a
glut of rooms and shrinking margins.
   But the French seem unable to resist the huge U.S. market.
This purchase is the latest in a string of expensive French
investments in U.S. industries, including Groupe Michelin's
recent purchase of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. and
Rhone-Poulenc S.A.'s acquisition of Rorer Group Inc.
   Accor agreed last week to acquire the budget hotel chain
for $22.50 per limited partnership unit, valuing the company
at $1.3 billion. The French company negotiated the
transaction with Motel 6's controlling shareholder, Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co.; Accor will also assume about $1 billion
in debt.
   For its money, Accor will get a chain of bargain-basement
roadside motels currently spread across 42 states in the U.S.
Motel 6's down-market ambitions match Accor's cut-price
Formule 1 hotels, started in Europe three years ago.
   Both chains cut the costly extras that more traditional
hotels offer, such as bellhops or bouquets, and for the most
part stick to the basics: an automated reservation service
and a bed in a room. While Formule 1 hotels don't even
provide bathrooms for each room, tucking them down the hall
instead, Motel 6 has actually been on something of an
amenities binge of late -- adding color televisions and
telephones to many otherwise -- spartan rooms.
   Both companies are convinced that the best opportunities
in the industry are in the segment occupied by Motel 6 and
Formule 1. "The market is huge," said Georges Lemener,
director of the office of the chairman for Accor, who was in
New York. "And the competition is mostly mom-and-pop
operations." In the midscale and luxury-price markets, he
added, intense competition and increasing costs are squeezing
profit margins.
   Accor is already building Formule 1 hotels in Europe at
the rate of about one a week and, according to Accor's
financial director Michel Baillon, will aim to add about 75 a
year to Motel 6's existing 554 hotels. Accord also plans to
introduce the Motel 6 format in Canada and Mexico. Accor aims
to reach a world-wide total of about 2,000 Motel 6 and
Formule 1 hotels by 1997.
   Accor's expansion plans represent a sharp increase from
the 30 to 40 new hotels Motel 6 has averaged in recent years.
The rapid expansion will more than double the company's
budget for new construction to about $225 million a year,
said Joseph W. McCarthy, president and chief executive
officer of Motel 6. But Mr. Lemener insists that the
expansion, which will be accomplished largely through new
borrowing, won't be burdensome for Accor, which has a strong
balance sheet. "Don't forget, in the low end of the market,
we are cash-positive immediately," he said.
   Accor is in relatively good financial shape after a 3.6
billion franc issue ($655 million) of shares with warrants at
the beginning of the year, analysts said. In addition, Accor
will carry only part of the load of the $1.3 billion
purchase. It plans to set up a new holding company to own
Motel 6, in which it expects to have only an initial 40%
stake alongside several large French banks. This holding
company, with an initial capitalization of two to three
billion francs, will fund the Motel 6 purchase by issuing
convertible bonds, which will be taken up by its partners.
   The expansion also makes economic sense, Mr. McCarthy
believes, because it will increase Motel 6's recognition
among potential customers and lead to increases in occupancy
rates. "There's almost a billboard benefit every time you add
a property to a community you haven't previously been
represented in," he said.
   Analysts generally remain bullish on the high-earning
French group, but the company's ambitious growth strategy
also worries some of them. "I don't like it. The business is
more and more competitive and some of the bigger names are
already moving down-market," said Lorna Statham, French share
analyst with Citicorp Investment Bank in London.
   She also pointed out that Accor's new exposure to the U.S.
market could make it yet another victim of the dollar
exchange rate, like other French groups dependent on sales in
dollars.
   Analysts also worry that the acquisition could tip Accor's
activity away from high-margin businesses like catering, and
too much toward low-margin hotels. Before the Motel 6
acquisition, hotels represented 45% to 50% of Accor's sales
and profits.
   Ron Littleboy of Nomura Research Institute said he was
surprised by Accor's move because, like many analysts, he had
expected Accor to concentrate on acquiring the Pullman hotel
chain, controlled by Franco-Belgian holding Cie.
Internationale des Wagons-Lits &amp; du Tourisme. Last month
Accor took a small stake in Wagons-Lits through a joint
holding company with Belgium's Societe Generale de Belgique.
   Mr. Littleboy said that, although still positive on Accor,
he was worried that oversupply in the U.S. could squeeze
hoteliers' margins there further. He said revenue in the U.S.
budget hotel sector was growing at a slim annual 2% to 3% and
was unlikely to pick up significantly. "Prices are under
pressure," he said, but added, "Accor is good at running
hotels. This could be a timely acquisition."
   Michael Mueller of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco,
thinks the deal will prove a winner. "The unit economics are
very attractive," he said. "Gross margins in these hotels are
45% to 50%." And while the overall U.S. lodging market is
glutted, the economy segment is undersupplied, he said. "The
midpriced hotels have priced themselves out of the market,"
he said, citing the typical cost of a Holiday Inns room --
about $65 to $70 a night-compared with Motel 6's average room
cost of $26.60. "There is a very large segment of the
population that doesn't have many alternatives" for
reasonable lodging, he said.
   At their Paris news conference Friday, Messrs. Pelisson
and Dubrule sketched the profile of the budget hotel guest as
young, sports-minded students, or cost-conscious pensioners
who still enjoyed traveling. "People are living longer and
longer. It's a considerable market in the developed world,"
Mr. Pelisson said.
   Nevertheless, the U.S. market hasn't been kind to Accor in
the past. Its more-upscale Sofitel and Novotel chains have
failed to make headway there and last year Accor sold its two
midrange Ibis hotels in Georgia, leaving it with only a
handful of U.S. hotels.
   In 1989 it posted a 15.5 million franc loss in the U.S. on
overall group operating profit of 1.19 billion francs. Group
sales in 1989 were 19.9 billion francs, of which the U.S.
accounted for 4%.
   Mr. Pelisson and Mr. Dubrule, who have run Accor as an
even-handed double act for the past 23 years, attribute their
hitherto disappointing U.S. performance to a market
"polluted" by property speculators taking advantage of tax
breaks to build new hotels at every opportunity.
   This has helped cause a radical shakeup among American
hoteliers. In little over a year, several of the U.S.'s
best-known chains have been sold, including Hilton,
Intercontinental, Holiday Inn, Ramada Inns and now Motel 6.
And the bidders for these properties, for the most part, have
come from outside the U.S.
   Analysts are concerned that, given the state of the hotel
market and Motel 6's heavy debt load, Accor is paying a high
price for the U.S. group.
   But Mr. Pelisson said that Motel 6 was fairly priced at
only 10.5 times gross operating profit (net income before
taxes, interest and depreciation), well below Bass PLC's
purchase of Holiday Inn, which was 13.2 times gross operating
profit or Seibu Season's Intercontinental acquisition, at 17
times.
   "It is the lowest multiple of all hotel acquisitions in
the past five years and we have growth potential in the next
five years we didn't feel they had in those other
acquisitions," Mr. Lemener said. "We're not saying it is a
cheap price, but we feel we got value for our money."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia's Shorn Wool Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- Australia's shorn wool production
is forecast to fall to 1.01 million metric tons in the year
ending June 30, 1991, from a record 1.03 million tons
estimated for fiscal 1990, the Bureau of Statistics said. A
metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   The bureau estimated that 216.2 million sheep will be
shorn in fiscal 1991, up 1.3% from a record 213.3 million a
year earlier. But the amount of wool cut from each sheep will
fall to about 10.3 pounds from 10.6 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The estimate for shorn wool production in fiscal 1991 is
down from a forecast of 1.02 million tons of wool by the
government's Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics in
its report for the June quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup
   Says Court Supported
   Company on Bylaws
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NII
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc. said the Delaware
Supreme Court upheld the company's position that a bylaw
amendment requires an 80% majority vote.
   As a result, the company said a consent solicitation by a
dissident shareholder group, Centaur Partners Group, to
expand the board has failed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Centaur had proposed to amend the bylaws of the company to
increase the board to 15 directors from 12. Because Centaur's
solicitation fell short of an 80% majority, only three seats
will be up for election at the annual meeting July 25, as has
been planned since last year.
   Centaur said it was disappointed in the ruling, but would
try to elect three nominees to the board. National Intergroup
is a wholesale drug distributor.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
National Intergroup closed at $18.50, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Permanent Savings Bank:
   Regulators Close N.Y. S&amp;L,
   Sell Deposits to Key Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal bank regulators closed Permanent Savings Bank,
Niagara Falls, N.Y., and sold its deposits to Key Bank of
Western New York National Association.
   Under the terms of the transaction, Key Bank, of Buffalo,
N.Y., will assume $319 million of Permanent's deposits, and
will purchase $321.7 million in assets at a discount of
$499,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said the transaction
reduces the possibility of loss to the bank-insurance fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cummins to Sell
   A 27% Holding
   To Three Firms
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CUM F KUB TGT H.IEP A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cummins Engine Co. agreed to sell a 27% aggregate stake at
a sizable premium to a trio of friendly corporate investors
for $250 million.
   The complex series of agreements associated with the
buy-in holds the promise of "hundreds of millions of dollars"
in additional revenue annually from Ford Motor Co. and
"significant new business opportunities" with Japan's Kubota
Ltd. and Cummins's joint-venture partner Tenneco Inc., said
Henry B. Schacht, Cummins' chairman and chief executive
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schacht said in an interview that the move "provides
major new strength to our balance sheet" and will reduce
interest costs. The proposed pact will also provide
additional anti-takeover protection for the diesel-engine
maker, which has blocked overtures from unwanted suitors
twice in little more than a year.
   Under the agreements, Ford, already a significant Cummins
customer, will pay $62.50 a share for 1.6 million newly
issued shares of Cummins common, representing an indicated
10.8% primary holding. With the $100 million investment,
Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford also will receive the right to
boost its stake to as much as 20%.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Cummins shares closed at $51.25, up 50 cents.
   As part of the agreement, Ford signed a long-term
agreement under which Cummins will supply midrange diesel
engines for Ford medium trucks. The auto maker has
exclusively manufactured its own midrange diesel engines,
although it currently buys heavy-truck engines from Cummins.
Mr. Schacht said, "We will transition" from the current
status to supplying Ford with all its midrange engines "over
a period of years."
   The executive said Ford has annual sales of about 48,000
such medium-size trucks. The agreement "will be several
hundred million dollars of new business for us" annually when
the transition is complete. The pact will also enable Cummins
to "take a major stake" in the U.S. midrange diesel market.
The company's principal focus has traditionally been on
heavy-duty truck engines.
   Houston-based Tenneco, Cummins's partner in a
joint-venture that makes engines for Tenneco's J I Case
farm-equipment unit, will buy a similar stake, also for $100
million, but it won't receive an option to boost its stake.
Cummins said it sees "further opportunities to build on the
existing 50-50 joint venture," possibly in fields other than
agricultural gear. But the companies are still discussing
what form that possibly broadened relationship might take,
Mr. Schacht said.
   Japanese tractor manufacturer Kubota will buy 800,000
Cummins shares, also at $62.50 apiece, to acquire an about
5.4% primary stake for $50 million. A Cummins unit currently
manufactures Kubota-designed generators in the U.S. under a
licensing agreement. Cummins called the latest pact, formally
disclosed early this morning, "only the beginning of a broad
strategic alliance." As part of the pact, Cummins said the
two companies are discussing manufacturing Kubota engines
through a joint venture in Europe.
   Ford and Tenneco will each be permitted to name a
representative to the Columbus, Ind., company's board, which
currently has 13 members. All three companies "have agreed to
certain voting, standstill and other provisions" for at least
six years, Cummins said.
   Cummins's largest holder is Industrial Equity (Pacific)
Ltd., with a 14.9% stake. Stock purchases by the unit of New
Zealand-based Brierley Investments Ltd. last year sparked
speculation that Industrial Equity would bid for Cummins. But
after a protracted legal struggle, Industrial Equity reached
a standstill accord that formally eliminated any possibility
that it would further increase its stake. Prior to that,
Britain's Hanson PLC had acquired an 8.8% Cummins stake, but
members of the Cummins founding family bought the Hanson
stake, eliminating that potential threat.
   Cummins has been spending heavily on new products designed
to meet overseas competition and satisfy new pollution
guidelines. Its stock has been hurt in recent quarters by the
significant fall in heavy-truck production, although that
cyclical downturn is thought to have bottomed out.
   Mr. Schacht called the buy-in "a vote of confidence in the
company's investment in technical activities." He said he
thinks companies' search for "global competitiveness" means
"you'll find networking of transactions like this" more
frequently.
   "We believe that, taken together, the agreements we are
announcing today represent giant steps forward for Cummins as
the world leader in our industry," the executive said.
   Part of the proceeds from the stock sale will be used to
pay down debt. But $67 million will be used to buy back the
Hanson stake from the founders' descendants, the Miller
family. The family last year converted that stake into Series
A preferred stock. The remaining $37.4 million of the
family's Series A holdings will be exchanged for 580,247
common shares, representing a price of about $64.50 a share.
   The result of all the agreements will be to increase
Cummins common shares outstanding 45% to 14.8 million from
10.2 million.
   In 1989, Cummins had a net loss of $6.1 million, or $1.52
a share, on sales of $3.51 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Development Plea-Bargain Pact
   With U.S. Is Rejected by District Judge
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   General Development Corp. said a U.S. District Court judge
in Miami rejected a plea-bargain agreement reached between
the company and the government involving an alleged
conspiracy to defraud thousands of home buyers.
   The ruling was another setback for the Miami-based
community developer, which filed for bankruptcy protection in
April and has laid off about 1,600 workers this year. A
spokesman said General Development, following the decision
Friday, immediately entered negotiations with the U.S.
attorney's office in Miami to work out a new plea-bargain
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rejected plea-bargain agreement between the company
and U.S. Attorney Dexter Lehtinen had called for General
Development to make restitution estimated at $80 million to
$100 million over 25 years.
   But Judge Lenore Nesbitt, according to the General
Development spokesman, said the agreement "didn't give her
enough flexibility to determine an appropriate sentence in
light of the scope and severity of the charges."
   Under the same reasoning, Judge Nesbitt also rejected
plea-bargain agreements reached between the government and
General Development's former chairman, David F. Brown, and
its former president, Robert F. Ehrling.
   Attorneys representing Mr. Brown and Mr. Ehrling couldn't
be reached for comment.
   A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney in Miami said the
government is prepared to go to trial, but added that
"substantial negotiations will take place over the next few
weeks."
   In March, the U.S. attorney unsealed a 16-count indictment
against General Development, its financing unit -- GDV
Financial Corp. -- and Mr. Brown and Mr. Ehrling. The
indictment, which culminated a two-year grand-jury
investigation, alleged that the company had schemed to sell
its Florida homes, primarily to out-of-state buyers
unfamiliar with market conditions, at grossly inflated prices
based on improper appraisals.
   Prosecutors said 9,600 to 10,000 home buyers were
affected. The company's appraisals were based on what
prosecutors say were other overpriced General Development
homes -- not properties in the community at large -- and,
thus, exceeded fair-market value, prosecutors said.
   Under the rejected plea-bargain agreement, General
Development pleaded guilty only to one of the 16 charges and
agreed to pay a fine of as much as $500,000. The company also
agreed to enter into a civil-consent decree enjoining it from
the fraudulent sales practices detailed in the indictment and
requiring it to set up a massive restitution program to pay
back allegedly defrauded homeowners by paying a part of their
mortgage payments. The company agreed to pay a maximum of
$2.5 million a year for the first five years and then pay the
balance in installments to eligible homeowners over an
additional 20 years.
   Mr. Brown and Mr. Ehrling also agreed to plead guilty to a
single charge that would have exposed each to a maximum
prison sentence of five years.
   In rejecting the agreements Friday, Judge Nesbitt noted
that the indictment exposes each of the two former General
Development officers to a maximum jail term of 115 years.
   The spokesman for General Development said Judge Nesbitt
has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 7 to review any new
plea-bargain agreement or, if necessary, to set a trial date.
   ---
   Martha Brannigan contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chock Full O'Nuts Corp.:
   Coffee Producer May Take
   Charge of 41 Cents a Share
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHF
</CO>
<LP>
   Chock Full O'Nuts Corp. said it might have to take a
charge of as much as 41 cents a share because it terminated
certain leases it had with Riese Organization, the big
closely held New York-based restaurant operator.
   Riese subleases space in some properties that the coffee
producer and food-service company leases from another
landlord. Riese hasn't paid rent to Chock Full since February
because it contends that the properties had deficiencies
including broken air conditioners and elevators. Chock Full
asserts that the cost for any such repairs falls to Riese.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Chock Full needs to take the charge, a total of as much
as almost $3.4 million after tax, it would cover past-due
rent, accrued future rents, deferred costs, and estimated
future expense incurred in regaining the properties and
carrying them until it re-rents them.
   For the nine months ended April 30, Chock Full earned $6.8
million, or 87 cents a share, on $181 million of sales. The
earnings reflect a $1 million gain from a debt redemption.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Chock
Full's common fell 62.5 cents to $7.75.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kaman Corp.:
   Board Clears Buying Back
   Additional 500,000 Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   KAMNA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kaman Corp., Bloomfield, Conn., said its board authorized
purchasing as many as an additional 500,000, or 2.7%, of its
18.2 million Class A shares outstanding.
   Kaman has diverse businesses, including defense
contracting; distributing bearings, power-transmission
products and electronic parts; and manufacturing and
distributing musical instruments, including guitars under the
Ovation name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company recently completed a buy-back of 300,000
shares. In the latest buy-back, it will use the purchased
shares for incentive and employee stock-purchase plans.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Kaman shares
rose 25 cents to close at $6.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Being a Day Late
   Can Make a Firm
   A Few Dollars Short
   ---
   Justice Says Shearson Can't
   Force Chosen Arbitration
   Organization on Investor
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Missing a deadline in an arbitration case can
throw Wall Street for a loop.
   Just ask Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a ruling released last week, a New York state court
justice said Shearson can't force an investor to take a
dispute to its choice of arbitration panel.
   The reason: The big securities firm missed a 20-day
deadline to formally respond to the investor's request for an
arbitration hearing. It seems Shearson failed to file a
one-paragraph notice informing the court about where it
wanted the dispute heard.
   To some that might sound like a mere technicality. But
some lawyers and arbitration specialists say it happens more
and more with Wall Street securities firms being inundated
with arbitration claims, which have doubled from 1986 levels.
And it goes to the heart of a hot topic in securities
arbitration.
   Brokerage houses are "under the gun to come up with
substantive answers very quickly, and case management is poor
at the larger firms," says David Robbins, former arbitration
director at the American Stock Exchange who currently works
for a New York law firm.
   Many investors sign a standard agreement when they open an
account that binds them to arbitration, instead of court, in
case of a dispute with their broker. Most customers want to
have disputes resolved by panels that don't have strong ties
to the securities business. But the standard brokerage
agreements at most Wall Street firms often require investors
to take their cases to industry-sponsored forums, such as
that of the National Association of Securities Dealers.
   The Shearson case stemmed from a dispute with an
83-year-old investor who allegedly lost more than $600,000 in
his Shearson brokerage account during the 1987 stock-market
crash. The investor, William Wiedenmeier, wanted to bring the
case before the American Arbitration Association, which is
privately funded and considered by many to be more
sympathetic to investor claims.
   Shearson wanted to steer the case to an industry-sponsored
forum; it served a petition to the court to strike down the
investor's request to bring the case to the AAA. But Shearson
filed a formal notice to the court, informing it of the
firm's position, 24 days after the investor's petition. And
that, said Justice Irma Santaella, was "jurisdictionally
defective." New York state law says such responses are
required within 20 days.
   Shearson wasn't available for comment.
   Even without the technicality, however, Justice Santaella
has allowed investors to take their cases to independent
forums in other similar cases, arbitration specialists say.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- IntelliCorp Inc.:
   Firm Expects to Post Loss
   For Quarter; Stock Plunges
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   INAI
</CO>
<LP>
   IntelliCorp Inc. said it expects to post a net loss for
the fiscal fourth quarter because of lower-than-expected
revenue.
   The announcement pushed the company's stock down 31%
Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Mountainview, Calif., concern said it expected to
report that revenue for the quarter ended June 30 fell
"substantially short" of the year-earlier quarter's.
IntelliCorp.'s net income in the year-earlier quarter was
$394,000, or five cents a share, on revenue of $6 million.
The maker of artificial-intelligence software cited an
unexpected slowdown in sales of its old product line. The
company said it is in the process of introducing a new
product line.
   IntelliCorp.'s stock closed at $4.75 a share, down $2.125,
in national over-the-counter trading Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan, EC Officials
   To Begin a Round
   Of Trade Talks
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- With the ink barely dry on a broad economic
agreement signed with the U.S. last month, Japanese officials
will sit down today with European Community officials to
begin talks on some finer points.
   The so-called working group on trade issues, agreed on
during a meeting last May between Japanese and EC ministers,
isn't expected to achieve any major breakthroughs this week.
An official of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and
Industry describes it largely as a get-acquainted session
that will set the agenda for discussions in coming months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the European side is bringing to the table several
issues on which it hopes to see at least some signs of
movement. The EC will argue for an easing of tariffs on
sweets, cheese, sherry and port wine, among other processed
foods. Frozen fish quotas are also likely to be discussed.
   European officials say they appear to be making progress
in an effort to ease a Japanese ban on imports of at least
one niche product: Italian prosciutto. The prosciutto now
draped over melon at fancy Tokyo restaurants is imported from
the U.S. and other countries believed to be free of certain
swine diseases. (The U.S., itself, lifted a ban on prosciutto
imports just last year after tests indicated that the
ham-curing process eliminated any such diseases in the meat.)
   European officials say the Japanese government is
preparing to send a team to Parma, Italy, to inspect curing
plants in that area; but an official dealing with the issue
in Japan's agriculture ministry declined to comment,
explaining that it wouldn't be helpful to encourage
"speculation."
   However, European hopes for further liberalization of a
strict tariff system for leather and leather shoes are likely
to meet with strong resistance. Japan has long argued that
its leather industry needs special protection.
   Imports of European shoes to Japan have increased rapidly
since Japan converted its quota system to a two-tiered tariff
system several years ago. Imports from the EC are estimated
to have exceeded 1.5 million pairs in the fiscal year that
ended last March, up from 692,000 pairs three years earlier.
But EC officials contend that the current tariff structure
effectively caps annual growth in imports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inventor Awarded $6.3 Million in Suit
   Against Ford Motor Over Wiper Patents
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- A federal jury awarded Maryland inventor Robert
W. Kearns $6.3 million Friday to compensate him for Ford
Motor Co.'s infringement of his patents for electronically
controlled intermittent windshield wipers.
   The final amount the inventor will receive after his
12-year crusade against Ford remained unclear despite the
jury decision. Under a 1983 ruling against Mr. Kearns for
waiting too long to sue Ford, the auto maker is responsible
only for paying the inventor $5.1 million covering 10 of the
16 years it used the wiper system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, motions still before U.S. District Court Judge
Avern Cohn could leave Mr. Kearns with anywhere from $13.8
million, if interest is added in, to nothing, if Judge Cohn
reverses the jury's decision that Ford violated the patents.
   In any event, the inventor will get far less than he
originally sought. When Mr. Kearns first sued Ford, he asked
for $975 million in royalties and damages. More recently, he
scaled back his demands to $140 million. Ford offered to
settle the lawsuit last February for $30 million.
   "I think this case has made it clear to the American
people that if they want to make money, they should invent
something that isn't automotive," said Dennis Kearns, the
inventor's son, after hearing how much the jury awarded.
Attorneys for Ford said they were satisfied with the jury's
decision, even though it was more than they contended Mr.
Kearns deserved.
   The Ford case has been watched closely in the auto
industry because it is the first jury verdict to come out of
a series of lawsuits Mr. Kearns has filed in the course of a
12-year legal battle with the auto industry. Since he sued
Ford in 1978, the 62-year-old inventor has lodged similar
patent-infringement actions against General Motors Corp.,
Chrysler Corp., and 20 other major manufacturers.
   In these suits, Mr. Kearns claims that nearly all of the
intermittent windshield wiper systems sold on passenger cars
and trucks world-wide violate one or more of his patents.
Intermittent wiper systems allow drivers to vary the speed at
which the wiper blades pass across the windshield. The key
feature allows wipers to blink periodically to wipe away
light rainfall. Mr. Kearns claims that he invented the design
for the first practical, electronically controlled "blinking"
wiper system in 1963.
   Dennis Kearns said he expects the case will be appealed,
if his father can afford to carry on the legal fight. But the
inventor's feelings weren't known after Friday's proceedings.
He stormed out of the federal courthouse in Detroit June 28,
at the start of the awards part of his trial. He then
boycotted the remainder of the proceedings in an apparent
protest of several adverse pretrial rulings by Judge Cohn.
Dennis Kearns said Friday he still didn't know where his
father was staying.
   He said the inventor was convinced that the judge's
rulings, which limited the evidence his lawyers could
introduce, made it impossible to fully present his case.
   Among other things, Judge Cohn ruled that Mr. Kearns
couldn't try to persuade jurors to set aside traditional auto
industry licensing policies in setting the payment for his
wiper designs. In the first trial, Mr. Kearns had called
expert witnesses who testified that the auto industry's
history of paying a few pennies per car in royalties for new
technology was inherently unfair to inventors.
   The jury that delivered Friday's verdict was the second to
wrestle with the complex technical issues of this case. The
first jury ruled in January that Ford had infringed on
several of Mr. Kearns's patents for electronic intermittent
wipers. In May, the same jurors reconvened to decide whether
the infringement was intentional, and how much Mr. Kearns
should get in back royalties. The jurors quickly decided Ford
hadn't willfully violated the patents, but then deadlocked
over the issue of damages.
   But during the retrial, Mr. Kearns's lawyer, Paul Janicke,
scaled down his demands, arguing that the inventor was
entitled to 5% of the revenue Ford derived from selling the
windshield wiper systems under dispute, plus an additional $5
per car to account for Ford's infringement on his patents.
That came to about $140 million, based on the 20.6 million of
the wiper systems under dispute that Ford sold from 1971 to
1988.
   Had Ford and Mr. Kearns negotiated a license agreement in
1971, they probably would have agreed to divide the roughly
20 cents per car in cost savings that the electronic wiper
system offered. Based on that, the company would have agreed
to no more than a nickel per car, for a total payment of
about $1 million in the 1972-1988 period, said Ford attorney
Malcolm Wheeler.
   The amount awarded by the jury came to about 30 cents per
car.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, July 13, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                              Stock   N.A.   Stock    %
   Fund Name                  Exch.  Value   Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express              NYSE   19.50   16 1/2  - 15.38
   Baker Fentress             NYSE   24.91   20 1/2  - 17.70
   Blue Chip Value            NYSE    7.87    6 3/4  - 14.23
   Clemente Global Gro        NYSE  b12.76   11 1/8  - 12.81
   France Growth Fund         NYSE   11.16   10      - 10.39
   Gemini II Capital          NYSE   16.36   13 1/4  - 19.01
   Gemini II Income           NYSE    9.67   12 7/8  + 33.14
   General Amer Invest        NYSE   26.23   21 3/4  - 17.08
   Growth Stock Outlook       NYSE   10.51    9 1/2  -  9.61
   Liberty All-Star Eqty      NYSE   10.09    8 1/2  - 15.76
   Niagara Share Corp.        NYSE   18.24   15 1/8  - 17.08
   Nicholas-Applegate         NYSE   12.58   11 3/8  -  9.58
   Quest For Value Cap        NYSE   18.47   13 7/8  - 24.88
   Quest For Value Inco       NYSE   11.56   13 1/2  + 16.78
   Royce Value Trust          NYSE   10.66    9 5/8  -  9.71
   Salomon Fd                 NYSE   15.87   13 1/8  - 17.30
   Source Capital             NYSE   41.89   42 5/8  +  1.75
   Tri-Continental Corp.      NYSE   29.62   25 1/8  - 15.18
   Worldwide Value            NYSE   19.55   16 5/8  - 14.96
   Zweig Fund                 NYSE   11.23   11 1/4  +  0.18
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs        AMEX    6.82    5 3/4  - 15.69
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr       NYSE   b8.06    8 7/8  + 10.11
   Franklin Universal Tr      NYSE   b7.65    7 3/4  +  1.31
   Municipal High Inco        NYSE    9.43    9 1/2  +  0.74
   Zenix Income Fund          NYSE    6.44    6 1/4  -  2.95
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn        OTC     6.02    4 3/8  - 27.33
   Franklin M-M Inco          NYSE    8.85    7 7/8  - 11.02
   Zweig Total Return Fd      NYSE    9.36    9 1/8  -  2.51
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd     NYSE   14.49   13 1/4  -  8.56
   Alliance New Europe Fd     NYSE   12.15   10 3/4  - 11.52
   American Capital Conv      NYSE   22.85   19 3/4  - 13.57
   ASA Ltd                    NYSE bc55.36   45 3/4  - 17.36
   Asia Pacific               NYSE   17.09   15 3/8  - 10.04
   Austria Fund               NYSE   16.39   14 5/8  - 10.77
   Bancroft Convertible       AMEX   20.76   17 3/4  - 14.50
   Bergstrom Capital          AMEX   66.79   62 5/8  -  6.24
   BGR Precious Metals        TOR   b10.68    9 1/4  - 13.39
   Brazil                     NYSE   11.33   11 3/4  +  3.71
   Castle Convertible         AMEX   21.92   18 3/4  - 14.46
   Central Fund Canada        AMEX   b4.72    4 3/4  +  0.64
   Central Securities         AMEX   11.51    9 1/2  - 17.46
   Chile Fund                 NYSE   15.95   18 1/4  + 14.42
   Couns Tandem Secs          NYSE   12.77   10 5/8  - 16.80
   Cypress Fund               AMEX   10.31    9 7/8  -  4.22
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE    8.17    8 1/8  -  0.55
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc        AMEX    8.44    7 1/4  - 14.10
   Emerging Ger Fd            NYSE   11.45   10 3/8  -  9.39
   Engex                      AMEX   12.38    9 3/8  - 24.27
   Europe Fund                NYSE   14.81   14      -  5.47
   1st Australia              AMEX   10.34    9 3/8  -  9.33
   First Iberian              AMEX   11.89   11 3/8  -  4.33
   First Philippine Fund      NYSE   10.98    9 1/8  - 16.89
   Future Germany Fund        NYSE   17.67   16 3/8  -  7.33
   Gabelli Equity Trust       NYSE   12.22   12 1/4  +  0.25
   Germany Fund               NYSE   13.77   15 1/8  +  9.84
   Growth Fund Spain          NYSE   13.13   11 3/4  - 10.51
   GT Greater Europe Fd       NYSE   14.79   14 3/8  -  2.81
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap       AMEX  b11.28    9 7/8  - 12.46
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref      AMEX  b48.91   48 1/2  -  0.84
   India Growth Fund          NYSE  f13.63   17      + 24.72
   Indonesia Fund             NYSE   15.12   15 1/8  +  0.03
   Inefficient Market Fund    AMEX   11.34   11 1/4  -  0.79
   Irish Investment Fd        NYSE   11.08    9 7/8  - 10.88
   Italy Fund                 NYSE  b15.68   14 1/2  -  7.53
   Jakarta Growth Fd          NYSE   11.02   11 5/8  +  5.49
   Japan OTC Equity Fund      NYSE   13.37   13 1/2  +  0.97
   Korea Fund                 NYSE   14.04   22      + 56.70
   Malaysia Fund              NYSE   15.08   16 3/8  +  8.59
   Mexico Fund                NYSE  b15.84   15 3/8  -  2.94
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap        NYSE   12.00   11 1/4  -  6.25
   New Germany Fund           NYSE   15.39   14 1/2  -  5.78
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd      NYSE   11.62   11 1/2  -  1.03
   Patriot Prem Div Fd        NYSE    8.89   10 1/2  + 18.11
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II     NYSE   10.36   11      +  6.18
   Petrol &amp; Resources         NYSE   31.92   28      - 12.28
   Pilgrim Regional           NYSE    8.82    8 3/8  -  5.05
   Portugal Fund              NYSE   13.75   13 1/4  -  3.64

   ROC Taiwan Fund            NYSE    9.81   11      + 12.13
   Scudder New Asia           NYSE   19.95   18      -  9.77
   Scudder New Europe         NYSE   12.43   11 1/8  - 10.50
   SE Savings Inst Fd         OTC    b7.60    6 5/8  - 12.83
   Spain Fund                 NYSE   15.90   17 3/4  + 11.64
   Swiss Helvetia Fd          NYSE   15.51   14 3/4  -  4.90
   Taiwan Fund                NYSE  b17.58   24 7/8  + 41.50
   TCW Convertible Secs       NYSE   b8.07    8 1/2  +  5.33
   Templeton Em Mkts          AMEX  b16.75   17 3/8  +  3.73
   Templeton Global Util      AMEX   11.19   11 1/2  +  2.77
   Templeton Value Fund       NYSE  b10.54    9 7/8  -  6.31
   Thai Capital Fund          NYSE   11.21   11 1/2  +  2.59
   Thai Fund                  NYSE   22.22   23 3/8  +  5.20
   Turkish Inv Fund           NYSE   15.24   12 1/8  - 20.44
   United Kingdom Fund        NYSE   11.98   10 1/2  - 12.35
   Z-Seven                    OTC    14.24   15      +  5.34
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. f-As of Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First New York Business Bank:
   Second-Period Net Plunged
   As Loan-Loss Reserves Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FNYB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   First New York Business Bank Corp., New York, said
second-quarter earnings plummeted after additions to its
loan-loss reserves in a soft New York metropolitan area real
estate market.
   The holding company for First New York Bank for Business
said net income was $61,000, or two cents a share, against $1
million, or 27 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. It
said it added $3.9 million to reserves. The quarter's results
also reflect a one-time gain of $2 million on the sale of a
leasehold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, First New York reported net income of
$794,000, or 21 cents a share, against $1.9 million, or 51
cents a share, the year before.
   Martin A. Simon, chairman, said that "in light of current
economic conditions, especially in the real estate area, the
company's priorities for the first six months were to
strengthen our capital ratio while maintaining high loan loss
reserves." The loss reserve now stands at 1.36% of loans, and
total capital is 8.34% of assets, the company said. Total
assets at June 30 stood at $712.2 million.
   First New York stock closed Friday at $5, up 37.5 cents,
in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Los Angeles Debut
   Of Trolley Network
   Is One to Remember
   ---
   Fire in Subway and Freeway's
   Closing Greet `New Age
   Of Public Transportation'
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Only here would the dawn of a "New Age of
public transportation" be greeted with fire in a subway
tunnel, threats of a freeway collapse and nightmarish
gridlock.
   Needless to say, it all happened on Friday the 13th.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just as the final bunting was being tacked up for last
Saturday's inauguration of an $877 million trolley line, the
first leg of a planned 150-mile rail network in auto-obsessed
Los Angeles, the rest of the city's transportation system all
but collapsed.
   It started when fire erupted early Friday in a service
tunnel of the city's unfinished Metro subway system, located
a few miles from the trolley. The tunnel that caught fire
runs beneath the heavily traveled Hollywood Freeway downtown,
and officials were forced to shut down the freeway for fear
it might buckle.
   The result was the worst gridlock in recent memory, as
morning commuters were forced off the freeway and onto the
streets, some caught in traffic for four hours. "This whole
week I've been coming in late to work, and since it was
Friday the 13th, I figured I'd leave an hour early," said one
frustrated commuter, Erick Castillo. The freeway remained
closed through the weekend as workers scrambled to reinforce
the tunnel in time for this morning's rush hour.
   No one was seriously injured in the tunnel blaze, the
cause of which hadn't been determined yesterday. But the
incident did bruise plenty of egos and cause political
tempers to flare. City councilman Nate Holden, who opposed
Mayor Tom Bradley in last year's election, demanded, "Who's
minding the store?" and claimed that the fire could delay by
one year the already-late $1.4 billion subway project,
currently set to open in the fall of 1993. Mayor Bradley told
reporters before a tour of the damaged area that Mr. Holden
"must know something we don't know. How did he get in to see
the damage?"
   Ultimately, the fire and traffic tie-ups had little impact
on Saturday's festivities, which were marred only by the
remarks of detractors. When the first trolley emerged from an
underground tunnel in a celebratory cloud of blue smoke and
confetti, several in the audience quipped, "It's on fire."
Jonathan Richmond, a transportation consultant who's been a
harsh critic of the city's rail plans, handed reporters
copies of his thesis, "Theories of Symbolism, Metaphor and
Myth, And the Development of Western Rail Passenger Systems;
or Penis Envy in Los Angeles." Some politicians complained,
only half-jokingly, that the seats on the Japanese-made
trolleys were too small.
   Still, the trolleys moved smoothly Saturday, carrying some
25,000 people who'd waited in long lines to take the
hour-long ride between Los Angeles and Long Beach. Many
people reminisced about the city's former trolley system, the
expansive Red Car line that was dismantled in 1961. "My
father brought me out for one of the last Red Car rides, and
I thought I'd come out today for sentimental reasons," said
35-year-old Eric Jacobson, a law clerk.
   "I think this notion that L.A. cares less about rail is
wrong," said county supervisor Ed Edelman, chairman of the
county's transportation commission. "Where else can you ride
in such comfort, with air conditioning?"
   After making speeches at the Long Beach station,
politicians hopped on waiting air-conditioned buses for the
half-hour freeway drive back to Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LIVE TRB
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Gilbert L. Wachsman resigned as chief
executive officer of Lieberman Enterprises Inc., Live
Entertainment's largest subsidiary, to pursue other business
activities. Devendra Mishra, Live's president, assumed the
additional duties of acting chief executive of Lieberman, a
video, music and computer software mass-merchandising
concern. . . . The New York Daily News, owned by the Tribune
Co., named Robert B. Holzkamp senior vice president and
director of advertising and marketing. He was vice president
and director of advertising for the Chicago Tribune, a sister
paper. He succeeds James Mason, who resigned as vice
president of advertising and marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lynch Corp.:
   Second-Quarter Net Income
   Estimated at About $650,000
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LGL
</CO>
<LP>
   Lynch Corp. estimated second-quarter net income at about
$650,000, or 50 cents a share, up at least 25% from a year
earlier. Lynch also said full-year net should be at least
$1.75 a share, or $2.2 million, up at least 33%.
   For the second quarter of 1989, the Greenwich, Conn.,
company reported net of $516,000, or 40 cents a share, on
revenue of $23.2 milllion. In 1989 as a whole, the company
had net of $1.7 million, or $1.31 a share, on revenue of
$88.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of glass-forming machines that diversified into
transportation and telecommunications attributed the
anticipated increase in 1990 earnings primarily to the
telephone operations of Western New Mexico Telephone Co.,
acquired in the 1989 fourth quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   United Education &amp; Software Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS UESSE
</CO>
<LP>
   UNITED EDUCATION &amp; SOFTWARE Inc. (Los Angeles) -- This
troubled company said that Aaron Cohen resigned as president
and chief executive officer. The company, whose principal
unit filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection from
creditors in December, didn't say why Mr. Cohen resigned and
he couldn't be reached for comment. United Education said
that its 67-year-old chairman, Stanley R. Schoen, will
immediately assume Mr. Cohen's titles. Mr. Cohen, 54, will
remain a director and will become a consultant to the
company's ailing correspondence-school unit. The subsidiary
operates about 12 schools, down from a peak of about 35
schools in late 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Willamette Industries Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Profit Fell;
   Weak Markets Are Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   WMTT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Willamette Industries Inc., a forest products company
based in Portland, Ore., said second-quarter earnings fell
7.4% to $43.6 million, or $1.71 a share, from $47.1 million,
or $1.85 a share, a year earlier.
   Sales of $491.6 million were little changed from the
year-earlier $491.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that strong prices for its building
materials helped earnings but that markets were weak for its
pulp and converted-paper products. Operating rates for all
facilities were strong in the quarter, Willamette said.
   In the first half, profit eased less than 1% to $86.1
million, or $3.38 a share, from $86.9 million, or $3.42 a
share, a year earlier. Sales rose 3.5% to $961.5 million from
$929.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bundaberg Sugar Co.:
   Company's Operating Profit
   Rose 24% for Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BBS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bundaberg Sugar Co. of Australia reported that after-tax
operating profit for the year ended April 30 rose 24% to 28.2
million Australian dollars (US$22.5 million) from A$22.8
million a year earlier.
   An estimated 10.7% increase in the price of sugar to A$361
a metric ton-equal to about 2,204.62 pounds -- boosted
profit, the company said, and all major sectors of the
company performed strongly. Bundaberg forecast in February
that its profit would rise at least 15%, largely because of
higher sugar prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pretax operating profit rose 25% to A$46.8 million from
A$37.5 million. The company had extraordinary profit of
A$32.7 million from selling its interest in a coal joint
venture; the year-earlier period didn't have any special
item. Proceeds were used partly to eliminate long-term debt
and purchase assets to strengthen core businesses, Bundaberg
said.
   Revenue increased 6.8% to A$299.9 million from A$280.8
million.
   The dividend was raised 33% to 20 cents a share from 15
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ampal-American Israel Corp.:
   Three Holders File Lawsuit
   To Stop Planned Loan Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AISA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ampal-American Israel Corp., New York, said it was being
sued in New York state court by three plaintiffs who claim to
be holders of Ampal's Class A stock.
   Ampal has industrial, agricultural, real estate, hotel and
other interests in Israel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit, filed as a class action, seeks to enjoin the
proposed sale of the industrial loan portfolios of Ampal's
three banking subsidiaries in Israel to Bank Hapoalim B.M.
Under an agreement reached earlier this month, Bank Hapoalim
would acquire the loan portfolios for $875 million, their
book value at Dec. 31.
   Ampal, which said it intends to "vigorously defend the
action," said the plaintiffs contend the purchase price is
unfair. Ampal's president and three other directors also were
named as defendants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NESB's Bank Unit
   Plans to Shed 13%
   Of Staff and 3 Offices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   NESB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW LONDON, Conn. -- NESB Corp.'s New England Savings Bank
unit plans to eliminate 56, or 13%, of its jobs, close two
offices and sell a third in a major cost-cutting move.
   The bank didn't specify the charge it will take for the
job cuts, to be made through dismissals and attrition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it "is not going to be that large. What we will save
over the balance of the year will more than offset the
severance costs," Seymour Smith, chief financial officer at
NESB, said. The bank expects to save $1.4 million a year with
the job cuts, plus $900,000 from other operating-cost cuts.
   NESB plans to close offices in Branford and Clinton Plaza
and will sell the Milford office. The job reductions, coupled
with those taken earlier this year, will leave the bank with
358 employees, down 21% from 455 a year ago.
   Mr. Smith declined to estimate second-quarter results,
saying the bank holding company, which has $1.3 billion in
assets, will report them within about two weeks. In the
year-earlier second quarter, NESB had a net loss of $6.8
million, after a $16 million provision for possible loan
losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MEI Forgoes LecTec Takeover in Favor
   Of Salon and Employee Leasing Ventures
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEI LECT
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- MEI Diversified Inc., which is redefining
its name, is seeking to enter the employee leasing and beauty
salon businesses but is backing away from a medical products
acquisition, its president said.
   "We're a company in transition," Donald E. Benson said,
disclosing that MEI no longer is committed to acquiring
LecTec Corp., which makes medical tape, sensors and other
devices. "We've come to the conclusion that in relation to
other transactions pending that we should not give up those
three million shares" LecTec would cost. Still, he said MEI
may take a minority position in LecTec.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MEI hopes to close by mid-August on the acquisition of a
chain of department-store beauty salons, which would
represent about $400 million in annual revenue. It is looking
also into the employee leasing business, by which MEI would
buy employees from small companies and then lease them back.
Mr. Benson indicated that MEI is pursuing an unidentified
entity that would become the nucleus of that business.
   He said such rebuilding efforts are likely to result in a
slightly larger loss for the year than in 1989, when MEI lost
$5.5 million, or 29 cents a share, on sales of $205.4
million. While he wouldn't quantify the anticipated loss --
it depends partly on a pending audit following the recent
sale of its snack and candy businesses -- Mr. Benson said he
expects the second half to be flat to slightly profitable.
   MEI reported a first-quarter loss of $4.5 million, or 24
cents a share, on sales of $44.7 million. In the second
quarter MEI sold its candy and snack units to Ezaki Glico Co.
of Osaka, Japan, for $58 million. Mr. Benson said those units
were becoming slim-margin commodity businesses.
   It is understood that MEI has hired Salomon Brothers to
seek buyers for its nut business, which represented about
one-third of first-quarter revenue.
   MEI expects to retain a healthy balance sheet, with
perhaps $75 million in cash and equivalents after the pending
salon acquisition, Mr. Benson said.
   He said that while the acquisition will cost $50 million,
about $25 million in Essanelle Salon Co. debt would be
immediately refinanced, reducing MEI's cash outflow to $25
million. The acquisition also includes Glemby Co. and Maxims.
Terms call for Regis Corp., which owns Essanelle and Maxims,
to retain a 20% interest.
   Because nearly 2,000 beauty salons, in such department
store chains as Sears, Bloomingdales, May Co. and Saks Fifth
Avenue, would be acquired, MEI is seeking approval for the
acquisition under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust law. Still,
the acquisition represents only about 4% of the total salon
market, Mr. Benson said.
   MEI would become essentially a holding company should the
pending transactions occur, Mr. Benson said. He added that
MEI has no plans to retire debt or redeem its shares in the
foreseeable future.
   The LecTec situation has changed because MEI believes it
could achieve better leverage elsewhere, Mr. Benson said.
Still, MEI could end up with a position in the
medical-products field, because it lent LecTec $45 million to
acquire New Dimensions in Medicine, a unit of Baxter
Healthcare Corp. That loan was secured with New Dimensions
stock.
   Mr. Benson said LecTec is expecting an investment banker
to advise its management soon on its various options. Should
MEI take a position in LecTec, Mr. Benson said it probably
would be in the range of 700,000 to one million of LecTec's
3.2 million shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Recommends Boosting Aid
   To Nations Trying to Reduce Poverty
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST AFRIC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- At least a quarter of the world's population
-- or more than one billion people -- now live on less than
$370 a year, the World Bank says. The international agency
adds that the number of poor people could be cut as much as
40% by the end of the century if poor countries provide
income-earning opportunities and basic social services.
   In the meantime, developed countries should maintain or
increase their levels of aid, the World Bank says in its
annual development report. But the aid should be tightly
linked to a country's efforts to reduce poverty, the report
advises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   More than half of the poorest peoples live in South Asia,
in countries such as India and Bangladesh, with most of the
remainder living in East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
   The report, which is being released today, focuses on
poverty. It sets out a dual strategy for improving the lot of
the world's poor-people who survive on about a dollar a day
or less.
   But for poverty to be reduced appreciably, many developing
countries will have to alter their current policies, the bank
says. It is scathing about some strategies: "Many past
policies meant to benefit the rural poor have failed; land
reform barely helped the poor, except after wars or
revolutions; subsidized credit programs not only benefited
the rich much more than the poor but ran into serious
debt-repayment problems; and excessive taxation of
agriculture contributed to poor results."
   Too often, the report says, formal social security plans
and health policies have failed to benefit the poorest
people. It says that targeted food subsidies often work
better than general food subsidies, and also recommends
public-employment programs.
   Through such policies, some countries have had remarkable
success in shrinking poverty. For example, Indonesia reduced
the share of its population living in poverty to less than
20% from 60% in less than a generation, according to Lyn
Squire, who led the team that authored the report.
   Controlling population growth is another challenge facing
the poorest countries. The World Bank estimates that another
850 million people will be born in the remainder of the
decade. In sub-Saharan Africa in particular, fast population
growth threatens to worsen poverty.
   Donor countries too, will have to make sure they provide
enough aid to countries making serious efforts to reduce
poverty, the report says. On current projections, aid is
expected to increase 2% a year, according to the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That
implies aid will total $64 billion in the year 2000, up 25%
from $51 billion in 1988.
   World Bank President Barber Conable told reporters
recently that as "the Cold War wanes, developed countries can
afford more aid." He added that if developed countries cut
their military spending by 10% they could double their aid."
   If donor countries were more generous and pegged their aid
at the "widely accepted" level of 0.7% of gross national
product, aid could increase to as much as $144 billion by the
end of the century, the World Bank says. Among rich nations,
Saudi Arabia, the Scandinavian countries and Holland are the
most generous when aid is measured as a percentage of GNP.
Saudi Arabia's aid in 1988 totaled 2.7% of national output,
the World Bank says. Ireland and the U.S. are the least
generous, with aid totaling about 0.2% of GNP, the
international agency says, quoting OECD figures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines
   May Respond
   To Allegations
   ---
   Lawyers to Meet U.S. Aides
   About Criminal Charges
   Of Falsifying Records
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines lawyers are expected to meet with federal
officials today to state how the airline will respond to
criminal charges that it falsified maintenance and safety
records.
   Meanwhile, Northwest Airlines Chairman Alfred A. Checchi
has scheduled talks with representatives of Eastern's
creditors, who have a great deal to say about whether the
ailing carrier will be sold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eastern Airlines has been told that it will be charged for
altering records at New York's John F. Kennedy International
and La Guardia airports, according to weekend news reports. A
federal grand jury spent 10 months looking into allegations
that Eastern managers signed off on maintenance work that was
never done, a practice called "pencil whipping." The
investigation also covered Atlanta's Hartsfield Airport,
Eastern's main hub.
   Last September, Eastern agreed to pay $2.9 million to
settle similar Federal Aviation Administration claims. As in
most such FAA settlements, Eastern didn't admit to violating
the safety requirements when it agreed to pay the penalty.
Eastern has since closed its maintenance facility at Kennedy
airport.
   Eastern officials declined to comment on the possibility
of criminal charges. But a spokeswoman for the airline said
the allegations concern practices that occurred two years
ago. Yesterday, the Associated Press, quoting a federal
prosecutor, said Eastern is cooperating in the criminal case
and that the matter may be resolved within weeks.
   People familiar with the coming discussions say Mr.
Checchi is to meet in the next 10 days with Eastern
creditors' financial advisers. They say Northwest, a unit of
NWA Inc., is interested in acquiring Eastern's Atlanta gates
and Miami maintenance base. But a transaction, should one
occur, isn't imminent, and there is no plan yet to make a
presentation to the creditors themselves.
   However, Eastern's court-appointed trustee, Martin R.
Shugrue, won't rule out the possibility of a sale of the
entire airline, to Northwest or other bidders. Indeed, in a
news conference in New York Friday, Mr. Shugrue said he has
no intention of selling Eastern assets piecemeal. "I think
that's absolutely the wrong way to go," he said.
   Mr. Shugrue said he has been in contact with Northwest and
that "a sweet deal from Northwest would be a very good
thing." But, he added, a takeover or merger of the airline is
not the only option, although "it's a very viable way to go."
   A spokesman for Northwest declined to comment on any talks
between Northwest and Eastern or on Mr. Checchi's expected
talks with creditor representatives. Mr. Checchi has
previously met with Eastern's unions to discuss how to
integrate workers if there is any combination of the
airlines.
   Mr. Shugrue made his comments after meeting with the
airline's creditors and presenting them with a preliminary
business plan. He wouldn't release many details of the plan,
saying only that Eastern will sustain "a substantial loss" in
1990, although it will be less than 1989's $852.3 million
deficit. The airline has no specific reorganization plan on
how to emerge from bankruptcy court yet, but Mr. Shugrue said
he plans to have one by year's end.
   However, one person familiar with Eastern projections said
the airline's losses are estimated to be at least $180
million for the last two quarters of the year and could total
$450 million to $500 million for all of 1990.
   Eastern has been floundering in Chapter 11 since March
1989. Its parent company, Continental Airlines Holding Inc.
(previously Texas Air Corp.), was ousted from day-to-day
control of the carrier in April, after creditors became
unhappy with the parent's shifting plans to reorganize the
airline. Mr. Shugrue has been in command of the airline since
then, with a mandate to reorganize the carrier or find a
buyer for it. Last month, Eastern told its employees both
Northwest and Pan Am Corp. had expressed interest in some
kind of business combination. Mr. Shugrue said Friday,
however, that Pan Am is no longer in talks with Eastern.
   Eastern continues to be short on money and on passengers.
Although Mr. Shugrue says conditions are improving, the
percentage of seats the airline filled in May was only 54%,
although the figure improved in June to 61%. The airline has
said it needs 80% of its seats filled to break even.
   Eastern has helped fund day-to-day operations with money
held in escrow from asset sales earlier this year and last
year. A source familiar with the creditors committee said
Easter is likely to ask for and get $50 million from that
fund in late August or early September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy Urges the EC
   To Discuss Energy
   With U.S. and Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Italy asked the European Community Friday to
launch a broad debate with the U.S. and Japan on global
energy issues, including a discussion on imposing taxes on
energy consumption.
   In a report, the Italian government said the "rapid
growth" in global energy use demands a concerted
international effort to cut consumption, save energy and
promote renewable sources of it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All these actions . . . need to be international with the
more industrialized countries taking the lead so as to
prevent serious consequences for the world economy," the
report said.
   The report assesses global energy output and consumption
trends. It will be discussed at a meeting in Rome today by
ministers responsible for energy matters of the 12 EC
nations.
   The energy document said the EC's energy goals until 1995,
drafted in 1985, are outdated because oil prices have dropped
sharply since then, and the 1986 accident at Chernobyl
shattered confidence in nuclear power.
   "However, the most important reason for rethinking all
energy matters is the concern over the environment that has
arisen in recent years and specifically the fear of a global
warming of our planet due to the action of greenhouse gases,"
the report said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Genentech Inc. Says
   Profit Is Down 45%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -- Genentech Inc., citing
merger-related expenses, said second-quarter net income was
down 45% on a 15% increase in revenue. Genentech also said it
expects a loss for the year because of merger costs.
   The biotechnology company said net income for the quarter
was $5.3 million, or six cents a share, down from $9.6
million, or 11 cents a share, for the year-ago quarter.
Revenue rose to $112.5 million from $97.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Genentech blamed the drop in net income on $7.2 million in
expenses related to its pending sale of a controlling stake
to Roche Holdings Inc. of Switzerland. The company said sales
of its heart attack drug, Activase, were $48.3 million for
the second quarter, compared with $48 million for the 1989
quarter. Sales of Protopin, a human growth hormone, were
$41.2 million, up from $31.1 million a year ago, the company
said.
   Genentech's stock closed Friday at $29, down 50 cents, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Former Ingersoll Unit
   To Sell Chanry String
   To Its Original Owner
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.CNS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Community Newspapers Inc., the newspaper chain that until
recently belonged to Ingersoll Publications Co., agreed to
sell its string of weekly newspapers on Long Island, N.Y., to
its original owner.
   Stanley Henry, chairman of Distribution Consultants Inc.,
said he will acquire the assets to Chanry Communications
Ltd., which publishes This Week newspapers, a chain of 78
weeklies on Long Island. Mr. Henry was president and
publisher of Chanry before selling it in 1987 to Community
Newspapers, one of several newspaper holding companies once
controlled by Ingersoll.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Community Newspapers has been seeking a buyer for the
chain for months. The newspapers have been battered by a
recession on Long Island that has turned the once-profitable
chain into a money loser. Robert Jelenic, chief executive
officer of Community Newspapers, said no other asset sales
were planned. Community Newspapers and Ingersoll's other U.S.
newspaper companies were acquired by investment banker E.M.
Warburg Pincus &amp; Co. in early July after Warburg ended its
partnership with Ralph Ingersoll, chairman of Ingersoll
Publications.
   A spokesman for Community Newspapers said that while
Chanry's liabilities will be assumed by Mr. Henry's
Distribution Consultants, "the cash involved in the
transaction will be plus or minus $1 million." In 1987,
Community Newspapers paid an estimated $30 million for
Chanry, including the cost of upgrading the papers from
shoppers to weekly newspapers heavy with local news.
   Mr. Henry, who built the Chanry chain, said it was "not a
great time" to be acquiring newspapers. "But I am a Long
Island native," Mr. Henry said. "There is a recession now,
but I believe it will come back." Mr. Henry is also chairman
of Alternate Postal Delivery Inc., a national private
deliverer of magazines, catalogs and direct mail.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Suffield Financial Corp.:
   Loss of $2.2 Million Posted
   For Quarter After Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SFCP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Suffield Financial Corp., citing a continued sluggishness
in New England's real-estate market, charged off about $2.1
million in loan-loss provisions and posted a second-quarter
loss of $2.2 million, or 36 cents a share.
   This compares with a $472,000 profit, or eight cents a
share, the Suffield, Conn., bank-holding company reported the
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Suffield said it wrote off about $1.7 million of
nonperforming loans in the quarter and took the $2.1 million
charge to replenish its loan-loss reserves.
   "There has been no significant increase in nonperforming
assets during the second quarter," a company release said,
adding: "Nevertheless, we believe it is in the best interests
of the company to increase the allowance for loan losses
during these uncertain economic times in New England."
   For the six months, the company reported a loss of $5.4
million, or 90 cents a share, compared with earnings of
$988,000, or 16 cents a share, the year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Cuts Ratings
   On Debt of National
   Bank of Hungary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it
downgraded its rating on National Bank of Hungary debt to
Ba-1 from Baa-2.
   The rating concern said the action affects about $2.9
billion in long-term debt of the National Bank of Hungary,
which is the conduit that channels foreign-currency
borrowings into Hungary's treasury.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's cited several reasons for its move.
   As communist regimes collapse in Eastern Europe, Moody's
said, "Hungary will have to compete with the sudden -- and
much larger -- level of demands for credit from all countries
in the area."
   Economic and political crises have intensified payments
difficulties throughout the Eastern European region, Moody's
said, and private lenders are reluctant to increase, or even
maintain, their credit exposure there.
   And Moody's said that as the East Bloc unravels, Hungary's
growth in output will be hurt and pressures on employment
will be created. "As Hungary is forced to compete in the
world markets, its hard-currency cash flow is likely to
suffer as well," the rating concern said.
   Officials of the National Bank of Hungary office in New
York couldn't be reached to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Heublein Is Expected to Name
   Goodby to Handle Its Account
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GME IPG CBU
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Goodby, Berlin &amp; Silverstein, a well-regarded San
Francisco agency that has long been trying to springboard
into the national limelight, may have finally succeeded.
Today, it is expected to be named to handle Heublein's $12
million to $15 million account.
   Industry executives say Goodby has been tapped to create
ads for Finlandia vodka and Jose Cuervo tequila, among other
brands. The win would finally give Goodby the national
platform it has been searching for. The seven-year-old agency
has built up one of the strongest creative reputations in the
ad business, but it hasn't had the kind of showcase national
accounts agencies need to break into the big leagues.
Executives at Goodby, which currently bills about $50
million, declined to comment. Heublein executives couldn't be
reached.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Goodby would succeed giant Young &amp; Rubicam, whose Heublein
campaigns included visual puns such as an ad headlined
"Finnish line" picturing a row of Finlandia bottles. In
winning the prestigious liquor business, Goodby also
leapfrogged several other big East Coast players, including
Lintas and McCann-Erickson, which handles Heublein's Smirnoff
brand. The Heublein account would immediately become Goodby's
largest.
   Heublein also is expected to name another small shop on a
hot streak, Waring &amp; LaRosa of New York, to handle its
Christian Brothers brandy account, with billings of about $3
million. Charlie Traynor, a Heublein vice president of
marketing who handles the Christian Brothers label, confirmed
that assignment. "They're a very solid marketing-oriented
agency with a good creative record," he said, adding that
Waring's whimsical Perrier work -- it created the animated
"World's First Soft Drink" campaign -- "was one of our
reasons to select them as an agency for consideration."
   Goodby had handled the Christian Brothers campaign until
last year, when Heublein bought the brand and switched it to
Young &amp; Rubicam. Goodby had created some eye-catching ads
that also used visual puns, such as one picturing singer
Chuck Berry dressed in orange with the headline, "CB and
orange." Now, Goodby will have a chance to try out its ideas
on a larger scale.
   Goodby has a chance at following several other regional
agencies that broke onto the national arena. Hal Riney &amp;
Partners, the agency behind General Motors' Saturn launch,
Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and the old Gallo and Perrier
commercials, also started as a small San Francisco shop. In
fact, two of Goodby's three principals worked for Mr. Riney,
then the head of Ogilvy's San Francisco office, before
splitting off to form Goodby.
   Goodby's largest accounts had been the Royal Viking cruise
line business and the H.J. Heinz pet food account. A current
Heinz spot spoofs taste tests with a man-on-the-street
interviewer asking people to choose between two dog foods,
one of which is Heinz's Skippy brand.
   The clients that drew accolades in the ad business,
though, were small regional and local accounts, including the
University of California at San Francisco and the San
Franciso Examiner. Those eye-catching campaigns prompted
Advertising Age, the trade magazine, to name Goodby its
"agency of the year" for 1990. The only missing element, the
magazine said at the time, was "a high-profile national
account." Goodby has been trying -- before and since -- to
fill in the gap.
   ---
   Shifts at Margeotes
                                                                                                       

   Less than a year after awarding its $4 million account to
Margeotes Fertitta &amp; Weiss, Haagen-Dazs pulled its account
from the New York shop and put it back into review.
   Yves E. Coleon, Haagen-Dazs's vice president of marketing,
said a conflict had developed with Margeotes's handling of
the Godiva account. Godiva, which sells ice cream in some of
its stores, has been a client at Margeotes for 14 years.
   Mr. Coleon wouldn't say why it was that Haagen-Dazs didn't
determine Godiva to be a conflict when it first selected
Margeotes last August. He would say only that "the
sensitivity of the conflict was becoming more acute."
   He said the Grand Metropolitan PLC unit would hear pitches
from a number of different agencies for the account, with a
decision expected by September.
   Separately, Margeotes said it was assigned the ad account
for Commodore International's new CDTV system. Billings
weren't disclosed.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   HOTEL REVIEW: Best Western International, Phoenix, Ariz.,
put its $10 million ad account up for review. A spokeswoman
for the hotel chain said Thomas-Tvert, the small Phoenix shop
that currently handles the account, will participate in the
review along with a number of other ad agencies. The
spokeswoman said the review had been called simply to
"evaluate available creative opportunities."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Drexel-Case Fee Requests Hit $6.3 Million
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CAW LABOR FREST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In the first round of legal-fee requests in the Drexel
Burnham Lambert Group Inc. bankruptcy case, lawyers have
asked the court to approve payments of $6.3 million for their
first 14 weeks of work.
   A hearing on the fee applications -- from attorneys for
Drexel, its creditors and its shareholders -- is set for Aug.
15 before U.S. Judge Howard Buschman III in federal
bankruptcy court in Manhattan. Drexel filed for
bankruptcy-law protection Feb. 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The documents reflect the combative relationship between
Drexel and its creditors' committee. Drexel's attorneys take
credit for rapidly moving to maximize the firm's assets. The
creditors' lawyers say they have investigated possible
wrongdoing by management -- mostly related to $250 million in
bonuses paid shortly before Drexel folded. Drexel has said
the bonuses were proper.
   In its application, Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue, the
Cleveland-based law firm for the creditors' committee,
described itself as the "watchdog of this estate." Jones Day,
which has been working on the case since Feb. 28, billed $2.6
million, including $456,521 in expenses. The firm rang up
11,916 hours, at an average of $157 an hour. Working on the
case were 16 partners, 36 associates and 28 other
professionals.
   Drexel's law firm, Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges of New York
presented a bill for $2.8 million, including $408,282 in
out-of-pocket expenses. The law firm has already received a
retainer of $1 million from Drexel. Led by partner Alan
Miller, Weil Gotshal's attorneys and professionals logged
12,742 hours, at an average billing rate of $192 an hour,
according to the filing. The firm said 26 partners, 49
associates and 61 other professionals worked on the case.
   Milgrim Thomajan &amp; Lee, the New York law firm for the
Drexel shareholders' committee, is seeking $711,119,
including $68,122 in expenses, for the work it has done since
it was retained on April 12. The 3,708 hours the law firm put
in on the case were billed at an average of $173 an hour.
Working on the case were 12 partners, 22 associates and 14
other professionals.
   Cahill Gordon &amp; Reindel, special counsel for Drexel,
presented a bill for $158,289, including $31,797 in expenses.
The New York law firm said it is mainly advising the company
on matters relating to investigations by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, federal grand juries and congressional
subcommittees. Cahill Gordon said 17 partners, eight
associates and 11 other professionals worked on the case at
an average rate of $203 an hour.
   ---
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT PRESS CONFERENCES on thrift-fraud
indictments come under fire.
   Defense attorneys are decrying the media events, saying
the extraordinary publicity will endanger their clients'
rights to fair trials by prejudicing future jurors.
   Last week the Justice Department held simultaneous press
conferences in Dallas and Washington, D.C., to announce the
indictment of Edwin T. McBirney III, former owner of the
defunct Sunbelt Savings Association of Texas. Mr. McBirney's
defense lawyer, Paul Coggins, called the press conferences
"unconscionable."
   "A trial of an S&amp;L executive in this climate is as hard as
a trial of a black revolutionary in the 1960s," Mr. Coggins
said.
   U.S. Attorney Marvin Collins of Dallas argues that public
interest in thrift fraud justifies the press conferences,
especially for a case involving a thrift failure as large as
Sunbelt's. The Dallas thrift left a $2 billion hole when it
failed in 1987. "A case of this magnitude deserves national
attention," he said.
   The Justice Department did bow to fair-trial concerns last
month when it canceled press conferences on the indictment of
Don R. Dixon, former owner of defunct Vernon Savings &amp; Loan
Association.
   The indictment in Dallas came in the midst of the criminal
trial of Mr. Dixon's former accountant, Wellington O.
Rothwell, and the accountant's real estate partner, Rosswell
H. Westmoreland. Mr. Dixon had been mentioned frequently in
the trial, and defense attorneys threatened to seek a
mistrial if the Justice Department used the Dixon press
conferences to rail against thrift fraud.
   Justice Department attorneys, after meeting with the trial
judge, agreed to cancel the press conferences. Messrs.
Rothwell and Westmoreland were convicted less than two weeks
later, and some jurors admitted that they had learned of Mr.
Dixon's indictment through the media and had discussed it
during their deliberations.
   Defense attorneys for Messrs. Rothwell and Westmoreland
have filed a request for a new trial, charging that the
timing of Mr. Dixon's indictment unfairly prejudiced the
jury.
   Mr. Collins, the Dallas U.S. Attorney, said the indictment
"was purely coincidental" and was timed to avoid triggering
the statute of limitations. The press conference was
canceled, he said, "in order to help ensure that we were not
putting that case at risk."
   The Justice Department did manage to stage a media event,
however. Prosecutors allowed Mr. Dixon to remain free without
posting bond, but in return asked that he eschew the usual
low-key surrender to authorities at the Dallas federal
courthouse, where cameras are banned.
   Instead, Mr. Dixon surrendered at the Federal Bureau of
Investigation headquarters in Dallas so that news media
cameras could capture him in handcuffs.
   ---
   FILIPINO SEAMEN may receive $40 million in wage case,
judge says.
   A federal judge in Tacoma, Wash., said he is likely to
award more than $40 million to 21 seamen who allege that a
Japanese shipping company defrauded them by not paying their
full wages, according to lawyers on both sides of the case.
   Judge Jack Tanner proposed the award at a hearing Friday
but has not yet issued a formal ruling. The award would be
among the largest ever granted in a U.S. maritime wage case,
according to lawyers familiar with the case. The plaintiffs'
demands in the case -- which included about $27 million in
punitive damages -- is close to what the judge has suggested
he will award.
   The plaintiffs worked on a ship that hauled lumber between
Japan and the U.S. They allege they were forced to sign two
sets of payroll receipts. One set showed wages that complied
with international standards; the other showed the seafarers'
actual wages, which were allegedly about one-fifth of the
amount on the false wage statements.
   Lawyers for the ship's owner, Delica Shipping S.A., admit
to the double bookkeeping but argue that the seamen willingly
participated in the sham. "These folks knew exactly what they
were getting into," said Joseph Stacey, a Seattle lawyer who
represented Delica. "They got 100% of what they were
expecting to receive."
   The case is also unusual because all the parties in the
suit are foreign. According to court documents, the ship was
registered in the Republic of Vanuatu by Delica, a Panamanian
corporation owned by the Japanese shareholders of Inui
Steamship Co. A federal law makes U.S. wage regulations
applicable to "foreign seamen while on vessels in the harbors
of the United States of America."
   But some maritime-law experts say the law shouldn't be
interpreted to allow foreign seamen to bring wage disputes in
a U.S. court simply because their ship docks here
temporarily. Paul Daigle, chairman of the U.S. Maritime Law
Association's Committee of Maritime Personnel, said U.S.
judges shouldn't be "the arbiter of what's right and decent
and moral in the Far East."
   But Scott Stickney, a Seattle lawyer for some of the
Filipino seamen, disagrees. If foreign shippers don't pay
their seamen at internationally accepted rates, they can cut
costs sufficiently to "undermine American maritime trade," he
said.
   ---
   MISSOURI OFFICIALS FEAR court decision will restrict
municipal agencies.
   Ruling in a job-bias case, the Missouri Supreme Court
ruled that local human-rights commissions in Missouri aren't
authorized to hold hearings and impose remedies. But some
officials are concerned that broad language in the opinion
could be interpreted to similarly limit the authority of
other city agencies.
   "We've got hundreds of local agencies that decide all
sorts of ordinance violations," says Howard Wright, city
attorney in Springfield, Mo., which has petitioned the court
to clarify its holding. "The implications of that kind of
decision would be extremely far-reaching."
   The case involved Betty L. Shortt, who was fired from her
job in the Springfield office of Yellow Freight Systems Inc.,
an Overland Park, Kan., motor carrier. Contending she was
discriminated against because of a disability, Ms. Shortt
appealed to the local human-rights commission, which ordered
the company to reinstate her with back pay. A lower court
ruled the commission exceeded its authority and recently the
Missouri Supreme Court agreed, saying it could find "nothing"
in the state's constitution or statutes authorizing
municipalities to enforce such remedies.
   Springfield contends the ruling will encourage "needless
litigation" to test the authority of municipal agencies. But
Ronald Sandhaus, an attorney for Yellow Freight, said, "I
don't think their fears are well-founded."
   The Missouri Legislature may be asked to step into the
debate, some officials say.
   ---
   NEW JERSEY ATTORNEY LIABLE for frivolous suit, judge
rules.
   In a first for the state, an attorney who filed a motion
-- and not just a client -- was ordered to pay the
opposition's fees when an argument was ruled to be frivolous.
   An attorney for Sheldon Karabell, a Pennsylvania doctor,
claimed that Caesars Hotel Casino in Atlantic City took
advantage of his client's compulsive gambling habits.
   Dr. Karabell said the casino, a unit of Caesars World
Inc., knew of his compulsion but lured him to the gambling
tables with free drinks, lodging and helicopter rides from
his home. The casino then encouraged him to gamble on credit
in his "diminished capacity," Dr. Karabell alleged. He and
his lawyers, the Philadelphia law firm of Dolchin, Slotkin &amp;
Todd, made the claims after Caesars sued in New Jersey state
court to recover its $540,000 in winnings.
   But in fact-finding interviews with his attorneys present,
Dr. Karabell conceded that only his wife and doctor knew of
his gambling compulsion, that complimentary travel and
lodging had no effect on him and that he never got drunk when
he gambled, said Atlantic City attorney Lloyd Levenson, who
represents Caesars.
   Superior Court Judge John Himmelberger dismissed Dr.
Karabell's claims as frivolous in May. Last week he ordered
Dr. Karabell, his lawyer Joel Todd and Mr. Todd's law firm to
pay $24,203 in costs and fees. New Jersey's 1988 law
permitting such sanctions does not specify who should pay
them.
   Mr. Todd said he is considering an appeal and that his
case was filed in good faith under existing federal case law.
   ---
   Edward Felsenthal and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Semicon May File
   Under Chapter 11;
   Declining Sales Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   SEME
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, Mass. -- Semicon Inc., citing declining sales,
said it won't be able to pay interest on its debt and may
file for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, unless agreements can be worked out
with them.
   The semiconductor devices maker said it is holding
discussions with its banks and debenture trustee. A company
spokesman characterized talks as optimistic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year ended June 30, 1989, Semicon had net income
of $1.6 million, or 50 cents a share, on sales of $15.5
million. However, Semicon said, because of the continuing
recession in the semiconductor industry, its annual revenue
has shrunk to about $10 million.
   With sales at that level, the company said it has enough
money only to run the business in fiscal 1991, and not to
meet its debt service obligations.
   Semicon said it missed a $268,125 semiannual interest
payment due July 15 on its 13% convertible subordinated
debentures. The company said it is seeking to restructure its
debt, adding that unless it can reduce debt expense
significantly, it won't be able to continue as a viable
company.
   Semicon said it plans to release financial results late
next month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Moulinex S.A.:
   French Appliance Concern's
   Revenue Rose 17% in Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   F.MOU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moulinex S.A. of France, an appliance concern, said its
consolidated revenue for the 1990 first half climbed 17% to
2.51 billion francs ($457.2 million) from 2.15 billion francs
a year earlier.
   The company said that the revenue rise was helped by the
launch of a new line of household air conditioners in the
Spanish market and that the increase was only 4% after
adjustment for changes in the company's structure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moulinex didn't provide first-half earnings figures. For
all of 1989, consolidated profit after payments to minority
interests was 153 million francs on revenue of 5.13 billion
francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   S&amp;P Cuts Ratings
   On Xerox Corp. Debt
   Valued at $2 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on
about $2 billion of debt of Xerox Corp. and certain
subsidiaries, asserting that the company's profitability
"will remain under pressure" and that debt leverage will
remain near current levels over the intermediate term.
   S&amp;P lowered senior debt ratings of Xerox, Xerox Credit
Corp. and Xerox Credit Overseas Finance N.V. to single-A from
single-A-plus. Subordinated debt was lowered to
single-A-minus from single-A and preferred stock to
single-A-minus from single-A-plus. The single-A-1 commercial
paper rating was affirmed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox, a
manufacturer of copiers and duplicators, had no comment on
the S&amp;P announcement.
   S&amp;P said document processing business profitability has
improved, but "the deteriorating profitability of the
financial services side . . . continues to drag down overall
returns."
   It noted that Xerox's Crum &amp; Forster Insurance Group is
facing a "continuing downturn in the property casualty
insurance industry."
   S&amp;P also said it lowered its claims-paying ability rating
for Crum &amp; Forster Insurance Group to single-A-plus from
double-A. It had been placed on S&amp;P's Creditwatch
surveillance list June 1 because of concern about the quality
of reinsurance recoverables and potential impact on
capitalization.
   S&amp;P said that since the mid-1980s, Crum &amp; Forster has
"instituted needed controls" to strengthen its reinsurance
program but suffers from "reinsurance exposures from business
written prior to this time."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Polish Mistrust Threatens Border Talks
   ---
   Germany Is Angered
   By Warsaw's New Demands
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- Centuries-old Polish mistrust of German intentions
has flared anew, threatening a crucial meeting tomorrow that
is supposed to finally settle the issue of the German-Polish
border.
   Foreign ministers of the two Germanys and the four World
War II allies will be meeting in their third session of the
so-called two-plus-four talks aimed at resolving
international obstacles to German unification. The Polish
foreign minister, invited to attend the meeting in an effort
to settle the nagging border question, has instead raised new
demands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To Bonn's chagrin, Polish officials are demanding that the
U.S., Soviet Union, France and Britain retain their remaining
occupation rights over Germany, even after unification, until
the new German state signs a treaty with Poland that
recognizes the current borders as permanent. Poland also
wants the treaty to end the West German practice of
recognizing ethnic Germans in Poland as German nationals.
   "The Poles mistrust us greatly, and, we think, without
reason," shrugged a senior West German official. "They fear
that once the leverage of the two-plus-four process is gone,
they will lose all leverage with us, and we will lose
interest in a border treaty. They don't want to negotiate
alone with the Germans."
   Indeed, Poland's newest demand came against a backdrop of
heightened political tensions between the two governments.
West German officials believe it resulted from their decision
to cut off trilateral negotiations with the East Germans and
Poles, against Warsaw's wishes, over a new draft state treaty
on the border.
   Bonn officials angrily responded to the Polish action as
an unwanted distraction at a time when their greater problem
was winning Soviet approval for their unification plans.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl flew to Moscow over the weekend to try
to knock down other remaining barriers posed by Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev, mostly involving opposition to Bonn's
demands that a unified Germany stay in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher
said the West Germans would offer Mr. Gorbachev further
economic cooperation and a concrete number to which a unified
Germany would reduce troop levels.
   West German officials say Poland is demanding more than
Bonn can give, thus acting as the de facto ally of the Soviet
Union in mounting international barriers to German
unification. Mr. Kohl's government insists that West German
law requires that only a unified German state can finally
settle the border issue. And in an effort to satisfy Warsaw,
both Germanys' parliaments this month declared their
recognition of the present border.
   But distrustful Polish officials argue those actions
aren't legally binding on either country now and certainly
wouldn't obligate a reunified Germany. "We have had enough
bad experience in Central Europe, and we want this issue to
be settled in as waterproof a manner as possible," said a
Polish official.
   Western officials believe the difference may be smoothed
out tomorrow by offering Poland a statement promising that
the border issue will be settled as the first order of
business of a unified German Parliament in December. Mr. Kohl
set the table for such a solution by sending a letter to
Polish Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki citing Bonn's
willingness to undertake negotiations immediately after
December's all-German elections. Western diplomats say they
can't support Poland's new demands, despite sympathizing with
them, for that would only encourage more Soviet
intransigence.
   U.S. officials are also troubled by a more general
worsening in German-Polish relations. Ties had been warming
until a November visit by Chancellor Kohl to Poland was cut
short when the Berlin Wall was opened. Since then, the warmth
has turned to suspicion, with Poland accusing the Germans of
ignoring its interests and the Germans resentful that Warsaw
isn't actively supporting reunification.
   German officials are impatient with Polish worries. They
talk of a new economic curtain that could fall between
Germany and Poland that might replace the Iron Curtain if
Poland doesn't clean up its economic house and recognize that
it is following a risky course in upsetting West Germany,
perhaps its greatest hope for economic assistance.
   "We won't allow, under any conditions, that the Poles will
decide when and how we are to be unified," says Hans Klein, a
Bonn cabinet member and government spokesman.
   German resentment of Poles has also grown discernibly,
particularly in Berlin and East Germany, where thousands of
Poles have streamed through newly opened borders on shopping
trips. The West Germans require visas for Poles, while
allowing other East Europeans to cross freely. One Polish
official complains that West German officials are obsessed
with backing Mr. Gorbachev and his economy, recently offering
a guaranteed credit of five billion marks ($3.06 billion),
while disregarding the danger of Poland's increasing economic
difficulties.
   West German officials argue that they have done much for
Poland. Chancellor Kohl has moved to forgive 700 million
marks of Poland's official debt, and he agreed to place all
repayments of a further 500 million marks in loans in a fund
to finance projects "of mutual interest." German officials
say the Poles ignore Bonn's overwhelming commitment to the
bilateral relationship and current borders.
   Yet historic Polish concerns were heightened when, after
the parliamentary resolutions of July 1, Bonn and East Berlin
broke off trilateral talks on a draft border treaty Poland
had drawn up.
   West German officials say Mr. Kohl opposed Poland's
including in the draft treaty matters that would anger his
conservative constituency. They included a demand that West
Germany abandon its policy of offering German ethnic groups
in Poland benefits such as citizenship and pensions if they
move to Germany. Warsaw has also sought an agreement that
reparations be paid to Poles who served in forced labor camps
during World War II. This would be a costly concession for
Bonn, which estimates that two million Poles and Soviets who
survived the camps are still alive.
   For both countries, the border issue raises old
resentments and new animosities. Germans remember with anger
how Winston Churchill, at a dinner during the Tehran summit
in 1943, used three matchsticks to demonstrate for Soviet
dictator Josef Stalin how borders could be redrawn after the
war. He simply moved the matches westward.
   Under an agreement reached at war's end, Poland moved out
of eastern portions of its own country, which had been
annexed by the Soviet Union after the 1939 Hitler-Stalin
pact. From the Ukraine, Byelorussia and Lithuania, 1.5
million Poles trekked to the new frontier. Some 4.4 million
resettled from central Poland. Most of the 5.6 million
Germans in what became Polish territory were expelled. Four
million had already fled as refugees.
   The Poles, six million of whom were killed during the war,
regained from German territory only about half the land it
lost to the Soviets. But it was valuable property. Its
fertile land had produced agricultural surpluses while its
coal mines produced a fifth of Germany's prewar production.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France, 2 State Firms
   Give Rhone-Poulenc
   An $857 Million Lift
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C EUROP F.ROU F.CLC F.AGF
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The chemical group Rhone-Poulenc S.A. announced
Friday that it has received a capital injection of 4.68
billion francs ($852 million) from the French government and
two state-owned companies that will help it trim its debt and
finance a recent acquisition binge.
   The financing will cover 3.4 billion francs directly from
the government, 850 million francs from the banking group
Credit Lyonnais and 425 million francs from the insurance
company Assurances Generales de France. Rhone-Poulenc said it
will use 1.4 billion francs of the money to reduce its debt
burden, while the remainder will finance its purchase of 35%
of the pharmaceuticals group Roussel-Uclaf S.A. from the
government earlier this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts had widely anticipated the fund raising after the
group decided to continue its brisk acquisition drive this
year despite heavy outlays that helped raise its debt by more
than 6.3 billion francs in 1989 to 20.6 billion francs.
   The particular structure of the capital boost had also
been anticipated as a way of making sure that the state's
control over essentially all of the voting power at
Rhone-Poulenc isn't diluted.
   As a result of the capital boost, Rhone-Poulenc will also
have room to issue as much as 2.5 billion francs of
additional nonvoting shares to the public, although the group
said it has no such plans for the immediate future. This is
because French companies are allowed to issue nonvoting
securities for as much as 25% of their voting capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Refcorp's
   Bonds Gain
   New Luster
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The government's thrift-bailout bonds, scorned
as the dogs of the government bond market just a few weeks
ago, are suddenly being viewed as prime investments.
   Bailout bonds are the debt securities sold by the
Resolution Funding Corp., a federal agency created by
Congress to help finance the government's rescue of savings
institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far Refcorp has issued $18 billion of the bonds,
including $5 billion of 30-year bonds sold Tuesday. The
latest auction went smoothly, in contrast to two previous
disastrous auctions of 40-year Refcorp bonds. In the earlier
mishaps, the government sold most of the bonds to Wall Street
dealers, which got stung when they couldn't drum up enough
demand from investors.
   But now investors are warming to the Refcorp bonds. Demand
for the securities has picked up considerably since last
week's auction.
   "The yield pickup is very attractive," said Allen David
Ellison, an analyst and portfolio manager at Fidelity
Management &amp; Research in Boston. He said that with Refcorp
offering essentially the same ironclad government guarantee
as a plain vanilla Treasury bond, some investors are
wondering: Why invest in a Treasury at 8.5% when Refcorp
yields are 8.9%?
   Even some money managers who were down on the bonds a few
months ago like Refcorp a little better now.
   Take Ian McKinnon, head of fixed-income investments at
Vanguard Group, the mutual fund company. After Refcorp's
40-year bond auction in April, he riled Treasury officials by
telling USA Today that the Refcorp bond sales were producing
"dogs" for the market and saying: "Maybe the government is
trying to start a kennel."
   Well, Mr. McKinnon isn't so harsh these days. Although he
didn't buy Refcorp bonds at last week's auction, "we will
take a good look at them in the secondary market and at the
next auction," he said. "I guess this proves that every dog
has its day."
   The new fondness for Refcorp stems from several factors:
the higher relative yields on the securities, analysts'
reports saying Refcorp bonds are nearly indistinguishable in
credit quality from Treasury securities, and a general
perception that interest rates eventually will fall, which
would boost the value of all fixed-income investments.
   And as investor acceptance grows, analysts expect the
spread, or gap, between Treasury securities and Refcorps will
narrow, which in effect will make Refcorp bonds more
valuable. At last week's auction, the 30-year Refcorps were
issued with an average yield of 8.93%, or 0.39 percentage
point higher than yields on Treasury securities.
   Although marginal yield differences don't always excite
small investors, in the intensely competitive institutional
world of mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds,
even a quarter of a percentage point is considered a
tremendous difference.
   But there's more allure to Refcorp than just a higher
yield. Last week, traders said, Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co. purchased a large amount of Refcorp bonds -- possibly as
much as $1 billion -- while selling corporate and
mortgage-backed bonds. On the surface, this might seem like
an odd trade, considering mortgages and corporate bonds have
higher yields than government bonds.
   Although MetLife doesn't like to talk about its investment
decisions, other money managers say that big institutional
investors -- especially insurance companies -- are playing
what they call "a relative performance game" with the Refcorp
bonds. Currently, prices of high-grade utility and telephone
company bonds and certain mortgage-backed bonds have become
what the market considers "expensive" relative to Treasury
bonds, meaning only that yields on these securities have
narrowed relative to yields on Treasury bonds. Meanwhile,
Refcorp was sold at a relatively wide spread to Treasurys.
   But, says Barbara Kenworthy, a portfolio manager at
Dreyfus Corp., "if you buy the economic downturn theory,
Refcorp spreads will narrow because they are
government-backed bonds, while corporate spreads will widen."
Ms. Kenworthy essentially is suggesting that corporate bonds
will become cheaper and Refcorp bonds will rise in value.
   If that happens, "what you give up in yield you more than
make up for in relative performance," she said.
   "We view this as a win-win situation," said Mike Martino,
executive vice president and portfolio manager at Back Bay
Advisors, a subsidiary of the New England Life Insurance Co.
"You can win with rates coming down, and you can win with
yields on Refcorp coming closer to yields on Treasurys."
   Mr. Martino said that many investors shied away from
Refcorp bonds in the beginning because they didn't fully
understand what they were. "No one likes to invest in the
unknown," he said.
   Part of the unknown had to do with the future size of
Refcorp offerings. Congress limited Refcorp's borrowing
ability to $30 billion. Yet as estimates of the S&amp;L bailout's
cost grew from $100 billion to $500 billion, some investors
feared the government would raise the limit and swamp the
market with Refcorp bonds, which would overwhelm demand and
put pressure on prices. Now, however, it appears that more
and more Treasury borrowings will be used to finance the
thrift rescue, which will add to the size of the budget
deficit but not the size of future Refcorp offerings.
   Once the full $30 billion have been issued, the size of
Refcorp bonds on the market will be large enough to make it a
fairly liquid market, but small enough for the bonds to
maintain a certain "scarcity" value.
   Refcorp bonds were also boosted by analysts' reports. J.P.
Morgan &amp; Co., which is trying to convince reluctant investors
that Refcorp bonds are suitable alternatives to Treasurys,
said in a recent report that Refcorp bonds are "essentially
indistinguishable from U.S. Treasurys."
   Corporations and municipalities also are being targeted by
investment firms as potential Refcorp buyers and have been
told that Refcorp bonds could be used as part of a complex
plan to "defease" existing debt. Recently, the accounting
firm of Deloitte &amp; Touche said the credit quality of Refcorp
bonds is high enough to use for defeasing purposes.
   Defeasance is a technique whereby a bond issuer may
discharge old, low-rate debt by purchasing a smaller amount
of higher-yielding U.S. Treasury debt. The Treasurys are put
in a trust to service the old debt being retired.
   Though the Refcorp bonds aren't direct obligations of the
Treasury, the Treasury guarantees interest payments. And the
principal is secured by zero-coupon Treasurys, purchased by
Refcorp from the Treasury.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose as the Federal Reserve sent what traders
interpreted as a clear signal of a credit-easing move.
   Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan prepared investors for the
action by saying Thursday that the Fed was poised to ease
credit because of mounting evidence of a credit crunch. He
didn't say when the move would come, but the answer came
Friday, shortly before noon EDT, when the Fed took action in
the money markets to inject funds into the banking system.
   "It's clear now that the Fed has eased," said Donald J.
Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank. Henry
Engler, economist at Chemical Bank, agreed: "I think it's
about as clear as it gets."
   The Fed's maneuver led to a further widening of the gap
between short-term and long-term interest rates, known in
bond market jargon as a widening of the yield curve. Several
investment managers fear the Fed pulled its trigger too soon,
and thus that the bond market's rally may be nearing an end.
   Easing credit now could lead to higher inflation later
this year and possibly also drive down the American dollar in
the foreign-exchange markets, investment strategists say.
Some also argue that the Fed should have waited until
Congress and the White House reach a definitive agreement on
slashing the government's huge budget deficits. Now, they
say, Washington lawmakers face less pressure to take bold
action on the deficit.
   The Fed's move "probably won't have much of a stimulative
effect on the economy because it's so small, but it also does
little to improve the inflation outlook," says Bob
DiClemente, senior economist at Salomon Brothers Inc. "If
you're looking to the Fed as a bulwark against inflation,
then this doesn't support that case."
   Thus, Mr. DiClemente adds, "if you've missed the bond
rally, now is not the time to get in, because we're not
likely to get a big rally from here."
   Despite the Fed's move to lower rates, banks once again
showed they are in no rush to cut their own rates. The prime,
or base, rates at major banks remained unchanged at 10%.
Banks use the prime as a peg to set rates on loans to many
small and medium-sized companies, as well as on loans to many
individual investors.
   Banks long have demonstrated an uneven way of reacting to
Fed policy changes. When the Fed tightens credit, banks
typically react quickly by raising their prime rate. But when
the Fed cuts rates, banks discover reasons to delay lowering
their rates.
   In the long-term bond market, Treasury bond prices rose
Friday by about half a point, or $5 for each $1,000 face
amount. For example, the government's 30-year bonds were
quoted late in the day at 103 7/32, up from 102 21/32
Thursday evening. The yield fell slightly to 8.45% from
8.49%.
   Yields fell more on shorter-term Treasury issues. For
example, the yield on the government's two-year notes fell to
8.12% from 8.21%. Thus, the gap between the two-year and
30-year issues widened to 0.33 percentage point from 0.28
percentage point Thursday and only 0.14 percentage point in
late June.
   Rates also fell on short-term Treasury bills. The latest
three-month Treasury bill was quoted late Friday at a
discount rate of 7.58%, for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.83%.
That compared with a rate of 7.68% to yield 7.92% Thursday.
The rate on six-month bills wound up at 7.49% to yield 7.89%,
down from 7.57% to yield 7.96% Thursday.
   The Fed's move Friday came as the interest rate on federal
funds, or reserves that banks lend each other overnight, was
trading at 8.25%. Now, traders say, the funds rate is likely
to hover close to 8%, down from 8.25% previously.
   Mr. Fine of Chase Manhattan described the Fed action as "a
very modest" move and predicted it won't be the last this
year. "I think further ease will come but not for awhile, not
until they {Fed officials} see definitive evidence of a
sustainable moderation in inflation," he said.
   In other markets:
   -- Corporate bond prices rose. Investment-grade bonds rose
about 1/4 to 3/8 point. In the high-yield market, junk bond
prices rose, too.
   -- Junk bonds issued by department and chain stores posted
strong gains, following reports showing stronger retail
sales.
   -- Municipal bond prices also rose. The New Jersey
Turnpike Authority's 7.20% bonds of 2018 climbed about 1/2
point to 99 1/2 to yield 7.23%.
   ---
   Tom Herman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   FTC Seeks to Block Bid by Donnelley
   For Printer Partly Owned by Meredith
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   DNY MDP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal antitrust regulators asked a U.S. court to block
R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co.'s planned $487.5 million
acquisition of a commercial-printing venture owned by
Meredith Corp. and members of West Germany's Burda family.
   The Federal Trade Commission said it "has reason to
believe" the acquisition "could substantially reduce
competition in high-volume publication rotogravure printing"
in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the agreement is frustrated by the FTC lawsuit, its
collapse would seem unlikely to seriously damage either
Chicago-based Donnelley, the nation's largest commercial
printer, or Meredith, a Des Moines, Iowa, publisher of such
magazines as Ladies' Home Journal and Better Homes and
Gardens. The deal has already been significantly delayed by
an unusually lengthy FTC review.
   But the FTC's move underscores the increased rigor with
which the commission has been scrutinizing proposed mergers
in recent months, compared with the relatively passive stance
it held when dominated by appointees of former President
Reagan. FTC Chairwoman Janet Steiger ordered the more
aggressive review policy when she took office in late 1989.
   Friday's move thus seems likely to be keenly noted by
other companies planning to merge within an industry. ConAgra
Inc., which is seeking to buy another food company, Beatrice
Co., from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., recently disclosed
that completion of its proposed $1.34 billion deal is being
delayed by an FTC request for additional information. A $190
million tender offer for JP Industries Inc. by British
auto-parts maker T&amp;N PLC has similarly been twice extended
because of an FTC review.
   Throughout the FTC review of their plan, both Donnelley
and Meredith had continued to express confidence the deal
would proceed. Both indicated on Friday that they will carry
the fight into the U.S. District Court in Washington D.C.,
where the FTC filed its lawsuit.
   And both sounded miffed: In Des Moines, Meredith President
and Chief Executive Officer Jack D. Rehm issued a statement
saying the company is "extremely disappointed that this
action will further delay closing on a transaction which we
feel is both proper and legal." Donnelley's chairman,
president and chief executive John R. Walter said in a news
release that the company's "case is strong and we believe the
planned acquisition is legally proper."
   The acquisition of the Meredith/Burda venture would be the
largest ever for growth-minded Donnelley, which is considered
among the best-managed and most technologically advanced
companies in the fragmented printing industry.
   The announcement in late December of the pact for the
Meredith/Burda venture was seen by some industry experts as a
signal that Donnelley was ready to undertake a more
aggressive acquisition strategy. Indeed, Mr. Walter said in
Friday's release: "Acquisitions are one important element of
our growth strategy and we are continuing to pursue other
acquisition opportunities both here and abroad."
   If the transaction doesn't proceed, says Rita Spitz, an
analyst with William Blair &amp; Co. in Chicago, "it's a lost
opportunity, {for Donnelley} but they'll find other things to
do."
   Ms. Spitz said that if the acquisition doesn't go through,
she would trim her projection of Donnelley's annual rate of
growth to about 10% from 13%, "but that assumes they don't
buy anything else. . . . They would love to buy in Europe,
because they have only 7% of their sales overseas, and most
of their major clients are global companies."
   Meredith's broadcast operations, and to a lesser extent
its magazines, have recently felt the impact of a nationwide
dip in advertising. Part of the reason for the company's
agreement to sell its 50% stake in the Meredith/Burda venture
was the heavy capital outlays the printing operation
requires. Meredith indicated in December that it would weigh
a share repurchase plan with proceeds from the planned sale,
as well as looking at possible acquisitions and "continuing
to launch new properties" in its magazine line.
   J. Kendrick Noble, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc., said a
possible collapse of the deal wouldn't have much impact on
Meredith. "They're in pretty good financial shape," he said,
adding that the company hasn't committed itself to any
significant expenditures of the expected funds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Fed's Unexpectedly Rapid Credit Easing
   May Undermine Weak Dollar, Some Say
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST JAPAN CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Federal Reserve's unexpectedly rapid
credit easing could undermine the feeble dollar, some
currency analysts say.
   While the Fed isn't expected to lower rates by much, it is
loosening at a time when central banks in other major
industrial nations are keeping their policies steady.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign exchange dealings have been what's known as an
interest-rate play recently, with the currencies of nations
with the highest rates drawing the most buyers.
   The dollar, one of the market's weakest performers, is
expected to remain a laggard.
   "I don't expect it to go zooming down," but the dollar has
room to fall a little more, says Carol Callanan, a corporate
foreign exchange adviser at Credit Lyonnais in New York. Last
week's intraday dollar low of 1.6310 marks was the lowest
level since mid-May, and the intraday nadir of 146.75 yen was
the lowest since late February.
   Late Friday here, the dollar traded at 1.6510 marks and
148.15 yen, up from 1.6340 marks and 147.30 yen late
Thursday. Compared with its week-earlier levels, the dollar
was just about unchanged against the mark but down 2.3%
against the yen.
   At midmorning on Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was trading
at 148.10 yen, up from Friday's Tokyo close of 147.42 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6575 marks, up
from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.6417 marks.
   The dollar rose Friday even though economists say the Fed
sent the financial markets a clear sign that it was easing,
the first policy adjustment in six months despite frequent
Bush administration pleas for lower rates. Traders say the
dollar rebounded because it fell too far too fast Thursday,
when Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan disclosed that easing was on
the way. When the Fed arranged weekend system repurchase
agreements Friday morning, it aggressively poured reserves
into the banking system.
   Many economists say the federal funds rate is moving down
to 8% from the 8 1/4% that had been the norm since December.
The federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge one
another on overnight loans, is carefully steered by the Fed
to control the banking system.
   The Fed has "definitely eased," says Chris Rupkey, an
economist at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. He called it "fairly
certain" the the federal funds rate now will average 8%.
   The impact of lower U.S. rates may begin to sink in soon,
some currency analysts warn.
   Easier credit in the U.S. means more bad news for the
dollar in the area of interest rate differentials.
   In the Eurocurrency market, three-month Eurodollar
deposits currently yield 8.19%, less than 8.25% for
three-month Euromark deposits and roughly 15% on three-month
Eurosterling deposits.
   The dollar still has an interest rate advantage over the
yen, with three-month Euroyen deposits yielding only 7.63%.
However, the differential has narrowed substantially
recently, and it may shrink more if speculation about likely
Bank of Japan tightening is borne out.
   One saving grace for the dollar is the belief that the Fed
won't let the federal funds rate fall any more than 1/4 of a
percentage point at this time, currency analysts say.
   The Fed chairman made it clear Thursday that any easing
would be for the sake of the strained banking system rather
than the limp economy. U.S. economic data released Friday
indicate that consumer demand remains lackluster while
inflation is still a problem. Retail sales rose 0.5% in June,
but some economists weren't very impressed with the gain
because it followed deep declines in prior months.
   The producer price index increased 0.2% last month after
increasing 0.3% in May. Excluding the volatile food and
energy sections, producer prices were up an unexpectedly
large 0.6%.
   Mr. Greenspan's thoughts about the economy will become
clearer after he gives his semiannual Humphrey-Hawkins
monetary policy report to the Senate Banking Committee
Wednesday. "We'll probably see some slight {dollar} rebound"
if Mr. Greenspan confirms that Fed easing will be limited,
says Steven Wood, director of financial markets research at
Bank of America in San Francisco. But he said lower U.S.
interest rates probably will keep the dollar under pressure
for the rest of the year.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery jumped $6.30 to $364.40 an ounce in very
heavy trading. Estimated volume was seven million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
about $364 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Data
   Investor Group
   May Sell Its Stake
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CODS U.POL WNEWS ARILE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Corporate Data Sciences Inc. said an
investor group that includes its president, Keith Brackpool,
is negotiating the possible sale of a 37% stake in the
company to an unidentified investor group and two British
companies.
   In December 1988, the investor group that includes Mr.
Brackpool, Nelson Asset Management, purchased its stake for
$20.6 million from the same two British companies, Polly Peck
PLC and Telfos Holdings PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corporate Data currently has 13.5 million common shares
outstanding.
   According to the company's financial statements, one of
the British companies, Telfos Holdings, is also a principal
in Nelson Asset Management, which is based in Bermuda. The
other principals in Nelson Asset Management are Kazan Corp.,
a private European investment group, and Alfred Shoenberg, a
former director of Corporate Data and the current president
of Aril Group Inc., which is 50%-owned by Corporate Data.
   In a related move, the company said James Frew, 63 years
old, resigned as chairman and a director of Chicago-based
Consolidated Packaging Corp., which is 92%-owned by Corporate
Data Sciences. The company said Mr. Frew's resignation from
the packaging company is a "prelude to the anticipated
involvement of a new investor group."
   Mr. Frew couldn't be reached for comment. A Corporate Data
spokesman said his resignation from the post "was mutual." He
will continue as a consultant.
   Corporate Data Sciences said the two British companies
have also provided credit facilities to Nelson in connection
with the purchase of the 37% stake. The company said Poly
Peck has extended the due date of a loan to Nelson until Aug.
30 to allow a "satisfactory conclusion" to the talks.
   Corporate Data is involved in a restructuring that will
divide it into two separately traded companies, Consolidated
Packaging, a paper concern, and Aril Group Inc., a holding
company that will have kitchen-cabinet operations. Mr.
Brackpool said he plans to resign as president of Corporate
Data when the restructuring is completed.
   Corporate Data said it expects to complete the previously
announced exchange of its Medallion Kitchens subsidiaries for
16.9 million shares of Aril Group Inc. common stock before
the end of this month. The exchange will increase Corporate
Data's stake in Aril to 81% from about 50%. Aril, formerly
called Marcom Telecommunications Inc., sold its
telecommunications business last December, leaving it without
any operating business.
   When that exchange is completed, Corporate Data said it
will distribute 22.1 million shares of Aril to Corporate Data
stock of record Jan. 22 at a rate of 1.63 shares for each
share of Corporate Data held.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allegheny Ludlum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ALS
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Allegheny Ludlum Corp. said its directors
voted to exclude the steelmaker from certain provisions of
Pennsylvania's new anti-takeover law. The legislation, signed
into law April 27, allows publicly owned concerns to exclude
themselves from all or part of its anti-takeover provisions
within 90 days of passage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iberia and American
   Reach Pact on Access
   To Booking System
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR E.ILA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- American Airlines and Iberia Air Lines, Spain's
state-owned airline, reached an agreement in a bitter dispute
over Iberia's legal access to computer booking systems in the
U.S.
   Iberia agreed to rejoin American's world-wide Sabre
computer reservation system in exchange for a modification of
the system by American.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement Friday, the Spanish airline said the AMR
Corp. unit pledged to change the way international flights
are listed in its computer displays. Iberia had complained
that it was discriminated against on the company's displays.
   American also said it would sell its services to travel
agencies at cost, no longer underselling Iberia's booking
services. The company added that the new formula was more in
line with European Community standards.
   The rift between the two airlines began in March when
Iberia said it would withdraw from American's Sabre
reservation system, claiming the system prejudiced customers
against buying Iberia tickets.
   American said Iberia's withdrawal was aimed at harming the
U.S. carrier's marketing efforts with Spanish travel agents.
   The fight intensified when American Airlines filed an
unfair-competition complaint against Iberia with the U.S.
Department of Transportation.
   When the department upheld the complaint, Iberia
retaliated by bringing the dispute to EC officials.
   Since then, EC and U.S. officials have met and urged the
two airline companies to resolve their differences.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lincoln N.C. Realty Fund Inc.:
   REIT Resumes Negotiations
   With Silverstone Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   LRF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lincoln N.C. Realty Fund Inc. said in Palo Alto, Calif.,
that it resumed negotiations with Silverstone Partners over a
possible tender offer by Silverstone to acquire Lincoln.
   The announcement is the latest in an on-again, off-again
series of negotiations between the companies. Lincoln
rejected an offer by Silverstone, a closely held Los Angeles
partnership, in April. Lincoln in February signed a letter of
intent to be acquired by Silverstone but Lincoln terminated
the letter in March because Lincoln's banker couldn't confirm
the financial fairness of the transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lincoln, a real estate investment trust, said the
companies would negotiate the exact terms of a tender offer,
in which Silverstone would purchase as much as all of
Lincoln's common shares and warrants outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE FED EASED interest rates modestly, but signaled that
further reductions shouldn't be expected soon. The central
bank pushed down the federal funds rate, which banks charge
each other for loans. That could cause other short-term
interest rates to decline as well.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices surged, with the Dow Industrials closing at a
record 2980.20, up 10.40 points, after trading above the 3000
level briefly. The dollar rose, but analysts said the credit
easing could hurt the weak U.S. currency.
   ---
   RJR Nabisco said it is beginning a $6.9 billion
refinancing to retire many of its junk bonds by open-market
purchases and an exchange offer.
   ---
   Eastern Airlines' lawyers are expected to confer with
federal officials today on how the carrier will respond to
criminal charges that it falsified maintenance and safety
records.
   ---
   Cummins Engine agreed to sell a 27% stake to Ford Motor,
Tenneco and Kubota Ltd. for $250 million. The complex deal
could mean hundreds of millions of dollars in added revenue
for the diesel-engine maker.
   ---
   The SEC charged an "unknown" group of investors with
insider trading in Contel securities in connection with the
company's $6.2 billion plan to merge with GTE Corp.
   ---
   Producer prices rose 0.2% in June and retail sales
increased 0.5%, suggesting that inflation is somewhat under
control and that consumer spending may be in a modest upturn.
   ---
   U.S. auto makers plan to boost third-quarter domestic
output 11.6%, despite recent cutbacks by Ford and weak sales.
However, sales of U.S.-built cars rose a surprisingly strong
2.5% in the first 10 days of July.
   ---
   Persian Gulf oil exporters will hold down current
production in return for larger shares of OPEC output later.
   ---
   Federal regulators asked a court to block R.R. Donnelley's
planned $487.5 million purchase of a printing venture owned
by Meredith Corp. and members of a West German family.
   ---
   A New York state panel recommended that Nynex's New York
Telephone unit cut current rates by $81 million, and rejected
the firm's proposed $919.7 million increase.
   ---
   Thornburgh said he won't appoint an independent counsel to
investigate Neil Bush, the president's son, in the $1 billion
failure of a Denver thrift unless he is accused of a crime.
   ---
   General Development said a judge rejected the company's
plea-bargain agreement with the government involving an
alleged conspiracy to defraud thousands of home buyers.
   ---
   The Commodity Exchange's new president will be David
Halperin, executive vice president of the New York Mercantile
Exchange, according to a person close to the exchanges.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 215,600,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2980.20, up 10.40; transportation 1187.59, up 22.63;
utilities 206.17, off 0.32.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3447.56, up
14.76.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.22, up 0.22; spot
index 133.28, up 0.90.
   Dollar: 148.15 yen, up 0.85; 1.6510 marks, up 0.0170.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hospital Corp. Gets
   Loan Commitments
   Totaling $545 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HCA
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- Hospital Corp. of America said it has
obtained $545 million in financing commitments to enable it
to recapitalize its psychiatric-hospital subsidiary.
   Under the transaction, the unit, which owns 54 hospitals,
will borrow $545 million from a group of commercial banks and
other lenders. Hospital Corp., in turn, will use net proceeds
of $500 million from the borrowing -- along with $100 million
currently in escrow and the net proceeds of other pending
asset sales -- to pay off the $696.5 million balance of an
asset-sale bridge loan. The loan is due March 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hospital Corp. was taken private in a $3.61 billion
leveraged buy-out in March 1989. Last December, the company
was set back in its efforts to pay down the debt, when a
planned $1.23 billion sale of the psychiatric subsidiary to
the unit's employees collapsed.
   Hospital Corp. said the co-arrangers for the financing
include the Bank of Nova Scotia and Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.
of New York.
   It said the financing commitments are subject to
definitive documentation and certain other conditions and
that the financing is expected to close in the current
quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Technologies Corp.:
   Carrier Corp. to Close
   Compressor Plant in 1991
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- United Technologies Corp. said its
Carrier Corp. subsidiary will close a compressor plant next
year, resulting in an after-tax charge of $18 million for its
second quarter.
   After the charge, which totals $30 million before taxes,
United Technologies expects second-quarter earnings to be
about the same as the $197.3 million, or $1.50 a share, net
income of the year-before period. A spokesman for United
Technologies, which makes aerospace, building and automotive
products, said second-quarter results would be reported
within the week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Technologies said the compressor manufacturing
plant in Syracuse, N.Y., was being closed because Carrier can
purchase compressors for its residential air conditioners for
"significantly less" than it can make them at the facility.
The closing, which is set for early next year, will affect
309 employees. United Technologies anticipates many of the
employees will be transferred to other parts of Carrier, the
spokesman said.
   Carrier, a heating ventilation and air-conditioning
equipment company with $4 billion in sales last year, already
was purchasing about half its compressors from other
suppliers, said Howard A. Rubel, an aerospace analyst at C.J.
Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Iomega Corp.:
   Quarterly Profit Grew 80%;
   Output Performance Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   IOMG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Iomega Corp., citing better manufacturing performance,
said its second-quarter earnings were up 80% on a slight
increase in sales.
   Iomega, which makes data-storage equipment for computers,
said its net income was $3 million, or 18 cents a share, up
from $1.7 million, or 10 cents a share, in the year-ago
period. Sales grew 4.6% to $27.2 million from $26 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Roy, Utah, company attributed the net income rise to
increased gross margins stemming from better manufacturing
performance and product-cost reductions. Iomega said its
gross margins were 48% in the quarter, compared with 41% in
the year-ago period. The company said its improved margins
allowed it to invest more in sales and marketing and in
research and development in the period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ciba-Geigy AG:
   Big Swiss Company's Sales
   For First Half Eased 2.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG
</CO>
<LP>
   Ciba-Geigy AG, Switzerland's largest chemical and
pharmaceutical concern, said 1990 first-half sales fell 2.3%
to 10.89 billion Swiss francs ($7.83 billion) from 11.15
billion francs a year earlier.
   But in local-currency terms, sales rose 4%. The difference
in the percentage changes owes to the Swiss franc's
appreciation the dollar, yen and pound.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Typical of most Swiss companies, Ciba-Geigy didn't
disclose first-half profit or provide an outlook for
second-half sales. But it said it will disclose first-half
earnings in an interim report to shareholders in mid-August.
   Despite the overall first-half sales decline, sales in the
pharmaceuticals division, which accounts for the largest
share of the total, rose 3% to 3.13 billion francs. The
agricultural division's sales slipped 3% to 2.79 billion
francs. In local-currency terms, pharmaceuticals sales were
up 11% and agricultural sales were up 3%.
   Ciba-Geigy in 1989 earned 1.56 billion francs, up 18% from
1.33 billion francs in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RJR Launches
   A Refinancing
   Of Junk Bonds
   ---
   Package of $6.9 Billion Uses
   Purchases, Swap Offer
   To Retire Costly Debt
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- RJR Nabisco Inc. said it is beginning a $6.9
billion refinancing today that will retire many of its most
troublesome junk bonds by open-market purchases and an
exchange offer.
   The vast refinancing package is designed to shore up the
tobacco and food company's balance sheet and ward off a
potential financial crisis. As much as $4.45 billion of
high-yield junk bonds will be retired under the plan, along
with more than $2 billion of other costly forms of debt.
These borrowings will be replaced by a mixture of lower-cost
bank debt, preferred stock and new equity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   RJR's launch of the plan comes after six months of intense
negotiations by the company and its controlling shareholder,
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. Securities analysts and
executives who have worked on the refinancing say they
believe it will relieve debt pressure on the company and
allow RJR's equity holders to achieve healthy profits.
   Final details of the plan were hammered out in a series of
weekend meetings. As negotiations were wrapped up last night,
RJR was forced to make several modest concessions in the plan
to satisfy bondholder interests. The dividend rate on a new
preferred stock being issued by RJR, for example, was raised
to 11 1/2%. RJR had originally told its commercial bankers
that the new preferred stock was likely to carry a 10%
dividend.
   RJR also was forced to accept slightly higher interest
rates than it wanted on junk bonds that will remain
outstanding after the repurchase. One issue, the 14.07% reset
bonds of 2007, will carry a new interest rate of 17%.
Another, the 14.07% reset bonds of 2009, will carry a new
rate of 17 3/8%. Those rates were set by a neutral investment
bank, Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., after
RJR's advisers and bondholders' representatives disagreed on
the appropriate rate.
   Still, RJR and KKR officials voiced jubilation at the
overall terms. "We are pleased," said Henry Kravis, a KKR
partner. Louis Gerstner, RJR's chief executive officer,
called the refinancing package "a comprehensive, creative
program."
   The refinancing plan's chief objective is to purge away
most of the reset bonds of 2007 and 2009. These bonds have
proved an immense headache to RJR since they were issued as
part of KKR's record $26 billion buy-out of RJR in February
1989. That's because the bonds' interest rate must be reset
so that they trade at full face value. The bonds had sunk to
a deep discount earlier this year, raising the prospect that
RJR might have to accept a painfully high reset rate of 20%
or more to meet its reset obligations.
   Starting today, though, RJR will have billions of dollars
at its disposal to sweep away the reset bonds. RJR last night
confirmed widely circulating reports that it has raised $2.25
billion in new bank debt, $1.7 billion in equity from KKR and
$1.15 billion from existing bank credit lines to help buy
back the reset bonds and other high-cost debt. RJR also said
it will issue $1.8 billion in new convertible bonds.
   In practical terms, RJR said the refinancing can begin
today with open-market purchases of the reset bonds of 2007.
Some $1.7 billion of cash is earmarked for such purchases,
either in the open market or "by other means," presumably a
tender offer. RJR said it could add $350 million to the
repurchase kitty if it wants to.
   The next stage of the refinancing, RJR said, will be an
exchange offer for as much as 85% of the reset bonds of 2009.
RJR will offer holders $800 million in cash and $1.6 billion
face value of a new convertible preferred stock yielding
11.5%.
   The preferred will be convertible into RJR common at $9 a
share. That's 44% above the $6.25 a share that KKR and its
partnerships are paying for their additional $1.7 billion
equity investment in RJR. It's a more modest 22% above
Friday's New York Stock Exchange closing price of $7.375 for
RJR warrants, which are practically equivalent to RJR common.
(There isn't any public market yet in RJR common.)
   RJR said it expects to file the exchange offer with the
Securities and Exchange Commission shortly and expects to
begin the offer in September. Assuming there aren't delays,
the offer is likely to be open about a month.
   To complete its refinancing, RJR plans to spend $1 billion
to retire increasing-rate notes that currently carry a 15%
interest rate. It also will spend $1.15 billion to pay off a
bridge loan made by its banks. Finally, $200 million of
preferred stock will be issued to a KKR partnership in
exchange for retiring $200 million of an about $600 million
bridge loan that KKR has outstanding to RJR.
   Once the recapitalization is completed, RJR's Mr. Gerstner
said, the company's debt-to-equity ratio should improve to
5:1, from 23:1 on March 31. "There's a real sense of
accomplishment and excitement," he said last night. "This
adds substantial equity to the company."
   RJR said its total debt will decline to slightly less than
$20 billion.
   Mr. Gerstner declined to speculate how RJR's junk bonds
might react to the formal launch of the refinancing program.
But in recent weeks, RJR's bonds have soared as details of
the plan gradually emerged. The reset bonds of 2007 were
quoted Friday at $871.25 for each $1,000 face amount, while
the reset bonds of 2009 were quoted at $1,061.25 for each
$1,200 face amount. Those bonds are by far the most widely
held junk bonds around, with tens of thousands of holders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Congress Shows Growing Discomfort Over Role
   Of the U.S. in Costly and Violent Afghan War
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congress, after a decade of almost
unquestioning support, is showing increased discomfort with
the high cost -- and resulting violence -- of the continued
U.S. role in the war in Afghanistan.
   "I don't want to pull the rug out from under the
administration, but I have a growing impatience with the pace
of the diplomatic initiative," says Senate Intelligence
Committee Chairman David Boren (D., Okla.). "We're fast
approaching a time when we must have a much more full-scale
review of policy decisions."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It might be better if we had a more open debate," says
House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.). "I would like to see
a reduction in the level of violence."
   Secretary of State James Baker has sought to elevate talks
between U.S. and Soviet experts, but for months the
administration has chased the elusive goal of defining an
acceptable fate for the Kabul government's Soviet-backed
President Najibullah. Most recently, hopes were raised when
the new Soviet ambassador to the United Nations, Yuli
Vorontsov, signaled the chance of a much reduced role for Mr.
Najibullah, according to officials. Mr. Vorontsov's comments
came in a June meeting with America's U.N. ambassador, Thomas
Pickering, but questions remain whether the Soviet diplomat,
who once served in Kabul, was speaking for Moscow or only for
himself.
   Covert funding for the war comes from an estimated $280
million hastily approved by House and Senate Appropriations
Committees last fall, but the same lawmakers are more
skeptical today. The mujahdeen resistance, backed by the
U.S., Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, controls the Afghan
countryside but appears mired in a political and military
stalemate against the Soviet-financed Najibullah regime,
which holds Kabul and other major cities. Resistance claims
of fighting are regarded as suspect by their own supporters,
and within the U.S. intelligence community there is support
for the judgment that mujahdeen forces could fare as well if
both superpowers mutually reduced aid.
   "I feel just as hard as flint," says Senate Appropriations
Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, a powerful champion for
continuing aid. But the West Virginia Democrat says he would
consider cuts if an enforceable agreement could be reached
with the Soviets to do the same.
   "My concern is we're funding tribes that are fighting one
another," says Rep. John Murtha (D., Pa.), chairman of the
House subcommittee on defense appropriations. And his Senate
counterpart, Sen. Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii), recently
portrayed the guerrillas as a force "whose own unity of
purpose has been shattered by internecine strife." Of future
funding, Mr. Inouye says: "I'm certain we will take a better
look at it. The administration should be prepared for that."
   As Sen. Inouye's comments suggest, the entire Afghan
policy has proceeded with few questions to date from
Congress. Past pressure has come almost exclusively from a
core group of conservatives who have been willing to invest
time in the issue and are intensely supportive of the
mujahdeen cause. By comparison, more moderate and often more
powerful lawmakers have been silent, rarely challenging U.S.
policy or even educating themselves about the distant war.
   A year after the Soviet withdrawal, this tone has changed.
Though no firm consensus has emerged, lawmakers question not
only the costs of the war but the rationale for suppressing
debate by keeping the funding secret. There is no sympathy
for Mr. Najibullah, but members are willing to criticize the
guerrillas and the level of random killing sustained by U.S.
and Soviet assistance.
   "I think it is time to review the policy," says Senate
Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), and
much the same sentiment is echoed by Sen. Bill Bradley (D.,
N.J.) and Maine Sen. William Cohen, the ranking Republican on
Senate Intelligence. "I think there are gaps in our
knowledge," says Mr. Bradley, who was an early proponent of
U.S. aid but has become one of the most outspoken critics in
committee deliberations on the issue. "The key is the policy,
and the policy has to adjust to changing circumstances," he
says. "I wonder to (what) extent this has been seriously
reviewed and looked at afresh."
   The dissent on Afghanistan comes as lawmakers are
re-examining the secret U.S. role in wars in Cambodia and
Angola. Sen. Boren's panel voted last month to end covert aid
to anti-communist forces in Cambodia, and a secret funding
request for U.S.-backed forces in Angola was trimmed back by
the House intelligence panel this spring. Restrictions on aid
to the mujahdeen in Afghanistan are being discussed as well.
To buy time, Mr. Baker has highlighted his commitment to a
diplomatic solution, but the secretary surprised some in his
own State Department when he testified recently that the
remaining differences are "very, very narrow."
   The two sides are near agreement on Afghan elections to be
overseen by an independent commission, but the more crucial
question has always been whether Mr. Najibullah will run the
government while the campaign takes place. A former head of
hated security forces, the Afghan leader is an anathema to
the resistance. And for all his skills as a politician, Mr.
Najibullah has yet to establish his own legitimacy or
direction after Marxism.
   One option is for an independent commission -- including
respected Afghans -- to ask Mr. Najibullah and the most
radical mujahdeen leadership to step aside during the
elections. The stalemate underscores the limits of influence
for the two superpowers, which, after spending billions on
opposing armies, have developed an almost collegial
relationship on Afghanistan even as they are held captive by
their conflicting alliances.
   Moscow turned to Washington in May, for example, when it
feared heavy rocket attacks by the mujahdeen in Kabul. And in
a plea reminiscent of America's own agony after Vietnam, the
Soviets seek help in freeing their prisoners of war held by
the guerrillas.
   In turn, the U.S. is restricted not only by Mr.
Najibullah's survival but Washington's own decision to cut
itself off from Kabul by withdrawing all American diplomats
last year. After staying through the Soviet occupation, the
U.S. pulled out just as Russian troops withdrew. And though
the decision was justified first on security grounds, the
State Department is fearful that it will only further anger
the mujahdeen if a charge d'affaires is sent back now.
   With its grassy playing fields and solid German
engineering, the U.S. compound in Kabul has become a symbol
for many Afghans of all the promise -- and emptiness -- of
the West. Pakistan, which is directly enmeshed in the
Afghanistan conflict, retains a highly respected diplomatic
staff in Kabul, while thousands of miles away, analysts in
Washington are reduced to asking returning reporters for
copies of Afghan newspapers they can no longer get. Friendly
diplomats express bafflement at the closed-door policy, and
Washington suffers by appearing to have turned its back at
the very moment when Afghans are trying to reach out to the
West.
   "People are very interested in retying their links to
Western countries," says Ross Mountain, a senior official
with the growing U.N. presence in Kabul. Soviet supply planes
land daily, but around the corner from a faded sign in
Russian, Afghan soldiers practice their English. Finance
Minister Hamidullah Tarzi rambles fondly of college days in
southern Mississippi. And Pepsi is coming, lured by a new
generation of tax breaks.
   "I frankly think it would be good to have a charge
(d'affaires) there," says Sen. Boren. Massachusetts Rep.
Silvio Conte, the ranking Republican on the House
Appropriations Committee, attached report language to a
House-passed State Department funding bill calling for a
review of the current policy. Sen. Byrd and GOP conservatives
defend the closed embassy as being designed to isolate Mr.
Najibullah, but Rep. Henry Hyde, a strong supporter of the
mujahdeen, says he could support the assignment of analysts
or a charge d'affaires to Kabul. "I'm not offended by the
notion of it," says the Illinois Republican. "I would support
a charge (d'affaires) over there simply because you learn
more from talking and listening to people."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Comfed Bancorp.:
   Thrift's Revamp Plan Fails
   To Get Federal Approval
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CFK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Comfed Bancorp., struggling to keep from being declared
insolvent by federal regulators, said a plan to restructure
the thrift failed to receive approval by the federal Office
of Thrift Supervision.
   Comfed, Lowell, Mass., said that the action was "not
unexpected," but that it continues to seek regulatory
approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month, the holding company for Comfed Savings Bank
said it expected to receive a report from its auditors,
expressing serious doubt about its ability to continue as a
going concern.
   The company also reported a net loss of $38.2 million, or
$4.57 a share, for its fourth quarter ended March 31. A year
earlier, Comfed had a loss of $3.5 million, or 42 cents a
share. For the fiscal year, the company's net loss was $47.9
million, or $5.73 a share, compared with a year-earlier loss
of $3.5 million, or 42 cents a share.
   Comfed has assets of $1.4 billion. The thrift's decline,
as with many others in New England, came as a result of a
soured real estate market in the region.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   TENS OF THOUSANDS MARCHED in Moscow to demand greater
democracy.
   The protesters walked to the Kremlin's walls just two days
after the conclusion of a Communist Party congress at which
Gorbachev consolidated his control of the party's center but
lost some of the party's best-known progressive members, who
quit. The Soviet president issued a decree yesterday that
would grant all groups access to television and radio but
still maintain Moscow's control over the airwaves in all
republics. Gorbachev met with visiting West German Chancellor
Kohl concerning a unified Germany's military status, and both
said they were near an accord.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Poland is demanding that the four World War II allies
retain occupation rights over Germany after unification,
until the Germans sign a treaty recognizing current borders
as permanent.
   ---
   Britain's trade secretary resigned Saturday following an
interview in which he said that surrendering sovereignty to
the EC was like giving "it to Adolf Hitler." Separately, the
Independent newspaper said Prime Minister Thatcher held a
meeting in March about "Germans and their characteristics,"
such as "bullying."
   ---
   Bush may order an independent study to probe NASA's
problems. A presidential spokesman, while declining to
confirm reports by CBS News and the Orlando, Fla., Sentinel,
said a number of ideas were under review. Fuel leaks have
grounded the space shuttles, and the recently launched Hubble
telescope has a serious focusing flaw.
   ---
   The House passed an appropriations bill that would
authorize the Secret Service to initiate investigations of
savings-and-loan fraud and would direct the IRS to step up
its tax-enforcement actions against foreign-owned U.S.
companies. The $20.7 billion measure won easy approval Friday
on a 300-72 roll call.
   ---
   Hundreds of Albanian refugees arrived in Marseille,
France, following a three-day boat trip from their hard-line
Communist nation. They were the last of about 4,500 who
boarded five ferries last week for Western Europe after
taking refuge in Western embassies in their capital, Tirana.
Over 3,000 more traveled by train to West Germany.
   ---
   A Senate panel announced a $289 billion defense spending
bill Friday. The Senate Armed Services Committee's bill
delays development or procurement of the Air Force's C-17
troop transport and Advanced Tactical Fighter, as well as a
fleet of carrier-based attack planes and quiet submarines for
the Navy.
   ---
   Poland's lower legislative body cleared two bills to
relinquish the more than 80% of industry owned by the state
and to create an agency to oversee the changes. The bills,
expected to be passed by the upper house, allow the sale of
state firms' shares to all citizens, with workers able to buy
20% of their company's shares on special terms.
   ---
   The Senate voted 91-6 for a bill to ensure disabled people
access to many commercial and social activities. President
Bush is expected to sign the bill, which would ban
discrimination in public accommodations, employment, ground
transportation and telecommunications. It would cover all but
the smallest establishments and employers.
   ---
   Bomb attacks killed 43 people and injured more than 100 in
Pakistan's Sind province. Six bombs exploded in Hyderabad,
Sind's second-largest city, and a seventh blast occurred on
an express train, according to doctors and police. The
bombings coincided with a protest strike that was called by
the nationalist Jiay Sind movement.
   ---
   Mohawk Indians reversed themselves and kept up their
blockade of a bridge into Montreal, claiming authorities
reneged on a promise to reduce the police contingent in Oka.
The town was the scene of a shootout last week between police
and the Indians, who are seeking to block the expansion of a
golf course onto their ancestral land.
   ---
   South African police said three explosions in Johannesburg
and scattered violence in the eastern province of Natal
killed seven blacks and injured 21. Meanwhile, the Zulu
tribe's political arm, Inkatha, urged President de Klerk to
move quickly to start negotiations on a post-apartheid
constitution.
   ---
   The Army said it will phase out reserve officer training
programs at 50 colleges and universities in the U.S. as a
cost-cutting step. The move means that almost one of every
eight Army ROTC units nationwide will be disbanded by the
fall of 1991.
   ---
   India's Prime Minister Singh withdrew his resignation, but
a dispute within the coalition government was unresolved as
four more ministers reportedly quit, bringing to 13 the
number who have left. The dispute involves a power struggle
between Singh and Devi Lal, India's deputy prime minister.
   ---
   A Chinese dissident has been sent from Beijing into
internal exile, Chinese sources said. Liu Qing, 43 years old,
who spent more than a decade in prison for the role he played
in the "democracy wall" movement of the late 1970s, was taken
recently to the northern province of Shaanxi to work in a
factory, according to the sources.
   ---
   Liberian and rebel forces battled on the outskirts of
Monrovia, witnesses reported, and hundreds of civilians fled
the capital. Diplomats and international relief sources said
that a steady stream of refugees was heading toward
neighboring Sierra Leone.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Rite Aid, Despite Legal Problems, May Prove
   Good Medicine for Buyers, Some Analysts Say
   ----
   By Randolph Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   RAD
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   You wouldn't think Rite Aid would be on anyone's buy list.
Both the company and its president, Martin Grass, are on
trial in Cleveland on a felony charge of bribing an Ohio
official. Profit has been mediocre for two years.
   Yet buying of the stock has begun, and could accelerate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whatever the trial's outcome, analysts say, the stock
probably will rise. The verdict, expected later this month,
will end 17 months of uncertainty that have scared Wall
Street. "The investment community would react very positively
to the cloud being lifted," says Robert Roth of Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
   Even if the company is convicted and pays a fine, Mr. Roth
believes the stock will climb. A jail term for Mr. Grass or
loss of pharmacy licenses would hurt the stock, but both
prospects are "unlikely," he says. He rates the stock "above
average," with potential to outperform the market 10% over
the next 12 months.
   Fans say the shares, at 36 3/8 Friday, could rise to the
low to mid-40s in the next year or so as profit rebounds now
that an acquisition binge has been completed. There are
skeptics, of course. At more than 13 times Street estimates
of current-year earnings, the stock is a "hold" in the view
of independent analyst Monroe Greenstein, who says: "It's not
overpriced, but not cheap either."
   Fidelity Investments purchased 1.5 million Rite Aid shares
in the first quarter, despite disappointing earnings and the
trial. "We see both of those negative issues coming to an end
and a lot of upside potential," says Larry Greenberg,
assistant manager of Fidelity's Magellan Fund.
   Says the manager of another fund, which recently acquired
300,000 shares, "Without the trial, this would be a $40 stock
and we wouldn't be in it. How else could you buy a stock with
15% growth potential so cheap?"
   Rite Aid has bought more than 700 stores since 1987,
boosting its total to 2,360 stores in 22 states. Heavy
expenses for store remodeling and computer systems held the
company's rise in profit from continuing businesses to only
1% in fiscal 1989 and 3% in fiscal 1990, excluding one-time
charges.
   Rite Aid got into legal trouble after acquiring more than
250 stores in Ohio. In January 1989 the Ohio Board of
Pharmacy fined the company $50,000 for allowing
nonpharmacists access to prescription drugs. Rite Aid
complained of unfair treatment. Then in April 1989, Mr. Grass
and the corporation were charged with bribery for allegedly
paying about $33,000 to obtain the resignation of a pharmacy
board member in an alleged scheme to control the board. Rite
Aid denies any wrongdoing, contending that the payment was a
legitimate buy-out of a consulting contract.
   Most analysts believe that Mr. Grass, the 36-year-old son
of Rite Aid's chairman and chief executive officer, Alex
Grass, will be acquitted. Even a conviction shouldn't hurt
the company's earnings recovery, says analyst Walter Loeb.
With big acquisitions largely digested, Rite Aid's profit is
starting to pick up. After rising 8% in the first quarter,
ended June 2, earnings are widely expected to rise 15%
annually this year and next. Consensus pershare estimates are
$2.65 for fiscal 1991 and $3 for fiscal 1992. For the year
ended March 3, Rite Aid had profit from continuing operations
of $81.9 million, or $1.97 a share, after a 32-cent charge
for closing a video rental business.
   "No matter what happens, I think the stock will go up" to
the low 40s within 12 months, Mr. Loeb says. He rates the
stock a hold, but is considering a buy recommendation once
the trial is over.
   Analysts see one big risk if Rite Aid is convicted: States
could try to revoke its pharmacy licenses. Oddly enough,
there is less danger in Ohio than elsewhere. Ohio laws
haven't any provision for penalizing retail pharmacies for
bribery or other nondrug crimes. The pharmacy board could
conceivably revoke Rite Aid's separate license as a wholesale
distributor of controlled substances. But an Ohio official
says such action is "unlikely" and would have little, if any,
effect on retail pharmacy operations.
   In New York, where Rite Aid has 252 stores, conviction in
another state would be considered "professional misconduct"
and could result in license revocation, says Charles Adams,
executive director of the state Office of Professional
Discipline. The state can investigate and recommend action to
the Board of Regents. (No action could be taken if Mr. Grass
were convicted but Rite Aid wasn't.) Pennsylvania law is less
clear. The state Board of Pharmacy probably would have
authority to take action, most likely a fine or reprimand,
says Michael Barrett, chief prosecutor for the state's Bureau
of Professional and Occupational Affairs. His staff will give
the board a legal opinion following the trial.
   ---
   Rite Aid
   (NYSE; Symbol: RAD)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Drugstore Chain
                                                                                                       

   Year ended March 3, 1990:
   Sales: $3.17 billion
   Net Income: $102.1 million*; $2.46 a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, June 2, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 61 cents vs. 59 cents**
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 87,658 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 41.5 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $22 million pre-tax charge related to department
closings. Also includes $20.2 million profit from
discontinued operations.
   **Year-ago figure restated to reflect discountinued
operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   As Rates Ease, Look Before Leaping for Higher Yields
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   With the Federal Reserve moving to lower interest rates,
individual investors are going to be tempted in the weeks
ahead to "reach" for higher yields.
   Interest rates had been drifting lower even before Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan surprised the investment community
last week with his statement that the U.S. central bank is
poised to ease rates in an effort to head off a credit
crunch. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes, for example, have
declined to about 8.4% from nearly 9% just a little over two
months ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fed's action is likely to send ripples throughout the
investment world, driving down yields on the money-market
mutual funds and bank certificates of deposit that have
become the refuge of yield-hungry investors.
   Investors eager for the kind of yields they have taken for
granted until recently may find themselves drawn by the
apparent charms of some unfamiliar investments. Government
"agency" securities, mortgage-backed bonds, junk-bond mutual
funds and some other exotic investments all hold out the
promise of yields that are still tantalizingly high.
   But investment specialists caution against leaping too
fast. Many of these investments involve special risks that
often aren't easily recognized. Investors who don't take time
to find out what they're getting into -- and to evaluate
whether the potential returns justify the risks -- are
leaving themselves open for a rude awakening.
   "More money has been lost reaching for yield than in all
the stock market speculations, scams and frauds of all
times," warns Raymond F. DeVoe Jr., investment strategist at
Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc.
   For many investors, safe and stodgy Treasury securities
(or money funds and CDs) may still be the best bet.
   With that in mind, here's a look at some of the current
alternatives for yield-oriented investors, and some thoughts
from investment advisers on the potential risks and rewards:
                                                                                                       

   GOVERNMENT AGENCY BONDS: Agency securities are issued by a
variety of government agencies and government-sponsored
agencies, such as the Farm Credit System, the Federal Home
Loan Banks, the Resolution Funding Corp. and the Student Loan
Marketing Association. Typically, they yield one-quarter to
about three-quarters of a percentage point more than Treasury
securities. For example, on Friday, 30-year bonds of the
Financing Corp. (or FICO, which was set up in 1987 to cope
with an earlier phase of the savings and loan crisis) yielded
9.06%.
   Bonds of FICO, Resolution Funding Corp. and many other
agencies are not backed by the full faith and credit of the
U.S. government -- unlike Treasury bonds, which are fully
backed. But many people consider the agency bonds virtually
as safe as Treasurys because of the expectation Congress
would always feel obligated to rescue an agency that got into
trouble.
   For individual investors, the biggest drawback may be that
the resale market for agency securities isn't as strong or
reliable as for Treasurys. That could make it difficult to
sell one's holdings in a hurry. Also check the tax
consequences: Interest on some issues, such as FICO bonds,
are free from all state and local income taxes, as are all
Treasury issues. But interest on others is taxable at the
state and local level. And, to complicate matters further,
the rules vary from state to state.
                                                                                                       

   MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES: Mortgage-backed securities are
"pass-through" securities, created from pools of mortgages
that are packaged together and sold as bonds; the monthly
payments of interest and principal on the underlying mortgage
debt are "passed through" to investors. They can be bought as
individual bonds, with minimums that range from $1,000 to
$25,000, depending on the issuer, or through mutual funds or
unit investment trusts.
   Investors can earn more than a full percentage point above
Treasurys on some mortgage-backed securities, such as those
issued by the Government National Mortgage Association, or
Ginnie Mae. For example, some actively traded Ginnie Mae
securities were quoted Friday at a price to yield about
9.75%.
   Ginnie Maes are backed by the full faith and credit of the
U.S. government. Mortgage-backed securities issued by the
Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Maes) and the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (Freddie Macs), while not
directly guaranteed by the government, are considered almost
as secure.
   But mortgage-backed securities have some important
drawbacks. Perhaps the biggest is that it's tough to know
exactly what the return will be. Because homeowners may pay
off or refinance their mortgages at any time, the pace of
principal payments on the securities can fluctuate
significantly. An investor counting on a steady flow of
income for years to come, could find the security repaid much
sooner, especially at times of falling interest rates when
homeowners are often tempted to refinance. The investor could
then be stuck with the need to reinvest at a time when rates
are unattractively low.
   So-called collateralized mortgage obligations, or CMOs,
are designed to improve on traditional mortgage securities by
smoothing the rate of early principal payments. But they are
less liquid, more costly to trade and harder to track. What's
more, CMOs come with sizable recordkeeping and reinvestment
headaches.
                                                                                                       

   INTERNATIONAL BONDS: Bonds of several major foreign
countries, easily available to American investors through
mutual funds, pay much higher yields than U.S. issues. For
example, Canadian government bonds due in three years now
yield about 11.5%, British government bonds more than 12.5%,
and Australian government bonds about 13.66%, according to
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   "We feel these higher-yielders are going to be attractive
for global investors into 1991," says Nicholas Sargen, a
director of bond market research at Salomon. In addition to
their high yields, these bonds "offer the prospect of
long-term capital gains" for investors because interest rates
in those countries are likely to drop, he contends.
   But foreign-bond yields can be extremely volatile. Earlier
this year, surging global interest rates hammered investors
in international bonds, especially Japanese, Canadian and
Australian issues. Moreover, investors need to keep a close
watch on foreign-currency markets: Unexpected currency
gyrations can easily turn big profits into painful losses.
                                                                                                       

   JUNK-BOND FUNDS: Investors in mutual funds that specialize
in high-yield, high-risk junk bonds took a beating last year.
But now that the value of many junk bonds has been pounded
down, some investors have been tiptoeing back into the funds.
That could be a big mistake.
   True, junk-bond mutual funds produced a higher total
return (share-price change plus dividends) during the second
quarter than any other category of domestic bond fund,
according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. But if the
economy slumps, companies with heavy debt burdens are likely
to run into severe trouble, many analysts predict. In fact,
they say the main reason interest rates are falling is
because of the economy's growing weakness.
   Thus, investors should be especially leery of bonds issued
by companies struggling with heavy debt burdens. "I still
think the junk area is an area to be very wary about," says
Mr. DeVoe of Legg Mason. "I think you'd be making a big
mistake to go diving into this area right now."
                                                                                                       

   HIGH-YIELD MUNIS: While long-term, triple-A municipals now
yield about 7%, some other issues offer much higher taxfree
yields. But deciding whether those yields are ample reward
for the risks involved requires special scrutiny.
   Last month, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,
a well-known and respected borrower in the municipal market,
lent its name to a $202 million issue of "special project"
bonds with yields that went as high as 9.625% -- equivalent
to a taxable yield of more than 13% for an investor in the
28% federal income tax bracket. But any investors who think
it's possible to buy a bond with that kind of yield and get
the backing of the Port Authority's full faith and credit
haven't done their homework.
   The bonds sold last month are, essentially, backed by
rental income from a passenger terminal under construction at
New York's LaGuardia airport for Continental Airlines Inc.
and Eastern Airlines. Eastern is operating under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code; Continental is a unit of
Continental Airlines Holdings Inc.
   The bonds, which are unrated, involve "a significant
degree of investment risk," according to the offering
statement. "We made sure the bondholders' risk section
pointed out the risks very plainly," says John Haupert, the
Port Authority's treasurer.
   While many professional money managers spurned the bonds,
the issue was heavily oversubscribed, with wealthy individual
investors reportedly among the eager buyers.
   For individuals who understand the risks and still want
muni junk, mutual funds offer diversification and
professional management. But investing in a high-yield muni
fund doesn't guarantee you'll get higher returns.
   According to Lipper, high-yield municipal funds generated
an average total return over the latest five years of 58.8%.
That's just a hair more than the 57.7% total return on
general municipal funds over the same period. In the latest
year, high-yield muni funds had an average total return of
5.20%; general muni funds had an average return of 5.22%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Micron Products Inc.:
   Creditors Force Numedco
   Into Bankruptcy Proceedings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PMR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Micron Products Inc., New York, said unsecured creditors
of its troubled Numedco Inc. subsidiary have moved to force
Numedco into bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Micron said the creditors filed a complaint in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Philadelphia. Rather than undergo
involuntary proceedings, Numedco will ask for protection
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code, Micron said.
Under Chapter 11, a company continues to operate, with
protection from creditor lawsuits, while working out a plan
to settle debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kuno Laren, chairman of Micron, said Numedco, which has
been unprofitable for seven quarters, has been attempting to
sell assets to satisfy secured debt. Mr. Laren estimated that
the unsecured creditors, unpaid since June 6, are owed $3
million.
   Micron is a maker of medical products; Numedco, which is
curtailing operations, has been a distributor of medical and
surgical supplies. According to Mr. Laren, the parent company
hasn't guaranteed any of Numedco's unsecured debts.
   Micron said its manufacturing business remains profitable
"and will continue."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cambrex Corp.:
   Venture Seeks Part of Line
   Of American Cyanamid Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBAM ACY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cambrex Corp., a specialty chemical maker based in East
Rutherford, N.J., said it intends to become the majority
partner in a joint venture that would acquire part of the
textile-chemical business of American Cyanamid Co., a Wayne,
N.J., maker of chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
   The parties declined to disclose terms of the proposed
transaction. But Cambrex said the operations to be acquired
include Cyanamid's textile-chemical plant in Charlotte, N.C.,
and have annual sales exceeding $20 million. The deal is
subject to a definitive pact, board approvals and other
conditions. Cyanamid confirmed that the transaction outlined
by Cambrex is under negotiation, but it declined to say why
it would sell the textile-chemical operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cambrex's minority partner in the venture would be an
investor group led by L. David Moore, an executive most
recently with Interchem Inc., then an Atlanta unit of RTZ
Corp., London. Reached in Atlanta, Mr. Moore said he left
Interchem as president last October, shortly after it was
acquired by Rhone-Poulenc S.A. of France.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southeast Banking Corp.:
   Net Loss of $20.7 Million
   Is Posted for 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southeast Banking Corp., Miami, reported a second-quarter
net loss of $20.7 million, or 66 cents a share, reflecting a
previously announced surge in nonperforming assets.
   Southeast had net income of $32.3 million, or $1 a share,
a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In mid-June, Southeast said it expected to report a
second-quarter loss because of the worsening condition of the
Florida real-estate market. In line with that expectation,
the banking company said nonperforming assets rose to $619
million as of June 30, from $474 million at March 31. The
reserve for loan losses was boosted to $279 million, or 2.73%
of loans, from $258 million at the end of March.
   Nonperforming assets are loans that have been foreclosed
or are more than 90 days past due. Loan-loss reserves are a
fund that banks set aside to offset expected losses from bad
loans.
   For the first half, Southeast reported a loss of $77.5
million, or $2.41 a share, compared with earnings of $65.4
million, or $2.04 a share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sears Will Post
   40% Decline
   In Quarterly Net
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. said it expects to report
second-quarter profit plunged about 40% because of
higher-than-anticipated insurance claims and its
deteriorating retail business.
   The company projected earnings of about 65 cents a share,
compared with $391.2 million, or $1.11 a share, a year ago.
Earnings from continuing operations in last year's second
quarter were $334.9 million, or 95 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edward A. Brennan, chairman and chief executive officer of
the retailing and financial services concern, said he
continues "to expect a solid performance for the second half
of the year, based on our outlook for continued moderate
growth in the economy."
   But the announcement prompted analysts, many of whom have
been trimming their forecasts in recent weeks, to cut their
estimates further. Edward Weller of Montgomery Securities
said he is now forecasting full-year earnings of $1.35
billion, or $3.94 a share, down from $1.51 billion, or $4.30
a share, in 1989. "It looks like the eighth year of earning
approximately $4 a share," Mr. Weller said.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
Friday, Sears fell 37.5 cents to close at $34.25. Sears is
scheduled to report second-quarter results next week.
   The company blamed higher claims at its Allstate insurance
unit partly on recent fires in California and said profit at
its merchandise group would be lower than a year ago.
Analysts noted that the Sears retail business is still
struggling to meet its sales plan, and that earnings were
under pressure because of markdowns.
   Analysts nevertheless saw some cause for optimism.
"They're doing more and more of the right things," Mr. Weller
said. He cited a pickup in catalog sales after a decade of
stagnation and the company's new Brand Central appliance and
electronic departments, which are performing well.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spanish Car Sales Slump 21%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spanish car sales plummeted 21% in June to
91,818 cars from 115,618 cars a year earlier, the Spanish
Association of Car Makers said.
   The result brought sales in the year's first six months to
542,184 cars, down 8.7% from 593,801 cars a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop in June sales exceeded even the most pessimistic
projections, which anticipated a 16% decline.
   The association said Spain's tight credit restrictions,
coupled with a value-added tax of 33%, has hit auto sales
hard.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Timken Files Debt Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANTON, Ohio -- Timken Co. said it filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed public
offering of as much as $250 million in debt securities.
   The industrial manufacturer said it expects to issue from
time to time these debt securities as medium-term notes, with
terms to be determined at the time of each sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. are
expected to be the principal underwriters.
   Timken said proceeds from the sale would be used for its
capital expenditure program, additions to working capital,
possible acquisitions and reducing existing indebtedness,
including short-term debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lifetime Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LFT
</CO>
<LP>
   LIFETIME Corp. (Boston) -- Erkki Tikkanen resigned from
the board of this provider of home health care services for
personal reasons. A successor wasn't named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dynasty Undone:
   U-Haul's Patriarch
   Now Battles Offspring
   In Bitterest of Feuds
   ---
   L.S. Shoen, Ousted by Sons,
   Fights to Take Back Firm
   He Built From Scratch
   ---
   Suits, Schemes &amp; Showdowns
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TONOPAH, Nev. -- After slipping in through a side door,
E.J. "Joe" Shoen, head of the U-Haul rental empire, greeted
his stockholders with a scowl. It was a fitting welcome to a
meeting that had the air of a backwater cockfight.
   As a pistol-packing guard hovered over the sparse crowd
inside a dreary rented hall here, Joe Shoen's aging father
jumped up and began berating him from the floor. Joe quickly
tried to cut him off.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Wait a minute," a red-faced L.S. Shoen sputtered. "Mr.
Chairman, I am your father, I established this company, I
have some points to make. I have never in the history of your
life, in my relationship with you, ever prohibited you or
stopped you from speaking your mind within a reasonable
limit. The fact is I have never stopped you."
   But Leonard Samuel Shoen wishes he could.
   In 1986, Joe Shoen, a burly lawyer with a Harvard MBA,
ousted his father as chairman of Amerco, U-Haul's parent
company, on the ground that the elder Mr. Shoen's mercurial
style was ruining the Phoenix, Ariz., company. Ever since,
the family patriarch has been fighting to reclaim his empire.
In the course of the longrunning battle, the company that
once dominated the lucrative business of renting out trailers
and trucks has lost market share to aggressive competitors
such as Ryder System Inc. and has wasted assets on
misbegotten diversification moves.
   The vicious feud among the Shoens vividly illustrates the
conflicts that can mangle family-run companies when
generations collide. Rife with greed, it has divided L.S.
Shoen's seven sons and five daughters into warring camps and
mired Amerco in lawsuits, plots and purges.
   The bitterness runs so deep that a March 1989
shareholders' meeting erupted in a family brawl. The
patriarch's lifetime employment contract, which amounted to a
pension, was terminated by son Joe, who, in turn, accuses his
father of sicking the Internal Revenue Service on him. And
Dr. Sam Shoen, who supports his father, contends that someone
in Joe's group told Arizona medical licensing authorities
that he was a drunken psychopath.
   This war of attrition has hurt the company and the family
in countless ways, not the least of which is money. Amerco
has paid $5 million in legal fees so far, and Joe Shoen
complained, during one court hearing, that his attorney bills
exceeded his gross income. "It's as if I had a foot that had
gangrene," he said.
   Behind such hostilities lies the almost Shakespearean
tragedy of L.S. Shoen, a man too busy building his empire to
unravel the malignant rivalries festering among the sons and
daughters who would one day inherit it. That failure now
haunts him in the form of two rebellious sons, Joe and Mark.
"Their desire for absolute power is insatiable," Jerry Day, a
Tucson psychologist who has worked with the family, once
wrote of the two brothers. "The more they have, the more they
want."
   The empire in the middle of this firestorm is not the
profit machine it was in the 1960s, when U-Haul was a
burgeoning company with no real competition. In recent years,
management missteps and potent competitors have put its
earnings on a roller coaster. They hit $41.6 million in the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1984, then plunged to a meager
$2.2 million three years later, before bouncing back to $36.2
million in fiscal 1989. Through the fiscal first nine months
ended last Dec. 31, the latest figure available, net income
fell again. It dropped 39% from a year earlier to $28.3
million, even though revenue rose 1% to $737.6 million.
Amerco blamed rising vehicle-replacement costs.
   But with a fleet of 150,000 trucks and trailers and a
real-estate portfolio worth an estimated $1 billion or more,
Amerco remains an alluring prize. Now, its frustrated,
74-year-old founder's only goal is to regain control long
enough to sell it to an outsider and end the fighting. But in
earlier years, he had a grand vision of U-Haul as the jewel
of a business empire that would endure in his family for
generations.
   The son of an Oregon farmer ruined by the Depression, L.S.
Shoen picked fruit, butchered cattle and barbered his way
through three years of medical school before being expelled
for answering for a friend in class. Driven by deep-seated
fear of going broke, the young man friends called "Slick"
boasted that he could pivot on a dime when he got an idea.
   And he got a good one as a young World War II naval
officer trying to find a cheap way to haul his family's
belongings from base to base. He built his first trailers on
his father-in-law's farm in Ridgefield, Wash. He started
U-Haul in 1945, with little capital and a cadre of former
blue-collar workers that he transformed into executives with
a home-grown management philosophy that fused the teachings
of Napoleon and St. Francis of Assisi with corny credos such
as ExKH=R (energy times know-how equals results). At staff
meetings, L.S. might distribute Abraham Lincoln's letters or
deliver lengthy lectures on the "Seven Environments of
Organizations."
   Obsessed with building his new company, L.S. Shoen left
his wife and children for weeks at a time while he hit the
road with a toolbox under his car seat. Working 16-hour days,
he recruited new dealers during the day, repaired trailers by
streetlight deep into the night and slept in his car. To
establish bases in cities he couldn't visit, he rented
trailers to anyone who promised to drop them off at a service
station that looked like a potential U-Haul dealer. By the
mid-1950s, his dealer network stretched from Portland and Los
Angeles to Miami and New York and accounted for 250,000
rentals a year.
   In his vision of the future, this empire was to be handed
over to his 12 children, especially the boys. As teen-agers,
some of his sons spent so much time painting U-Haul trailers
that they joked about having orange blood. Their father
increased their responsibilities as they grew older, even
buying a Phoenix amusement park as a family management
project.
   Much to his later regret, Mr. Shoen also gave his children
Amerco stock, so much of it that they eventually owned 95% of
the company and he a mere 2%. While the gifts gave him tax
benefits, they gave his children control over U-Haul's
future.
                                                                                                       

   The Problems Begin
                                                                                                       

   Almost from the start, his dynastic dreams became tangled
in a gnarl of personal problems. His wife of 13 years died of
heart failure in 1957, leaving him with six young children; a
year later, the 41-year-old widower married Suzanne Gilbert,
the 23-year-old daughter of a neighbor.
   That spawned years of trouble.
   The older sons, Sam and Mike, were packed off to boarding
school, but Joe and Mark, the next in line, stayed home. They
became allies in a grinding war of wills with their
stepmother. "Mark and Joe hated her guts in ways that were
unreal," recalls Mr. Shoen, who says they bombarded him with
tales of his wife's supposed misdeeds every time he came home
from a business trip.
   By the time the Shoens and U-Haul moved to Phoenix from
Portland in 1967, the friction had escalated so much that
police were called to the family mansion one night following
an argument between Mark and his stepmother. "He punched her
out, and I mean hard," says the patriarch. In 1977, after 19
years of marriage and five children, she got a divorce. (His
third wife bore his 12th child.)
   But the power struggle to come would not be between the
groups of Shoen children from different mothers. Instead, the
primary combatants would be the patriarch's four eldest sons
by his first wife.
   In the mid-1970s, they began vaulting into the upper ranks
of U-Haul management. Third son Joe, the president of U-Haul
International, harbored ambitions of succeeding his father,
but company executives knew that L.S. Shoen's choice was
eldest son Sam, the head of East Coast field operations, who,
at his father's request, had abandoned a promising medical
career to join the company.
   In addition to wrestling with their own rivalries, the
brothers had to work side-by-side with their father, a
veritable whirlwind of contradiction and eccentricity. He
lived in a mansion designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, yet
insisted on cheap motels and McDonald's hamburgers while on
the road. Though demanding that his executives think for
themselves -- he sometimes handed out $100 bills for good
ideas -- he could explode in anger when things weren't done
to his liking. He once tossed $1,000 in cash from his office
balcony in front of stunned executives to dramatize his point
that they were throwing away money on unnecessary expenses.
   U-Haul dealers never knew when the founder, who piloted
his own small plane, might suddenly appear on their lot and
quiz employees or inspect equipment. New Orleans police were
astonished to learn that the apparent burglar they had nabbed
scaling a dealership fence at 2 o'clock one morning was
U-Haul's millionaire founder, who wanted to inspect a damaged
truck he had spotted while driving by.
                                                                                                       

   U-Haul's Fortunes Wane
                                                                                                       

   Sam Shoen says brother Joe was already complaining about
their father's decision-making when they both joined the
company in 1973. "I'd walk home with him at night, and he'd
say, `The company is going bankrupt,'" Sam recalls.
   Though L.S. Shoen scoffed at the grumbling, U-Haul was in
trouble. Competitors had begun snaring U-Haul customers, and
soaring fuel prices caused the closing of hundreds of
full-service gas stations that had been U-Haul dealers. In
typical freewheeling fashion, L.S. Shoen responded with a
bold diversification plan; ultimately, he opened a travel
agency, a full-service moving company and a mobile-home
rental service. He also started the first of nearly 1,100
free-standing "rental centers," stocking them with everything
from surfboards and baby chairs to champagne fountains and
folding dance floors.
   But the founder's visions weren't always carefully thought
out. In some cases, U-Haul dealers were asked to rent out
items they hadn't been trained to operate. Other items
gathered by Mr. Shoen were simply unrentable, such as the
Asian-made picnic tables that were too small for American
adults. While the company borrowed heavily to finance the
expansion, Mr. Shoen lost customers by stubbornly refusing to
replace aging trucks and trailers.
   "They lost their focus and let their core business run
down," says Alex Gould, a transportation analyst at Moody's
Investors Service.
   As the business deteriorated, the recently divorced
patriarch tumbled into a deep depression that eventually led
to a two-week stay at a Los Angeles hospital in 1978. He
returned to find Mike grousing about harassment from Joe, and
Sam being accused of incompetence by Joe and Mark, who during
staff meetings began badgering their father about his
decisions.
   Not even group counseling sessions with a psychologist and
a family-business expert could bring peace. So L.S. Shoen
shuffled his sons' assignments -- and created even more
resentment. Family members say an angry Mark took over West
Coast operations only after his father agreed not to visit or
communicate with any U-Haul employee in the region.
   Eventually, in 1979, Joe and Mark resigned. Still hoping
to bring them back into the fold, L.S. continued to pay their
$86,000 salaries for two more years and let Form Builders
Inc., their new printing business, handle most of U-Haul's
business forms.
                                                                                                       

   Joe and Mark Strike
                                                                                                       

   But Joe apparently had something else in mind. In a 1988
deposition given in one of the family's many legal
confrontations in Arizona Superior Court, a longtime family
friend, Darrell Hamby, testified about a sheet of legal paper
that he frequently saw on Joe's desk during the early 1980s.
Although Joe has denied its existence, Mr. Hamby said he
recalled its title being something like "Getting Rid of the
Founding Father."
   By late 1984, L.S. Shoen had given Joe and Mark, who
retained their large stockholdings, plenty of ammunition to
do just that. His refusal to replace U-Haul vehicles had
allowed Ryder to pull almost even in market share. With
U-Haul awash in high-interest debt, the expansion was halted,
and U-Haul laid off 5,000 workers, cut management salaries
10% and canceled the $200 employee Christmas bonus.
   Armed with dire warnings about U-Haul's future and
promises of cash dividends on Amerco stock, Joe and Mark
enlisted enough family support to vote their father out as
Amerco chairman at the October 1986 shareholders' meeting.
The shaken founder -- who would later compare his betrayal to
that of Julius Caesar by the Roman Senate -- agreed to
retire, provided that his warring sons met with a
professional mediator to hammer out a compromise on future
management. The result was a disastrous arrangement that
paired Sam Shoen as Amerco president with archrival Joe as
chairman of a four-member board that included younger
brothers Jim and Paul, both his supporters.
   Still hoping for peace, L.S. Shoen put the best face on
the coup at a retirement gala that the company dubbed the
"Celebration of Love and Respect." "I do have enough sense to
know that I should stop, move aside and get out of the way
without abandoning ship," he told the crowd. "I do want you
all to know that I trust my sons and daughters --
absolutely."
   Just two days later, Mr. Shoen recalls, "I was on the
phone with Joe, and he accused me of stealing hundreds of
millions of his money by the way I had been running the
company. He (was) very brutal about it."
   Three months later, Sam Shoen quit as president amid
continued bickering with Joe, who, according to Sam,
frequently countermanded and criticized his decisions. In a
letter, L.S. Shoen called Joe a "con man" and demanded his
resignation. "Your lust for power and greed blind you," he
wrote. "I will not quit until you are out."
   Amid the uproar, some of Joe's sibling backers began to
waver, leaving him with less than a majority of assured
votes. That set off a vigorous round of lobbying of family
shareholders. Joe delivered, for example, on his pledge to
declare the company's first dividends, including a
$13.50-a-share whopper that gave family members a windfall
totaling $1.3 million. At the same time, he again canceled
the employees' Christmas bonus, explaining in a company
newsletter that "I won't spend money we don't have on a
discretionary bonus."
   Hostilities also increased. That summer, Sam Shoen says,
the Arizona Board of Medical Examiners received an anonymous
complaint, later dismissed, that accused him of being a
psychopath, a drug addict and an alcoholic and of hindering
his father from getting proper medical care. Sam himself, who
was still an Amerco director, began pressing the board to
investigate the relationship between Amerco and Form
Builders, which continued to do much of U-Haul's printing.
IRS investigators also began looking into Form Builders,
focusing on its tax returns for the year ended June 30, 1984;
Sam and his father deny sparking the investigation.
   The printing company, which until fiscal 1984 had been
owned by conservatorships of Mark and Joe's three young
children, reported revenue of $2.4 million, all but about
$7,000 of it involving U-Haul printing. Yet the company's
stock was sold that year to a longtime friend of Mark and Joe
for just $33,000. But what really intrigued the IRS, and
ultimately led to a $470,000 judgment for back taxes against
Form Builders, was a $1 million deduction for payments to the
Shoen children's trusts. Form Builders had claimed them as
business expenses.
                                                                                                       

   Kitchen-Table Scheme
                                                                                                       

   By the last weekend in July 1988, Sam and his father had
won over enough family members to gain control of 52% of the
stock. But Joe outmaneuvered them with a scheme hatched, in
part, around his kitchen table. While Sam and company were in
New York talking to investment bankers about what to do with
their stockholdings, Joe and his supporters on the board
pushed through an agreement to sell 8,099 shares of Amerco
treasury stock to five loyal executives for about $22
million, thereby shifting majority voting power back to Joe's
group. The executives didn't even have to come up with the
cash: Joe lent them the $800,000 down payment, which he
borrowed from the conservatorship accounts of his two
children.
   Finally in full control, Joe barreled fullbore into a
five-year "back-to-basics" plan calling for replacement of
U-Haul's truck fleet at a cost of $1.5 billion, the sale of
unprofitable assets and the closure of many of the
unprofitable subsidiaries launched by L.S. Shoen a decade
earlier. The new management conducted the overhaul with all
the grace of a midnight coup, trumpeting in one 1989 press
release that "the chains of restraint that hobbled a stagnant
past management group were smashed."
   Longtime executives with close ties to the founder were
suddenly asked, with little or no explanation, to turn in
company cars and credit cards. John Fowler, a regional vice
president and a 33-year Amerco veteran, says he was sacked
after refusing to fire another executive.
   The firings infuriated the ousted founder. "These people
depended on me," says Mr. Shoen, who vented his rage in a
barrage of Arizona Superior Court lawsuits. One asked the
court to reverse the Amerco stock sale, on the ground that it
was merely a scam to gain control of the company. Three more
suits sought to have Joe and Mark removed as the conservators
of their children's trusts. In yet another action, joined by
sons Sam and Mike, L.S. Shoen accused Mark and Joe of
overcharging Amerco for Form Builders' services.
   Headlines about the feud unnerved Wall Street
credit-rating services enough that they issued a low initial
rating on, and effectively killed, a proposed $100 million
Amerco preferred stock offering. Amerco subsequently hit Sam
Shoen with a $750 million suit in the Arizona court accusing
him of trying to sabotage the company by giving confidential
information to outsiders and slandering it to the press. Joe
and Mark personally filed another suit in the same court
against their father, brothers Sam and Mike and their
attorney, Marvin Johnson of Phoenix, and asked the court to
enjoin them from continuing their "war of harassment."
   A way out of the tangled web was provided by Jerome
Kohlberg, the leveraged buy-out expert, who in early 1989
made an offer to L.S. Shoen to purchase Amerco for $875
million in cash and securities. But Joe rejected the bid
after meeting with the former Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
partner on a yacht off Florida.
                                                                                                       

   Bruising Confrontation
                                                                                                       

   That March, a scuffle broke out after the Amerco
shareholders' meeting in Reno, Nev., over attempts by former
U-Haul law director Mike Shoen, who supports his father, to
tape-record the session. Afterwards, Mike posed shirtless for
a photographer to display bruises that he asserted had been
inflicted by his brother Mark, now president of U-Haul
International. In a subsequent interview with the Arizona
Republic, Joe Shoen -- who scheduled the next shareholders'
meeting for remote Tonopah, Nev. -- denied that anyone had
been beaten up. "After the meeting, people acted as human
beings," he said mysteriously.
   Through a spokesman, Joe Shoen and his supporters declined
to discuss the Shoen family or Amerco for this article. Harry
DeShong, executive vice president of marketing and recipient
of some of the treasury stock issued in the battle for
control, says: "I don't want to substantiate or corroborate
anything related to the story you are writing."
   Although every lawsuit filed against Joe Shoen's group and
the company has been dismissed on the merits, L.S. Shoen and
his supporters have appealed each decision. Meanwhile, the
struggle goes on. L.S. Shoen adopted a favorite nephew in a
move that could effectively increase his influence over some
trust-held Amerco stock. Amerco reduced the damages sought in
its suit against Sam Shoen from $750 million to $30 million
but added as defendants L.S. Shoen, sister Mary Anna
Shoen-Eaton, brother Mike Shoen and all of their spouses.
That suit is scheduled for trial Sept. 10.
   Some U-Haul executives and family friends doubt that there
will ever be peace in the house of Shoen. As one former vice
president puts it: "There's no Shoen who will ever run that
company without the other Shoens making his life miserable."
   In a long letter to all of his children last year, L.S.
Shoen admitted as much. He lamented the "tragedy which
ultimately may devastate our lives and the lives of our
children and grandchildren." Cut off from his company and
half his family, he spends much of his time pounding out long
letters to lawyers and friends, pouring over Amerco results
and cursing the day he first dreamed of a family dynasty.
   "No man should give away his wealth or power until he
dies," the battered empire builder says. "No way. No way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bancorp Hawaii Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BNHI FFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HONOLULU -- Bancorp Hawaii Inc. said the Office of Thrift
Supervision approved Bancorp's previously reported plan to
acquire FirstFed America Inc. and its subsidiaries.
   The acquisition still must be approved by the Federal
Reserve Board, Bancorp said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bancorp is a bank holding company with operations in Asia
and the South and West Pacific. FirstFed has operations in
Hawaii, Guam and Saipan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mid Am Inc. to Acquire Thrift
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MIAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOWLING GREEN, Ohio -- Mid Am Inc. said it agreed to
acquire Citizens Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Bellfontaine, Ohio, in a transaction that doesn't require the
bank holding company to pay cash or issue stock.
   Citizens Federal doesn't meet new capital requirements, so
Mid Am said it agreed to inject capital into the thrift.
Citizens Federal is a mutual institution, which means it
doesn't have any shareholders and is technically owned by
depositors. Mid Am has $930 million in assets; Citizens
Federal, $80 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial Vehicles in Italy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Sales of new commercial vehicles in Italy
fell 2.5% in June to 13,738 from 14,093 a year earlier,
Anfia, the national association of car manufacturers, said.
   Commercial vehicles are small trucks or buses with a
weight of as much as 3.5 tons. In the first six months of
this year, commercial vehicle sales rose 6% to 87,730 units
from 82,783 a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Motor Co. led among foreign brands with a 15.38%
market share in June and 14.35% in the first half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   LDP Member Says Easing of Japan's
   Import Regulations on Rice Is Inevitable
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's longstanding taboo on rice imports
suffered another blow, as a high-ranking member of the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party said at least some easing of the
import ban appears to be inevitable.
   Toshio Yamaguchi, chairman of an LDP research committee on
economic adjustment issues, specifically suggested allowing
imports to meet up to 5% of Japan's domestic demand within
the next few years, according to reports in major Japanese
newspapers. Mr. Yamaguchi's comments constituted the most
specific endorsement so far by an LDP leader of some
liberalization of the rice market, at a time when opinion
surveys have shown a majority of the general public backing
such a move. Opening the market for Japan's traditional food
staple was widely considered almost sacrilegious just a few
years ago, and has become an increasingly central issue in
U.S.-Japan trade relations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An aide to Mr. Yamaguchi said over the weekend he couldn't
confirm the exact wording of Mr. Yamaguchi's remarks, which
came at a seminar Friday for industrialists and government
officials in the summer resort town of Karuizawa. But the
aide also made no effort to deny the gist of the remarks --
which touched off angry reactions from party officials
involved in agricultural policy. Japanese newspapers reported
over the weekend that Mr. Yamaguchi, when confronted by two
former agriculture ministers and another senior party
official, politely refused to retract his statement.
   Officials at LDP headquarters said Mr. Yamaguchi's
comments reflected his personal views, and insisted that the
party's support for the import ban is unchanged. But Mr.
Yamaguchi's statement appeared to be consistent with recent
indications that some government leaders are moving to pave
the way for a shift in official policy.
   Barriers to agricultural trade will be at the center of
the current round of multinational trade talks in coming
months. And Japanese press reports from the summit meeting in
Houston indicated that Japanese officials were interpreting
the carefully worded communique on agricultural issues to be
consistent with partial liberalization of rice trade.
   According to the reports, President Bush for the first
time personally raised the rice issue with Prime Minister
Toshiki Kaifu in Houston. Mr. Kaifu, in Colorado Springs
following the summit, told Japanese reporters over the
weekend that Mr. Bush hadn't made any specific demands. But
Mr. Kaifu also indicated that other countries weren't willing
to accept the Japanese argument that the need for "food
security" justifies the rice import ban.
   Mr. Kaifu, who was widely quoted during elections earlier
this year as promising to import "not one grain of rice," may
feel politically secure enough to consider moderating that
position partly because of other public-relations victories
achieved at the summit. Mr. Kaifu gained at least tacit
acceptance of Japan's decision to resume government aid to
China. And he won public acknowledgement of the importance of
settling Japan's territorial claims against the Soviet Union,
stemming from Soviet occupation of four small islands off the
coast of northern Japan at the end of World War II -- an
emotionally charged issue in Japan.
   Hints that political leaders were trying to lay the
groundwork for a shift on the rice policy began last month,
when Komeito, an opposition party often allied with the LDP,
said it would consider supporting partial liberalization of
the market. Noboru Takeshita, a powerful former prime
minister, publicly praised the Komeito stance as
"courageous," which some observers took as a sign that the
LDP was preparing to soften its position.
   Whether Mr. Kaifu or other officials will be courageous
enough to satisfy U.S. advocates of agricultural trade reform
is another question. The limited opening suggested by Mr.
Yamaguchi would allow imports of around 500,000 tons of rice,
based on recent consumption levels in Japan. U.S. Agriculture
Secretary Clayton Yeutter was quoted over the weekend by the
Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's largest economic newspaper, as
saying that opening only 5% of the rice market wouldn't be
acceptable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rochester Telephone Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Rochester Telephone Corp. said it
completed the previously announced acquisition of Monroeville
Telephone Co. of Monroeville, Ala., in a stock transaction.
Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Agency to Propose
   A Security Standard
   For Computers by Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Bowing to political pressure, a Commerce Department agency
said that by September it will propose a standard for
computer security that experts say will be a boon for the
high-tech industry.
   John Lyons, director of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, the agency in charge of producing a
standard, said Friday that work on a proposed standard should
be completed "in a matter of a few weeks" and will be
published "by the end of summer."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The standard should help the spread of electronic-data
communications by encouraging computer-network operators to
install a single method of ensuring that documents sent via
computer networks are authentic and haven't been altered. But
because such an approach to security, called public-key
cryptography, also provides a defense against computer
snoops, it has prompted opposition from the National Security
Agency, the nation's chief electronic spy.
   Members of Congress and officials in the computer industry
have complained about opposition from the NSA.
   The NSA, one of the government's most secretive agencies,
declines to say publicly why it fears such improvements in
electronic communications. Mr. Lyons says the NSA's
objections turn on national security concerns, but he
wouldn't be specific.
   RSA Data Security Inc., a tiny concern in Redwood City,
Calif., controls the most widely used approach to public-key
cryptography. Experts say the federal government probably
should adopt RSA Data's approach, since it is popular in
Europe and catching on in the U.S.
   But there are other alternatives. "Technically, its an
open question," said Willis Ware, a computer scientist at
Rand Corp. who chairs a Commerce Department advisory
committee on computer security.
   Mr. Ware said that while RSA Data "has got a corner on the
marketplace," there may be weaknesses in the company's
approach to security that are only known by the NSA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITT Gets Air Force Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- ITT Corp. received a $10.6 million Air Force
contract for anti-radiation missile decoy systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merck &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MRK
</CO>
<LP>
   MERCK &amp; Co. (Rahway, N.J.) -- Ronald A. Ahrens was named
senior vice president for Europe, Canada, Latin America and
Africa, a new post expanding the over-the-counter
pharmaceutical business at the consumer-health group of the
health-products giant. The 50-year-old Mr. Ahrens had been
consumer-group president for North America at Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV: Poor Jane Pauley, Part II
   ----
   By Dorotht Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Do you remember where you were and what you were doing
when Deborah Norville joined the "Today" show, the historic
moment that would cost executives their jobs, martyr Jane
Pauley, and ignite nationwide fury? Probably not. History has
a way of sneaking up on little cat feet, like the fog, which,
as it happens, is what this particular piece of history most
resembles. Hard as it may be to believe now, some of us
mistook this event for a mere staff change on a morning talk
show. At best, one thought, "Today" has entered a younger,
blonder phase. Not till press and publicists got to work did
we understand that this was in fact the beginning of a great
epic.
   Here was a full-scale morality tale which unfolded, week
after week. Virtue triumphed in the end while the evil-doers
got their just reward, universal obloquy. All America
supposedly was aghast at the jettisoning of Ms. Pauley (a
mature woman with children, one commentator pointed out) in
favor of the lissome and childless Ms. Norville. Professional
tube watchers began to talk about Ms. Pauley rather as though
she were a humble victim, some welfare mother or feminist
radical denied tenure by the Harvard geology department
instead of the millionaire wife of a millionaire cartoonist.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The press, which was mainly responsible for the growth and
nurturing of this entire mad saga, eagerly documented its
every detail. Ms. Pauley's farewell to "Today" was a major
media event of high suspense revolving in large part around
the question: What would the lady's often brusque co-host
Bryant Gumbel do, what would he say?
   Putative millions hoped against hope that he would stand
up for her, say something moving and significant as befit
this high occasion. As it turned out, what Mr. Gumbel said
was, "You know how I feel, Jane."
   Then the story's pendulum swung back, knocking Ms.
Norville off her perch with reports of ratings losses for
"Today," bulletins about Ms. Norville's lack of ease, rumors
of rancor among affiliate stations.
   Ms. Pauley, on the other hand, was said to be thriving.
She was now to be seen as a frequent anchor on NBC's
prime-time news, and, it transpired, she was a future
supernova for whom NBC now had big plans. In short, her
forced march away from "Today" was now to be viewed as hazard
of new fortune, fortune certain to be good.
   This week, however, Ms. Pauley's luck runs out again.
Anyone who wants proof should take a look at the new
prime-time show created for her and beginning tomorrow night
from 10 to 11 p.m. EDT on NBC. The name of this piece of bad
luck is "Real Life With Jane Pauley." In it, Jane and other
correspondents busy themselves scrutinizing supposedly
ordinary folk through the lens of pop psychology, while
buttressing the enterprise with statistics about things no
one in his right mind has any interest in measuring -- the
number of rolls of film Americans use in an hour, or how many
disposable diapers they throw away in that time, or the
percentage of the nation's traffic that passes over
interstate highways.
   The real ruling principle of this adventure, however, is
chaos. It begins with an inquiry about the lack of time in
the lives of several hard-working couples. Nobody has time to
eat, to sleep, to make love, so busy are these Americans at
their jobs, and a grim picture of so-called ordinary life it
is, too. You marvel, watching it, how so many Americans, with
so little time -- if this portrait is to be believed -- for
the necessities of life, found all that time to dwell on the
injuries done Ms. Pauley and the changes in the "Today" show,
as we have been assured they did.
   Part two surveys the overabundance of gadgets in American
life, a report also replete with statistics. We learn, from
lord knows what source, that 80% of Americans who have VCRs
don't know how to program them. But do not suppose there is
no social significance in this statistic. For Dr. Sherry
Turkel, MIT's cyber-Freud, is on hand to reveal that "our
life is full of objects that are stressful." She explains
that VCRs are stressful because we don't see how they work.
   Somewhere along the way here, we learn that Americans use
more than two million rolls of film a day and also that
"family albums fill up fast at this time of year." Ms. Pauley
imparts wisdom like this with aplomb. In such doings, she is
aided by correspondent Boyd Madsen, who tells us that there
are four million miles of roadway in the U.S., and then takes
us down one of them to visit a "unique American phenomenon,"
a man whose main claim to fame is a large bottle collection
and the fact that he lives in a makeshift house by the side
of the road. If this unique American phenomenon already is
beginning to sound like a lot of people who inhabit the
streets of our cities, you are not alone in thinking so. This
man also sings and dances. But Mr. Madsen announces
sorrowfully that this sort of American phenomenon is quietly
disappearing from our landscape. Let him visit my road.
   One considerably more interesting segment concerned an
adopted girl's search for her mother, who turns out, when she
finally finds her, to be a demented homeless woman. This
story, like most of the others here, reveals a good bit about
the mindset of this production, in which "real life" in
America turns out to be the dark, the marginal, the extreme,
the underside of that life. Ordinary life as it is actually
lived is, of course, a subject whose drama has yet to grab a
television producer.
   Someone must have sensed the need to get some sort of
weight into this production, and concluded that the way to do
it would be to deliver facts, which are at least reliable.
But what is one to make of naked data such as that every hour
in the U.S., "people eat three acres of pizza"? Or that 2,500
people per hour quit their jobs?
   Jane Pauley has the unenviable job of imparting all this,
and worse. What was to be a new start, NBC's first effort to
showcase its new-found old star, thus turns out to be
something closer to a repeat offense, if this first sampling
is any measure. To put the matter bluntly, with such friends,
Ms. Pauley may not need any enemies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18 billion in three and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Alias Research Inc. -- initial two million common shares,
via Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Bank of San Francisco Co. Holding Co. -- 1.1 million
common shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Bismart Inc. -- initial 2.75 million common shares, via
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   BJ Services Corp. -- initial nine million common shares,
via First Boston Corp.
   Cardinal Distribution Inc. -- $60 million of convertible
subordinated debentures, via Smith Barney, Harris &amp; Upham Co.
Inc.
   Compagnie Generale d'Electricite -- 6.750 million American
depository receipts, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Crop Genetics International Corp. -- two million of $10
convertible exchange perferred stock, via Lehman Brothers.
   First Hawaiian Inc. -- 4.6 million common shares, via
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   IKOS Systems Inc. -- initial 3.1 million common shares,
via Alex. Brown.
   In-store Advertising Inc. -- initial 1.6 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown.
   Lattice Semiconductors Corp. -- 2.5 million common shares,
via Dillon, Read &amp; Co. Inc.
   Meca Software Inc. -- initial 1.5 million common shares,
via Needham &amp; Co., Inc.
   Modtech Inc. -- initial 1.2 million common shares, via
Seidler Amdec Securities Inc.
   O'Charley's Inc. -- initial 2.2 million common shares, via
Alex. Brown.
   Projectavision Inc. -- initial 1.49 million units,
consisting of one share of common stock and one warrant, via
Keane Securities Co.
   Tele-Communications Inc. -- three million Class A common
shares, via Allen &amp; Co. Inc.
   USX Corp. -- $250 million zero coupon convertible senior
debentures, via First Boston Corp.
   Valero Energy Corp. -- $4.75 million common shares, via
Lehman Brothers.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                         Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   New York -- $225 million of various purpose general
obligation bonds, via competitive bid.
   Washington -- $54.24 million of general obligation bonds,
Series AT-5, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                        Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Washington -- $195 million of bonds, including $185
million of general obligation bonds and $10 million of motor
vehicle fuel tax revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
   Wisconsin -- $76.81 million of various purpose general
obligation bonds, 1990 Series E, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut -- $325 million of general obligation bonds,
1990 Series B, via a Merrill Lynch group.
   Indiana Municipal Power Agency -- $88.86 million of power
supply system revenue bonds, via a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
group.
   Maryland Community Development Administration -- $85
million of single-family housing revenue bonds, with capital
appreciation bonds (Alternative Minimum Tax and non-AMT), via
a Merrill Lynch group.
   Maryland Health and Higher Education Facilities Authority
-- $87.755 million of revenue bonds, Francis Scott Key
Medical Center issue, 1990 Series (FGIC-insured), via a
Goldman Sachs group.
   Michigan State Hospital Authority -- $100 million of
hospital revenue bonds, Oakwood Hospital Obligated Group
issue (FGIC-insured), via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Philadelphia Regional Port Authority -- $52 million of
lease revenue bonds, 1990 Series, via a Kidder Peabody group.
   San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District -- $160
million of sales tax revenue refunding bonds, 1990 Series,
via a Smith Barney group.
   West Virginia School Building Authority -- $100 million of
bonds (MBIA-insured), via a Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West Unit
   Partially Boycotts
   Business With GE
   ---
   Arizona PS Chief Is Angered
   That GE's Kidder Advises
   Hostile Suitor on Tactics
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW GE PPW
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   "I don't have to do business with the enemy," asserts Mark
De Michele, president and chief executive officer of Arizona
Public Service Co., the state's largest electric utility and
a subsidiary of Phoenix-based Pinnacle West Capital Corp.
   General Electric Co. is the enemy, Mr. De Michele says, as
long as its Kidder, Peabody Group Inc. investment-banking
subsidiary continues to "plot tactics" for PacifiCorp. Since
November, the Portland, Ore., utility has made four
unsolicited takeover offers for Pinnacle West or Arizona
Public Service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After Pinnacle rejected PacifiCorp's latest offer of $1.82
billion in May, PacifiCorp said it would explore other
options, including a hostile tender offer for Pinnacle's
stock. That hasn't happened. But PacifiCorp has kept a small
office in Phoenix even though Arizona isn't one of the seven
states in which the utility has operations.
   Last week, Mr. De Michele told Energy Daily, a trade
publication, that Arizona Public Service would stop buying
breakers, transformers, meters, and other equipment from
General Electric until Kidder Peabody severs its ties with
PacifiCorp. The decision was endorsed by Richard Snell,
Pinnacle's chairman and chief executive officer, and other
members of his staff.
   A spokesman for General Electric, based in Fairfield,
Conn., said that the company's power-generation division
sells equipment to PacifiCorp and Arizona Public Service and
"we're trying to serve our customers." He confirmed that
Kidder Peabody is advising PacifiCorp, but declined to
comment further.
   Mr. De Michele concedes that Arizona Public Service
business isn't very significant for General Electric "in the
overall scheme of things" but he believes the new policy will
hurt, anyway. So far this year, Arizona Public Service has
done about $9 million in business with General Electric; last
year the total was about $13 million. General Electric's
total 1989 revenue was about $54 billion.
   Arizona Public Service's new policy falls short of being a
total ban because the utility can't get certain replacement
parts for the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station from any
other company. General Electric provided the turbines for the
nuclear plant's three units.
   The Arizona utility feels especially betrayed by General
Electric because the supplier's representatives "have made an
all-out effort over the years to be friends" and "now they
want to put me out of business," Mr. De Michele said.
   His ire was sparked in March when Kidder Peabody's chief
adviser to PacifiCorp publicly extolled her client's takeover
bid at a utility industry conference. At a Southwest Utility
group meeting in Phoenix, Elizabeth Sobel "came out talking
about what a great deal," PacifiCorp was offering. "I took
umbrage at some of the things she said," Mr. De Michele said.
   After voicing his complaints to various people at General
Electric recently, Mr. De Michele received a call last week
from Michael Carpenter, Kidder Peabody president and chief
executive officer. "His bottom line was that it wouldn't do
any good for {Kidder Peabody} to resign because somebody else
would {take their place.}"
   Mr. De Michele countered that Arizona Public Service has
done "a tremendous amount of work" with Kidder Peabody during
the past 20 years. "There may even be some
conflict-of-interest or other ethical issues there. {Kidder
Peabody} could be using information garnered in connection
with us."
   The General Electric spokesman said Kidder Peabody would
never misuse proprietary information. "Obviously, client
confidentiality is a given," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Is Asked to Cut Rates $81 Million
   In Staff Recommendation to Regulators
   ----
   By Anne E. Nichols and Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   New York's Public Service Commission staff recommended
that Nynex Corp.'s New York Telephone Co. unit reduce its
current rates by $81 million, rejecting the company's
proposed $919.7 million increase for next year.
   In a letter to the full commission, the staff said the
telephone-company unit of the New York-based
telecommunications concern had understated its 1991 revenue
forecast, failed to account properly for certain deregulated
operations' costs and improperly included excessive central
office equipment-removal costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As an example, the staff said certain deregulated ventures
of the telephone company were charged to its regulated
operations, "thus inflating its need for rate relief."
   New York Telephone, in a statement issued Friday, said it
will file a rebuttal in about 11 days that will "demonstrate
that the trial staff's recommendations are grossly
inappropriate."
   "We're disappointed," said Robert T. Anderson, New York
Telephone's managing director of regulatory planning. "We'll
deal with the commission's allegations one at a time."
   A final ruling by the commission is expected in December.
   The staff previously rejected a $445 million
rate-settlement plan proposed by the company in early March.
Shortly afterward, the telephone unit presented the staff
with a proposal for a $965 million rate increase and for
subsequent increases over the next two years resulting in a
total boost of $1.4 billion for the three years.
   "This is not the first time the staff has suggested a
reduction," a spokesman for New York Telephone said. In 1985,
the company sought a $669 million rate increase. The PSC
staff recommended instead a $1.9 million rate reduction. New
York Telephone eventually got a $226 million increase.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Nynex
closed at $78 a share, down 62.5 cents.
   Separately, a federal appeals court in Washington handed
Nynex a victory, but one that carries the risk of further
public examination of transactions at Nynex's purchasing arm,
Materiel Enterprises.
   An appeals court panel sent back to Judge Harold Greene a
Nynex request for a waiver from the consent decree that broke
up the Bell System. The company sought the waiver to allow
Materiel Enterprises to sell telecommunications equipment to
companies and other organizations outside the Nynex family.
Judge Greene, who oversees the consent decree, rejected the
Nynex request in 1987.
   The appeals court panel said that Nynex presented a
"powerful argument for granting the waiver." The company and
the Department of Justice, which recommended granting the
waiver, argued that thousands of companies already distribute
telecommunications gear in an intensely competitive market.
   Nynex said it was pleased with the decision and awaits the
remand proceeding in which the waiver request will be
reconsidered. In March, the company announced that Materiel
Enterprises and its System Marketing unit would become units
of the phone companies rather than remain separate
subsidiaries. The announcement was made after the Federal
Communications Commission proposed a record $1.4 million fine
for $118.5 million in overcharges on goods and services that
Materiel Enterprises sold to Nynex phone companies. Details
of the changes haven't been worked out yet.
   The proposed fine and allegations of improper activities
involving Materiel Enterprises employees and suppliers are
certain to get a full airing in the remand proceeding as
opponents of Nynex's plans try to demonstrate what they say
is a tendency by the company to engage in anti-competitive
acts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dissident Group Seeks
   To Unseat the Board
   Of Sherritt Gordon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.SE
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- A group of dissident shareholders of Sherritt
Gordon Ltd. said it plans to launch a proxy fight to unseat
the company's current board and management.
   The group, which has formed Canada SherGor Enterprises
Inc., said it requested the company to call a shareholders
meeting, where it plans to present for a vote an alternative
slate of board nominees. Canada SherGor said it expected a
new board would appoint the group's principals, Ian Delaney
and Bruce Walter, to executive positions at Sherritt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Sherritt Gordon official said the company had no
immediate response to the announcement. Sherritt, based in
Toronto, has interests in nickel refining and fertilizer
production.
   Messrs. Delaney and Walter resigned in April as chief
executive officer and vice president, respectively, of
Horsham Corp., a Toronto investment concern. Since then, Mr.
Delaney said the two have built up a stake of between 5% and
10% of Sherritt through market purchases of stock. The group
also has the backing of Eric Sprott, who heads Toronto
brokerage firm Sprott Securities Ltd. In a statement, Mr.
Sprott said he won't be paid for his support.
   Mr. Delaney criticized Sherritt's current management for
not doing "much to mitigate the cyclicality of the
commodities" it is involved with. He also was critical of the
current board's low level of investment in Sherritt stock. As
of April, Sherritt directors owned a combined total of about
0.04% of the company's stock.
   Mr. Delaney said he doesn't intend to sell any of
Sherritt's assets "for short-term benefit." Instead, "we
intend to build the company and to make {it} our principal
business interest," he said.
   Under Ontario company law, the Sherritt board has 21 days
to call a shareholders meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900716-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900716-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   British Assaults on Germany's Character
   May Hurt Relations Between the Nations
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- A leading minister's swift resignation over
anti-German remarks has spared Britain a crisis in its
relations with Europe, political analysts say. But the
publication yesterday of further high-level and unflattering
musings on the German character could continue to poison
relations over the short term.
   Nicholas Ridley, Britain's trade and industry secretary
and a close ally of Margaret Thatcher, resigned Saturday
following an interview in which he said that surrendering
sovereignty to the EC was like giving "it to Adolf Hitler."
He was replaced by Peter Lilley, a low-profile official who
is believed to share his predecessor's skepticism about the
EC, but not Mr. Ridley's xenophobia or clout.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Nick Ridley was one of the very last of Thatcher's
ministers who is not a total mediocrity," says Ben Pimlott, a
professor of politics at the University of London. He
describes Mr. Ridley's replacement as an "Identikit, B-plus,
moderately able young Tory on the make who no one has ever
heard of." As a result, he says, those who resist European
economic and monetary union have lost a powerful advocate and
"suffered a major defeat."
   Conservative colleagues of Mr. Lilley praised the new
trade secretary as a bright and able man who, like Ms.
Thatcher and Mr. Ridley, favors a cautious, free-market
approach to European unity. But press reports yesterday
shattered hopes that Mr. Ridley's resignation, and government
repudiation of his remarks, would make the incident no more
than a hiccup. A leaked memorandum revealed that Ms. Thatcher
held a meeting in March to assess the German character at
which ministers and leading academics listed, "as an abiding
part of the German character," the following traits: "angst,
aggressiveness, assertiveness, bullying, egotism, inferiority
complex, sentimentality."
   While there was consensus among the group that Germany was
no longer bent on world conquest, "the way in which Germans
currently used their elbows and threw their weight about in
the European community suggested that a lot had still not
changed." The memorandum ends on a patronizing note: "We
should be nice to the Germans."
   Foreign secretary Douglas Hurd, who was present at the
meeting, confirmed the content of the memorandum yesterday
but said in a television interview that "the verdict {at the
meeting} was overwhelming reassuring. . . . It is a fantasy
to suppose that we're going to be faced with a new Hitler or
a new Gestapo."
   The report, however, fueled suspicions that Mr. Ridley's
outburst last week reflected the opinions of Ms. Thatcher --
and of a large segment of the British population. In one of
many surveys over the weekend, 36% of those polled said Mr.
Ridley's comments about the Germans and French, though
undiplomatic, "reflected the views of most British people,"
while 34% disagreed (the rest had no opinion). Mr. Ridley
said the French were "behaving like poodles to the Germans,"
the Germans were "uppity," and that plans for European
monetary union were "all a German racket designed to take
over the whole of Europe."
   Analysts say the embarrassment over Mr. Ridley's remarks
may result in conciliatory, pro-Europe moves by British
officials and a more frank domestic debate about economic
union. Mr. Lilley's posture also will be scrutinized. At 46
years old, the former Treasury official is the youngest
member of the Cabinet and a member of No Turning Back, a
group of right-wing Torys. He also is "an English Gaullist
who believes strongly in sovereignty within the European
community," says David Nicholson, a Conservative member of
Parliament and longtime colleague.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
