<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newstat Gets 20 Years
   For Role in Enduro
   Stainless Inc. Collapse
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LTV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- Robert E. Newstat, convicted here on 16
criminal counts related to the collapse of Enduro Stainless
Inc., was sentenced yesterday to 20 years in prison by U.S.
District Judge David D. Dowd Jr.
   The judge also ordered Mr. Newstat, 56 years old, along
with co-defendant Lawrence D. Greenberg to pay a $1 million
fine and to pay back $1.7 million that the two men had
embezzled from Enduro in the months before it was forced to
seek bankruptcy court protection from creditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A story detailing how Messrs. Newstat and Greenberg
siphoned off millions of dollars from Enduro and other
companies was featured on The Wall Street Journal's front
page March 15. The two Philadelphia men had acquired Enduro,
of Massillon, Ohio, from LTV Steel Co., a unit of LTV Corp.,
of Dallas. LTV Steel admitted that it was bilked of out
nearly $47 million in scams involving the two men.
   Mr. Newstat's attorney earlier said he planned to appeal
the conviction upon sentencing.
   Because the judge determined that Mr. Newstat had lied
during his testimony he revoked bond and ordered Mr. Newstat
to immediately begin serving his jail sentence. Prosecutors
said he didn't make any statement before sentencing.
   Mr. Greenberg, a lawyer who had been Mr. Newstat's
business partner, was sentenced to five years in prison,
fined $250,000, and ordered to provide 1,200 hours of legal
service to various Philadelphia agencies that work with poor
people. Mr. Greenberg, who had pleaded guilty to bankruptcy
fraud and conspiracy to commit bankruptcy fraud, was ordered
to report to prison in May. After serving his jail sentence,
Mr. Greenberg will be on probation for three years, the judge
ruled.
   Prosecutors said Mr. Greenberg read a statement in which
he blamed Enduro's collapse on outside factors such as market
conditions and high interest rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   OPEC Members Become Increasingly Nervous
   As Oil Prices Plunge Again; Early Action Unlikely
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OPEC members are growing increasingly nervous over the
near-collapse of oil prices, which plummeted again yesterday.
   But beyond issuing renewed pleas to overproducers such as
Kuwait to cut output, it's unlikely the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries will be able to take any action
toward trimming the oil glut before late May. That's when the
13 oil ministers hold their regular midyear conference and
will decide second-half quotas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OPEC sources contacted yesterday ruled out the possibility
of any special meeting before then, despite the growing
urgency of world pricing and production problems.
Nevertheless, said a senior official of one OPEC delegation,
"we are really watching the situation closely."
   Meantime, petroleum prices approached a free fall.
   West Texas Intermediate crude for May delivery plunged
through the psychologically important level of $18 a barrel
yesterday afternoon with hardly a pause. It went on to settle
at $17.68 a barrel, down 76 cents for the day. The June crude
contract fell 61 cents to $18.34 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.
   Only 10 days ago, futures prices of the U.S. benchmark
crude were well above $20 a barrel. Yesterday's closing price
was the lowest for the near-month crude contract since
February 1989.
   Futures prices of gasoline fell even further than those
for crude. Unleaded gasoline for May delivery was down 2.46
cents a gallon to 58.43 cents a gallon. Some other monthly
contracts fell the limit of two cents a gallon. May heating
oil was down 0.67 cent.
   The U.S. price declines followed earlier drops in European
markets. The extent of the pricing rout surprised oil
analysts. "We've got a blood bath," said Peter Beutel of
Elders Futures Inc.
   Oil prices have been coming down since this year's peak in
January. The latest and fastest fall began early last week.
Analysts cited the apparent slowing in petroleum demand and
OPEC output of some 24 million barrels a day, or two million
above the first-half ceiling and the highest since 1981.
   There were reports yesterday that many storage facilities
were filled to overflowing. Also, further adding to the
bearish sentiment in oil markets was new evidence of
increasing oil inventories.
   Energy Security Analysis Inc. yesterday reported "another
significant build" in crude stocks in Europe for the second
month in a row. According to the Washington-based firm, which
monitors oil supplies world-wide, European crude inventories
increased seven million barrels during the month of March.
   Then, after trading had closed, the American Petroleum
Institute released its latest weekly report, which showed a
big buildup in U.S. crude oil inventories. According to the
API, crude inventories, which already were substantially
ahead of the year-earlier level, rose 8.1 million barrels
last week to 370.9 million barrels.
   It was clear yesterday that such developments are
beginning to have an impact within OPEC. An editorial in a
pro-government newspaper in Saudi Arabia warned that the
overproduction could lead to another "oil-price crisis." Some
OPEC sources interpreted this as the official reaction in the
kingdom and saw it as a threat that Saudi Arabia might be
considering another pricing war unless quota-cheaters curb
their output.
   Kuwait is the chief target of the fingerpointing in OPEC.
It has openly ignored its quota and has recommended that OPEC
quit setting production ceilings. However, Ali Khalifa
Al-Sabah, the Kuwaiti oil minister, has indicated he would
cut output if the OPEC price dropped under $18 a barrel for a
sustained period and if there were no official production
quotas.
   One senior OPEC official noted yesterday that the average
of the prices of the seven crudes that make up the OPEC
reference basket had dropped to $17.12 in the first week of
April from $18.28 in the first week of March. "That is more
than $1 in four weeks," he said. "That is precisely what
Sheik Ali of Kuwait said would cause him and others to reduce
their production."
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices soared to ninemonth highs on rumors
of worsening political unrest in the Ivory Coast, the world's
leading cocoa producer. The May-delivery contract, which
eased at the opening, rebounded by more than $100 a metric
ton to close at $1,329, for a gain of $76. That price was the
highest since the September 1989 contract traded at $1,342 on
Aug. 2. Selling that had prevailed in the previous two
sessions continued early yesterday, and traders tended to
ignore reports that bank employees in the Ivory Coast had
gone on strike, analysts said. However, when it was rumored
that the bank strike could create problems with exports, and
that dockworkers might also walk off their jobs, previous
short sellers began buying contracts to cover their
positions, and prices rebounded sharply. Sandra Kaul, an
analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton, said two things must be
kept in mind with respect to any prospects of interruption of
exports: First, the Ivory Coast is between its main crop and
its second, or midcrop, and very little cocoa is moving to
ports at the moment. Second, Ivory Coast troops are loyal to
President Felix Houphouet-Boigny. "This means that if port
workers go on strike, the troops could be put to work on the
docks, minimizing any interruption of exports," Ms. Kaul
said.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices closed near their highs of the day.
The May-delivery contract ended with a gain of 2.65 cents a
pound at $1.1935, just below the day's high of $1.1950. While
technical considerations may have caused prices to fluctuate
from day to day, strong fundamental factors that underlie the
market have continued right along, and yesterday became more
pronounced, one analyst said. He particularly noted that the
strike of Southern Peru Copper Corp.'s miners and smelter
workers in Peru, which began March 12, continues and could
become a major unsettling element in the market. The analyst
said there were reports that the company sent telegrams to
customers advising them that copper-shipment commitments for
April would be met. The analyst pointed out that the company
was behind in shipments for previous months and that there
was doubt it could make the April shipments. Another analyst
said the company's message to customers "may not have
revealed the full extent of the delays. Southern Peru may
ship the copper that is scheduled to be exported in April,
but it may do so in May or even later." A company spokesman
said Southern Peru had advised its customers that it would
meet shipments for March and April, but it was "premature to
discuss May." He said the company would try to meet its
commitments "on a reasonable schedule." The company produces
about 240,000 tons of refined copper annually. Peru is the
world's sixth-largest copper producer.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of corn and soybean futures
contracts might get an upward boost at the open of trading
this morning. After the close of trading yesterday, the
Agriculture Department slightly trimmed its monthly estimate
of the nation's grain stockpiles. The department cut its
estimate for the U.S. soybean stockpile on Aug. 31 to 305
million bushels from its March estimate of 330 million
bushels. The department forecasts the amount of old soybeans
that will be in storage by the time the new harvest begins.
The department cut its estimate of the corn carry-over this
fall to 1.33 billion bushels from the 1.48 billion bushels it
forecast last month. The decline is on the high end of the
range that analysts had expected, according to Victor
Lespinasse, a floor broker with Dean Witter Reynolds,
Chicago. The department pegged the U.S. wheat crop at 442
million bushels, down one million bushels from the March
estimate. However, grain analysts had expected the department
to raise its month-old estimate by about 15 million bushels,
Mr. Lespinasse said. The department also cut its estimate of
the Brazilian soybean harvest, which is about one-third
complete, to 20 million metric tons from the 20.5 million
metric tons it forecast last month. Trading was quiet
yesterday as traders took to the sidelines before the report
was released. Corn prices rose, soybean prices dipped and
wheat prices settled mixed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Twin Labs's Claims
   Against Rival Weider
   Dismissed by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal appeals court panel affirmed a lower
court's decision to dismiss antitrust and tort claims filed
by Twin Laboratories Inc. against its rival in selling
nutritional supplements for bodybuilders, Weider Health &amp;
Fitness.
   In February 1989, Twin Labs, Ronkonkoma, N.Y., sued
Weider, of Woodland Hills, Calif., in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. The suit charged Weider with trying to exclude
competition in selling the supplements. Weider did this, the
suit said, by denying ad space to Twin Labs in two
bodybuilding magazines it publishes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey dismissed the suit,
ruling that Twin Labs hadn't proved that Weider had
monopolized the supplements market or that ad space in
Weider's magazines was essential for Twin Labs to compete.
The judge also said Weider made a "legitimate and responsible
business decision" when it denied the ad space to Twin Labs.
   Twin Labs appealed the question of whether the ad space
was essential to competition. The appeals court found that
Twin Labs "has remained an effective competitor with Weider
despite" the refusal to accept the ads.
   The appeals court also denied Twin Labs's appeal of Judge
Mukasey's dismissal of its tort claim made under New York
state law: that the denial of ad space was designed not as a
business decision but only as a way to harm Twin Labs.
   Twin Labs "is not a 90-pound weakling in whose face Weider
has kicked sand," the court said. "Rather, (Twin Labs) is a
muscular competitor who is complaining about the competitive
process."
   Alan Malasky, Weider's attorney at Arent, Fox, Kintner,
Plotkin &amp; Kahn in Washington, said that "the court of
appeals' ruling confirms that Weider has acted properly in
all respects."
   Grant L. Clark, attorney for Twin Labs at Washington's
Rivkin, Radler, Bayh, Hart &amp; Kremer, said the company is
deciding whether to further appeal, but he said that "Twin
Labs is doing entirely too well for people to feel it's a
weakling.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer Glitch:
   How Ashton-Tate
   Lost Its Leadership
   In PC Software Arena
   ---
   Acquisitions, New Products
   Have Been Disappointing,
   And Critics Blame CEO
   ---
   Rocky Road for dBASE IV
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TATE
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- The chief executive of Ashton-Tate
Corp., Edward Esber Jr., waxed enthusiastic about the
company's new dBASE IV computer program. He even said, at the
October 1988 press conference unveiling it, that delays in
completing the program had been helpful because they gave the
programmers time to ensure that it would meet "quality
standards" and would be "everything we'd said it would be."
   But there was a problem: Mr. Esber didn't know how to use
the new program. "Ed didn't use dBASE," says Roy Folk, then
head of Ashton-Tate's product development. "He couldn't just
load up dBASE IV and know its condition." Thus, Mr. Esber
didn't know that the program was marred by thousands of
errors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is his company's cash cow, and he can't even use
it," says Pat Adams, a New York consultant. "That's like Lee
Iacocca not being able to drive a car."
   No one else at Ashton-Tate recognized the product had so
many flaws, either. Within weeks, irate customers complained
that dBASE IV lacked important features and was too slow and
too likely to crash.
   To quiet critics, Mr. Esber promised a corrected version,
but some 18 months later it still hasn't appeared. Mr. Esber
now declines to say when it will.
   The episode is one of a remarkable string of major
mistakes. Ashton-Tate has botched three acquisitions and at
least two major product-development efforts. Mr. Esber named
a chief operating officer who irritated many members of the
staff and eventually left. Mr. Esber lost Ashton-Tate's key
engineer. And he irked Apple Computer Inc.'s chief, John
Sculley, who then turned over a data-base product and other
software designed by Apple to two new companies, now
Ashton-Tate rivals.
   The errors at Ashton-Tate have taken their toll. The
company was once one of personal computing's Big Three
software concerns, along with Microsoft Corp. and Lotus
Development Corp. Its flagship product, dBASE, drove the
acceptance of personal computers in the early 1980s by giving
users a flexible way of organizing and retrieving large
amounts of data. Yet today, many experts consider Ashton-Tate
among the software companies that have faded from leadership
to being also-rans.
   Mr. Esber remains optimistic about Ashton-Tate's future.
He insists that it remains "the dominant player" in PC data
bases and that he has sorted out its technical problems.
Although he still won't predict when the long-overdue
revision of dBASE IV will be shipped to customers, he says a
test version is good enough that some evaluators are "crying
out that we should release it." He adds: "We're alive and
well and putting out good products."
   Still, while Lotus and Microsoft grew rapidly during the
past two years, Ashton-Tate has posted losses for the past
three quarters. Its revenue has slumped to $62.1 million in
its fourth quarter, ended Dec. 31, from $87.3 million in the
quarter ended Jan. 31, 1989. Its share of the data-base
market fell from 62.5% in 1985 to 43% in 1989, according to
International Data Corp. And Ashton-Tate failed to exploit a
new approach to data bases that enabled Oracle Corp., a rival
only one-fourth Ashton-Tate's size in 1985, to become more
than three times as large as it is today.
   Simply fixing dBASE IV won't reverse Ashton-Tate's revenue
slump. "That's a Band-Aid," says Rick Sherlund, an analyst at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Ashton-Tate's decline shows how fleeting success can be
for high-tech firms, especially in software, if senior
management doesn't include people with the expertise to keep
up with innovation in the field. Mr. Esber is a marketing man
leading a company that has virtually no tradition of product
development. In his five years atop Ashton-Tate, he has
emphasized packaging over technical expertise. In contrast,
Jim Manzi, the chief of Lotus and another marketing man,
rescued his company from mediocrity by adding to his
management team Frank King, a technical ace from
International Business Machines Corp.
   "Every technology company needs a visionary who can
perceive the general direction of a market," says William
Davidow, a venture capitalist and writer on high-tech-company
management. "Without one, a company very quickly loses its
technology position."
   Nevertheless, things could be worse for Ashton-Tate. It
hasn't any debt, and it slashed expenses by laying off about
15% of its 1,700 workers last August. It still has the most
customers of any data-base producer, having sold more than
three million copies of its dBASE programs to date. With a
few breaks, the company could rebound, if not to its previous
glory, at least to consistent profitability.
   "If you asked me a few months ago if Ed could fix things,
I'd have said no," says Cary Prague, assistant director of
finance at Travelers Insurance, a member of an Esber advisory
group. "But I've seen significant progress lately. If dBASE
1.1 {the corrected version} comes out and it works, customers
aren't going to remember the problems."
   But many analysts believe that Ashton-Tate has squandered
its once-dominant position in data-base software. Although
the company chalked up a 30% annual growth rate in the five
years beginning in February 1984, Mr. Esber is widely viewed
as an executive who was in the right place at the right time.
His path to the top was paved by the sudden death of George
Tate, Ashton-Tate's chief executive, in August 1984. And
three months later, David Cole, Mr. Tate's second-in-command,
left for another company.
   In many ways, Mr. Esber, who joined Ashton-Tate less than
a year before as a marketing vice president, wasn't an
obvious candidate for the top job: Though trained as an
electrical engineer, he didn't write software applications,
and he had clashed with the management of his previous
employer, VisiCorp.
   But Ashton-Tate's board of directors gave him the job. "We
looked outside but decided Ed was the logical candidate,"
says Jill Weissman Tate, Mr. Tate's widow and a director.
   At first, the decision seemed wise. Mr. Esber, a Harvard
MBA who had worked at IBM, was strong on procedures and
marketing. He also kept close to the ranks and, in odd
contrast to his combative relations with other executives,
won a reputation for geniality among some employees.
   "We used to call him `the pussycat,'" says Mr. Folk, the
former product-development chief, who followed Mr. Esber to
Ashton-Tate from VisiCorp and now is at another software
company. Mr. Esber often relied on humor; he once came to a
staff meeting dressed as Gen. Patton.
   By mid-1986, Mr. Esber felt he needed help managing daily
operations because he was trying to transform Ashton-Tate
from a one-product data-base supplier into a software
supermarket. As the new chief operating officer, he chose
Luther Nussbaum, whose only experience in the PC industry was
as an operations executive with Businessland Inc., a computer
dealer.
   Although credited with expanding Ashton-Tate's European
operations, Mr. Nussbaum angered many people at Ashton-Tate
by belittling and refusing to listen to them. "My first
meeting with Luther went pretty badly," recalls Robert
Gafford, then the company's chief of customer service. "He
said, `I understand you're the best manager in the company.'
Naturally, I took that as a compliment, but he quickly added:
`I'm not impressed with you.'" Mr. Nussbaum declines to
comment.
   Mr. Esber offered little comfort to senior executives
chafing under Mr. Nussbaum's barbs. Instead, Mr. Esber
traveled frequently and "got caught up in the idea he was a
visionary," says Mr. Gafford, who left Ashton-Tate in 1987 to
head customer service for Claris Corp., Apple's software
unit.
   According to colleagues, Mr. Nussbaum seemed to have Mr.
Esber's wholehearted support. "We didn't feel we had to go to
Ed" for decisions, says David Micek, dBASE IV's product
manager. "If we got approval from {Mr. Nussbaum}, we went
ahead. Everyone knew he was boss." Mr. Esber won't comment
about Mr. Nussbaum.
   In the end, Mr. Nussbaum took the rap for Ashton-Tate's
problems, which included an embarrassing failure to handle
inventory properly. He quit last July.
   At the same time as Mr. Nussbaum was roiling Ashton-Tate
internally, Mr. Esber was overseeing a diversification plan
based on his view that software was essentially a packaging
business. "There was a feeling that all we had to do was slap
the Ashton-Tate name on products and they'd sell," says Ron
Posner, an Ashton-Tate alumnus who now heads Peter Norton
Computing Inc., a software maker.
   To expand the product line, Mr. Esber went shopping. In
1985, he spent $22 million on Multimate International Corp.,
which owned a popular word processor. But key Multimate
managers and engineers, whose knowledge of the product was
irreplaceable, soon left. For years, Multimate's sales
stagnated. Recently, it released its first substantially
improved version of the word processor -- after competing
products have become entrenched.
   Next, in 1986, Mr. Esber paid $12.9 million for Decision
Resources Inc., a maker of graphics software. Demand for
graphics software has exploded, but competitors had raced
past Decision Resources by the time Mr. Esber bought it.
Today, Ashton-Tate's graphics sales are only 1% of the
company's total revenue.
   And in February 1988, Mr. Esber bought into the burgeoning
market for Macintosh software. He thought he had acquired two
products, a word processor and a graphics package, that would
bring Ashton-Tate to prominence among Macintosh users. Today,
however, sales are weak, mainly because the products were
ill-conceived. The word-processing program, for instance,
requires twice the amount of costly computer memory as rival
programs.
   Defending his acquisitions, Mr. Esber says, "If there was
any mistake we made, it was in how we integrated those
companies." But critics say he couldn't measure the technical
worth of software products nor develop them once the managers
of the acquired companies left.
   Ironically, one acquisition that Mr. Esber failed to make
still haunts Ashton-Tate. In early 1987, he nearly bought Fox
Software Inc., a closely held data-base company. After months
of study, Ashton-Tate's engineers agreed that Fox's
technology could lay the basis for a new generation of
data-base products. But the deal fell through. "They could've
bought us for $10 million, but they chose to haggle us down,"
says David Fulton, Fox's president. "In the end, top
management bought into the idea that they didn't need us,
that they could push forward without us."
   In 1988, Mr. Esber sued Fox, alleging copyright
infringement because Fox sells a data-base program that
shares some features and the same computer language as
Ashton-Tate's dBASE. The case is pending in federal district
court in Los Angeles. Today, Fox is winning over many
Ashton-Tate customers.
   Mr. Esber's acquisitions might not have hurt Ashton-Tate
if it had produced a stream of new products. It hasn't. "Ed
views programmers with great disdain," says Ms. Adams, the
consultant. "He thinks these people are all interchangeable."
   Shortly after taking over as chief executive, Mr. Esber
clashed with Wayne Ratliff, then the company's guiding light
for data-base products. The feud simmered for years, then
erupted in early 1987 when Mr. Ratliff resigned in a blaze of
lawsuits and began writing software for a competitor.
   On the technical side, Mr. Ratliff was central to
Ashton-Tate's success. In the early 1980s, he oversaw the
design of the original dBASE in his spare time while working
at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif. He
tried to peddle the program on his own but failed. So he sold
it to Ashton-Tate, which renamed it dBASE II (because it
sounded high-tech and implied an improvement over a
nonexistent dBASE I). Ashton-Tate, which had never developed
a software product on its own, had one of the infant
PC-software industry's few runaway hits.
   Since then, Mr. Esber has hired a succession of top
engineers, but no one has really replaced Mr. Ratliff. Mr.
Esber hasn't filled permanently the job of heading the
critical data-base group. "Ed's got to find someone with
technical vision, and he hasn't done that," says Stewart
Alsop, the editor of PC Letter.
   Without this vision, Ashton-Tate's product-development
efforts have floundered. For example, dBASE 3 Plus, the
predecessor to dBASE IV, was initially felled by
manufacturing and possibly programming errors. Ashton-Tate
was forced to withdraw at least 24,000 copies of it shortly
after its introduction in January 1986. The mistake, though
quickly corrected, cost the company nearly $600,000.
   The company faced more problems with a version of dBASE
for Apple's Macintosh (dBASE had worked only on the IBM PC or
compatible computers). The program was revised so often that
Ashton-Tate printed three different user manuals -- and
destroyed the first two. In September 1987, the company
shipped the program, but sales have been weak.
   And finally, dBASE IV, the biggest project of Mr. Esber's
tenure, is so complex that it outstripped the company's
testing procedures and crashed on takeoff.
   Admittedly, the task was difficult. To fit the roughly
500,000 lines of code for dBASE IV (four times the size of
its predecessor) into the standard memory limitation of the
operating system requires ingenuity. "We have had a hard time
controlling" the code, says Harry K.T. Wong, a data-base
expert who joined the company in 1987. (He says Ashton-Tate
has solved this problem by chopping up the program into many
pieces, which are then swapped in and out of the PC's memory
as needed.)
   Ashton-Tate also missed a chance to exploit a new approach
to enabling a mix of different brands of computers to store
and retrieve data. Called Structured Query Language, it was
adopted by IBM and has spread throughout the computer
industry. Oracle has built a huge business around SQL
software, but Ashton-Tate still doesn't have a hookup to SQL
engines.
   The decline of Ashton-Tate has clearly mellowed Mr. Esber.
At a gathering of PC executives last September, he requested
advice from several competitors on how to improve
software-design practices. And he has asked major customers
to advise him on technical matters.
   To his credit, he isn't hiding from critics. Early this
year, he met with one customer calling for his removal and,
in April, appointed him to an advisory group. "I still think
Ed should go," says Michael Masterson, the customer and the
head of the largest dBASE user group in Silicon Valley. But
he adds lately that Mr. Esber is "doing more of the right
things."
   Ashton-Tate's board agrees. "If you look back over the
years, critics have counted us out in the past, but I'm
betting heavily" that Mr. Esber can revive the company, Mrs.
Tate says.
   Mr. Esber insists he can, but concedes that competition is
tougher than ever. Once king of the data base, Ashton-Tate,
he now says, lives in a world where "no one company is going
to lock up all the data repositories."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Massachusetts Announces Measures
   To Help Firms Find Willing Lenders
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis and
private-sector leaders announced steps to help businesses
find willing lenders, amid rising concern that a credit
crunch may be adding to the state's economic woes.
   The measures are modest. The most concrete is a "credit
hot line and clearing house" to match borrowers and lenders.
But they add fuel to the debate over whether federal banking
regulators, by forcing some of New England's leading banks to
make massive provisions for troubled real-estate loans, may
inadvertently have caused credit problems for a broad range
of small and medium-sized businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The joint news conference in the governor's Beacon Hill
chambers also underscores a growing fear in business circles
here that the early 1990s could resemble the troubled years
before the so-called Massachusetts miracle of the 1980s. With
corporate and sales tax revenues down sharply from a year
ago, the state is expected to run a deficit of close to $1
billion for the fiscal year that ends June 30. And the
state's unemployment rate, which for years was far below the
national average, climbed to 5.4% in March compared with 5.2%
for the country.
   Mr. Dukakis continued to voice optimism about the state's
economic health. But, he said, "There is something seriously
wrong when businesses that are paying their loans on schedule
live in fear of having their credit suddenly pulled."
   "Nobody is suggesting our banks shouldn't be following
good, solid" credit policies, he added. But banking
regulators, "in their concern for the soundness of certain
real-estate loans," may be causing banks to tighten up on
lending to healthy businesses "that have nothing to do with
real estate."
   U.S. Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke, whose
examiners have been the focus of much of the controversy,
said in a speech last weekend that charges that his agency is
responsible for New England's economic problems are
unfounded. The examiners have only forced bankers to
recognize already deteriorating market conditions, Mr. Clarke
said.
   Indeed, some bankers say that skittish bankers -- not Mr.
Clarke's examiners -- may be the main culprits behind any
unwarranted credit crunch. Alan Morse, vice chairman of the
Massachusetts Bankers Association and chairman of U.S. Trust
Co., Boston, said many banks in the state remain able and
willing to make loans to credit-worthy companies.
   "The fact that the regulators have come on so strong {in
evaluating real-estate loans} has caused banks to re-evaluate
all their underwriting standards," Mr. Morse said in an
interview after the news conference. But, while some banks
may be requiring more collateral or other added assurances,
"that's a far cry from banks ringing up their customers one
day and saying `Goodbye, the loan is canceled.' That's only
happening where specific banks and bankers are overreacting."
   Joseph Blair, executive director of Massachusetts
Industrial Finance Agency, said that 25% of 200 companies
surveyed recently by the quasi-public agency reported
"serious problems" with their working capital. Some have had
their lines of credit suspended or renegotiated as
fixed-term, rather than revolving, loans. Others have had
lower limits placed on the portion of receivables they can
use as collateral.
   Besides the hot-line service, Mr. Dukakis said further
surveys will be conducted and a letter will be sent this week
to all Massachusetts banks "urging them to do all they can to
take up the credit slack." In addition, the Coalition of
Northeast Governors, currently chaired by Mr. Dukakis, will
meet with federal credit regulators in Washington "once all
facts have been gathered," according to Mr. Dukakis's office.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rhone-Poulenc Unit
   Suspends U.S. Sales
   Of Aldicarb Pesticide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONMOUTH JUNCTION, N.J. -- Rhone-Poulenc Inc. said it will
suspend the sale of its aldicarb pesticide in the U.S. for
use on potatoes because recent tests showed chemical residues
on a small number of potato samples.
   Rhone-Poulenc found the residues while doing a survey for
the the Environmental Protection Agency, whose chief interest
was possible ground-water contamination. An EPA spokesman
said that the residues were found on 10 of 2,600 potatoes
tested, and that all 10 came from one of 26 fields tested.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rhone-Poulenc said it found residues at "higher levels
than the company would expect from proper use" of aldicarb.
The company said farmers are beginning to plant this year's
potato crop, and it wanted to spare them "a needless and
damaging `food scare' of the type we've seen in the past."
   Aldicarb, sold by Rhone-Poulenc under the tradename Temik,
doesn't have any known long-term health effects. The company
said that during nearly 17 years of use of the product, it
has never had a report of anyone's becoming sick from eating
treated potatoes.
   The EPA spokesman said residues at the highest levels
found in the survey could conceivably cause transient
flu-like symptoms but shouldn't create any alarm about eating
potatoes. Although death due to direct ingestion of large
amounts aldicarb is possible, he emphasized that no deaths
have ever been associated with any treated foods.
   A Rhone-Poulenc spokesman said the company is still
talking with regulatory authorities in other large
potato-producing countries about how to proceed there. In the
U.S., he said, the company won't sell aldicarb for use on
potatoes throughout this planting season and possibly
throughout next year's as research into the residue levels
continues. The company will continue selling aldicarb, which
kills insects, mites and nematodes, for uses other than those
on potatoes.
   Rhone-Poulenc, the U.S. chemicals unit of Rhone-Poulenc
S.A., of Paris, didn't disclose its sales of aldicarb, but
the spokesman said cotton growers are a more important market
for the pesticide than potato growers. Among potato growers,
he said, the product has about 15% of the market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Site Unseen?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Good advice in hunting homes
   The bright suburban way
   Is: Learn what you are looking for --
   Ranchero? Cute Chalet?
   Casita? Vivienda? One
   At Dockside? Villa West?
   Hilltop? Windsong? Great Tree Farms?
   All different from the rest?
   To buy, you must decide by name --
   Don't waver, don't retreat;
   No subdivision offers you
   A house along a street.
   -- Ralph Shaffer.
   ---
   Economy Note
                                                                                                       

   Here's how one fellow saved money this winter: He
converted his furnace from burning oil to burning gift
catalogs.
   -- Robert Orben.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   IN AN ARTICLE on the deregulation of the London stock
market, published in October 1986, this newspaper reported on
a telefax published by a London research firm, Global
Analysis Systems Limited. The Journal did not intend to imply
that the telefax was produced other than as a product of
GAS's research and analysis, or that GAS had any improper
motive for distributing it.
   (See: "British Jitters: London's Exchange Braces for Big
Bang Set to Occur Monday --- Deregulation Will Increase
Competition, but That Is About All That Is Certain ---
Prospect of Slump, Scandal" -- WSJ Oct. 24, 1986)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sanchez Is Named
   Gradco's President;
   4th-Period Loss Seen
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GRCO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Gradco Systems Inc. named a new
president, divided its business into separate printer and
copier units, and said it will take a charge against earnings
resulting in a net loss for the fiscal fourth quarter ended
March 31.
   Joe C. Sanchez, 56 years old, a 29-year veteran of Xerox
Corp., was named president and chief operating officer. As
president, Mr. Sanchez succeeds Keith B. Stewart, 50, who
remains chairman and chief executive officer. The post of
chief operating officer is new.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Sanchez also will serve as president and chief
executive officer of newly created Gradco Printer Systems
Inc., the domestic operating unit under the new structure
that will be responsible for all Gradco's printer products
business world-wide, including engineering, manufacturing and
sales.
   Gradco Japan Ltd., 96%-owned by Gradco and 4%-owned by
Japanese investors, will be responsible for all of Gradco's
copier business world-wide. Mark M. Takeuchi, 51, president
of Gradco Japan, was named a corporate director, along with
Mr. Sanchez. As directors, they succeed R. John Thielen,
president of Gradco's Dyna V Corp. unit, and Albert B. Boese,
formerly Gradco's vice president, operations.
   Gradco said the charge to fourth quarter earnings stems
primarily from the discontinuance of its domestic
manufacturing operations. The company is in the midst of
transferring all its manufacturing operations to South Korea
and Japan. Gradco said the actual amount of the charge won't
be determined until its year-end audit is completed, and
officials declined to estimate the amount of the
fourth-quarter loss.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Gradco
stock closed at $8 a share, down 25 cents.
   Gradco also said it finalized a new $35 million credit
facility with Bank of California N.A. and Mitsubishi Bank
Ltd., to replace a $20 million facility with Union Bank. The
new credit facility will be used for working capital, Gradco
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Squeamish Had Better Close
   Their Eyes and Not Take a Gander
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   LILLO, Belgium -- The baseball season has finally begun in
the U.S. In France, the hallowed traditions of bicycle racing
are being repeated once again. And in this Flemish village,
there's goose-riding.
   For the uninitiated: Goose-riding, or gansrijden, doesn't
involve riding a goose. The goose is in no condition to be
ridden. For one thing, it's dead. For another, it's enmeshed
in a net and hangs by its feet from a wooden gallows.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The players ride on horseback underneath the gallows and
try to yank the goose's head off. "Needless to say," reports
a news release from the Antwerp City Tourist Office, "this
causes general hilarity."
   Goose-riding, depicted in paintings dating as far back as
the 16th century, was revived in the 1920s and recurs each
spring in five towns and villages near the mouth of the
Schelde River, northwest of Antwerp.
   Of course, a few of the ancient traditions have been lost
over the years. For instance, the sportsmen no longer use a
live goose. Instead, the star of the show is slaughtered
humanely the night before.
   On a cold afternoon, the goose is strung up at 3 o'clock
sharp as several hundred spectators jostle with the 43-strong
permanent population of Lillo. A ragtag band, in the
blue-and-gold colors of Lillo's True Goose club, plays a
boisterous repertoire that includes "Deep in the Heart of
Texas."
   The competitors are 23 men, all wearing red war paint on
their faces, some on horseback for the first time. One by
one, the horses trot under the gallows. Some riders manage to
give the goose's head a good yank as they pass below. Some
are so intent on staying in the saddle that they miss the
target altogether.
   From time to time, the more daring riders stagily fall off
their horses in order to receive the customary shot of gin
from a clownish medical squad. Later, a few riders fall off
without trying. Two are taken to the hospital.
   Finally -- after 3 1/2 hours and 34 passes by each rider
-- Luc van Weutswinckel, a 28-year-old gardener and
chauffeur, pulls the head free, leaving the rest of the goose
swinging in a state best left undescribed.
   Afterward, in a barnlike tavern near the horse track, Mr.
van Weutswinckel presides over the jollity with a beer in one
hand and the goose's head clutched firmly in the other. How
does it feel to win the big one at Lillo? "Unbelievable," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN GM FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, April 10, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.225% 15 to 59 days; 8.175% 60 to 89 days;
8.15% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149 days; 8.05% 150 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.30%
30 days; 8.28% 60 days; 8.25% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.47% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.20% 30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.14%
90 days; 8.13% 120 days; 8.13% 150 days; 8.10% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% to 8 1/4% one month; 8
7/16% to 8 5/16% two months; 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% three months; 8
1/2% to 8 3/8% four months; 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% five months; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/8% one month;
8 1/2% three months; 8 5/8% six months; 8 7/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.80% 13 weeks; 7.80% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.27%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.20%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.95%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.71%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Buy-Out Pact Is Set
   With Union-Formed Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- UAL Corp. said it signed a definitive merger
agreement with United Employee Acquisition Corp., the company
formed by its three principal employee unions to acquire UAL.
   Under the proposed merger, shareholders will receive for
each UAL share $155 cash; $35 in senior subordinated notes of
United Airlines; and a new security valued at about $11 a
share, issued by Covia Corp., a UAL unit that owns United's
share in the Apollo computerized reservation system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The United notes, which will have a 16% interest rate,
will be due in 1999. The agreement gives the unions four
months to secure financing for the $4.38 billion buy-out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Sharply Against the Mark,
   Loses Ground Against Other Currencies
   ----
   By Caitlin Randall
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar tumbled yesterday, its sudden
plunge sparked by an unconfirmed rumor late in the session
that a New York bank's credit rating had been downgraded.
   While the market rumor was soon shrugged off, it prompted
a hefty mark rally as the U.S. unit slipped below the key
1.6850-mark level, dealers said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Below that level, a lot of stop-loss orders drove it
lower," said Graham Beale of HongKong &amp; Shanghai Banking
Corp. in New York, noting that much of the session's action
was focused on cross-currency plays.
   The dollar ended the session down nearly two pfennigs
against the mark and lower against all other major currencies
except the Canadian dollar.
   In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6755
marks, down from 1.6935 marks late Monday, and at 157.60 yen,
down from 158.23 yen late Monday. Sterling was quoted at
$1.6453, up from $1.6338 Monday.
   The mark gained against the yen as well, ending the
session at 94.08 yen compared to 93.47 yen late Monday in New
York.
   Traders said volume was thin ahead of the long Easter
holiday weekend, spurring rumor-generated deals and
increasing non-dollar transactions.
   Early Wednesday in Tokyo, trading remained quiet. The
dollar was quoted at 157.62 yen by midmorning, slightly up
from the New York close but down from the Tuesday close of
158.15 yen in Tokyo.
   Douglas Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America,
commented that cross-dealing has increasingly taken center
stage as investors grapple with the dollar's next move.
   "It seems easier to fine-tune cross-rate relationships
than to try and figure out what the dollar may be up to
longer term," he said, noting that trouble in Japan's
financial markets has again brought crossdealing to the
forefront of market activity as Japanese investor capital
floods into other currencies.
   Indeed, one trader in a Frankfurt-based bank said that in
the past few days 70% of mark turnover has been against
currencies other than the dollar.
   The dollar began the New York day on a firm note, edging
gingerly higher throughout most of the session.
   Participants said the U.S. unit dipped slightly on an
early news report that the Group of Seven industrial
democracies issued a blunt warning to Japan that it must
raise interest rates to stabilize its financial markets. But
the unit quickly retraced its losses.
   Traders said the news enhanced the market's perception
that the G-7 isn't willing to help prop up the Japanese unit,
despite vague promises at a meeting Saturday in Paris to
guard against the "undesirable consequences" of a falling
yen.
   The story, initially reported by the Washington Post, said
Japan's reluctance to again boost interest rates was one of
several key factors stopping the G-7 from taking more
aggressive steps to halt the yen's slide.
   Later in the New York session, comments by West German
Finance Minister Helmut Haussmann that he expects the mark to
firm as a result of the planned economic and monetary
unification of the two Germanys lent support to the currency,
dealers said.
   They noted that dollar-mark trading had been largely
sidelined recently as both Germanys haggle over the
appropriate exchange rate for a unified currency and the
inflationary impact of monetary union.
   With so many questions still unanswered about German
monetary unification, investors are reticent to expand their
mark portfolios, traders said.
   And while Mr. Haussmann's comments provided nothing in the
way of substantive details, the market reacted favorably to
the news.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $375 an ounce, down $1. Estimated volume
was a moderate 2.6 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong, gold opened Wednesday at $374.95 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Survey for Disney Finds
   Moviegoers Don't Like Ads
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA DIS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Walt Disney Co., which has been under
attack by advertisers for its controversial ban on ads in
movie theaters, said it hired a research firm to find out how
moviegoers feel about ads.
   Not surprisingly, the survey found that moviegoers don't
like ads. But the company called a news conference to
announce the results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Disney said 90% of 18,772 moviegoers surveyed by National
Research Group Inc. said they don't want commercials to be
shown in theaters. However, the poll found that 95% of those
surveyed said they favor movie previews. The poll was
conducted on March 31 in Chicago, Boston, New York and seven
other communities by the research unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
Co.
   Jeff Katzenberg, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, said
Disney originally thought taking a survey on this subject
would make as much sense as "asking dental patients if they
like root canal." However, he noted that some advertisers
have argued that Disney doesn't have any empirical data
proving that moviegoers don't like advertising.
   The ban on ads, announced in February, went into effect
with the recent opening of Disney's box-office hit "Pretty
Woman." Richard Cook, president of Disney's Buena Vista
Pictures Distribution, which distributes Disney pictures,
said there haven't been any theaters that have refused to
comply with the policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mesaba Aviation Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ATCC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Mesaba Aviation Inc., a unit of AirTran
Corp., said its March traffic rose 31% to 14.6 million
revenue passenger miles from 11.2 million a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier, which operates as Northwest Airlink, said its
load factor, or the percentage of available seats filled,
fell to 50.5% from 55.8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   W.R. Grace &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GRA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   W.R. GRACE &amp; Co. (New York) -- Bernd A. Schulte was
appointed group executive of General Development Group, the
strategic planning arm of this international specialty
chemical company. He succeeds Edward T. Harvey, 41 years old,
who recently resigned to pursue other business interests. Mr.
Schulte, 47, a corporate vice president, most recently was
responsible for special projects, reporting to the office of
the chairman. He will continue in that post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Banking Panel Seeks the Advice
   Of Experts as It Probes Thrift Fraud
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In its effort to gauge the effectiveness of
prosecutors dealing with thrift-related fraud, the House
Banking Committee decided to ask some people who should know.
   For its hearings here today, the committee invited the
former owners of four expensively defunct Texas thrifts:
Thomas M. Gaubert of Independent American Savings
Association; Edwin T. McBirney III of Sunbelt Savings
Association of Texas; Don R. Dixon of Vernon Savings &amp; Loan
Association, and Jarrett E. Woods Jr. of Western Savings
Association.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All are targets of a U.S. Justice Department investigation
that has been grinding away for more than three years,
probing the improper lending practices and other abuses that
led to the collapse of the four thrifts. Except for Mr.
Gaubert, none of the four men has been charged with criminal
wrongdoing. And Mr. Gaubert's indictment, which didn't
involve his stewardship of Independent American, ended in
acquittal in 1988. Of the four, only Mr. Gaubert considered
appearing before the committee, but he has another
obligation: He is currently serving on a Dallas County grand
jury.
   A banking committee staff member said the four men were
invited to give them an opportunity to respond to allegations
that are sure to be made by other witnesses. Otherwise, the
hearing will focus on prosecutors' progress in investigating
thrift fraud.
   The panel "isn't going in there with a feeling that {the
progress} has been good or bad," says a staff member. "But
members are hearing that the constituents are impatient with
the pace of the prosecutions and convictions."
   Some would consider the pace glacial, including the
targets of the investigations. All four were out of the
thrift business by early 1987 and remain in judicial and
business limbo today.
   Of the four, Mr. Gaubert, who relinquished control of
Independent American Savings in 1984, has spent the most time
in the cross hairs of the government's guns. He was indicted
and acquitted in 1988 of charges that he defrauded a tiny
Iowa thrift, and a five-year statute of limitations on
prosecutions now precludes charges for any criminal activity
that may have occurred at Independent American.
   But the Justice Department's Dallas Bank Fraud Task Force
keeps questioning, among other things, Mr. Gaubert's
borrowings and other transactions with the defunct Sunbelt
Savings, according to lawyers whose clients have been
questioned about Mr. Gaubert.
   "It remains very curious why the Justice Department
concentrates so much time and effort on this one guy who's
been out of the S&amp;L for more than five years, unless it's
because they hold a grudge and don't like to see people
acquitted," says Mr. Gaubert's attorney, Abbe David Lowell of
Washington, D.C.
   While the investigation drags on, Mr. Gaubert is battling
thrift regulators in court over the terms of their takeover
of Independent American. In a separate court case, he is
dueling with Sunbelt Savings FSB, which took on the assets of
the defunct Sunbelt, over $35.3 million in loans that Mr.
Gaubert guaranteed in 1985. Among the loans was one for $6
million he used to buy controlling interest in TeleCom Corp.,
a holding company with interests in air-conditioning
distribution and conveying-equipment manufacturing.
   Mr. McBirney is struggling with his own publicly traded
holding company, Oxidyne Group Inc. A subsidiary, Oxidyne
Corp., apparently has developed some promising technology for
the oxidation of solid waste in mile-deep wells, but the
company hasn't been able to scare up the $12 million to $18
million it needs to fulfill its first contract, with Houston.
   Could it have something to do with the reputation of Mr.
McBirney, whose wild and woolly spending at the old Sunbelt
earned it the nickname Gunbelt Savings? "I know it's an
impediment to the company," Mr. McBirney says of his position
as Oxidyne Group chief executive. He is now seeking a buyer
for the company, or at least a new chief executive.
   In the meantime, federal investigators are inching closer
to indicting Mr. McBirney with the cooperation of several
former officers of Sunbelt subsidiaries.
   Mr. McBirney won't appear before the House Banking
Committee "in this atmosphere," says Paul E. Coggins, his
attorney. "That will happen to one of my clients when
elephants start to fly."
   Mr. Woods, who was ousted from the ownership of Western
Savings in September 1986, has also paid a price for his
thrift days. When the Dallas Morning News reported last year
that a company owned by trust funds for Mr. Woods's children
was attempting to get millions of dollars in government loans
to rehabilitate a South Dallas apartment complex, city
officials and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development quashed the deal.
   Now, Mr. Woods is having to demolish most of the apartment
complex and must show the city proof of financing for repairs
of the remainder, according the terms of a court settlement
with the city.
   Mr. Woods "just wishes it would all go away, and he could
get on with his life," says Paul M. Wolff, one of Mr. Woods's
attorneys from the Washington law firm of Williams &amp;
Connolly. Mr. Wolff says his client is working in real
estate, but won't be more specific. And the lawyer says he
has heard little from the Bank Fraud Task Force "except they
tell me they hate my client."
   A Justice Department spokesman said the agency wouldn't
comment on the progress of its investigations.
   Since Mr. Dixon left Vernon Savings in mid-1986, he has
maintained a low profile, a sharp contrast to the days when
Vernon paid for tours of Europe and a home in California.
Now, his attorney, William M. Ravkind, says Mr. Dixon is
involved in an offshore insurance deal but wouldn't be more
specific.
   Meanwhile, the trappings of Mr. Dixon's old life are being
auctioned away under the auspices of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Dallas. So far, the auctions have netted about $2
million, most of that from the sale of a vintage-car
dealership that Mr. Dixon owned in California.
   Just last week, Mr. Dixon got a glimpse of the future when
Vernon's former chairman and chief executive, Woody F.
Lemons, was sentenced to 30 years in federal prison for
accepting kickbacks from Vernon borrowers, among other
things.
   "That makes plea bargaining doubtful," Mr. Ravkind says.
"I guess we'd better not lose."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   The Good News Is There Are
   No More `Frivolous Lawsuits'...
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   . . . the bad news is that this is because by now, broad
liability rules mean no lawsuit is clearly frivolous.
Consider:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP, April 4) -- A couple are suing a
hospital for $4 million, complaining staff members nicknamed
their baby "Smurfette" because her skin was accidentally dyed
blue.
   The suit claims Kirsten Madsen was "subjected to the
callous, distressing remarks . . . among which was the
reference to her just-delivered daughter as `Smurfette.'"
   Smurfette is a character in "The Smurfs" cartoon show. The
Smurfs are elflike creatures with blue skin.
   The suit says Mrs. Madsen was injected with blue dye in
her womb to test for a urinary tract infection 12 hours
before she went into labor at Baptist Hospital.
                                                                                                       

   Her lawyer thinks Mrs. Madsen is due a payout from the
hospital because, he argues, the Smurfette remarks caused
"extreme, distressing and permanent emotional damage,
humiliation and ridicule" to her and to her just-born
daughter. In other words, the Madsen family is about to take
a giant tug on the greatest Wheel of Fortune, the American
legal system. Where the wheel stops no one knows.
   As this case suggests, tort law has deteriorated so far
that no one can know if a case is absurd or serious. Even the
lawyers with the most at stake in understanding the law --
contingency-fee plaintiffs' lawyers -- must have to pinch
themselves sometimes to see if they're dreaming.
   One way plaintiffs' lawyers keep up with the unpredictable
legal system is with Lawyers Alert, a Boston-based
fortnightly, which has a feature called "What's the Verdict?
Test Your Knowledge of What Juries Are Awarding." This quiz
gives hypothetical facts, the likelihood that a jury will
find liability and the likely jury award. Case studies are
provided by courtwatchers at Jury Verdict Research Inc., who
analyze trends in liability and awards in various parts of
the country.
   Try your hand at legal soothsaying:
   -- Larry, a 62-year-old postal employee, fractured his
clavicle when he slipped and fell on the deck of a cruise
ship. He sued the owners of the cruise line for negligence,
on the grounds that a puddle had been allowed to form under
an air conditioning unit. Larry incurred $1,400 in medical
expenses, lost $2,000 in wages, and claimed to suffer
emotional distress because the injury ruined a vacation for
which he had planned and saved for many years. The cruise
line argued that (1) there was no puddle, but rather normal
dampness on the deck, (2) Larry was drunk at the time, (3)
Larry wasn't wearing appropriate footwear, and (4) passengers
had been warned that the deck would be slippery.
   The average jury will find for Larry 54% of the time. In
Peoria, Ill., Larry would expect an award of $20,000.
   -- Sam, a 20-year-old college student, was attacked and
beaten at a college fraternity party and suffered a fractured
jaw, rib fractures, a ruptured spleen and numerous contusions
and abrasions. Although he was certain that his attackers
were guests at the party, he was intoxicated at the time and
couldn't remember the specific individuals who assaulted him.
He sued the fraternity that sponsored the party, alleging
that it (1) allowed guests to drink to excess, (2) failed to
control the party when drunken guests started to make
trouble, and (3) negligently served him alcohol even though
he was underage, thus making him less able to defend himself
against his attackers.
   He also sued the college on whose property the party was
held, claiming that the college administrators had been aware
that the fraternity frequently held "wild" parties but failed
to take any action to stop or regulate them.
   The average jury will find for Sam 97% of the time. In
Bronx, New York, Sam would get $250,000.
   -- Willa, a 19-year-old hairdresser, was detained by
security personnel at a department store who claimed she had
put several items of jewelry in her purse and tried to leave
without paying for them. She was released and warned not to
return to the store, and later brought a claim for her mental
anguish and emotional distress arising from the incident. She
argued that she had put the jewelry in her open purse for a
moment because her hands were full, and that rather than
trying to leave the store, she was trying to find a sales
clerk when she was apprehended.
   Willa testified that she was interrogated for several
hours and was verbally abused and threatened, and became so
upset that she missed several days of work and sought
psychiatric help. She claimed $200 in lost earnings and $500
in psychiatric expenses. The defendants argued that they had
acted properly, and that Willa was exaggerating the extent of
her injuries.
   The average jury will find for Willa 53% of the time. In
Mobile, Ala., Willa would get $36,000.
   -- Rhonda, a 27-year-old fashion model, burned her scalp
and lost most of her hair when she used a home hair-coloring
product. She sued the manufacturer, alleging that the product
was dangerous and should not have been on the market, and
claiming damages for emotional distress and earnings she lost
because she wasn't able to work as a model with her hair in
such a condition. At trial, the manufacturer contended that
the product was not dangerous and that Rhonda apparently had
an allergic reaction to one of the ingredients, and that if
she had performed the patch test recommended in the product's
directions, she would have discovered that she had the
allergy and so avoided the injury.
   The average jury will find for Rhonda 89% of the time. In
New York City, Rhonda would get $41,000.
   Don't be surprised if you're surprised by these results.
Returning the law to more certainty and common sense will be
a long-term project. Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher last
week backed a proposed bill to create a single, federal
standard for product liability.
   Three Republican congressmen from California are working
on a plan to slow the rate of liability-expanding litigation.
Reps. Christopher Cox, Dana Rohrabacher and Tom Campbell want
to deter wild lawsuits with a version of the "English rule"
on legal costs -- the loser of a lawsuit has to pay the
winner's lawyer and other costs. Many contingency-fee lawyers
now diversify their risk by taking a lot of dubious cases,
hoping that a few at the margin of the common law will strike
gold. The English rule would weed out the more absurd cases.
The congressmen want the rule to apply in federal litigation
and also plan to propose a ballot initiative to make the
reform in California as early as 1992.
   Reformers argue that only lawyers benefit from today's
bottomless liability, which raises consumer prices in every
industry. It will be interesting to see who will fight
proposals to discourage what we once called frivolous
lawsuits.
   ---
                 How Well Did You Guess?
                                                                                                       

   If you thought...
                                                                                                       

   -- Sam and Rhonda would win: 5 pts. each
   -- Larry and Willa would win: 10 pts. each
   -- If you estimated the total award to the four plaintiffs
within $50,000: 15 pts.
                                                                                                       

   A sum of 25 points or more, and if you're not a lawyer you
should be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FCC Puts at Three Months
   Time to Review MCI Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC TTT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Communications Commission
clarified that the review of MCI Communications Corp.'s
proposed acquisition of Telecom USA Inc. will take about
three months, unless opponents raised "valid objections."
   The agency yesterday indicated that approval of the
friendly acquisition was expected to take a minimum of six
months. An FCC spokeswoman said MCI and Telecom USA have yet
to file data on their plan with the commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to FCC approval, the merger requires clearance
from Telecom USA shareholders, the Justice Department and
regulatory agencies in states where both companies operate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP LATAM J.NTT MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRAFFIC JAMS OVER EUROPE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transport ministers of 23 European countries are to meet
in Paris on April 24 to approve an air-traffic-control
reorganization program. They hope the plan will partially
clear up the traffic jams in Europe's skies.
   The plan essentially would link by 1998 Europe's 42
air-traffic-control centers with high-speed data links that
carry radar and flight information. It is intended to squeeze
more capacity out of the fragmented, congested system and
prepare Europe for the drastic traffic increases forecast for
coming years.
   Proposed by the European Civil Aviation Conference, the
plan would reorganize air "lanes," provide for radar coverage
where it is lacking and harmonize standards for equipment and
operations.
   In a study, the International Air Transport Association
noted that the air-traffic problem could cost European
economies $9.5 billion annually by the end of the decade
unless significant improvements were made now.
                                                                                                       

   EC AID FOR CENTRAL AMERICA
                                                                                                       

   The European Community plans to increase its aid to
Central America by half. The EC's commissioner for Latin
America, Abel Matutes, said the EC Commission was earmarking
the extra funds for the region over the next two years. "We
plan an increase in funding in the order of 50% to 60%, which
demonstrates that events in Eastern Europe have in no way
prejudiced our obligations to the rest of the world," he
said. The EC now gives Central America about 100 million
European Currency Units ($120 million) a year.
                                                                                                       

   VISITING THE HOLY LAND

   Despite the continuing Palestinian uprising, as many as
45,000 tourists are expected to visit the Holy Land during
this Passover and Easter week, up 23% from last year,
Israel's Tourism Ministry said. One reason for the increase
is the coincidence of Easter this Sunday for both Orthodox
and Latin-rite churches.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S DIAL-A-BIRD SERVICE
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. and the
national Environment Agency now brings callers the sound of
birds over the telephone. "I will introduce you to the sound
of birds," coos a woman's soothing voice, describing each of
the birds featured on the tape. After the birds are heard,
the voice entreats the listener: "Please go out and try to
find real sounds yourself." NTT and the Environment Agency
say they hope to bring the Japanese closer to nature through
the new service, dubbed "Naku-naku 7979." Naku-naku means,
roughly, "Cheep-cheep."
                                                                                                       

   AIDS TEST FOR SINGAPORE MAIDS
                                                                                                       

   All new foreign housemaids must take a test for AIDS
before going to work in Singapore, the Labor Ministry said.
It said work permits would not be issued to maids who are
found to be infected with the AIDS virus; the test does not
apply to other foreign workers or maids already employed in
Singapore. About 190,000 foreigners work in Singapore, some
40,000 of whom are maids.
                                                                                                       

   BELGIUM'S SWINE PLAGUE
                                                                                                       

   A plan to stem an outbreak of swine plague in Belgium by
destroying 150,000 pigs ran into trouble yesterday when
officials were barred from collecting livestock in four
towns. For the second day, angry farmers blocked highways in
the affected areas, saying preventive killing of healthy pigs
would bankrupt them. The government has promised to refund
the full price of the pigs, but the offer was termed
insufficient by farmers, who say the cost to restart from
scratch is much higher than the proposed reimbursement.
                                                                                                       

   A COMMITMENT FROM FRANCE
                                                                                                       

   France has made a firm commitment to offer up to 1,500
passports to Hong Kong employees of French companies, and
other European countries will follow suit, a British
government minister said.
   Francis Maude, the British Foreign Office minister
responsible for Hong Kong, did not elaborate on the French
offer, which follows international lobbying by the British
government to secure foreign passports for residents of the
colony before it is handed back to China in 1997. But he told
a news conference that Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg were
completing plans to offer passports and added: "A number of
other European Community countries are actively considering
what they can do."
   China's bloody military suppression of the student-led
pro-democracy movement in Beijing last June rocked confidence
in Hong Kong and hastened plans by many professionals to
emigrate. Britain hopes that if Hong Kong people are given
foreign passports they will feel secure enough to stay.
   China has repeatedly attacked the British government's
plans, now before Parliament, to offer full British passports
to 50,000 Hong Kong residents and their families and has said
it would refuse to recognize the validity of the documents.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Animal-protection groups in the European Community are
urging organizers of the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona to
leave bullfighting out of promotional activities. . . . In
Madrid, police arrested a West German tour-bus driver after
seizing 25.9 pounds of heroin hidden in the bus's
air-conditioning system. Authorities said the seizure
resulted from an anti-drug operation carried out in
cooperation with Dutch and West German police.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Jazz: The Swinging Side of Bing
   ----
   By Nat Hentoff
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   "When I was a kid in Spokane," Bing Crosby once told me,
"I played drums in a six-piece band. We couldn't read music,
but we just about memorized all the new records by the Mound
City Blues Blowers, the Memphis Five, and the Original
Dixieland Jazz Band. Those sounds, those wonderful sounds,
made me determined to somehow work my way into the company of
jazz musicians."
   And so he did, as a member of the Rhythm Boys, who sang
with Paul Whiteman from 1926 to 1930. His roommate on the
road for a time was Bix Beiderbecke, long portrayed as the
quintessential jazz legend of the fragile boy with a horn who
drank himself to death because he could not bear too much
reality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But "it wasn't booze that killed Bix," Crosby said. "He
wasn't an alcoholic. He was a jolly absent-minded sort of
fellow, but he was so totally immersed in music that he never
ate or slept properly. His health broke from exhaustion. Of
course, it seemed that none of us went to bed in those days.
It's amazing that some of us survived."
   Starting in the early 1930s, Crosby left the full-time
company of jazz musicians to star on radio and then in films.
And he kept on recording, often with jazz improvisers in the
band. Although Crosby is most renowned as what used to be
called a crooner -- someone who transforms ballads into
exceptionally intimate conversations -- he also, when the
spirit moved him, sang jazz with exhilarating authority. He
was not just a "jazz-influenced" singer. Crosby could be the
real thing. For instance, on a recent Columbia Jazz
Masterpiece album, "1930's: The Jazz Singers," the one Crosby
track -- "Dinah," with the Mills Brothers -- is a short
course in the essentials of the jazz vocal. The instrumental
phrasing; the hot scat singing over the flowing vocal rhythm
section that was the Mills Brothers; and the last chorus on
which Bing sounds like a joyful, driving cornet.
   In addition, Columbia has assembled a three-LP (and CD)
set, "Bing Crosby/The Crooner/The Columbia Years 1928-1934."
Not all the numbers, by any means, are jazz pieces, but even
on the ballads there are touches of phrasing and rhythm that
indicate Crosby was never without -- in his head -- the
company of jazz musicians.
   The collection includes the most startling of all Crosby
recordings. "Brother Can You Spare a Dime?" is neither jazz
nor pop music. Yip Harburg and Jay Gorney's song is a
monologue by a veteran who, once cheered as a soldier, now is
down and out.
   Behind Crosby, the orchestra plays a slow, relentless
march, and he tells the story, from the breadline, with a
chilling bitterness that is wholly at odds with the blithe
Bing of the Kraft Music Hall, "Holiday Inn" and "High
Society." Yet, the serious Crosby, who knew something of
failure and loss, emerged again later in his career when he
compellingly played an alcoholic in the film version of
Clifford Odets's "The Country Girl."
   As for the light-hearted Crosby, still urbanely charming
and musically beyond fashion, there is a remarkable store of
rare Crosby radio broadcasts issued by a Crosby aficionado,
Larry Kiner. On his Spokane label, for example, there is
"Bing &amp; Dinah," composed largely of duets by Crosby and a
Dinah Shore who used to be a pretty fair jazz singer herself
on broadcasts by, as I remember, the Chamber Music Society of
Lower Basin Street. Her delightful, genuinely relaxed
rhythmic sense blends naturally with Crosby's.
   On Bing's "Music Hall Highlights" -- a selection from the
Kraft Music Hall programs -- Mr. Kiner has programmed a jazz
performance, "After You've Gone," and such other songs that
could have been written for Crosby as "It's Only a Paper
Moon" and "Moonlight Bay." Among the other albums in the
Spokane collection are: "Bing and Connee Boswell," "Bing &amp;
Bob Hope," a series of "Bing in the Thirties," and many more.
   While the sound is not state-of-the-1990s art, it's
listenable, and sometimes better than that. The albums are $7
plus $3 per order for shipping. That is, if 10 albums are
ordered, the shipping charge still would be $3. The address
is Nostalgia, P.O. Box 82, Redmond, Wash. 98073-0082.
   On the Kraft Music Hall sets, there are some of the breezy
Crosby spoken exchanges that used to add to the casual
surprises of that program. Listening then, I knew there were
writers on the show, but some of the wordplay seemed so
singularly Crosby's that I figured he must have often ad
libbed. During a 1976 interview, he confirmed that he had,
and I asked him about his pleasure in playing with words.
   "Well," he said, "I read a lot. I'm no intellectual, you
understand, but I like Graham Greene, Evelyn Waugh,
Hemingway, John P. Marquand, Louis Auchincloss, and Simenon.
There's a great writer] Simenon writes mystery stories, but
he really understands character."
   Politically, Crosby was a conservative; the National
Review was one of his favorite publications. But unlike Bob
Hope, John Wayne and Jimmy Stewart, he never so publicly
identified himself with a party's candidate that he appeared
to be endorsing him. "I never thought it was proper," Crosby
told me, "for a performer to use his influence to get anyone
to vote one way or another."
   There was, however, one political issue that he felt very
strongly about, and he might have said so publicly but he
couldn't figure out a way to make a difference. "I was
against the Vietnam War," he said, "but I didn't know what to
do about it."
   I asked if there was anything he hadn't done in all those
years that he still wanted to try. "No," Crosby said. "I
really have accomplished just everything I wanted to. It's
been a good life, pleasing people over so many years."
   And the recordings continue to bring pleasure. Mr. Kiner
is searching for more airchecks -- like the very early
broadcasts of the 1930s. There should be more of Crosby the
jazz singer in those programs. But then, all through his
career -- as in "High Society," with Louis Armstrong --
Crosby still remembered that six-piece kid band in Spokane,
with himself on drums.
   ---
   Mr. Hentoff is a New York-based writer and jazz critic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gold Rush:
   Capitalists Jam Poland,
   Asking Which Way
   To the Biggest Deals
   ---
   Government Isn't Sure Either,
   But Money Is Pouring In
   And Advisers Proliferating
   ---
   `Hitchhiking on Gravy Train'
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- From the mezzanine of the new Marriott Hotel,
the waltzes of the string ensemble and the strolling
minstrel's Italian serenades float down through the ferns to
mix with wisps of talk in the lobby bar.
   ". . . technical support . . ."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ". . . diamond prospect in Brazil . . ."
   "They have belly dancers here?"
   "I've seen stranger things than that on an expense
account."
   Westerners, most of them fresh off the plane, pack the
place: aid teams, bureaucrats, bankers, businessmen,
consultants, carpetbaggers.
   At a corner banquette, a Pole unrolls a factory floor plan
for a dark-suited contact. Citibank's man sits alone by a
window. "Nosing around," someone whispers. "Lives in the
hotel." Sipping espresso at the bar, a reticent English
property broker lets on that he's out to pick up office space
to service the West's big rush East.
   "Terrific scarcity," he confides. His best discoveries:
the vacated buildings of Poland's defunct Communist Party.
   When the Russians laid claim to Poland, they built the
Palace of Culture, a lugubrious stake that still rises to a
Stalinist pinnacle in the heart of Warsaw. Now the Marriott
has shot up across the street, its American flag aflutter and
its 520 rooms booked solid by capitalist claim jumpers,
advancing in their accustomed chaos on this new -- and
overwhelmed -- frontier.
   "It's the fashion," says the hotel's delighted sales
manager. "Everyone wants to come to Eastern Europe." Beurt
SerVaas, an American from Indiana who set up a company here
in the dark days of 1983, asks: "When they discovered gold in
California, was there confusion?"
   Sure. But in the gold rush, everyone at least knew what to
look for. In Eastern Europe, they don't.
   The Marshall Plan's billions rebuilt lands wrecked by war
yet favored by the flickering memory of capitalism. Communism
purged the East's memory long ago, and bulldozed the
groundwork necessary for doing business. The prospectors in
the Marriott bar aren't sure where to start. The West's
agents of official largess have it no better. Without
experience in unmaking communism, they are pledging billions
to untried bureaucrats who haven't the vaguest notion how to
spend it all.
   "The Poles aren't very articulate in defining what they
want," a Western banker says, "and we don't know exactly what
we have to offer." Sir William Ryrie, head of the World
Bank's International Finance Corporation, wrote recently:
"People who know a lot about how capitalist economies work
should not imagine that they therefore know how to make the
transition from communism."
   With other Klondikes beckoning from Bucharest to Berlin,
chances are Western business won't drop much cash in Poland
very soon. Nor are the Poles about to absorb the billions
that Western governments and agencies will pump in here this
year. But if Lech Walesa can bring the U.S. Congress to its
feet by calling for "an investment adequate to the greatness
of the American nation," the Marriott bar will stay packed
anyway.
   Thanks to all the ballyhoo, a Westerner can make good
money in today's Eastern Europe -- by hustling the other
Westerners.
   Newsletters have busted out all over. Nor does a week pass
without a conference on opportunities in the East bloc. Big
consulting-banking-accounting firms with some knowledge of
the area are hiring out to companies with none at all. Law
firms and public-relations firms have signed on to coach
newborn investment funds.
   Experts who used to comb Communist tomes in obscurity are
hot properties now. Academics put out press releases. A
businessman from Chicago plans to cart everyone around Warsaw
in stretch limousines. And the Marriott will give them all a
night's rest -- for dollars.
   "They think they can hitchhike on the gravy train," says
Jules Zonn, seated beside the magazine rack one day at the
U.S. Trade Development Center. He spent many years in
America, and came back to his home country to open a shoe
factory. When the commercial attache walks in, Mr. Zonn, who
has no appointment, buttonholes him.
   "I need some money," he says. "How to approach this?"
   Edgar Fulton, a young man with a blond beard, acquires a
look of deep strain. "I'll give you five minutes," he says.
"There will be an enterprise fund." Mr. Zonn lights up. "But
it is to assist Polish private companies. It wasn't created
to help Americans."
   Mr. Zonn changes tack. "Mr. Smith from Kansas City wants
to know about Poland. I'll work for him for $100 a day. So
nobody takes him for a ride. You know, many people are
wanting to take you for a ride." He presents his card, and
goes. Walking up to his office, Mr. Fulton mumbles, "I'm
under siege."
   So are the Poles.
   In a recent week Andrzej Burzynski, who dispenses legal
advice at the Polish Chamber of Foreign Trade, met a team
from a new mutual fund; an American with a textile idea,
another with office-building plans and one with a tobacco
project; a Swiss industrialist, a Swedish water-purification
engineer, a Dutch consultant, and a West German writing a
thesis on Western investment in Poland.
   "How do you organize your business cards?" Mr. Burzynski
says. "I put them in my pocket and have another coat the next
day." He searches his desk for more. "My problem is weeding
out the ones with nothing behind the card. I don't
understand. Is it an ego trip? They come to this country and
make out to be big businessmen?"
   Solidarity's newspaper gives some answers in a guide to
spotting the latter-day carpetbagger: He carries a "renowned
and expensive attache case . . . is immaculately dressed,
owns a gold pen and a Rolex watch . . . and will be staying
at the Warsaw Marriott since the cost of his trip is paid by
someone else. . . ." Yet, as any Westerner seeking contacts
here knows, a type just as smooth is evolving in Poland.
   With the central planners out, even foreigners with
established trade ties have lost their bearings. New laws
have snatched away special favors. Solidarity's economic
therapy makes costs tough to judge. Private entrepreneurs,
socked by inflation, promise anything for dollars. Old
apparatchiks peddle state property as if they owned it.
Adrift in this maelstrom, a stranger needs a lifeline.
   The Foreign Investment Agency won't toss one. Its new
director, Zbigniew Piotrowski, is a free-marketeer who thinks
all but the biggest deals should sink or swim.
   "If Anderson and Kowalski want to make furniture, OK, it's
fine by me," he says. But where does Anderson find Kowalski?
For that, he needs a matchmaker.
   A dating service at the Warsaw office of Unido, the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization, lists Polish
companies pursuing partners to make deodorant sticks, quilted
fleece liners, glass frit and the like. It has 1,000 entries
and aims for 10,000. Other agencies have lists of their own.
"It's disorganized," says Mr. Burzynski at the Chamber of
Foreign Trade, which also has a list. "We don't know how it
is done in the world."
   To plow through the lists, a foreigner requires a
consultant. At least 23 have appeared, though none so far to
help pick consultants. "It's terra incognita," says Krzysztof
Loth, who heads Unido here. "All new start-ups." One of them,
TKD, has a terrific leak in its headquarters ceiling one
Friday morning.
   "Catastrophe," says Dorota Ziemba, the office manager,
leading the way past a crew of plumbers into a back room.
   TKD has a roster of 40 consultants, from the School of
Planning and Statistics, who produce feasibility studies at
$2,000 a shot. It has signed on to work with the giant
Western firm of Ernst &amp; Young, and has lately drawn a flow of
Polish businessmen anxious for mates. "Taxes are so high,
they don't know what to do," says Ms. Ziemba. "They just walk
in the door." As Wojciech Sedzicki does now.
   "I make concentrated protein from animal blood," he says,
as Ms. Ziemba brings in a consultant, 26-year-old Jaroslaw
Drozdowski. Mr. Sedzicki shows him a plastic packet of dark,
grainy stuff. "I'm searching for an American to help me
continue this business. I have no hard currency." The
consultant hands back the packet and grins.
   "What do you need? A buyer? A partner? Are you interested
in expanding?" Mr. Sedzicki loosens his tie. "Of course."
   "We'll see what we can do." Mr. Drozdowski says.
"Sometimes we get people with money who don't know what to do
with it."
   A private investor naturally has the choice of doing
nothing. Not so a public investor. Ready or not, Poland
stands this year to get $3 billion in grants, credits and
credit guarantees from the West's unlocked civic vaults, plus
$3 billion more in each of the next two years. Boggled aid
agents are scrambling to deliver it.
   "They're under tremendous pressure to produce something
that politically looks good," one says. U.S. government
agencies have opted out; private American advisers will route
America's millions. Other donors are stretched thin. "It's
not the money, it's the manpower," says another aid worker.
"Some people have no country experience, probably haven't
even visited. But on their desks are major technical
decisions to be made."
   Polish industry, 95% of it still state-owned, has
meanwhile hit Solidarity with proposals worth $6.5 billion.
"Most are absolutely irrelevant," says Jacek Adamski, an
economist sifting them at the Central Planning Office. He
wouldn't risk spending more than $1.4 billion. "There is a
great danger that some of this money can be wasted," he says.
"We can increase our debt, but intelligently." Poland already
owes the West $39 billion.
   Twice a month, 24 aid-giving nations meet somewhere in the
West to look for ways to avoid tripping over each other in
Poland. But to govern this gang, the Poles have five people
in one small office at the end of a long red carpet in the
council of ministers. They have two computers, no secretary,
no fax and no photocopier.
   "There are people responsible for granting Xerox
machines," Hubert Szlaszewski says in a borrowed office; he
doesn't have one yet. "Our minister signs a letter. It must
go to a high level."
   Even more than a copier, Mr. Szlaszewski wants a channel
for the cash torrent. A development bank might do, or a
foundation. But he would also like to see those 24 countries
hold some meetings in Warsaw, and to give the Poles a seat at
the table. "We badly need assistance," he says, gathering his
papers. "The delicate part is making sure it reaches the
right places."
   The Turkish ambassador has arrived. He has to run.
   Back in the Marriott bar, Doug Gustafson sympathizes, up
to a point. The International Finance Corporation's man in
charge of everything from Portugal to North Yemen is proud to
say he's jumped ahead of the pack in Poland, with two aid
projects up and running.
   "It's just been hectic as hell for everyone," Mr.
Gustafson, an American, admits over a beer after a hard day.
"Some of it is kind of crazy. Nobody has done this before.
It's messy. But that's what freedom's about, and we may as
well get on with it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arkla Exploration Tests Well
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ARK
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SHREVEPORT, La. -- Arkla Exploration said it tested a new
natural-gas and oil-discovery well, its third successful rank
wildcat in the Mississippi-Louisiana region this year and its
10th there since 1987. The Neyland Heirs No.1 well, in Amite
County, Miss., just north of the Louisiana line, flowed at
the rate of 360 barrels of oil and 458,000 cubic feet of
natural gas a day through a 10/64-inch opening. It was
completed at depths between 12,041 and 12,051 feet in the
Lower Tuscaloosa formation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Frequent Douching Raises
   Infection Risk, Study Says
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Frequent vaginal douching appears to increase the risk of
infections of the female reproductive organs, University of
Washington researchers said.
   In a study involving about 1,000 women, the researchers
calculated that women who douched three to four times a month
had a 3.6 times higher risk of developing pelvic inflammatory
disease than women who used a douche less than once a month.
Women who douche only once or twice a month have 2.5 times
the risk of developing the disorder, they said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The present study does not prove that douching can cause
pelvic inflammatory disease . . . but it shows an association
between douching and pelvic inflammatory disease," Pal
Woiner-Hanssen and colleagues reported in this week's Journal
of the American Medical Association.
   Pelvic inflammatory disease, a common cause of pelvic pain
in women, results from infections, such as gonorrhea or
chlamydia. It also can occur after miscarriages or abortions.
It can result in damage to the fallopian tubes and
infertility.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bipartisan Support Is on the Rise in Congress
   To Bring Perestroika to U.S. Agriculture Policy
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   CAG
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Since 1955, the nation's dwindling number of
sheepherders have been paid nearly $2 billion in subsidies,
primarily to ensure the military a ready supply of wool in
case of war.
   Trouble is, wool hasn't been listed as a strategic
material since 1960. Nonetheless, one sheepherder alone --
the meatpacking giant Monfort Inc. -- has been collecting as
much as $478,000 a year in price-support payments for
shearing wool from lambs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To a growing number of lawmakers, such payments as these
exemplify the excesses of a national farm policy they believe
has gone dreadfully awry. Few members of Congress are more
unhappy with government farm programs than conservative
Republican Rep. Dick Armey of Texas and liberal Democratic
Rep. Charles Schumer of New York. Though political odd
fellows, they have begun building a political coalition in
the House to inject what Rep. Armey calls "perestroika" into
U.S. agriculture.
   The wool and mohair program, as they see it, ranks as one
of Washington's more pointless endeavors. Says Rep. Schumer:
"It's a subsidy in search of a rationale." And if they have
their way, it's a subsidy in danger of a heavy shearing.
   Quietly and steadily, Reps. Schumer and Armey have been
recruiting colleagues, tapping into bipartisan concern about
rising food prices and growing impatience with perceived
inequities and inefficiencies in the commodity programs. At
the same time, they are enlisting the support of consumer
advocates, who object to many farm-price supports as "hidden
taxes" on supermarket shoppers, and they are reaching out to
environmentalists, who fault the farm programs for rewarding
overuse of pesticides and other harmful farming practices.
   Once everybody is aboard, the coalition intends to weigh
in on the farm-bill debate, which has long been dominated by
the Agriculture Committee and a phalanx of lobbyists for
commodity groups. "The vast majority of my constituents are
buying their groceries at the grocery store, not tilling the
soil," says Mr. Armey, son of a North Dakota farmer. "The
farm bill {should} be debated by not only people on the
supply side of the market, but by people on the demand side
as well."
   Mr. Schumer, a Harvard-educated lawyer, and Mr. Armey, a
free-market economist, make a formidable pair. Both are
Budget Committee members, respected as inside players adept
at legislative accommodation. Mr. Armey has mellowed greatly
since his freshman days as a free-market firebrand. On the
farm front, he hopes to repeat his success in brokering an
agreement on closing military bases.
   The two men cast themselves as farm-program reformers, not
hit men. "We aren't trying to kill them," says Rep. Schumer.
"We're trying to fix them."
   Their timing seems right. For one thing, the Farm Belt has
recovered from the drought of 1988 and economic doldrums of
the mid-1980s. Equally important, adds Rep. Armey, "We have
gotten four or five years away from those emotional movies
{about farm foreclosures}."
   What's more, demographic trends are working in the
would-be reformers' favor. The strength of the farm bloc has
been waning as the rural population declined. Only 46 of 435
congressional districts are now truly agrarian, according to
an Agriculture Department study. At the same time, the
longstanding accommodations between rural members and
big-city members, who need rural votes for food stamps and
social programs, appear to be fraying of late.
   Says John White, former chairman of the Democratic
National Committee: "The reality is that there's a greater
possibility to change programs than ever before."
   Given federal budget constraints, squabbles among
commodity groups over their respective slices of a shrinking
subsidy pie may further weaken some of the old alliances. A
few cracks already are showing in the farm bloc.
   "A corn-state guy came up to me the other day and said the
peanut program is the worst," Mr. Armey says. "He tried to
point me off in that direction."
   He and Mr. Schumer are sounding out like-minded members of
the Senate about joining forces. But the chances of success
there aren't nearly as bright, if only because every member
respresents at least some farm interests. Ultimately,
everything may depend on how serious the Bush administration
is about holding down farm outlays and making agriculture
more market-oriented.
   The Bush administration, in sending Congress a bundle of
1990 farm-bill proposals, urged a $1.5 billion cutback in
commodity subsidies next year and singled out several
programs for overhauling. Two prime targets: wool-mohair and
peanuts. The price supports for both have been going up since
1985, while corn, wheat and other crops have been taking
cuts. The administration favors revamping both programs to
put wool-mohair and peanuts on a par with other crops.
   The peanut program is regarded by many as particularly
egregious. Because of its high price supports and tight lid
on peanut production and imports, American consumers have to
pay higher prices for U.S. peanuts than foreigners do.
   As for the wool and mohair program, it has been operating
in obscurity ever since Congress decided in 1954 that the
slide in U.S. wool production had to be halted, mainly
because the Pentagon needed woolen uniforms. A new General
Accounting Office report shows that wool production has
continued to plummet despite years of incentive payments to
sheepherders and ranchers. Last year, the government paid
$3.04 for each additional pound of wool produced, $1.66 more
than the average market price.
   "What's particularly galling," says Mr. Schumer, "is most
of them are raising sheep for meat purposes." A spokeman for
Monfort, a ConAgra Inc. subsidiary, says that Monfort shares
its wool payments -- in 1988, they totaled $425,000 -- with
ranchers who raise lambs for its slaughterhouses.
   The GAO report strongly questions the need for further
payments in an age of synthetic fibers, and reminds Congress
of a legislative lapse: It never decided why mohair
production should be subsidized at all, or why individual
Angora goat ranchers should be paid as much as $300,000 a
year in mohair subsidies. And in an unusual letter to
Congress, the agency lists numerous "opportunities for
change" in farm law, including elimination of wool-mohair
price supports.
   One of the coalition's legislative planks would outlaw
payments of any kind to farmers with incomes of $100,000 a
year or more. Says Rep. Armey: "There's no reason we should
be subsidizing individuals who earn more than three times the
average annual income of a family of four."
   The coalition won't make any concerted move until the 1990
farm bill reaches the House floor, probably early this
summer. In the meantime, the strategy is to have a bipartisan
team working on each commodity. New York Democratic Rep.
Thomas Downey and Ohio Republican Rep. Willis Gradison
already are pushing their bill to overhaul the sugar
price-support program.
   Says Massachusetts Democratic Rep. Barney Frank: "Some of
the guys on the Agriculture Committee believe they face their
toughest year ever."
   ---
                 Biggest 1986 Wool Payments*
                                                                                                       

   Monfort Inc., Greeley, Colo. ................. $478,757
   Triple E. Livestock Col, Brawley, Calif. .....  340,997
   Swift Packing Co., San Angelo, Texas .........  299,984
   Joe A. Auza Sr., Casa Grande, Ariz. ..........  298,799
   Godby Sheep Co., Eaton, Colo. ................  283,324
   Bill J. Cole, San Angelo, Texas ..............  265,897
   Diamond A. Cattle Co., Roswell, N.M. .........  231,240
   Coffman Ranch, Powder River, Wyo. ............  224,141
   Harper Livestock Co., Eaton, Colo. ...........  219,600
   I&amp;M Sheep Co., Oildale, Calif. ...............  218,024
                                                                                                       

   *Latest computerized data available from U.S. Department
of Agriculture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp's Auction Rates
   On Commercial Paper Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 8.213% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs. The rate was 8.244% at last week's
sale.
   Bids totaling $451 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.208% to 8.218%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate fell to 8.1595% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.246%
at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $425 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.159% to 8.16%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NMO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Club-Theatre Network, offering of 1.3 million common
shares, via Paragon Capital Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Dynasty Classics Corp., proposed initial offering of
2,029,700 shares of common stock, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
and Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Nuveen California Municipal Market Opportunity Fund Inc.,
initial offering of five million common shares, via Alex.
Brown &amp; Sons.
                                                                                                       

   Nuveen New York Municipal Market Opportunity Fund Inc.,
initial offering of five million common shares, via Alex.
Brown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Much Will an Operation Cost? Fat Chance of Finding Out
   ----
   By John C. Goodman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   One of the worst things about being sick in America is
having to confront the hospital's bill. And unlike buyers of
other big-ticket items, most consumers cannot find out the
total cost ahead of time.
   The one price patients can learn about prior to admission
is the hospital's basic room rate. If these room rates served
as signals for differences in other prices, patients would at
least be able to pick out the lowest-price hospital prior to
admission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unfortunately, hospital room rates are no sure guide to
what the final bill will look like. In most cities room
charges differ by no more than a factor of two to one. Total
hospital bills, on the other hand, can differ as much as 10
to one for the same procedures. Moreover, the hospital with
the highest room rate does not necessarily charge the highest
prices for other services. In Chicago, for example, the
hospital with the highest room rate has some of the lowest
charges for lab tests.
   Prior to admission, should you try to find out about the
various charges that you'll be hit with after you are
discharged? Assuming you could find someone in a hospital who
will even talk to you about such matters, you're in for a big
surprise. A single hospital can have as many as 12,000
different line-item prices. For patients doing comparison
shopping among the 50 hospitals in the Chicago area, there
are as many as 600,000 prices to compare. To make matters
worse, different hospitals frequently use different
accounting systems. As a result, the definition of a service
may differ from hospital to hospital in addition to the
differences in the price of the service.
   Should you try to find out about general categories of
charges (e.g., lab tests) prior to admission? Again assuming
that you can find out what the hospital's charges are, this
effort often would be of little value. In Dallas, for
example, the hospital with the highest charge for a complete
blood count has the lowest charge for urinalysis, and the
hospital that has the lowest charge for a blood count has the
highest charge for urinalysis. Unless a patient plans to
spend a lot of time driving back and forth among hospitals,
knowledge of these prices is not much help.
   Although hospital administrators do not have to give
patients advance notice on what their total bill will be,
hospitals in Illinois are required to tell the state
government. The following are some examples of total charges
for out-patient services in Chicago, reported in 1988:
   -- The charge for a mammogram varied from $13 to $127.
   -- The charge for a CT scan varied from $59 to $635.
   -- Tonsillectomy charges ranged from $125 to $3,365.
   -- Cataract removal charges varied from $125 to $4,279.
   Most physicians have privileges at more than one hospital,
so choosing a different hospital often does not require
switching doctors. If patients knew about these differences
in charges, they could make huge reductions in their medical
bills. Unfortunately, most do not.
   Why are hospital prices so bizarre? Because the hospital
market is a regulated and institutionalized one. We are still
living with the effects of a cost-plus system of hospital
finance that was created by government intervention and has
dominated the marketplace since World War II.
   Prior to the 1980s, most hospitals received their revenue
based on costs, not on the prices they charged. Under a
typical formula, if Blue Cross patients accounted for
one-third of a hospital's patient days, the hospital would
bill Blue Cross for one-third of its total costs. Many other
insurers reimbursed hospitals in the same way, as did the
federal government under the Medicare program. Since 90% of
hospital revenue came from insurers, a hospital's line-item
prices were relevant only for a small fraction of the
hospital's income -- the share paid out-of-pocket by
patients.
   Hospital line-item prices were used in some of the more
complicated cost-reimbursement formulas, however. This gave
hospitals an incentive to artificially raise or lower prices
to manipulate their reimbursement from some third-party
payers. Soon hospital prices became artifacts rather than
real prices determined by supply and demand.
   In the early 1980s, the federal government opted out of
the cost-plus system. Under the Medicare program, the federal
government began paying a single package price (determined in
advance) for hospital procedures. Most private-sector,
third-party payers started paying hospitals on the basis of
charges, rather than costs, and by the end of the 1980s they
were following the lead of Medicare. Today it's not uncommon
for insurance companies and large employers to pay a
predetermined price per procedure or a pre-determined price
per patient day.
   These arrangements usually apply only to the insurer's
share of the bill, however. Individual patients are left to
fend for themselves for their share.
   As a result, we have now come full circle. Prior to the
1980s, patients paying out of pocket were the only people who
had to struggle with hospital bills that no one could
possibly understand. As we enter the 1990s, we are again
evolving toward a system in which those least capable of
coping with hospital line-item prices are the only people
asked to pay those prices.
   We cannot possibly control spiraling health-care costs in
this country unless the consumers can compare prices and make
prudent buying decisions. That cannot happen unless patients
are confronted with a total package price prior to admission.
   Since the government helped create the problem, we need
its help in solving it. Any hospital receiving Medicare money
should be required to quote pre-admission prices to all
patients. Thus, patients will know in advance what their
total bill will be -- a bill with only one item and one
price.
   ---
   Mr. Goodman heads the National Center for Policy Analysis
in Dallas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House of Commons
   In Canada Approves
   7% Consumption Tax
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's House of Commons approved legislation
to introduce a 7% consumption tax effective Jan. 1.
   The bill also needs to be approved by the Senate, which is
expected to hold lengthy hearings on the proposal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The value-added tax would replace a more narrowly based
13.5% manufacturing sales tax. It is to be applied to most
goods and services except basic groceries, prescription drugs
and medical services. Credits are to be paid to low-income
Canadians to offset the tax's impact.
   Canadian businesses are to levy the tax on domestic sales.
They are to be allowed to claim a credit for any tax they pay
on purchases of goods and services. The burden of the tax is
to fall on consumers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockheed Wins
   Proxy Battle
   With Simmons
   ---
   But Shareholders Approve
   Initiatives Supported
   By the Dallas Investor
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LK NL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   After months of intense wrangling, Lockheed Corp.'s board
won handily its proxy battle against Dallas investor Harold
Simmons for control of the nation's sixth largest defense
contractor, according to preliminary counts released by both
sides.
   But a slate of shareholder initiatives, at which
management initially balked, also was approved. These were
pushed heavily by Mr. Simmons, especially in the latter
stages of the proxy fight when he began to focus more on the
theme of corporate governance and somewhat less on Lockheed's
disappointing economic performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results, which generally had been expected, signaled
that Lockheed's holders are willing to give Chairman Daniel
Tellep more time to rejuvenate the company's balance sheet.
But, by raising the shibboleth of shareholder rights, large
portfolio managers in particular have made it clear that they
want more of a say in how such a turnaround might be
achieved.
   The divulging of the vote effectively ended one of the
year's most bitter corporate brawls, which has been watched
with interest from Wall Street to Capitol Hill. Calabasas,
Calif.-based Lockheed spent some $8 million fending off Mr.
Simmons's advances. Mr. Simmons's side said it spent
considerably more than $6 million. He had hoped to usher in
an era in which the proxy fight would replace the leveraged
buy-out as the primary way of seizing a target.
   Lockheed said its nominees to the board, all of them
incumbents, won 62% of the more than 52 million shares voted
in the contest. Houston-based NL Industries Inc., under whose
aegis Mr. Simmons controls his 18.94% stake in Lockheed, put
the tally at 58% to 61%.
   In the meantime, it's certain that Mr. Simmons will still
be lurking at Lockheed's door, prompting Mr. Tellep to look
for ways to enhance shareholder value. "Just having him there
will make sure Lockheed tries to improve things," said DeWitt
Bowman, chief investment officer for California Public
Employees Retirement System, a $56 billion fund that openly
voted its Lockheed shares for Mr. Simmons.
   "Management is between a rock and a hard place," added
Gary Reich, Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. aerospace analyst,
who last week raised his rating on Lockheed's stock because
of the relentless pressure he anticipates Mr. Simmons will
apply. "If they don't do something fast, Simmons will just be
back. A spurned suitor is a good motivator."
   Indeed, there's little doubt that Mr. Simmons feels
spurned. Although the investor's camp said it didn't know yet
whether it would challenge the proxy results -- it has about
10 people examining them now -- Mr. Simmons indicated in an
interview yesterday that he is considering taking legal
action, possibly this week, challenging the role of
Lockheed's Employee Stock Ownership Plan. The plan, created a
year ago, owns 18.91% of Lockheed's 63.2 million shares
outstanding and voted 90% in favor of management's directors.
   Because of the ESOP's voting clout and because
institutions are hesitant to vote against management unless
they are convinced it will lose, Mr. Simmons contended that
the presence and power of the ESOP stacked the vote against
him. "If management can, with the stroke of a pen, create 20%
of the vote and put it in their pocket, it makes a mockery of
corporate democracy," said Mr. Simmons.
   In fact, the investor said it was just a few institutions
that apparently made the difference in the director vote and
that he is convinced he would have won had the ESOP not
existed. In addition, he said, his group would have fared
better if Lockheed hadn't moved up its annual meeting date by
five weeks. "We didn't have time to conduct a full campaign,"
Mr. Simmons said.
   Mr. Tellep was traveling yesterday and unavailable for
comment. But an adviser close to Lockheed discounted Mr.
Simmons's assertions about the ESOP. "He would have to throw
out the entire ESOP, and then maybe he would have a narrow
victory," the adviser said. "The fact is that outside of his
own stake, Simmons got only about 12% of the total
outstanding shares.
   "The institutions clearly want to see an improved
performance by Lockheed," he added. "But they think Tellep is
the guy to do it."
   In the 16 months since becoming chief executive officer,
Mr. Tellep has maintained that Lockheed is a fundamentally
sound company, adding that he is prepared to take tough
actions and pare underperforming assets where warranted. Just
yesterday, for instance, Lockheed confirmed it will lay off
500 white-collar employees from its shrinking Marietta, Ga.,
plant. The company yesterday also completed the sale of its
Metier Inc. software unit to Lucas Industries PLC of
Birmingham, England. Terms weren't disclosed.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Lockheed closed at $37.875 a share, up 37.5 cents.
   Further, Mr. Tellep has taken numerous steps to appease
his institutional holders, which collectively own about 45%
of Lockheed shares. For instance, in the waning days of what
appeared to have emerged as a close campaign for the
company's 14 director seats, he promised to appoint as many
as three additional directors from the institutions' ranks.
   The chairman also conceded on the eve of Lockheed's annual
meeting, held a fortnight ago, to support confidential
shareholder voting and to voluntarily exempt Lockheed from
the Delaware anti-takeover law. Yesterday -- when it was
estimated that shareholders had backed the confidential
voting proposal 61% to 39% and had chosen to opt out of the
Delaware statute 62% to 38% -- Mr. Tellep reiterated in a
statement his commitment to carry out "the will of the
shareholders" on those matters.
   There remains one issue, however, on which Mr. Tellep is
less willing to bend: the poison pill, or preferred-share
purchase rights plan, which discourages a hostile suitor from
buying more than 20% of the company's stock by making a
takeover prohibitively expensive. Although the board will
reassess its position on the poison-pill question in the wake
of a 57% to 43% vote by shareholders to rescind the plan, Mr.
Tellep said he is "concerned at the possible vulnerability of
the company to coercive and unfair takeover tactics" if the
measure were completely canceled.
   Yesterday's disclosure on the vote effectively makes moot
a meeting scheduled for Monday, when the results will be
formally recorded. That same day, Mr. Simmons said, he hopes
to meet with Mr. Tellep, at the Lockheed chief's invitation,
to discuss the shareholder-rights initiatives, the ESOP,
directorships and whether Lockheed needs to focus more
attention on its return on investment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   German Construction Rising
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MUNICH -- The West German construction industry will grow
faster than gross national product and expand between 4% and
5% this year, the Ifo-Institut for Economic Research said.
   The research institute, which earlier this week forecast
that GNP will grow 3.75% this year, said the number of new
hires in the West German construction industry will jump to
between 20,000 and 30,000 this year. It said that the
construction industry is in the third year of a powerful
expansion and that the growth can't be covered through more
overtime and increases in productivity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The construction industry is being propelled primarily by
a surge in housing construction and construction related to
the country's bouyant economy, the institute said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rochester Telephone Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   RTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- Rochester Telephone Corp. said it
completed the previously announced acquisition of Viroqua
Telephone Co. of Viroqua, Wis.
   Viroqua serves about 3,000 access lines in western
Wisconsin. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farley to Surrender Majority Ownership
   Of West Point-Pepperell, Sources Say
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WPM N.GAH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- William Farley, pinched by a shortage of cash
in his $1.56 billion acquisition of West Point-Pepperell
Inc., plans to surrender majority ownership of the company he
fought so hard to get, Wall Street sources said.
   It isn't known to what extent the move would reduce Mr.
Farley's control of West Point-Pepperell, but the development
clearly represents a setback. Despite vehement protests from
the venerable textile giant based in West Point, Ga., Mr.
Farley last year wrestled the company away from the fourth
generation of its founding Lanier family. During the bitter
takeover battle, West Point-Pepperell officials warned that
Mr. Farley might have financing problems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, they are being proven at least partly correct.
According to people on Wall Street, Mr. Farley is offering
certain debt holders a combined stake of 65% in a
restructured version of West Point-Pepperell. The transfer of
the equity stake would help reduce and delay certain interest
payments, sources said.
   Though a major setback for Mr. Farley's once-burgeoning
industrial and investment empire, the exchange offer to
holders of certain notes and preferred stock nevertheless may
be the only strategy that can keep him out of bankruptcy
proceedings.
   Mr. Farley, a leveraged buy-out specialist, previously
sought a debt restructuring in the West Point-Pepperell
acquisition without offering equity, according to a source
close to the transaction. But Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.,
the investment banker that financed most of Mr. Farley's
acquisitions, has since collapsed.
   Troubles worsened for Mr. Farley last month when the unit
he set up to buy West Point-Pepperell fell into default on
$796 million in bank debt and missed bondholder interest
payments. Of the several entities under Mr. Farley's
corporate umbrella, the bank-loan default affects only West
Point Acquisition, the holding company that has the stock in
West Point-Pepperall's operating arm. The debt is set up to
prevent cross-defaults.
   Details of the offer aren't public, but sources said it
would create a new parent company, to be named West Point
Holdings Corp., which would hold the stock in the operating
unit. Although West Point Holdings would apparently in turn
be a unit of Farley Inc., the debt-equity swap would leave
Mr. Farley a minority shareholder. It isn't known whether
preferred shares held by Mr. Farley would allow him to retain
control of West Point-Pepperell through so-called
super-voting privileges. But it's believed he would keep
majority control of the boards of directors at both West
Point Holdings and the operating unit, West Point-Pepperell.
   Mr. Farley has completed his tender offer on 95% of West
Point-Pepperell, but he is about $83 million short of the
cash needed to complete the transaction. Sources close to the
transaction said his bankers, led by Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and
Bankers Trust Co., are likely to loan him the cash needed to
close the deal if holders of West Point Acquisition bonds and
preferred stock agree to the debt-for-equity exchange.
   Farley officials didn't return telephone calls yesterday,
but people close to the situation say the firm is negotiating
with bankers and bondholders.
   According to people familiar with details of the
debt-for-equity swap, Mr. Farley is offering the equity to
holders of roughly $905 million in West Point Acquisition
senior and subordinated notes and preferred stock. Under
terms of the offer, sources said, equity in the stock held by
the new West Point Holdings would be: senior note holders,
38%; subordinated note holders, 17%; holders of preferred
stock, 10%; and 35% controlled by Mr. Farley.
   The exchange would also reduce the interest rates on
certain of the bonds by about 33% and delay interest and
maturity dates for several years, people close to the
negotiations said.
   The banks are said to have given Mr. Farley until at least
Friday to negotiate the exchange. But rather than force him
into federal bankruptcy-law proceedings, they may extend his
grace period on the default. In a statement yesterday, West
Point-Pepperell said it sold its United Kingdom textile unit,
Arthur Sanderson &amp; Sons, Ltd., for about $96.5 million to
Gamma Holding N.V., a Dutch fabric maker. The sale was
expected as part of Mr. Farley's strategy to sell assets to
help pay debt. Analysts estimate that his total debt in West
Point-Pepperell, including existing assumed obligations, is
more than $2 billion.
   Farley Inc., his closely held manufacturing concern, had a
pretax loss of about $40 million in 1989, analysts estimate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Two Mitsubishi
   Group Members
   Plan to Reunite
   ---
   Japanese Industrial Combine
   Says Merger in December
   Isn't Monopolistic Threat
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono and Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBM J.MMC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Two members of the powerful Mitsubishi industrial
group, Mitsubishi Metal Corp. and Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement
Co., announced they would reunite in December.
   The two companies had been formed when Mitsubishi Mining
was broken up during the U.S. occupation of Japan after World
War II. Officials, announcing the merging of the two
companies, attempted to head off expected criticism that the
move is a step toward re-establishment of the monopoly power
held by Japan's prewar "zaibatsu" financial combines. The
Mitsubishi Group comprised one of the three most powerful
zaibatsu before and during the war.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new company, which will be named in May, will be
Japan's largest producer of nonferrous metals. On its own,
Mitsubishi Metal ranks as Japan's leading producer of
aluminum cans and is second in the production of silicon
wafers for semiconductors. Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement is a
leading producer of building materials.
   The presidents of the two companies said the merger
shouldn't be seen as a monopolistic threat. "We're two
companies in the same group that are merging," said
Mitsubishi Metal President Takeshi Nagano, who will be
chairman of the new company. "We aren't taking in others from
outside the group to get bigger."
   Masaya Fujimura, president of Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement,
who will be president of the new company, said the merger
also isn't aimed at strengthening ties within the Mitsubishi
family, which is already known for its strong intragroup
links. Instead, the companies said the merger would help
protect against international currency fluctuations to which
the metals business is vulnerable. And as both companies
strive to diversify into new areas of business, their joint
research capabilities will be strengthened, they said.
   The merger comes as the 160-company Mitsubishi Group is
restructuring in an attempt to become more globally
competitive. For example, Mitsubishi Corp., the trading house
that is one of the group's four core companies, this year
jumped into the international acquisitions fray with a bid
for Aristech Chemical Corp. of Pittsburgh. In March, the
Mitsubishi Group announced exploratory discussions on a range
of ties with West German conglomerate Daimler-Benz AG.
   The merger also comes at a time when the U.S. is examining
business practices that may hamper foreign access to the
Japanese market. In the current "structural impediments"
talks, the U.S. argues that Japan's industrial groups, known
as "keiretsu", effectively work to keep out foreign firms.
   Mr. Nagano tried to calm fears about how the combined firm
would operate in the U.S, where both companies have
operations. "I don't think the U.S. will feel more threatened
about our work after the merger," Mr. Nagano said.
   But analysts said that in a few years, the merged company
may want to expand in the U.S., especially to produce cement.
"We may actually see a day when {the Mitsubishi Group}
transfers its raw-material operations overseas," said Mark
Brown, a construction analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities (Japan) Ltd.
   The two companies are considered second-tier members of
the Mitsubishi Group, whose leading companies are Mitsubishi
Corp., the trading house, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.,
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp.
   Analysts said the merger makes sense because the two
companies are diversifying in similar directions. As Japan's
mining industry all but died with the upward valuation of the
yen since 1985, Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement was forced to move
out of mining and into developing new building materials and
advanced ceramics. The company closed its last coal mine last
month, marking the end of the company's 120-year coal-mining
business.
   Mitsubishi Metal, which concentrates on nonferrous metals,
has also been moving into new products such as processed
metals and electronics materials. Both companies also have
been examining real-estate development projects.
   "Rather than compete against each other," says Ken
Maruyama, a senior analyst at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew
International Ltd., "this merger is the best way to expand
business."
   The companies said this would be a fairly equal merger,
with nine shares of Mitsubishi Metal equaling 10 shares of
Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement. Annual sales of the new company
are expected to reach the equivalent of $5.7 billion in the
first year, and $6.4 billion within five years. The new
company, with total assets of $5.1 billion, will employ about
9,000 people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Study Uncovers New Evidence Linking
   Strain on Job and High Blood Pressure
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<LP>
   Health researchers have come up with new evidence that
stress on the job may make you sick.
   Men who hold jobs with high demands over which they have
little control are three times more likely to suffer from
high blood pressure than men who don't, the researchers
report. These workers are also more likely to sustain
physical changes to the heart that over time could lead to
heart disease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study is the first to link job strain and high blood
pressure, according to Peter L. Schnall, the lead author, who
is assistant professor of medicine at New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical College, New York. While it doesn't
prove that job stress causes high blood pressure, "it opens
the door for trying to understand" the relationship between
the two, and that could have profound consequences for the
work force -- from the factory floor to the executive suite.
   "The study suggests that what's critical is the amount of
control you have when faced with a challenging situation,"
Dr. Schnall says. "If that's correct, one of the things we
could do would be to enhance worker control and participation
on the job."
   Indeed, it suggests that redesigning jobs to relieve
strain could improve the health of a company's work force and
reduce health costs, among other things. Conversely, failing
to mitigate stress's impact could provoke labor problems or
increase workers compensation claims.
   Further study is required, however, before such definitive
conclusions can be made, Dr. Schnall says. The current study
is published in today's Journal of the American Medical
Association.
   Previous studies have linked job strain to coronary heart
disease, Dr. Schnall says. While the relationship between
stress and high blood pressure has long been suspected, it
hasn't been established, in part, the researchers speculate,
because of difficulty in developing reliable means of
determining blood pressure levels and evaluating stress.
   The subjects of the study wore monitors during one 24-hour
period to record blood pressure at 15-minute intervals during
waking hours and every 30 minutes at night. Taking frequent
readings during a person's normal activities yields more
reliable measurements than traditional readings in a clinic,
the researchers said.
   In addition, the study defines job strain in terms of both
psychological demands -- excessive work, conflicting demands,
insufficient time to work -- and worker control and
discretion over job decisions.
   "Telling us you work very fast or hard wasn't associated
with rise of blood pressure," Dr. Schnall says, nor was lack
of job freedom. "Only those folks who told us both things
were happening at the same time were having {blood pressure}
problems," he says.
   The researchers studied 215 men from 30 to 60 years old at
seven worksites in New York City. They ranged from clerical
workers to executives at a newspaper typography department, a
federal health agency, a brokerage house, a private hospital,
a sanitation collection and repair facility and a department
store warehouse. They were selected from 2,556 potential
subjects.
   Of the 215, 87 had diastolic blood pressure -- the lower
pressure, measured between contractions of the heart --
between 85 and 105 and were considered hypertensive. The
other 128 men had normal blood pressure and were considered
controls. Women weren't included in the study because their
response to job strain could be different and the cost of
recruiting enough subjects for reliable data would have been
too high, Dr. Schnall said. The research team is doing
additional studies that include women, he added.
   Among other findings:
   -- Men aged 30 to 40 with high blood pressure had
significantly thicker heart muscle than those in the control
group, an indication of the additional work required of the
heart in hypertensive people. While none were at immediate
risk of heart disease, Dr. Schnall said, thicker than normal
heart muscle is considered an important predictor of heart
disease and thus can lead to later trouble if blood pressure
isn't controlled.
   -- Risk of developing job-related hypertension increases
with age. Men between 51 and 60 in high-strain jobs were 5.2
times more likely to have high blood pressure than those in
the control group, while those between 41 and 50 were two and
a half times as likely to have hypertension.
   -- As expected, age, weight and regular consumption of
alcohol were linked to high blood pressure. Researchers
adjusted their data for these and several other factors in
establishing the correlation between job stress and
hypertension.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Martech USA:
   Czechoslovakia Cleanup Job
   For the Environment Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MUSA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Martech USA said it signed a letter of intent with
Czechoslovakia's new government to conduct environmental
cleanup of evacuated Soviet military bases and other
environmentally sensitive areas.
   The company said it is still holding discussions with the
government over terms of the transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Martech, an environmental cleanup company based in
Anchorage, Alaska, said it will form a joint venture with Geo
Test, a Czechoslovakian engineering and hydrology company.
   Martech said there are more than 165 Russian bases and
other contaminated sites in Czechoslovakia. It said it will
begin work April 25 in Frenstat, at the first base to be
evacuated by Soviet troops.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares Fall Back After Two Days' Gains
   As Traders Return to Reality of a Down Market
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks retraced recent gains and ended sharply lower
yesterday, after two days of advances of more than 1,000
points.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down 773.25
points at 29624.68. The index surged 1,119.15 points Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In early trading Wednesday, the Nikkei index was up 304.05
points to 29928.73.
   Volume on the first section Tuesday was estimated at 550
million shares, much lower than 800 million shares Monday.
   There were 609 declining issues, 255 advancing and 80
unchanged.
   The broad-based Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues
listed in the first section, which gained 80.01 points
Monday, lost 43.03 points, or 1.9%, at 2186.24.
   But the second section index, which surged 106.66 points
Monday, added another 21.73 points, or 0.62%, to close at
3519.96. Volume in the second section was estimated at 10
million shares, up from 7 million Monday.
   Observers said that the market's retracement can be
attributed in part to a simple technical correction on the
Nikkei's gains. The Nikkei had advanced 2,150 points since
Thursday, based on the short-term yen rally that resulted
from the Group of Seven meeting in Paris over the weekend,
traders said.
   Amy Yip, a sales manager at Baring Securities Ltd., said
that those who have been saying the Nikkei would consolidate
after its tumble from record highs saw their predictions
realized in advances Friday and Monday. But "enough is enough
already," she said, as investors who were waiting for this
opportunity to see higher prices took profits in broad
selling.
   Participants have several scenarios in which to be
bearish, Ms. Yip said. But namely, the weaker yen and the
insignificant impact of the Group of Seven meeting are
discouraging, she said.
   Ms. Yip said that the market has discredited one local
financial daily's bullish assessment of the Group of Seven
meeting. "Once they saw that overseas papers were very
low-key, or even critical or cynical, they felt that the G-7
(meeting) meant nothing," she said.
   Mahmoud Ghaemmaghami, manager of research and a portfolio
adviser at West LB Securities Pacific Ltd., predicted that
the Nikkei will likely trade sluggishly between 28000 and
30000 for the near term. Baring's Ms. Yip said that 28000
points remains a solid support level, at which bargain
hunting should come in, while profit-taking should be
expected anywhere between 30000 and 31000.
   Underlying support for the Nikkei index is based on the
assumption that Japanese interest rates won't rise as long as
the yen maintains a stable range, traders said.
   Yesterday afternoon was largely a dealers' market, as
individual investors stayed clear from professionals seeking
to make a quick turnaround, observers said.
   Investors took profits in a broad range of selling, except
for pharmaceutical shares, which are expected to have strong
earnings reports because of new products, Ms. Yip said.
   Daiichi Pharmaceutical shares added 50 yen to 2580 yen
($16.33), Fuso Pharmaceutical advanced 70 yen to 1,520,
Mochida gained 40 yen to 3,900 and SS Pharmaceutical was up
50 yen to 1,450.
   Fishery stocks also performed well, as Kyokuyo gained 108
yen to 1,030 and Nippon Suisan added 27 yen to 748.
   But high-priced, high-tech electricals, which haven't been
hurt by the weaker yen because of their export-oriented
businesses, were hit by profit-taking. Fanuc fell 70 yen to
7,300, Pioneer was down 70 yen to 6,150 and Kyocera lost 60
yen to 7,720. Sony fell 80 yen to 8,570.
   In West Germany, share prices on the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange fell 1.3% in nervous trading, as worries about the
proposed currency union with East Germany continue to damp
the market's sentiment.
   The DAX index finished the day 25.35 points lower at
1898.51, the first time it has ended below 1900 since March
16. That came after a drop of 23.98 points, or more than
1.2%, on Monday.
   Traders said the weakness in Tokyo also rippled through
European exchanges.
   Continuing weakness in the German bond market because of
lingering worries about the form of the currency union with
East Germany also contributed to the drop.
   Market participants also pointed to an interview in Die
Welt, in which Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said that
the central bank would have to take steps to block inflation
if a 1-for-1 exchange rate for East German marks is
introduced.
   Daimler-Benz, which dropped 19 marks ($11.22) Monday, fell
a further 15 marks to 921 ($544). It was joined by other
bellwether issues, such as Deutsche Bank, which fell 12.50
marks to 788, and Siemens, which dropped 5.70 marks to
772.50.
   Elsewhere, in the auto sector Bayerische Motoren Werke
eased 11 marks to 593, Volkswagen tumbled 7 marks to 594, and
Porsche was unchanged at 1,120.
   In the banking sector, Dresdner Bank dropped 9.50 marks to
421, despite reporting higher 1989 earnings. Commerzbank,
which reported weaker 1989 results earlier in April, dropped
5.20 to 285.80. Bayerische Vereinsbank lost 8.50 to 365.
   In London, share prices finished lower in lackluster
dealings, as Tokyo's overnight drop and a smattering of
disturbing corporate news early in the session set the
market's downward tone.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index closed
down 10.2 points at 2217.5, a rebound from its intraday low
of 2207.3.
   The narrower 30-share index shed 9.8 points, closing at
1732.5. Volume was a slight 367.6 million shares traded, but
better than the 304.6 million of Monday.
   Dealers said they expect the lean volume to continue
through the rest of the week, ahead of Easter.
   Besides a handful of disappointing corporate
announcements, dealers noted that the drop in world oil
prices overnight also translated into downward pressure on
oil-company shares, some of which represent a significant
component of the 100-share index.
   B.A.T Industries, the financial services and tobacco
conglomerate, lost 15 pence to 740 pence ($12.10) a share,
after insurance regulators in California dealt a blow to Sir
James Goldsmith's bid for the diversified British
conglomerate. B.A.T has large insurance subsidiaries in
California and several other states.
   Full-year results from several companies did nothing to
help the market or the individual stocks, dealers added.
Clothing retailer Next, once a rising star of British
retailing, shed 6 pence to 73 after reporting a #46.7 million
($76.4 million) loss. Its results were hurt by restructuring
costs and the downturn in consumer spending.
   RMC, a cement concern, plummeted 25 pence to 615 despite a
20% increase in pretax profit. A warning over difficult
trading conditions in 1990 by the company helped erode
confidence in its share price, dealers said.
   Elsewhere in Europe, share prices closed lower in Paris,
Zurich, Amsterdam, Brussels and Milan, and were mixed in
Stockholm.
   In Asian and Pacific markets, share prices closed lower in
Hong Kong, Manila, Sydney, Taipei and Seoul, and were higher
in Singapore and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                     Apr 9   Apr 6    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .........................    314.8   313.6  -  3.2
   Britain ......................    661.5   660.0  -  8.3

   Japan ........................   1274.8  1235.3  - 23.0
   France .......................    580.4   578.1  +  2.4
   Germany ......................    308.4   314.8  +  8.1
   Hong Kong ....................   2201.7  2197.7  +  5.0
   Switzerland ..................    207.0   207.3  -  6.2
   Australia ....................    308.4   305.1  -  6.9
   World index ..................    491.2   484.7  - 13.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Unit Conducts
   Due-Diligence Review
   Of Thrift in Virginia
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   USBK CCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   TYSONS CORNER, Va. -- United Savings Bank said Citicorp's
Citibank unit is conducting a due-diligence examination of
the savings and loan as prelude to a possible acquisition.
   United Savings said it expects to learn by April 30
whether Citibank intends to negotiate a definitive
acquisition agreement. In a statement, United Savings said
the two companies have "expressed their mutual interest in an
acquisition."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Savings said several companies have expressed
interest in acquiring the thrift since it retained an
investment banker to consider a sale.
   A Citibank spokeswoman confirmed the statement released by
United Savings, but wouldn't go beyond it. She said that
since 1982, Citibank has purchased four troubled thrifts. The
thrifts were in Washington, D.C., California, Illinois and
Florida.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   AT&amp;T Shrinks Space for `Photonics,'
   Bringing Light-Based Technology Closer
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scientists at American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s Bell
Laboratories have sharply shrunk the space taken up by the
company's new "photonic" technology, bringing the light-based
technology closer to uses in processing information.
   The development, to be announced today at an optical
computing conference in Kobe, Japan, shows that AT&amp;T
continues to make important progress in its drive toward
superfast data processing based on light rather than
electricity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T said it will unveil an experimental device that
combines the world's smallest lasers with a network of tiny
lenses and mirrors -- all on a quartz glass disk about one
inch in diameter and an eighth of an inch thick. Readily
made, the new device can be used to connect conventional
computer chips. Since it uses light, the resulting
connections carry more information and are faster than
ordinary electronic connections, said Tod Sizer, a Bell Labs
scientist.
   It has been known for some time that communicating with
light makes sense over long distances -- that's why telephone
companies use fiber-optic cables to transmit phone calls, for
example.
   But AT&amp;T has faced skepticism about its claims that light
is a practical way to communicate between computer chips at
distances as short as a few millimeters. And the company has
faced downright disbelief about its determination to develop
an all-optical computer -- one that would use light not just
to communicate, but to do calculations.
   The new device should quiet such criticism, Mr. Sizer
said. The device uses AT&amp;T's advanced "microlaser" technology
and a technique called diffractive optics, in which
microscopic lines that act as lenses and mirrors are etched
on quartz. This technology, which Mr. Sizer said is far more
stable and manufacturable than previous methods, will likely
play a large role in the company's optical computer.
   Indeed, sources said AT&amp;T is close to developing an
all-light computer processor -- one with very limited
abilities -- that fits on a piece of quartz the size of an
index card.
   That compares favorably with its last experimental set-up,
unveiled at the end of January: Hailed as a breakthrough, it
connected components on a lab bench using an unwieldy
collection of precision-mounted lasers, lenses, prisms and
mirrors.
   The advance evokes visions of a futuristic computer that
does its calculations by firing laser beams through a
specially manufactured block of quartz -- an image that
AT&amp;T's optical computer guru, Alan Huang, has said won't be
far from the truth.
   For the moment, however, Mr. Sizer said the technology
will likely be used to boost the performance of electronic
computers, especially supercomputers.
   AT&amp;T also said it will demonstrate the nascent
technology's first application to its core telecommunications
business -- a device that uses light to switch voice, data
and video signals -- next week in Atlanta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sony Slates Plant in France
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sony Corp.'s French subsidiary plans to build a
plant for audio-visual parts in France, the company said.
   The plant, to be built in Bayonne, is expected to begin
operation in the summer of 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plant will employ around 400 people and produce pickup
heads for compact disk players and other parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Richard Swank Gets
   Senior Post at Edgell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GE
</CO>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Edgell Communications Inc. named Richard B.
Swank, 58 years old, its new chief executive officer.
   The appointment comes a week after founder Robert L.
Edgell announced his retirement at the age of 68 amid
speculation the highly leveraged magazine publisher and trade
exposition company is having trouble meeting interest
payments on its debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edgell Communications was formed in 1987 when Mr. Edgell
led a $334.1 million leveraged buy-out of the business
publications and school supplies unit of Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc. The buy-out was financed by Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., a unit of General Electric Co., which remains the
majority owner of Edgell Communications. To finance the deal,
Kidder Peabody provided a bridge loan that was later
refinanced through the sale of high-yield securities. People
familiar with the company said Edgell has had trouble meeting
the interest payments on those junk bonds due to rising
publishing costs and generally soft advertising markets for
business and professional publications.
   Mr. Edgell said in an interview that the company will meet
all of its interest payments this year. "Since forming the
company, it's true our cash flow has been tied up in the debt
structure," he said. "We are looking at restructuring so that
we can go back on the acquisitions trail and build the
company."
   Mr. Swank most recently was head of Richard Swank &amp;
Associates, a Redding, Conn., consulting firm. In 1988, he
left Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp., where he was an executive vice
president largely responsible for trade magazine publishing
and information services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MCI Chairman McGowan
   Undergoes Chest Surgery
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MCI
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- MCI Communications Corp. said its chairman
and chief executive officer, William McGowan, successfully
underwent exploratory chest surgery that was "completely
unrelated" to his 1987 heart transplant operation.
   The company said the surgery was performed at
Presbyterian-University Hospital of Pittsburgh, the same
hospital where Mr. McGowan had his heart transplant nearly
three years ago. Yesterday's surgery was performed by Dr.
Bartley Griffith, a cardiothoracic surgeon, who suggested the
operation following a periodic examination of Mr. McGowan.
Neither the hospital nor MCI disclosed the purpose of the
surgery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McGowan, who is expected to remain hospitalized for
five to seven days, was in surgery for two hours yesterday
morning, an MCI spokeswoman said. A hospital spokesman said
Mr. McGowan was in fair condition yesterday afternoon, and
had returned to his own room about an hour after surgery. The
spokesman said family members indicated the MCI chairman will
make a statement today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM WNEWS RDA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGAZINES: Reader's Digest Association Inc. will launch
Budgets Famille next October through its French subsidiary.
The monthly magazine, designed to help families manage their
finances, is the company's first magazine start-up in France
since it began publishing a French-language edition of
Reader's Digest in 1947.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHO'S NEWS: Nancy Klopper was named senior vice president,
production, for Act III Communications Inc.'s Act III
Productions division. She was vice president, talent and
artist relations, at Twentieth Century Fox. . . . MGM/UA
Communications Co. named Leanna J. Heath to the new post of
vice president, senior production counsel. She had been a
partner with Bushkin, Gaims, Gaines &amp; Jones.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater: `Aspects of Love'
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- The trouble with "Aspects of Love" begins in
the very first aria. In the first scene of the musical that
opened recently at the Broadhurst Theater, Alex (Michael
Ball) is standing on the terrace of a country home in
Southwest France. He faces a woman seated at a wooden trestle
table. When he begins to sing softly, it is clear that his
sotto voce rendition would not reach past the second row, but
it booms out over the loudspeaker system through the whole
house. We know right away that voices are going to be
amplified in this production; it turns out everything else is
amplified as well, including the overwrought emotions of the
characters.
   "Aspects of Love" is based on a 1955 novel by David
Garnett, a brief, unpretentious work marked by the subtlety
of the interconnected personal relationships. Composer Andrew
Lloyd Webber must have felt it was the ideal vehicle for him
to move headlong into the adult world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until now, Mr. Lloyd Webber has written frequently about
the fantasy world of children in such musicals as "Cats" and
"Starlight Express." Not only that, he has named the many
corporate entities he controls after escapist characters or
concepts from that same world. His best known company -- and
the producer of all his recent musicals, including "Aspects
of Love" -- is the Really Useful Company, named for a train
engine in a children's book.
   In contrast, the novel "Aspects of Love" deals with a
grown-up, sophisticated world of liaisons and affairs. The
story begins in Montpellier in the south of France, where
Alex, a young man, becomes infatuated with an actress, Rose
Vibert (Ann Crumb), who suddenly is out of work for two
weeks. He persuades her to come to Pau in the Pyrenees. His
wealthy uncle has an estate there that he never visits, where
they can live free of charge. Alex's Uncle George (Kevin
Colson), alerted by the caretaker of the estate, unexpectedly
shows up to confront the couple, and soon thereafter Rose
leaves to rejoin her theatrical troupe. Two years pass in
which Alex, now in the army, has been away. He returns to
Paris and on a visit to his uncle discovers that Rose is now
living with Uncle George as his mistress. Insane with
jealousy, Alex pulls out a gun and in the ensuing argument
with Rose, the gun goes off and he grazes her arm with a
bullet.
   Meanwhile, George is attracted to Giulietta (Kathleen Rowe
McAllen), an Italian sculptress. Despite this attachment, he
marries Rose, and we move 13 years ahead to the time when
they have an attractive daughter of 12 and Alex enters their
lives once more. Over the next two years Alex develops a
deep, though platonic relationship, with the daughter, Jenny
(Danielle Du Clos), and she falls childishly but passionately
in love with him. George dies and Alex realizes that he must
end the relationship with Jenny; as the story ends, he has
turned from Jenny and begun an affair with Giulietta.
   Whereas in the Garnett novel these relationships are a
tissue of nuances, told with sensitivity and psychological
insight, in the musical everything is overblown. The scenery
was created by Maria Bjornson, who designed "The Phantom of
the Opera." For the more intimate "Aspects of Love" she has
fashioned large-scale effects out of all proportion to the
story. Two brief scenes -- at a sculpture exhibit in Paris
and in Giulietta's studio in Venice -- become full-stage
settings filled with elaborate, outsize objects: an
old-fashioned phonograph with a woman's legs protruding from
the horn, human heads broken into planes like geological
faults. The main background of the set is the brick wall for
George's villa. At one point, when Alex and Rose are hiking,
the wall breaks apart like a giant cracked egg to show a
panorama of the Pyrenees.
   As with the scenery, the emotional entanglements are
inflated. A one-line reference in the novel to an attraction
between Rose and Giulietta leads to a full-blown lesbian
attachment in the musical. In fact, the moment any two likely
lovers set eyes on each other, the music swells and we know
that "amour" is in the air. So quickly do liaisons develop
and dissolve that the musical often seems like a synopsis of
the story rather than the unfolding of a plot. At times, this
leads to unintentional comedy. The scene, for example, in
which Alex attempts to shoot Rose, abruptly turns from
melodrama to high farce. After the shooting, the maid comes
rushing in with a hammer and strikes at Alex, and though the
blow stops a good six inches from his head, he collapses in a
heap.
   Once George returns and order is restored, the two men in
Rose's life, each of whom has insisted he could not live
without her, suddenly begs the other to take her off his
hands in the duet "She'd Be Better Off With You." The music
follows the same pattern as the other elements in "Aspects of
Love." In the manner of recent British musicals, there is
scoring from beginning to end, so that even mundane phrases
such as "Would you like a cup of coffee?" "No thank you, I
prefer tea" are sung, sometimes with a decidedly droll
effect. The lyrics, by the way, are by Don Black and Charles
Hart.
   When we turn from recitatives to arias, each one without
fail builds to a mighty crescendo at the conclusion, whether
the underlying emotion justifies it or not. Also, because he
does not appear fully to trust individual declarations, Mr.
Lloyd Webber several times introduces a full chorus -- at
George's vineyard and at his funeral. The cast, it should be
noted, handles the music well enough, but meets with varying
degrees of success in conveying any depth of character.
   How do we explain why Mr. Lloyd Webber and his director,
Trevor Nunn, have treated the delicate fabric of "Aspects of
Love" in such grandiose fashion? Any answer obviously would
be speculation, but one possibility is that both men have met
with such success when pulling out all the stops -- Mr. Nunn,
after all, has guided such blockbuster musicals as "Cats" and
"Les Miserables" -- that they have difficulty scaling back
when they come to a far more intimate, personal subject. One
of the big numbers in "Aspects of Love" is "Love Changes
Everything." Well, yes, but when it comes to show business,
apparently not for Messrs. Lloyd Webber and Nunn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks End Mixed as Investors Seek
   Bargains or Firms With Strong Net
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks ended mixed as investors continued to
swap industry groups in a hunt for cheap stocks or companies
with strong earnings.
   Technology stocks gained sharply yesterday following a
strong first-quarter earnings report from Motorola. Airline
and bank issues also attracted buying interest, while energy
stocks headed lower as oil prices continued to fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 9.01 to 2731.08.
Broader market measures had more modest gains: Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-Stock Index, for example, gained 0.70, to 342.07,
the equivalent of a five-point increase in the 30-stock
industrial average. Stocks declining on the New York Stock
Exchange outpaced advancers for the fifth-consecutive day by
740 to 723.
   Big Board volume totaled 136,020,000 shares, up from
114,970,000 shares Monday, the second-slowest trading day of
the year.
   Motorola soared 4 1/4 to 68 1/2 on approximately two
million shares after reporting a 3.2% increase in
first-quarter net income from a year earlier.
   John Lazlo, an analyst at PaineWebber, said the stock rose
sharply because many investors were expecting a disappointing
quarter. Though earnings in the company's communications
sector were "below target," Mr. Lazlo said, "semiconductor
revenues grew more than people thought."
   Rajiv Chaudri, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said he would
boost his estimate of Motorola's full-year earnings to a
range of $4.60 to $4.75 a share from $4.50 a share, based on
the first-quarter report.
   Texas Instruments, another major chip maker, added 2 1/8
to 37 1/2, and computer stocks also recorded solid gains.
International Business Machines rose 3/8 to 105 7/8, Compaq
Computer rose 2 1/8 to 96 1/2, Digital Equipment rose 1 7/8
to 81 7/8 and Hewlett-Packard advanced 1 3/8 to 45 1/8.
   Energy stocks dropped across the board as May crude-oil
futures plunged 76 cents a barrel to $17.68 in New York
trading. Worries about a possible glut had driven the price
of crude down about $1 a barrel last week; the May contract
on West Texas Intermediate crude dropped 71 cents a barrel
Monday.
   Among major oil issues, Exxon remained unchanged at 46,
Texaco eased 5/8 to 58 3/8, Mobil slipped 1/2 to 60 5/8 and
Amoco skidded 1 to 51 3/8. Baker Hughes, which reached an
agreement with the Justice Department that will allow it to
complete a takeover of Norton's oil-services unit, fell 3/4
to 27 1/4; elsewhere in the sector, Rowan dropped 5/8 to 12
1/2 and McDermott International lost 1/2 to 27.
   Bank issues extended their recovery from a sell-off late
last week. Citicorp gained 5/8 to 24 1/4, BankAmerica gained
3/4 to 27 1/8, Chase Manhattan added 5/8 to 28 3/4 and
Manufacturers Hanover rallied 1 1/2 to 33 1/8. Among regional
banks, NCNB rose 1 1/2 to 37 5/8, National City gained 5/8 to
34 1/8, Shawmut National rose 1/2 to 13 1/2 and UJB Financial
added 5/8 to 15 1/8.
   UAL rose 1/4 to 161 1/4 after reaching a definitive
agreement for a buy-out, valued at $200 a share, by the three
principal unions at its United Airlines unit. Other airline
stocks fared much better; AMR, the parent of American
Airlines, climbed 2 to 65 3/8; Delta Air Lines rose 1 1/4 to
72 1/2; USAir Group added 3/4 to 30, and Southwest Airlines
rose 1/2 to 24 1/4.
   Ames Department Stores, the most active Big Board issue,
retreated 7/8 to 2 3/8 on composite volume of 4.8 million
shares in response to news that it plans to close 74 stores
and expects to report a $228 million loss for the fiscal year
ended Jan. 27. The estimated loss was larger than
anticipated.
   TJX, which holds a major stake in Ames as a result of the
company's acquisition of the Zayre discount-store chain in
late 1988, tumbled 1 to 15 1/8 on 2.4 million shares.
   Archer-Daniels-Midland fell 1 to 23 1/8 on 1.4 million
shares. Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns slightly lowered
earnings estimates for the fiscal third quarter ended in
March. The company indicated to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report that its net income may be below the
year-earlier 41 cents a share, although its operating
earnings "should be up."
   Jakarta Growth Fund, a new single-country mutual fund
focusing on Indonesia, slipped below its initial offering
price. Five million shares of the closed-end fund were sold
at $12 apiece; the stock closed at 11 7/8 on its first day of
trading, with volume totaling 1.5 million shares.
   Hilton Hotels dropped 1 1/8 to 51 3/4. Chairman Barron
Hilton told The Wall Street Journal he doesn't plan to put
the company up for sale again. Last month, the company's
board ended a 10-month auction by taking it off the market.
   Springs Industries fell 7/8 to 33 after estimating that
first-quarter earnings were about half the year-earlier level
of 86 cents a share.
   Mesa L.P. dropped 3/8 to 5 1/2. Moody's Investors Services
lowered its rating on the partnership's debt in response to
its decision against selling interests in some of its prime
properties for as much as $400 million.
   Crompton &amp; Knowles gained 1/4 to 33 5/8. The company
raised its quarterly dividend by about 35.5% to 21 cents a
share.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index dropped
0.16 to 359.52. Volume totaled 11,770,000 shares, compared
with 12,560,000 shares Monday. There were 281 issues
advancing, 287 declining and 246 were unchanged.
   B.A.T Industries, the most active Amex issue, dropped 3/8
to 12 1/2 as 690,400 shares were traded. British investor Sir
James Goldsmith received a major setback in his effort to
acquire the company as California regulators rejected his
proposed change in control of B.A.T's Farmers Group unit.
   Blount Inc. Class A dropped 1/2 to 12 5/8. The company
reported that first-quarter earnings from continuing
operations declined 24.3% from the year-earlier level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apple Bancorp Board
   Rejects Tender Offer,
   Arranges Defenses
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Apple Bancorp, mounting a defense against an
unsolicited tender offer, said its directors unanimously
rejected the $121.6 million proposal by its largest
shareholder and directed managers to seek other possible
bids.
   The thrift holding company said directors found the
$38-a-share offer from real-estate investor Stanley Stahl to
be against the company's and shareholders' interests. It said
directors have been advised by Apple's financial adviser,
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., that the offer
was financially unfair. The company recommended that
shareholders reject the offer and not tender their shares to
Mr. Stahl, who already owns a 30.6% Apple stake. Apple
Bancorp is the parent of Apple Bank for Savings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's shares rose sharply on news of Mr. Stahl's
$38-a-share offer late last month, and closed yesterday at
$41.875 each, up 12.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Before the offer, Apple Bancorp shares had
been trading around $32 each.
   Mr. Stahl couldn't be reached for comment on the
rejection.
   In further defensive moves, the company said it is filing
a lawsuit in federal court in Delaware and bolstering Apple's
anti-takeover shareholder-rights plan. Apple said the suit
alleges that Mr. Stahl's bid violates federal disclosure
requirements and is "materially misleading."
   The shareholder-rights plan, which allows holders to
acquire additional shares at half price under certain
circumstances, was amended to be triggered even if a suitor
owned 80% of the shares as a result of a tender offer.
Previously, the plan wouldn't have been applicable under such
circumstances. Another change allows directors to redeem the
rights for a period after a stockholder becomes an "acquiring
person" under the plan.
   In the wake of the developments, Apple said, it also
postponed the annual meeting, which was planned for late May.
Apple didn't set a new date.
   Apple had assets of $3.8 billion at the end of 1989. It
has 35 branches in New York City, Long Island and Westchester
County.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baker Hughes Enters
   U.S. Decree, and Now
   Can Buy Norton Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   BHI NRT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Baker Hughes Inc. and Norton Co. said they
entered into a consent decree with the Justice Department
that will allow Baker to complete the acquisition of Norton's
Eastman Christensen unit, probably within a few days.
   The consent decree essentially is meant to head off
antitrust questions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baker, an oil-field service company, agreed in December to
buy Eastman, a maker of diamond drilling bits and other
drilling equipment, for an indicated value of $600 million.
   As part of the consent order, Baker will be required to
dispose of the diamond drill bit business of its Hughes Tool
Co. unit by Aug. 6. If it isn't sold by then, that business
will be placed in the hands of a trustee for disposition. The
Justice Department had maintained that Baker and Norton were
competitors in the diamond drill business.
   In Washington, the Justice Department's antitrust chief,
James Rill, said that as originally proposed the acquisition
would prove "anticompetitive" in the U.S. market for each of
three types of diamond drill bits. "The divestiture will
ensure that the merger . . . will not raise the cost of
drilling for oil and gas in the U.S.," Mr. Rill said.
   The transaction calls for Baker to pay $550 million in
cash, assume $8 million in debt and issue warrants to Norton
for as many as eight million Baker shares at $36.75 each.
Norton said it intends to use proceeds to buy back as much as
15% of its common shares, pursue acquisitions and repay debt.
Norton makes abrasives, ceramics, plastics and
chemical-process products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Safety Board Says United Air Accident
   Reflected Lapses by Boeing, UAL, FAA
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley and Judith Valente
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BA UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Lapses by Boeing Co., United Airlines and
the Federal Aviation Administration contributed to last
year's catastrophic failure of a cargo door on a United
Airlines Boeing 747 over the Pacific Ocean, federal
investigators concluded.
   The National Transportation Safety Board took the unusual
step of issuing its findings without having examined the key
piece of evidence, the door itself, which is at the bottom of
the ocean. Safety officials said they intend to retrieve the
door sometime this summer and may amend their conclusions if
new evidence arises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based on an analysis of the aircraft damage, the board
concluded that the Feb. 24, 1989, accident was caused by the
"sudden opening of the improperly latched" forward cargo door
at 23,000 feet. The explosive decompression that resulted
caused several feet of cabin floor to collapse, sending nine
passengers to their deaths.
   The board said deficiencies in Boeing's door design
contributed to the accident. The cargo doors were supposed to
be failsafe. But the board found that their locking
mechanisms were susceptible to damage.
   The current design of the door warning system also makes
it possible for ground crews and pilots to receive false
indications that the doors are properly latched, safety
officials said.
   The board cited United, a unit of Chicago-based UAL Corp.
for a "lack of proper maintenance and inspection" of the
door. Safety officials also said Boeing and the FAA failed to
take "timely corrective actions" to fix known problems with
the 747s' locking mechanisms.
   Boeing knew the locks were susceptible to damage as far
back as 1975. In March 1987, damaged and broken locks caused
the forward cargo door of a Pan American World Airways Boeing
747 to open slightly in flight. Only two pull-in hooks kept
the door from bursting off.
   After that incident, the FAA, acting on a recommendation
from Boeing, ordered airlines to strengthen the 747 locks.
But the FAA gave carriers as long as two years to make the
repairs. United hadn't yet repaired the door on the aircraft
involved in the accident.
   "There were several opportunities for the manufacturer,
the airline and the FAA to have taken action during the
service life of the Boeing 747 that would have prevented this
accident," the board concluded.
   The board also noted that United had experienced several
problems with the door in the weeks prior to the accident.
"We thought it should have prompted some sort of review" of
the continuing problem, said Ronald L. Schleede, the chief
accident investigator.
   Moreover, a clerical error made by United in retyping an
FAA order resulted in the airline's failure to conduct
required inspections of the door, the board said. In
addition, United's "trend analysis program" failed to flag
the repeated problems with the electrical system for opening
and closing the door, the board said.
   The board's findings are at odds with a lengthy analysis
submitted by Kevin Campbell, whose son died on Flight 811,
that concluded an electrical malfunction caused the door to
open accidently in flight. Mr. Campbell's findings were the
subject of a Feb. 23 article in The Wall Street Journal.
James Kolstad, board chairman, called an electrical
malfunction "highly improbable."
   Reached at his home in Wellington, New Zealand, Mr.
Campbell said: "I cannot agree with the {board} theory of
mishandled locks. It simply doesn't take into account all the
evidence that was presented."
   Some steps are already being taken to prevent a similar
catastrophe. Boeing said it is in the process of redesigning
the cargo door's warning system. The current warning system
isn't tied into the locking mechanism, but is triggered by
irregularities in the door's pressure venting system.
   In the wake of Flight 811, the FAA ordered immediate
repairs of the 747 lock sectors and more frequent
inspections.
   United said it has changed its own procedures since the
accident. The airline said it still hopes the door can be
examined.
   The door could have been retrieved over a year ago by a
private contractor for about $2 million. However, United,
Boeing, the safety board and the FAA decided to delay the
project when they learned the Navy could do the job for about
$200,000.
   Flight 811 was en route from Honolulu to Aukland, New
Zealand, when the cargo door burst open. Despite damage to
the fuselage, wing flaps and two of four engines, Capt. David
Cronin was able to guide the aircraft back to Honolulu,
saving the lives of 346 people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PNC Financial Sued
   After Announcement
   Of Loan-Loss Action
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNC
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Shareholders of PNC Financial Corp. filed
two class-action lawsuits against the bank-holding company,
alleging that PNC concealed or misrepresented the likelihood
of huge increases in problem loans.
   The suits follow PNC's announcement Friday of an increase
in loan-loss provisions by between $70 million and $80
million for the first quarter. PNC said it made the move
because of federal regulators' tougher scrutiny of loan
portfolios and the continued softness in the commercial
real-estate market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PNC said the higher provisions will lower first-quarter
earnings as much as 40% from the year-earlier profit of
$123.6 million, or $1.32 a share.
   In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, PNC fell $3.875 to $34, and for the week the stock
fell $5.625 amid mounting concerns over asset quality. PNC
closed yesterday at $35.25, up 50 cents.
   PNC said yesterday that it would have no comment about the
suits until it had a chance to study them. The bank said such
suits aren't unexpected after a reported earnings decline.
   The suits -- one filed in U.S. District Court in
Pittsburgh, the other in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia
-- both charge that PNC's chairman and chief executive
officer, Thomas H. O'Brien, overstated year-ago earnings by
failing to set appropriate loan-loss reserve levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Du Pont Agrees to Sell 3 Units
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DD CHL AME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Du Pont Co. said it reached agreements
to sell three process and instruments units in its polymer
products department as part of a strategy to focus on core
businesses. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The company signed a letter of intent to sell its Glasgow,
Del., thermal analyzer business to a new company led by
management and Chemical Venture Partners, an affiliate of
Chemical Banking Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two other businesses-process instruments and air and noise
monitoring instruments-will be sold to Ametek Inc., a Paoli,
Pa., industrial manufacturer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Rating:
   S&amp;P Flags Debt
   Of Time, Citing
   Pathe Financing
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX PCC MGM ATCMA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. placed the long-term
public debt of Time Warner Inc. on its S&amp;P CreditWatch with
negative implications, citing Time Warner's financing
agreement with Pathe Communications Corp.
   About $1.5 billion of rated long-term debt is affected by
the listing, as is about $5.6 billion of rated preferred
stock. The majority of Time Warner's debt isn't affected,
including its commercial paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, S&amp;P said, "Time Warner's agreement to
guarantee $650 million debt of Pathe Communications Corp.,
pursuant to Pathe's proposed acquisition of MGM/UA
Communications Co., is expected to increase Time Warner's
already substantial financial risk." The rating agency added
that "Time Warner's own bank agreement calls for sizable
repayments in March 1992 (extendable to March 1993), which
will require refinancing in a now more difficult environment
for financing highly leveraged deals."
   Several Wall Street analysts said they don't share S&amp;P's
concerns. "This seems a little premature," said Dennis
McAlpine, of Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "We need to see the rest of
the details on the Pathe agreement, but first of all, the
deal may never go through if Pathe can't come up with an
additional $550 million. Secondly, if Pathe defaults, Time
Warner will pick up the UA film library, which industry
estimates say is worth more than $650 million. Finally, I
can't imagine {Time Warner Co-Chairman} Steve Ross betting
his company on Pathe."
   Heather Goodchild, a vice president of S&amp;P, explained: "As
we see it, Time Warner doesn't have a lot of debt capacity at
this level. We do appreciate the cash flow benefits that
could result from the transaction, but we consider a
guarantee to be very nearly the financial obligation itself."
   Time Warner reportedly has entered into a "support
services" agreement in exchange for the financing under which
it would handle Pathe and MGM/UA releases for theatrical,
television and home-video distribution. Also, Time Warner
obtained the right to acquire warrants that would amount to a
20% stake in the combined Pathe-MGM/UA company at some point.
   In its statement, S&amp;P said the agency "continues to view
Time Warner's business positions, cash-generating capacity
and asset values favorably despite the company's aggressive
financial profile."
   A spokesman for Time Warner said: "Despite the
CreditWatch, we are nevertheless gratified that S&amp;P continues
to view favorably Time Warner's business positions,
cash-generating capacity and asset values. We believe
strongly in the long-term world-wide benefits of our
agreement, both to Warner Bros. and to Pathe. We believe the
value of the UA library significantly exceeds the $650
million provided in this deal."
   Affected by the CreditWatch listing are Time Warner's and
its subsidiaries' double-B rated long-term debt,
single-B-plus subordinated debt and single-B-plus rated
preferred stock. Affected units of Time Warner include
American Television &amp; Communications Corp. (senior debt rated
double-B and commercial paper rated single-B) and Lorimar
Telepictures Corp. (subordinated debt rated single-B-plus),
which are analyzed on a consolidated basis with Time Warner,
S&amp;P said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Posts
   11% Profit Gain
   For First Quarter
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp. reported
first-quarter net income rose 11% as revenue dropped
slightly.
   The company, with interests in broadcasting, financial
services, community development and power generation
equipment, said net income was $210 million, or $1.43 a
share, compared with $189 million, or $1.30 a share, in the
year-ago quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue edged down to $2.86 billion from $2.89 billion.
   Analysts said results were in line with expectations.
   Westinghouse didn't make a specific earnings projection
for the year, but said that substantial increases in orders
for electronic systems and power generation equipment "are
positive signs."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Westinghouse closed at $74.75, down 12.5 cents.
   In the quarter, the company had a pretax operating profit
margin of 10.3%, compared with a pretax operating profit
margin of 9.7% a year ago.
   The company didn't break out results for its various
segments, but said revenue and pretax operating profit at the
financial services unit improved substantially because of
significantly higher levels of loans outstanding and
marketable securities.
   Operating profit at the Group W broadcasting unit
decreased because of soft advertising sales in the Northeast
market. Revenue was about even with the year-earlier quarter,
the company said.
   Westinghouse said operating profit at its energy and
utility systems segment rose because of higher revenue in the
power generation business unit.
   The company said revenue and operating profit at its
industries segment gained slightly from the year-earlier
quarter.
   Westinghouse said revenue and operating profit improved at
its commercial segment because of recent acquisitions in the
furniture systems business unit.
   Revenue and operating profit also improved at the
company's electronic systems segment, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields at Banks,
   Brokerage Houses
   Show Little Change
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were largely unchanged in the week
ended Monday.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs, which typically
require minimum deposits of $10,000 or less, rose just
slightly, according to Banxquote Money Markets, an
information service based here. The average yield on a
one-year consumer CD was 7.96%, up from 7.93%, while
five-year consumer CDs offered an average 8.17%, compared
with 8.15% last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The only significant move in the latest week was a jump in
the average yield on six-month CDs at California banks to
8.19%, from 7.89%. The change reflects increases in yields
for six-month CDs offered by Security Pacific National Bank
and Bank of America, which rose to 8.33% and 8.35%, from
7.87% and 7.90%, respectively. This compares with a national
average of 7.79%.
   These increases are "probably tied to local competitive
factors, such as April rollovers and the tax-filing season,"
said Norberto Mehl, chairman of Banxquote. "It has nothing to
due with interest rates in general or other economic trends."
   Banxquote usually surveys 18 big banks each Tuesday; the
survey was done Monday this week because of the Passover
holiday.
   Average yields on CDs sold by leading broker-dealers fell
slightly, with the exception of one-year CDs, which rose one
hundredth of a percentage point, to 8.20%.
   Also down slightly were average yields on most
large-denomination CDs, which typically require minimum
deposits of $90,000 or more.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Partnership Investors Are Angry -- And They're Suing
   ----
   By Jill Bettner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP SM NLP VMG
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The widespread problems in limited partnerships are
spawning a wave of investor litigation against troubled
syndicators and the Wall Street brokerage firms that sold
their products.
   Lawsuits and arbitration claims totaling more than $500
million have been filed against Chicago-based VMS Realty
Partners alone, attorneys familiar with the cases say.
Numerous other suits and arbitration complaints seeking
hundreds of millions of dollars have been filed against
partnership purveyors. And plaintiffs' lawyers say additional
litigation is almost certain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The wrangling promises years of headaches for partnership
syndicators and brokers. But going to court or arbitration
over soured partnerships also means a lengthy, stressful and
often expensive battle for partnership investors.
   More than $40 billion of private partnerships, which are
marketed mostly to wealthy individuals, were sold between
1978 and 1987, according to figures compiled by Robert A.
Stanger &amp; Co., a Shrewsbury, N.J., research and consulting
firm. During the same 10 years, in the heyday of partnership
syndications, thousands of smaller investors poured more than
$70 billion into supposedly far-safer public offerings.
   About half went into real estate, the rest to finance
partnerships in everything from oil drilling and equipment
leasing to cable television and movies. Now it's estimated
that at least one in five public partnerships is troubled,
most of them in real estate.
   Many investors now charge that brokers used high-pressure
sales tactics to promote the illiquid ventures, which have
lives of seven to 12 years and were sold in units of as
little as $5,000. Others claim they were urged to buy even if
partnerships were clearly an unsuitable choice because of
their annual income or investment goals. Still other
investors say they never received a prospectus warning they
could lose all of their principal.
   Most partnership sellers are reluctant to discuss these
disputes, or say they reject responsibility for any problems.
Many suits name Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., a unit of
Prudential Insurance Co. of America and a leading purveyor of
VMS partnerships. Loren Schechter, executive vice president
and counsel of Prudential-Bache, said the VMS partnerships
haven't succeeded because of the general decline in real
estate values. "It's not a result of any failing on our
part," he said. VMS officials couldn't be reached for
comment.
   A few in the partnership business say some investors --
and lawyers -- are merely trying to cash in on
well-publicized problems. The negative publicity has been "a
signal for every Tom, Dick and Harry to jump on the
bandwagon," says Leonard Simmons, a Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
broker who is a defendant in a pending case involving
partnerships he sold while at E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. "You've got
law firms going around ringing the bells. If you don't call
that ambulance-chasing, I don't know what is."
   Still, one top brokerage executive recently suggested that
the securities industry shares at least some of the blame for
the partnership debacle. While the problems have been
exacerbated by tax-law changes, "I don't think we adequately
controlled the quality of the partnerships we sold," Howard
L. Clark Jr., newly installed chairman of Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc., told The Wall Street Journal. "Wall Street in
general has done a lousy job of selecting and selling limited
partnerships."
   Shearson, the American Express Co. unit that acquired
Hutton's extensive partnership business, was the top purveyor
of these investments in 1988. Now it has all but quit selling
new partnerships, in part because of the lawsuits it faces.
   Plaintiffs' lawyers and others predict the current wave of
suits will become a flood. "What other remedies are
available?" said Steven Brobeck, executive director of the
Washington-based Consumer Federation of America. "We see the
legal profession as one means of policing the small-investor
markets."
   But one possible barrier is "insolvent defendants," said
plaintiffs' lawyer Michael J. Aguirre of San Diego.
   Joseph Moorman, a 72-year-old retired jet aircraft
salesman, has been battling troubled Dallas syndicator
Southmark Corp. in court for more than two years over a
$12,000 real estate partnership investment he made in 1977.
The sponsor was Robert A. McNeil Corp., then a unit of
Southmark.
   Three years ago, Southmark "rolled up" Mr. Moorman's
partnership and 34 others into National Realty L.P., a new
master limited partnership that is traded on the American
Stock Exchange. Its units closed in composite trading
yesterday at $4.875. That's a far cry from the conversion
value of $50 (adjusted for a 1-for-5 reverse split) Southmark
indicated they would have when it asked Mr. Moorman and
50,000 other limited partners to approve the roll-up.
   Mr. Moorman is a representative plaintiff in a $200
million suit pending in a state court in Redwood City,
Calif., that seeks class-action status. He has had to turn
over piles of his own financial records to the defendants'
lawyers and give hours of depositions. Settlement discussions
have dragged on since last July. If they are eventually
successful, legal fees could eat up a third or more of any
settlement. But "I was convinced I didn't have a chance"
battling alone, Mr. Moorman said.
   A spokeswoman for National Realty, one of several
defendants in the suit, says "limited partnerships aren't
exempt from the general trend of people asking judges to
satisfy their wishes and desires and salve their
disappointment." The other defendants, Southmark and Shearson
(E.F. Hutton was the roll-up's dealer-manager), decline to
comment.
   Some lawyers, including Chicago attorney Herbert Beigel,
are courting partnership investors who, they say, don't
realize their chance to sue under many securities laws runs
out after a few years. "I've taken a lot of criticism from
the legal profession for that," he said, but none of his
clients has complained.
   Often, investors must take their grievances to arbitration
instead of filing a lawsuit, because of brokerage agreements
they signed. While it still helps to have a lawyer, the
process is cheaper and faster than going to court. Most
disputes are resolved within a year and generally can't be
appealed.
   Investors typically have a choice of arbitrators supplied
by the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange,
National Association of Securities Dealers or the New
York-based American Arbitration Association, the only source
outside the brokerage industry.
   Those who pursue claims win "a little bit more than 50% of
the time," says Richard Ryder, editor and publisher of
Securities Arbitration Commentator newsletter. They usually
take home about 45% of their out-of-pocket losses, he adds,
although arbitrators can sometimes award much more than that
in punitive damages.
   Such damages are more common in lawsuits. Moreover, if a
court certifies a suit as a class action, all investors who
are members of the class by virtue of a common grievance
automatically share in any settlement.
   Judges are increasingly awarding investors who are willing
to shoulder the burden of representing other plaintiffs an
extra share, usually a token share, of settlements for the
stress involved.
   Amonce Sullivan, a 64-year-old San Diego woman, is leading
5,000 other investors in a $17 million class action against
Shearson and more than a dozen other defendants over a
troubled 1987 hotel partnership. The suit, which alleges
fraud and negligence, among other things, is pending in a
state court in Los Angeles. Shearson declines to comment.
   Mrs. Sullivan, who put $15,000 into the partnership, says
she had never taken any kind of legal action before. But she
fears her investment is "out the window," even though she
said her broker assured her that her money was as safe as it
would be in a bank certificate of deposit.
   "He knew I was a widow on a fixed income," she said. "I'm
sure there are a lot of other people like myself. Maybe these
lawsuits will stop that kind of activity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Environmental Firm Executives
   Cut Holdings in Their Companies
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ALWS HRDG BFI ITX
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Earth Day is around the corner. But several
top executives in the business of pollution control and
environmental cleanup are selling some of the holdings in
their own companies.
   In the past three months, three insiders at International
Technology Corp. sold a total of about $4.3 million of its
stock, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The chairman of a Browning-Ferris Industries Inc.
unit trimmed his stake 59%. At Harding Associates Inc., four
high-level insiders have sold sizable chunks of stock. And a
director of Allwaste Inc. sold all his shares -- among other
insider sales in the industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The selling is somewhat surprising because Wall Street is
bullish on environmental-services companies. And the stocks
as a group were good performers for most of last year. But
environmental-services shares were battered in late 1989 in
heavy tax-related selling, and most of the stocks haven't
fully recovered.
   Should investors be selling, too?
   Analysts, and the numbers, suggest that investors
shouldn't bail out yet. At three of the four companies, the
insiders who sold missed recent price run-ups in their
stocks. But the same analysts caution that investors should
realize that environmental-services stocks have turned out to
be more volatile -- and less of the straightforward play on a
clean environment -- than investors might expect.
   The stock of Browning-Ferris, for example, one of the
industry's leaders, has been "in turmoil," said Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons analyst Stephen Schweitch. On March 15,
Browning-Ferris's stock fell 5% on news that it had been
fined by the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation and had been denied a permit to expand its
hazardous-waste landfill at Niagara Falls. The stock later
bounced back when Browning-Ferris announced it was getting
out of the landfill business.
   Similarly, some of the smaller enviromental-services
concerns have had problems stemming from their own success,
"problems with managing their growth," said Mr. Schweitch.
"They end up with more overhead, and margins and earnings
suffer." Nonetheless, he said, the outlook for the business
is "very good."
   At Browning-Ferris, Bruce Hendrickson, chairman of the
company's American Ref-Fuel joint venture (not the unit that
was fined), sold 47,878 shares on Feb. 27 for $1.7 million.
The shares represented 59% of his stake in the Houston-based
waste-management concern, according to SEC filings.
   The sales were "not related to Browning-Ferris at all,"
Mr. Hendrickson said in an interview. "I was in the process
of buying a ranch," he said, "and making some other
investments."
   The firm's general counsel also sold 3,000 shares on Feb.
5. He retains 12,667 shares, SEC filings show. The two
insiders sold at $35.55 and $35.75 a share, respectively. The
stock closed yesterday at $37.875, unchanged, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Murray Hutchison, chairman of International Technology,
said he sold 250,000 of its shares for $1.5 million to repay
a bank loan. In addition, his brother, director John H.
Hutchison, and director Bernard L. Simonsen sold sizable
blocks of stock in the Torrance, Calif.-based
pollution-control technology company. Their sales took place
from Feb. 22 through March 30.
   The chairman retains about 1.8 million shares. John
Hutchison sold 300,000 shares, or 14% of his holdings, for
$1.8 million. Mr. Simonsen sold 151,206 shares, 18% of his
holdings, for $1 million.
   The company's "doing fine," said the chairman. The
"backlog of work is growing, and we have a good position in
the market."
   The International Technology insiders sold for an average
of about $6.30 a share. But the stock has since risen in New
York Stock Exchange trading, closing yesterday at $7.625, up
25 cents.
   Four insiders at Harding Associates have sold shares in
the company this year. Richard Harding, its chairman,
launched the selling on Jan. 16 with a sale of 5,000 shares,
14% of his holdings, for $84,250. Richard Prezio, its
president, sold 6,000 shares, or 42% of his holdings, in two
sales later in January. In February, a senior vice president
sold 4,000 shares, 29% of his stake.
   Mr. Prezio and Mr. Harding were out of the office, but
Patricia England, Harding's corporate secretary, said two of
the insiders sold for tax purposes, and Mr. Harding sells
regularly.
   The largest sale was by Donald Schreuder, senior vice
president of operations at the Novato, Calif.-based
engineering and consulting firm. He sold 40,000 shares at an
average share price of $16.88, or about $675,100. Mr.
Schreuder retains 103,977 shares. The shares were sold to
"get a little liquidity, upgrade my standard of living and
(take care) of the education of my kids," he said.
   All the insiders received between $16.25 and $17.25 a
share. The stock has since risen, closing yesterday at
$19.25, unchanged, in over-the-counter trading.
   At Allwaste of Houston, director Carl E. Warden sold all
of his 29,000 shares on Jan. 19 and Jan. 22, SEC filings
show. His average sale price was $9.75, for a total of
$282,750. He remains with Allwaste and holds options on
another 120,000 shares, according to the company.
   Ronald Stanfa, a vice president of Allwaste, trimmed his
holdings by 4,700 shares. The sale leaves him a stake of
212,500 shares, SEC filings show. He sold his shares for
$9.38 each.
   Neither Mr. Stanfa or Mr. Warden could be reached for
comment. The stock closed yesterday at $9, down 12 1/2 cents,
in over-the-counter trading.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES Inc. is pulling out of the
hazardous waste treatment and disposal business and is
closing or attempting to sell its hazardous-waste landfills.
An earlier edition reported that the company was leaving the
landfill business entirely. Browning-Ferris continues to
operate solid-waste landfills.
   (WSJ April 13, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bell Atlantic Set
   To Pay Big Fine
   In Pennsylvania
   ----
   By Julie Amparano Lopez
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BEL
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bell Atlantic Corp. said its Bell of Pennsylvania phone
unit agreed to pay $42 million to settle charges that it used
"deceptive techniques" to sell customers more services than
they wanted.
   The settlement puts an end to a two-year lawsuit by the
Pennsylvania attorney general and consumer advocate offices,
which accused the phone company of selling extra services --
such as call waiting, speed dialing and wire-maintenance
plans -- without explaining prices or informing customers
that the services were optional, as required by regulations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In many cases, packages of optional services were
recommended without regard to the consumer's telephone habits
or ability to pay," said Attorney General Ernie Preate Jr.
   The settlement is one of the largest of its kind and comes
on the heels of a U.S. Treasury Department action that
suspends Bell Atlantic from receiving future business from
the federal government. The department alleges that Bell
Atlantic's Chesapeake &amp; Potomac Telephone Co. unit misled the
agency on a phone bid.
   Under terms of the settlement, Bell of Pennsylvania agreed
to pay $36.4 million in refunds to about 1.5 million
residential customers, $5 million to a newly established
telephone education fund and $450,000 to the state. Bell
Atlantic said the settlement isn't expected to have a
material impact on earnings.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
shares of Philadelphia-based Bell Atlantic closed at $94.125,
down 25 cents.
   According to the attorney general and consumer advocate
offices, the illegal marketing practices stem from
predetermined sales scripts that Bell of Pennsylvania
customer representatives were required to use when attempting
to sell optional services. In addition, the offices maintain
that the representatives were subject to quotas or bonus
plans, which were based on the number of optional services
they sold.
   Agents discovered the practice in 1987 when 32 telephone
service inquiries were placed at various Bell of Pennsylvania
centers across the state. Of those, there were 23 cases in
which sales representatives assigned services without saying
they were options.
   William Harral, Bell of Pennsylvania's vice president of
external and financial affairs, said the sales practices in
question were in operation between 1985 and 1988 and have
been since suspended. He said that on average, consumers will
receive $12 for every optional feature they didn't want. In
the refund proposal, the company expects to advertise
extensively and will mail notices telling customers they may
be eligible for refunds.
   Bell of Pennsylvania is the second phone company to be
charged with overaggressive marketing practices. In 1986,
Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell Telephone Co. unit in
California was ordered to refund $35.6 million to customers
who were sold optional services they didn't want. Regulators
and consumer advocates blame the problem on market
deregulation in phone services since the breakup of American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. in 1984.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   East Bloc's Eagerness for Free Market
   Put on Display at European Conference
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- By endorsing an historic charter favoring
free-market principles, the Soviet Union and most East
European nations are showing just how eager they are to open
their economies to the West.
   The accord, adopted at a meeting of the 35-nation
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, which ends
here today, commits East bloc countries to "endeavor to
achieve" things ranging from the protection of private
property and foreign investments to the creation of
convertible currencies and multiparty democracies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rather than serving as a blueprint for the future, the
document is expected to become a tool -- even a weapon -- in
the hands of East bloc reformers.
   "Free-market reforms will encounter a great deal of
resistance and even setbacks in the future, so it's important
to give the reformers the ammunition they need to fight their
domestic battles," says Michael Silverman, a lawyer who
attended the conference as a private business representative
linked to the U.S. negotiating team. The new document will
provide this ammunition, he says, by giving reformers a set
of internationally recognized principles they can use to
press for changes, even in the face of foot-dragging by
bureaucrats.
   The document doesn't commit nations to specific changes,
emphasizing instead the broad principles that the
participants are expected to strive toward. The countries are
supposed to press for free and competitive economies in which
prices are determined by supply and demand, as well as for
fiscal and monetary policies that encourage growth. The
document also stresses the link between market economies and
democratic pluralism, suggesting that one can't function
without the other.
   Alan Holmer, head of the U.S. delegation, compares the
document to the 1975 Helsinki accords, a package of
principles for human rights endorsed by the CSCE and used
over the years by East bloc dissidents to press for political
change. "These principles may have no direct legal force,"
says Mr. Holmer, "but they do have strong moral and political
force."
   This is the first time the CSCE, an East-West forum
bringing together the U.S., Canada and all European nations
except Albania, has grappled directly with economic issues,
and highlights the importance now accorded to the 35-nation
group by many Western nations. U.S. Secretary of State James
Baker has said the forum, long dismissed in Washington as a
debating club, should now begin to acquire new functions in
East-West economic cooperation as well as in arms control.
   Against this background, the three-week meeting was marked
by a profound lack of serious conflict over basic principles.
Reformist ideas that might have seemed revolutionary in
countries such as Czechoslovakia or Bulgaria only a few
months ago are now widely accepted.
   Indeed, the East European nations seemed locked in a
competition to see who could most firmly embrace the ideals
of a market economy. This tone was set shortly after the
conference opened, when the Romanian delegation chief quoted
the top U.S. negotiator in calling for a less timid approach
to economic reforms. Czechoslovak Deputy Prime Minister
Vladimir Dlouhy, announcing that his country firmly supports
the final document, added only that it doesn't go far enough
toward integrating Europe.
   The charter is a hybrid of two documents, one from the
U.S., the other from the 12-member European Community. Both
called on Eastern countries to revamp their economies
according to Western principles, though the U.S. document was
more strident and listed specific principles. The EC's
approach was more pragmatic, emphasizing the need for
dependable economic statistics, rather than specific
free-market measures. In the end, the U.S. list was dropped,
but the ideas were melded into a compromise document.
   The only real problem was working through Moscow's
concerns. While not throwing up major roadblocks, the Soviets
resisted some elements of the package, such as the West's
call for unrestricted capital flows and the establishment of
property rights. Moscow also wanted more guarantees on social
welfare provisions.
   But even these concerns were relatively easy to allay by
toning down the Western proposals and inserting some of
Moscow's provisions. The Soviets, for instance, objected to
the term "free-market economy," preferring "market-oriented"
or "market-based economy." Ultimately, Moscow signed on to
the document, though some Western delegates said it might be
doing this more for the sake of harmony than out of genuine
conviction.
   "Many of the decisions and recommendations contained in
the Bonn document are in line with our philosophy of
perestroika and have a direct bearing on the economic renewal
in the Soviet Union," Stepan Sitarian, a Soviet deputy
premier, told the conference.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hawkeye Bancorp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   HWKB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HAWKEYE BANCORP. (Des Moines, Iowa) -- Robert W. Murray
was elected president and chief operating officer of this
Iowa bank holding company. Mr. Murray, 55 years old, had been
executive vice president. He succeeds Paul Dunlap, 59 years
old, as president. Mr. Dunlap remains chairman and chief
executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CB&amp;T Financial to Buy Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CBTF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRMONT, W.Va. -- CB&amp;T Financial Corp. said it agreed to
acquire Peoples National Bank of Rowlesburg, W.Va. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Peoples National Bank has assets of $12 million. CB&amp;T has
assets of about $500 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement is subject to regulatory and shareholder
approvals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Lotus Development Corp.:
   Product for Apple Computer
   Will Create Marketing Lists
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   LOTS AAPL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lotus Development Corp. said it will make a new product
for Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh personal computers that
combines compact-disk, read-only memory data bases on U.S.
businesses and households with software for creating
marketing lists.
   Available in the third quarter of 1990, Lotus MarketPlace,
priced at $695, will be distributed through computer software
retailers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lotus, based in Cambridge, Mass., and Apple, in Cupertino,
Calif., also announced an agreement under which the companies
will market the product through a number of cooperative
programs during the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Bess Mess in All Its Sleaziness
   ----
   By M.G. Lord
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Bess Myerson, Nancy Capasso, Hortense Gabel and her
daughter Sukhreet Gabel are four of the most bizarre women
I've ever encountered between the covers of a book -- fiction
or nonfiction -- from "Geek Love" to Havelock Ellis.
   They are the major players in "When She Was Bad" (Random
House, 305 pages, $19.95), Shana Alexander's account of the
rise and fall of Bess Myerson, the first Jewish Miss America,
who emerged from a Bronx housing project to become a regular
on television quiz shows, a nationally known consumer
advocate, a spokeswoman for Citicorp, a candidate for the
U.S. Senate, an ostensibly heterosexual arm-ornament for New
York's single Mayor Edward Koch, and his cultural affairs
commissioner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Somewhere along the line, however, Bess's fast-track train
derailed -- and, at 64 she ended up a convicted shoplifter
and geriatric home wrecker on trial with her two-decades
younger, mob-connected sewer-contractor boyfriend, Andy
Capasso, for trying to suborn Judge Gabel to reduce his
alimony payments to his ex-wife, Nancy.
   "When She Was Bad" is by turns sordid, shocking, farcical
and sick-making. It also is nearly impossible to put down.
   The way Ms. Alexander paints it, Bess's mom has a lot to
answer for. A stingy, hard woman, she left her extra-tall
daughter emotionally impoverished and with a lifelong
compulsion to get something for nothing. As she went from job
to job, she ate free meals, accepted free dresses from
designers and organized her life around making free phone
calls -- a nightmare house guest whose weekends in the
country usually were spent racking up hundreds of dollars of
long-distance charges.
   Ms. Alexander identifies Nancy Capasso (nee Roth) as a
"prime example of the so-called Jewish American Princess."
But Bess had pretensions to a higher rank: Bess was -- in her
own words -- "Queen of the Jews." That title meant more to
her than cultural commissioner. More people probably saw Bess
putting on her makeup than clapping loudly at the opera.
   Afflicted with what a nameless TV personality quoted by
Ms. Alexander describes as "a helluva lot of sexual
confusion," Bess sometimes revealed a creepy need to invite
acquaintances to sit and watch her while she applied her
makeup stark naked. Possibly even more disconcerting to her
male or female visitors, was Bess's habit of stroking,
patting or fondling them while she talked, making "a bid for
territorial dominance, something similar to what the male
lion intends when he urinates on thorn bushes."
   And if that isn't screwy enough, Ms. Alexander presents
circumstantial evidence that while Bess was running for the
Senate in 1980, she also found time to harass the new
girlfriend of a former beau with strange mail (including a
plastic Baggie of human excrement) and making up to 40 hangup
phone calls a day.
   Ms. Alexander certainly doesn't go looking for nice things
to say about Bess, though she works overtime to cast Nancy
Capasso in a sympathetic light -- which proves to be beyond
the capacities even of the author of a compassionate book on
Jean Harris, killer of the Scarsdale diet doc. Nancy, a
spoiled Skidmore graduate and bored young mother, threw over
her first husband in 1965 for Capasso, then a 19-year-old
construction worker who had crawled out of a sewer near her
suburban home.
   Soon they were socializing with some of the sleazier
slimeballs afloat in the Gotham-area swamps. Ms. Alexander
gives us a mouthwatering description of the Capassos on
vacation in Palm Beach with their dear friend Queens borough
president Donald Manes, before he, fearing indictment in a
city corruption scandal, skewered himself to death on purpose
with a kitchen knife.
   The most riveting sections recount Bess's weird
relationships with Judge Gabel and her unemployable,
overweight daughter Sukhreet. After more than 200 job leads
failed to pan out for Sukhreet, her mother would press
Sukhreet's resume on anyone who entered her office.
   Bess, however, not only hired Sukhreet, she befriended
her: inviting Sukhreet to compare anti-depressant drugs and
to watch her dress. When it dawned on Sukhreet that her boss
might have cultivated her not for her charm but her mother's
influence, she flew into a tizzy -- volunteering to testify
against Bess and her mother.
   Unfortunately for Sukhreet, her revenge plot, like nearly
everything else in her life, failed miserably. She proved to
be an unconvincing witness, whose curious appearance ("a
pop-eyed . . . woman wearing Mother Superior-style robes and
a red fright wig") and wacky testimony probably helped Bess
get off.
   A writer slightly more sensitive might have found some
pathos in these four women and their stories. Ms. Alexander
can't squeeze out a drop: Her narrative unfolds like a Monty
Python remake of "The Snake Pit." And you don't have to be a
Bess partisan to wonder sometimes where she got many details.
For example, after her acquittal, Bess and and a friend
celebrated with "vodka and day-old chicken retrieved from the
refrigerator." Now just how did Ms. Alexander know it hadn't
sat there for a week?
   ---
   Ms. Lord is a columnist for Newsday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Paper Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   IP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL PAPER Co. (Purchase, N.Y.) -- Carol S.
Tutundgy and Myra R. Drucker were appointed vice presidents
at this paper and forest products concern. Ms. Tutundgy
continues as director, investor relations. Ms. Drucker
remains director, trust investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $16.4 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to pay down about $26.9
billion on the federal debt with the sale Monday of about
$16.4 billion in short-term bills. Maturing bills outstanding
total $43.3 billion.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills, which will be dated April 19 and will mature
on July 19 and Oct. 18, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Time and Viacom in Talks to Merge Comedy Networks
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   VIA TWX TCOMA CMCSA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Time Warner Inc. and Viacom Inc. are discussing a truce in
their comedy war that would merge their fledgling cable
networks, the Comedy Channel and HA]
   Although similar talks between the two sides have failed
before, both sides say discussions were renewed because the
two networks are struggling to gain subscribers and
advertisers at a time when there are only a limited number of
channels available on many cable systems, and a glut of new
cable networks competing for them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Executives and attorneys from both companies said Time and
Viacom are discussing a 50-50 joint venture in a single
comedy channel, or a venture that would include equity
investments by a group of cable operators.
   The merger discussions got an informal boost yesterday
when Viacom Chief Executive Frank Biondi and Time Warner
Co-Chief Executive Steven J. Ross met at the John Gardner
tennis resort in Scottsdale, Ariz., where they both were
vacationing. Neither could be reached for comment, but
executives at both companies said they had a friendly tennis
game.
   Friendly encounters between Viacom and Time these days are
rare. Even if there is enough demand for two competing cable
networks, Time and Viacom seem determined to thwart each
other at every turn. Earlier this week, for example, Time
threatened to take legal action to stop a transaction between
Viacom and a group of the nation's largest cable operators.
Viacom executives said the cable operators were prepared to
make equity investments in the HA] network and agree to
distribute it on cable systems serving about 20 million
subscribers, although not on an exclusive basis.
   The cable companies included Tele-Communications Inc. of
Denver, Continental Cablevision Inc. of Boston, Comcast Corp.
of Philadelphia, and the Cox Communications unit of Cox
Enterprises Inc. of Atlanta. Executives from
Tele-Communications, Continental, and Cox didn't return
calls. Comcast declined to comment.
   Time's Home Box Office unit, meanwhile, had been having
active discussions with some of the same and other cable
operators regarding an investment in its Comedy Channel. The
Comedy Channel premiered in November to a subscriber base of
only six million homes, and hasn't increased that base by
much.
   HA] premiered April 1 to a similarly small base of
subscribers, even though Viacom is giving cable operators the
option to run the comedy programming as the nighttime half of
Viacom's other cable channel, music video network VH-1, which
has about 38 million subscribers.
   A merger of the two comedy networks would link two of the
fiercest adversaries in the cable business in a marriage of
necessity. Viacom's Showtime Networks unit last May filed a
$2.5 billion antitrust suit against Home Box Office, charging
that HBO monopolizes the pay-television business. Viacom's
top executives, including Mr. Biondi and Showtime Chief
Executive Winston Cox, are former HBO executives, and have
become bitter rivals of their former colleagues at Time,
notably HBO Chief Executive Michael Fuchs. Mr. Fuchs declined
to comment yesterday.
   The talks about merging the two comedy networks apparently
don't necessarily include a settlement of the antitrust suit.
Viacom Chairman Sumner Redstone decided to file that suit
last spring, and he continues to take a tough line against
HBO that may impede the merger of the two networks. In a
telephone interview yesterday, he said Viacom "was on the
verge of signing equity and distribution agreements with
cable operators, but they withdrew" under pressure from HBO.
Mr. Redstone said, "We and our attorneys are assiduously
considering all options," including filing a further
antitrust claim against Time and its HBO unit.
   Cable operators generally agree that a well-programmed
comedy network is an attractive programming asset, but they
say that there really isn't room for two. In an interview
last month, for example, Amos Hostetter, chairman and chief
executive officer of Continental Cablevision, said: "My sense
is only one of them will make it." HBO's Comedy Channel,
because it has been on much longer, has received the most
scrutiny, and hasn't gotten many good reviews; critics say
the network isn't very funny.
   If the two merge, the companies will have to agree on a
programming format. Both use original comedy programming and
stand-up comics, but they differ in other ways; HA] runs old
sitcoms in their entirety; the Comedy Channel uses snippets
from series and old movies. HA] acquired from NBC Productions
the exclusive off-network TV rights for the entire library of
"Saturday Night Live," more than 300 episodes from 1975
through the 1991 season.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   California
   Ads Attack
   Cigarettes
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   California health officials are kicking off a $28.6
million cigarette-bashing advertising blitz today financed by
the state's excise tax on tobacco.
   The state, calling its campaign the largest offensive ever
against smoking, is the first to use cigarette taxes to try
to cut and eventually to eliminate tobacco use.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The campaign will be funded by a voter-initiated cigarette
tax passed in 1988 that added a 25-cent-a-pack levy to the
10-cent tax already in effect. The increase was the largest
ever on either the state or federal level, according to the
Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group based in
Washington, D.C.
   But Kenneth Kizer, California's health director, said the
indirect goal of the new campaign is savings to the public in
California, where more than 29% of the men and 22% of the
women smoke. "The cost of tobacco use is staggering," Dr.
Kizer said, adding that more than 30,000 Californians die
each year from smoking-related diseases. "On top of that
carnage, smoking costs the citizens of this state more than
$7.1 billion in health care and lost productivity," Dr. Kizer
said.
   One of the themes of the campaign is the alleged deception
in the advertising done by tobacco companies. The headline in
one full-page ad that begins running in the state today
reads, "First, the smoke. Now, the mirrors."
   And rather than capitalizing on data showing the dangers
of smoking, as many anti-smoking ads have in the past, this
campaign will often appeal to emotions and attempt to attack
the image of refreshment and status that tobacco company ads
have created.
   One television ad shows a smoky office in which a tobacco
executive, speaking to other board members, talks about
recruiting more smokers to keep company profits up. "So
forget all that cancer-heart disease-emphysema-stroke stuff,"
the executive says. "We're not in this business for our
health."
   Another of the four TV ads shows a black youth singing in
rap style: "We used to pick it. Now they want us to smoke
it." Another addresses the issue of secondary smoke. As a man
smokes in a kitchen and talks with his pregnant wife, she
inhales his smoke. Then smoke billows out of her mouth.
   Ads in the campaign, developed by the Los Angeles-based
agency Keye/Donna/Pearlstein, will also run on radio and on
billboards, with some placed on MTV. The agency previously
developed the TV ad for the Partnership for a Drug-Free
America that showed an egg frying and compared that to the
effect of drugs on the brain.
   Many of the ads are aimed at target groups where smoking
rates are particularly high, where dangers are unusually
severe or where tobacco companies have aimed their own
campaigns.
   "When you drive through the ghetto, all you see are
cigarette and alcohol ads," said Paul Keye, chairman of the
agency developing the ads. "The ads are about exploitation.
They are about genocide."
   Some of the state's ads target teens, since 60% of tobacco
users start smoking before they reach high school. Pregnant
women and specific ethnic groups, which have higher rates of
smoking and smoking-related death and disease, also get
special attention. Some ads will run in Spanish, Vietnamese,
Laotian, Chinese and other languages, Dr. Kizer said.
   "We want the public to understand that they have been sold
a bill of goods, that they have been duped by the cigarette
companies. We want to portray a more correct image of what
tobacco use is all about," Dr. Kizer said. Cigarette packs
now carry one of four warnings from the U.S. surgeon general
that state that smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease,
emphysema and may complicate pregnancy or result in fetal
injury.
   Most tobacco industry representatives have declined to
comment on the ads until they've had a chance to review the
campaign, though some state officials expect the industry to
respond with ads. The industry spent millions to oppose the
boost in cigarette taxes two years ago.
   "There isn't much we can do about the campaign," said
Walker Merryman, vice president of the Tobacco Institute. He
complained that the ads don't seem to be in keeping with what
he said was the voter mandate simply to educate youths not to
smoke. "They don't attempt to educate anyone about any
possible health effects of smoking. They simply seek to make
the tobacco companies appear to be heartless, uncaring, even
racist," he said.
   He also questioned if the ads would have any effect. "They
aren't selling a product. They are selling an idea: social
modification."
   The ads initiate a $221 million overall campaign to curb
smoking in the state. The state health department will
disburse funds to local health departments and public schools
for anti-smoking education, with additional amounts going to
health and community groups.
   The campaign comes as one more assault on the tobacco
industry. In 1971, the federal government banned all radio
and TV cigarette ads. Last February, another federal law went
into effect banning smoking on all domestic aircraft flights
under six hours. In addition, 28 states now restrict smoking
in government workplaces and 16 states restrict it in private
sector workplaces, according to the Tobacco Institute.
Moreover, since 1986, a handful of federal bills have been
introduced seeking an outright ban on all cigarette ads.
   In the past, the American Cancer Society, the American
Lung Association and U.S. health officials have issued public
service announcements about smoking, hoping that the media
would run them. The state of Minnesota has run some
antismoking ads using general funds, Mr. Merryman said.
   The industry, according to Federal Trade Commission
figures, spends about $3.4 billion a year to sell cigarettes,
$656.8  million of which goes into ads. U.S. sales of
cigarettes peaked in 1982 at 634 billion cigarettes for $21.2
billion. They're now running at about 533 billion cigarettes
for $37 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armstrong World
   To Post `Significant'
   Rise in 1st Period Net
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANCASTER, Pa. -- Armstrong World Industries Inc. said
first-quarter net income will be "significantly ahead" of the
1989 first quarter, when it posted earnings of $37.4 million,
or 81 cents a share.
   The building-products concern said first-quarter earnings
from continuing operations will be "comfortably higher" than
a year earlier, including a gain of $2.7 million, or six
cents a share, from settlement of asbestos-related
litigation. In the 1989 quarter, Armstrong's results included
a $2.7 million gain from such settlements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Armstrong expects to report an unusual gain
of $16.5 million, or 40 cents a share, for the latest first
quarter from the sale of Georgia woodlands to an undisclosed
buyer. The company said that additional proceeds from the
sale, expected to exceed the amount already received, will be
received in early June, subject to certain conditions.
   Armstrong also adopted an accounting change, effective
Jan. 1, 1990, that will increase first-quarter earnings by $8
million, or 19 cents a share.
   It said sales for the just-ended quarter are expected to
be more than 3% higher than the $710 million posted in the
1989 first quarter.
   Armstrong said it was commenting on its results because
recent projections by some analysts have been too low.
Armstrong is the object of a proxy fight and possible hostile
takeover bid by the Belzberg family of Canada, which owns
about 11.3% of the company's stock.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Armstrong
shares closed at $34.50, up $1.50.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES Inc. realized a $2.7 million
gain in the 1989 first quarter as a result of certain
litigation settlements. Sales in the 1989 first quarter were
$619 million as recently restated by the company. In
yesterday's edition, the gain was incorrectly attributed to
the 1990 first quarter and the sales figure was misstated.
   (WSJ Apri 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Auction of 40-Year Bonds
   By U.S. Is Disappointing
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD OI ISS FNM EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Resolution Funding Corp. flopped in its
second attempt to sell 40-year bonds, a sign that investors
aren't ready for bonds that have extra-long maturities.
   Refcorp, a new government agency created to rescue the
nation's troubled thrift industry, auctioned $3.5 billion of
the so-called bailout bonds yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale went badly despite an average yield of 8.89%,
which was higher than some analysts had expected and 1/3
percentage point higher than the yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond.
   Although the entire issue was sold, bidding was
lackluster. One indication of weak demand was the "tail," or
the difference between the average yield and the highest bid
accepted at the auction. Because there wasn't enough demand
at the average yield, the Treasury was forced to accept bids
as high as 8.94% to complete the auction.
   Shortly after the auction ended, dealers who bought the
bonds were forced to cut prices in an attempt to attract
buyers. As prices slid, the average yield on the 40-year
bonds surged as high as 8.92%.
   "This was a rerun of the last auction. It was pretty bad,"
said James Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Government Securities Inc. The previous auction, which took
place in January, marked the first time the government sold
40-year bonds since the 1950s. That auction was considered a
disaster.
   The results suggest that "either there's not much demand
for 40-year bonds or there's not much demand for Refcorp
bonds," said John R. Burrus, manager of trading at CRT
Government Securities Ltd.
   Many dealers admitted yesterday that they may have
overestimated the appeal of 40-year bonds and blamed
themselves for the poor results.
   The Treasury, however, said it was pleased with the
auction because it believes the government saved money by
issuing a 40-year bond rather than a traditional 30-year
bond. But Treasury officials did admit that there are
problems with the 40-year bond auctions.
   "To the extent there doesn't seem to be the investor
demand the Street had hoped for, clearly, that's a
disappointment," said Michael Basham, deputy assistant
secretary of federal finance at the Treasury. He said no
decision has been made on whether to issue more 40-year
bonds.
   Lawrence N. Leuzzi, a managing director at S.G. Warburg
Securities &amp; Co., said some investors had concerns about
Refcorp itself. Refcorp bonds don't actually carry a
government guarantee, although interest payments are
guaranteed by the Treasury and principal payments are secured
by Treasury securities. Still, "the Refcorp name is suffering
from uncertainty about how much the savings-and-loan bailout
will cost," he said.
   The disappointment in the auction spilled over onto the
broader bond market, sending prices of most bonds moderately
lower late in the day. The benchmark 30-year Treasury fell
about 1/2 point, or about $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount.
   Dealers had hoped to sell 40-year bonds to insurance
companies, pension funds and other large institutional
investors that need extra-long maturities to match future
claims. Another group of buyers was expected to consist of
professional traders eager for another vehicle to bet on
swings in interest rates.
   Zane Brown, executive vice president at Equitable Capital
Management, said life insurance companies, commercial banks
and thrifts aren't looking to extend their portfolios to
include 40-year bonds. Instead, he said, most are looking to
shorten the average maturity in their portfolios.
   "Really, the only institutions that are left that might
want a 40-year bond are pension funds, and they have plenty
of opportunity to buy 30-year bonds," he said.
   "I'm not sure that 40-years have a home" in the portfolio
of most institutional investors, said Mr. Brown. He said the
bonds are better when "stripped" into zero-coupon bonds that
have shorter maturities. Those bonds, he said, could then be
sold to individual investors for retirement and
college-education accounts.
   Strips are created when dealers separate the semiannual
interest payments from the principal portion of the bond and
sell the pieces separately. They also are separated into
shorter maturity classes. The principal-only portion, called
a zero-coupon bond, is sold at a deep discount from its face
value and is considered one of the most volatile securities.
Dealers said a 40-year zero might sell for as little as $35
for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   Although half of the previous 40-year bond offering was
stripped, dealers said the appetite for strips seemed light
at yesterday's sale. That's partly because of the flat yield
curve. Some analysts say yields on the 40-year bonds may not
be high enough relative to shorter-term bonds to make the
bonds appealing.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury, Agency Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond ended at a price of 98
30/32 to yield 8.59%, compared with 99 11/32 to yield 8.55%
on Monday.
   Short-term rates were little changed.
   Despite the poor showing at the Refcorp bond sale,
analysts said they expect today's $7.5 billion sale of new
seven-year Treasury notes to go smoothly.
   In when-issued activity late yesterday, the new seven-year
notes were trading at 8.65%, up from a yield of 8.62% Monday
and 8.59% Friday.
   Here are details of Refcorp's 40-year bond auction
yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

   Applications ............................  $8.90 billion
   Accepted bids ...........................  $3.50 billion
   Accepted at low price ...................            10%
   Accepted noncompetitively ...............   $126 million
   Average price (Rate) ....................  99.834 (8.89%)
   High price (Rate) ....................... 100.162 (8.86%)
   Low price (Rate) ........................  99.293 (8.94%)
   Interest rate ...........................          8 7/8%
                                                                                                       

   The bonds are dated April 17 and mature April 15, 2030.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   News developments helped drive the junk bond market
yesterday, slamming some high-yield issues and buoying
others.
   Among the notable losers of the day were junk bonds of
Ames Department Stores Inc., which plunged nine points on a
blizzard of news about the company's distressed financial
condition.
   By contrast, high-yield bonds of Owens-Illinois Inc.
climbed by more than a point on news that insurance companies
are liable for $960 million in damage and injury claims
against Owens Illinois. The claims stem from the use of the
company's asbestos-containing products.
   High-yield traders said Ames Department Stores' 13% senior
subordinated reset notes, due in 1999, traded at 46, down
nine points from Monday's closing price. At one point during
the session, bids for the issue fell as low as 42.
   The Rocky Hill, Conn.-based retailer said it is estimating
a loss of $228 million for fiscal 1990 and is negotiating
with its banks for a new credit agreement.
   "The operating loss for the year resulted primarily from
substantially lower-than-anticipated sales and gross margins
in the former Zayre stores," said Ames's chief executive
officer, Peter Hollis.
   In addition, the company said it has retained Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. and Wertheim, Schroder &amp; Co. "to assist
the company in connection with a restructuring which will
include a capital infusion."
   In the broader high-yield market, junk bonds or
speculative-grade securities with low credit ratings or no
credit ratings, finished unchanged.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, activity
was also muted with corporate issues ending the session
unchanged.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds of Interco Inc. were little changed
on news that the furniture manufacturer reported a loss from
continuing operations of $17.9 million for the fourth
quarter. In the year-earlier period, the company had a loss
from continuing operations of $42.2 million.
   Market participants said the results were widely
anticipated. Interco's 13 3/4% securities finished at 34 1/2,
while its zero-coupon bonds were unchanged at 6 1/2.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended 4/32 to 7/32 point lower on a
late sell-off following disappointing results of the Refcorp
bond sale.
   Market attention was focused on a scarcity of Federal
National Mortgage Association 9 1/2% securities ahead of the
regular April settlement Monday.
   The shortage reflects the heavy use of such securities as
collateral for real estate mortgage investment conduits that
settle later this month. There are about $2.4 billion of
these Fannie Mae Remics settling, and production of 9 1/2%
securities was only about $1.9 billion last month.
   In the pass-through market, Ginnie Mae 9% securities for
April delivery ended at 95 27/32, down 5/32; 9 1/2%
securities were at 98 4/32, down 7/32; 10% securities were at
100 17/32, down 4/32; and Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities were
at 98 14/32, down 4/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.73% to a 12-year
average life assumption, as the spread above the Treasury
10-year note narrowed 0.03 percentage point to 1.11.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Underwriting officials reported that the account is closed
on $500 million of California various purpose general
obligation bonds sold via competitive bid yesterday.
   The California issue, won by a Bank of America NT&amp;SA
group, was the largest single issue ever sold by the state.
The group's winning bid of 6.845% was about 0.02 percentage
point lower than the only competing bid, offered by a Chase
Securities Inc. group.
   Looking ahead on the calendar, $119 million of Baltimore
County, Md., consolidated public improvement bonds will be
sold via competitive bid today.
   In secondary market trading, municipal bonds ended
unchanged to 1/8 point lower in listless dealings. The New
Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was unchanged
at 97 3/8 bid to yield 7.40%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Major foreign government bonds ended lower in quiet
trading.
   In Britain, analysts said investors sold bonds because of
concerns that inflation is accelerating. Inflation fears were
rekindled by Monday's news that manufactured goods prices in
March were higher than expected.
   Britain's benchmark 11 3/4% Treasury bond due 2003/2007
fell 15/32 to 98 1/32 to yield 12.01%, while the 12% notes
due 1995 were down 3/8 to 96 22/32 to yield 12.93%.
   Japanese government bonds continued to track the value of
the yen, which ended lower again against the dollar. The
benchmark 10-year bond fell 0.30 point to 86.51 to yield
7.25%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westcoast Energy Sets
   A Cogeneration Plant
   In British Columbia
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA T.CU WE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Westcoast Energy Inc. said
it plans to build with a partner a 106 million Canadian
dollar (US$91.3 million) cogeneration plant that will supply
electricity to B.C. Hydro, a provincially owned utility.
   The proposed McMahon Cogeneration Plant, which Westcoast
plans to build at Taylor in partnership with the CU Power
division of Canadian Utilities Ltd., would supply 105
megawatts of electricity to B.C. Hydro, beginning in October
1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cogeneration is the simultaneous production of electricity
and steam, for use in industrial processes.
   B.C. Hydro said the contract with Westcoast and its
partner is valued at more than C$45 million annually, and
would run 20 years from the plant's start-up date. The
electric utility, Canada's third-biggest, said the new plant
is part of its push to encourage independent power production
in British Columbia, where consumption of electric power is
growing rapidly, along with the province's economy.
   Westcoast, a big natural-gas pipeline, utility, and oil
and gas production concern, said the new plant would be
located at the site of its existing McMahon gas processing
plant, in northeastern British Columbia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cubic Corp. Engineer
   Acquitted on Charges
   In False-Records Case
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   CUB
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- A Cubic Corp. engineer was acquitted on
charges that he took part in falsifying records on a U.S.
Army mine-detector contract.
   Dennis B. Fink, 41 years old, was acquitted in a retrial
in federal court here, after a jury last year failed to vote
unanimously to acquit or convict him on 21 counts, including
conspiracy to defraud the government and submitting false
records. He was acquitted on two counts at that time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William B. Bauder, program manager for the mine-detector
program, was acquitted on all counts last August. The two men
were indicted by a federal grand jury in March 1988, after an
investigation that began in 1984.
   In 1988, Cubic, a high-technology concern, paid the
federal government about $7.3 million to settle claims that
it fraudulently tested the hand-held mine detectors it
refurbished for the Navy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   StratAmerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   STCO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   STRATAMERICA Corp. declared an initial quarterly dividend
of 2.5 cents a share, payable May 15 to shares of record
April 30. StratAmerica, of Palm Desert, Calif., is a
restaurant concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BEI Holdings Ltd.
   Restructures Managers
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BEIH
</CO>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- BEI Holdings Ltd. said it completed a top
management restructuring following last year's acquisition of
Golembe Associates Inc., and consolidated its East Coast and
West Coast consulting operations.
   The financial institution consulting company named Nevins
D. Baxter to the new position of vice chairman of BEI
Holdings. Mr. Baxter, 48 years old, was formerly chairman of
Golembe Associates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomas M. McGrath has been named to the new post of
chairman and chief executive officer of BEI Golembe
Consulting, the company's primary consulting subsidiary. Mr.
McGrath, 41, was previously president of the company's West
Coast consulting operation.
   Peter Merrill has been named president of BEI Golembe
Consulting, also a new position. The 54-year-old Mr. Merrill
will take on national responsibility for sales and
implementation of consulting services, and business
development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Panel Delays Corporate-Fine Guidelines
   ----
   By Stephen Wermeil and Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   TYSNA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. Sentencing Commission, unable to muster majority
support, put off debate on proposed guidelines that federal
judges would have to follow when imposing criminal fines and
probation on companies.
   The delay is a temporary victory for business groups that
mounted an all-out lobbying effort against tough guidelines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Actions by the seven-member commission require at least
four votes. As there are three vacancies now, all four
commissioners must approve every step. Yesterday, one member,
Judge George MacKinnon, effectively blocked action on
corporate guidelines by refusing to vote for any proposals
until the three vacancies are filled.
   His announcement prompted the chairman, Judge William
Wilkins, to defer action until next year. The guidelines must
be reviewed by Congress.
   Andrew Frey, a Washington lawyer who has monitored the
commission's drafts for several corporations, said the delay
"seems sensible" because more study of the proposals is
needed. But John Coffee, a Columbia University Law School
professor, said the decision was delayed because "there was
no possibility of compromising" between factions favoring
tougher and weaker corporate sanctions.
   The three vacancies must be filled by President Bush in
consultation with Senate Democrats, because the commission
must be bipartisan. The White House has nominated Julie
Carnes, an assistant U.S. attorney in Atlanta, for one seat.
   Another slot is expected to go to Michael Gelacak, a
Washington lawyer and former aide to Sen. Joseph Biden (D.,
Del.). The leading candidate for the third seat is U.S. Judge
David Mazzone of Boston, who is supported by Sen. Edward
Kennedy (D., Mass.), congressional aides said. The three must
be confirmed by the Senate.
   ---
   CITIZENS' GROUP wins appeal clarifying water-polluter
penalties.
   The 11th U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta overturned a
federal judge's dismissal of a water pollution suit against
Tyson Foods Inc. The decision clarifies when private
citizens' groups can seek civil penalties from water
polluters. The lower court had dismissed the case because the
Springdale, Ark., poultry processor solved its problem after
the suit was filed.
   But the appeals court ruled that penalties against Tyson
are appropriate because the company was violating federal
pollution standards when the suit was filed. It told the
lower court to calculate penalties against Tyson for
polluting waters at its Blountsville, Ala., processing
facility from the time it bought the plant in 1986 until it
came into compliance in February 1988.
   According to Eric Huber, an attorney for Atlantic States
Legal Foundation Inc., an environmental group, the ruling
strengthens such group's ability to bring private suits and
seek civil penalties under the Clean Water Act. He said Tyson
will face as much as $12.6 million in penalties plus
attorneys' fees. The penalties will go to the U.S. Treasury.
   "We will argue vigorously that nowhere close to the
maximum penalty is in order," said H. Thomas Wells, an
attorney for Tyson, noting the company acquired the plant
from a company in bankruptcy proceedings and acted quickly to
draft plans to correct the problem before the suit was filed.
   Tyson's only alternative, he said, would have been to
close the plant, leaving workers jobless while a new
waste-water treatment system was installed.
   ---
   LEGAL SERVICES CORP.'S departing chief eligible for
"burlap parachute."
   Terrance Wear, the aggressive, conservative president of
the poverty-law grant agency, referred to the issue as a
"private matter," adding that the LSC is "not a federal
entity." He declined further comment on the sum, $37,750,
which is equivalent to one-half his annual salary. The
contract arrangement was first reported in the Los Angeles
Daily Journal, a legal trade paper.
   Mr. Wear last month announced his resignation from the
private corporation, effective June 30. The LSC's $321
million budget is entirely funded by the federal government.
Although Mr. Wear isn't a political appointee, he was hired
by the agency's politically appointed board during the Reagan
administration.
   LSC board Chairman George Wittgraf said that Mr. Wear
resigned at his suggestion. The chairman said he felt that
the Bush-appointed board should choose its own administrator.
He called the severance agreement a "burlap parachute" rather
than a "golden parachute." But Alan Morrison, director of the
Public Citizen Litigation Group, a public interest
organization, said, "If I were a member of the board, I would
have been extremely reluctant to provide any kind of
severance benefits."
   Severance agreements are standard at the LSC, but more
generous than those at the similarly structured Corporation
for Public Broadcasting, which receives more than 90% of its
funding from the federal government.
   According to general counsel Paul Symczak, severance
available to CPB officers "doesn't anywhere approach 50%."
   ---
   REAL ESTATE EXPERT Warren Bernstein has joined the New
York law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays &amp; Handler. He
will be a partner in the firm's 42-lawyer real estate
department. Among his clients is Mitsubishi Bank. Mr.
Bernstein was previously a partner at Mudge Rose Guthrie
Alexander &amp; Ferdon, also in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Why Models Take
   A Runway Walk
   On the Wild Side
   ---
   From a Shimmy in a Mini
   To a Swing Down an Aisle,
   Fashion Is All Action
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Diane DeWitt, blond, rail-thin and one of
Seventh Avenue's top runway models, can really walk That
Walk. With her upper body leaning way back and her hips
swinging smartly, Ms. DeWitt just glides down the runway.
Even a frisky Dalmatian prancing beside her during the Scaasi
show last week couldn't break Ms. DeWitt's perfectly fluid
gait.
   Ms. DeWitt and her runway colleagues know the importance
of a good walk. When fashion-show week rolls around twice
each year, Seventh Avenue takes on all the trappings of a
Broadway opening. There are bright lights, stagy music,
flashing cameras. But the action is The Walk. Designers
choose models as directors choose actors: to reflect their
message and to sell the show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I love to watch {models} just as I like to watch
dancers," says consumer watchdog for NBC-TV and fashion plate
Betty Furness, who has been attending Seventh Avenue shows
for 40 years. While she scrutinizes the fashions, she admits
that "I may be subconsciously lured {to a particular outfit}
by the beauty of their movements."
   "I adore the way the models walk," says Helen Gurley
Brown, editor of Cosmopolitan magazine and a regular at the
Calvin Klein, Donna Karan and Adolfo shows. "It's sexy,
provocative and alluring." If the models walked like most of
us do, "slumped over and schlepping around," she adds, the
designers would never sell any clothes.
   Most clothes look better when they're moving. "A full
skirt may not look good standing still," says Audrey Smaltz,
a veteran fashion show producer, adding, "You gotta give that
skirt to a turner who can really work that dress." On the
runway, a pretty face doesn't necessarily matter. Movement
does.
   Models don't take classes in the art of body undulation or
head tilting. They watch seasoned stars and then develop
their own signature styles. Model Anna Bayle points her legs
as she steps on the balls of her feet; Rebecca Ayoko thrusts
her head forward, like a crane grabbing for a fish, and
robotically moves her arms. Six-footer Aly Dunne contorts her
long neck while her hips swing like a hammock on a lazy
summer day. When she sauntered by in a tight-fitting backless
gown at the Isaac Mizrahi show, the photographers went crazy.
"Aly] Aly]" they whooped.
   "I walk very sexily," Ms. Dunne says. "I can't walk in a
straight line."
   Another distinctive walk belongs to Dalma, a Brazilian
model who, fashion writer David Feld says, "sticks her hips
out there so far that they arrive a minute before the rest of
her body." Dalma maintains that her lilting girl-from-Ipanema
stride is only slightly exaggerated from her everyday walk.
"It's just like when you go to the theater, and an actress
talks louder than normally," she says. "When you are out
there on the runway alone, you gotta use the space."
   No designer brings more theater to the runway than Bob
Mackie, best known for whipping up eye-popping gowns for
Cher. At Mr. Mackie's Americana-theme extravaganza at the
Plaza Hotel last Thursday, where he featured coonskin-style
hats, Amish quilt prints and sparkling, sequinned eagle
motifs, the models pranced and pantomimed to the brassy
marching-brand music of John Philip Sousa.
   Mr. Mackie says he picks models "who have a little more
juice" -- just like his customers, often found among the
Texas jet set. "Even if a model is beautiful but kind of
boring when she walks, I won't use her." Mackie model Lu
Sierra brought the house down when she bent down and shimmied
her entire body in a fringed beaded minidress.
   At Geoffrey Beene's show the models struck a more
mechanical note that went with the sleek, futuristic
jumpsuits he featured. "The sign of a good model," says Mr.
Beene, "is that she gives the feeling that the clothes belong
to her personally." Before every show, Mr. Beene says he
tells the models to "stride as if they are walking through
the city and to forget they are modeling."
   Mr. Beene's sense of decorum is mild compared to that of
Italian designer Giorgio Armani, who dressed actresses
Jessica Tandy and Julia Roberts at this year's Academy Awards
ceremony. Models say Mr. Armani insists that his austere,
tailored clothes are shown with reverence. "Armani tells you
to be expressive with your eyes instead of your body," says
Dalma. For her, this dictum makes his show "one of the most
difficult to work in."
   But most models walk on the wild side -- so much so that
the walk has inspired a dance and a music video. The dance,
called "vogueing," became popular in recent years in New
York's downtown clubs. In pop singer Madonna's new video,
"Vogue," slickly dressed male dancers accompany Madonna in a
wild runway strut routine, in which Madonna commands
breathily: "Strike a pose and Vogue."
   No one remembers who transformed runway modeling from the
formal hands-on-hips, toe-pointed-out to the saucy strut seen
today; but a model named Pat Cleveland, popular since the
late 1960s, is said to have created a lively runway style
that many models imitated. In the disco '70s, the runways
broke out in a nonstop party with models bouncing and
boogeying. "When we took off a coat, we just ripped it off,"
recalls former model Patty Quinn. At some fashion houses,
models took drugs before the shows, making their walks down
the runway zany and unpredictable.
   That was then. Today, unpredictable moves happen for more
pedestrian reasons. Models confront daunting obstacle
courses: bumpy carpeting, steep steps and dozens of jostling
photographers hovering at their feet. Contrary to the way it
looks, models do not float on air: They walk in shoes that
are often two sizes too small or two sizes too big and filled
out with tissue paper. Backstage, assistants scratch the
soles of the stiff, new shoes with scissors to make them less
slippery. But it doesn't always help.
   Last Wednesday, at the Michael Kors show, model Christy
Turlington stepped out of her shoes and had to proceed
without them. Dalma remembers colliding with another model
and tumbling off the runway into a group of photographers.
Ms. Sierra says that she overdid it when she exuberantly
twirled a long fur boa -- and mistakenly lassoed her ankle,
pulling herself down at a big Paris show. Too startled to
regroup, Ms. Sierra says, "I just stayed down there and
posed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Sobering Realities of Alcohol Abuse
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   "Alcohol and Innocent Victims" by Morris E. Chafetz
(editorial page, March 5) is a perfect example of what our
forefathers meant when they cautioned that, in a free
society, every right has a concomitant responsibility.
   Freedom of speech is granted to everyone in the U.S.
Within legal bounds, anybody can say almost anything. The
responsibility this places on all of us is to become educated
consumers of the truth and not believe everything we read or
hear.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Chafetz is head of an organization that, the Journal
points out, is partially funded by the alcoholic-beverage
industry. He contends that the American public has grossly
overstated the concern with alcohol and its harmful effects.
Teens, according to Dr. Chafetz, have been "victimized" by
defining "risky experiments with alcohol" as "problem
drinking." Furthermore, he says, our concerns about
adolescent drinking, fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) and
children of alcoholics have created "new groups of victims by
overestimating alcohol's dangers."
   According to the Department of Health and Human Services:
   -- Eighteen million American adults are either alcoholics
or have alcohol-abuse problems.
   -- An estimated 4.6 million adolescents annually (three
out of every 10) have alcohol problems.
   -- Nearly nine out of 10 teen-age automobile accidents
involve alcohol.
   -- Fetal alcohol syndrome is one of the top three causes
of birth defects and is the only one that's preventable.
   -- The annual cost to the country of alcohol abuse and
alcoholism is about $136 billion and is predicted to rise to
$150 billion by 1995.
   As they say, "You compare -- and you decide."
   Carol Sager
   President
   Sager Educational Enterprises
   Chicago
   ---
   Dr. Chafetz implies by his comparisons with European
drinking habits that American culture is unsophisticated in
its attitude toward alcohol. He calls it "puritanical
ambivalence."
   Supposedly our legal age restrictions on the sale and use
of alcohol cause more problems than if we had a laissez-faire
approach like that of Italy, France or Portugal. Dr. Chafetz
argues that we adopt the European approach and let our kids
drink at home with their parents. He even makes the
outrageous statement that "alcoholism is practically nil in
Italy."
   Is that true? Absolutely not. According to the
internationally recognized Addiction Research Foundation,
per-capita alcohol consumption by Dr. Chafetz's favorite
groups significantly exceeds that of Americans by 36% in
Portugal, 50% in Italy and 94% in France. And deaths from
liver cirrhosis run 253% higher for the Portuguese, 259%
higher for the Italians and 216% higher for the French than
they do for Americans.
   This correlation should give some pause for thought.
Alcohol is a dangerous drug. Drinking too much of it can kill
you. Despite all our "puritanical ambivalence," it seems that
Americans are not, as Dr. Chafetz concludes, overestimating
alcohol's dangers.
   John F. Gilligan
   President
   Human Service Center
   Peoria, Ill.
   ---
   The death rate from cirrhosis (an accurate measure of
alcohol's effect on health) in Italy is one of the highest in
the world, 32.1 per 100,000. Portugal's is 25.6. "Ambivalent"
U.S. has a rate of 11.6, about a third of Italy's. Israel has
a cirrhosis rate of 7.1. The reason for Israel's very low
rate is not the Jewish attitude toward drinking but the small
amount of alcohol consumed by Jews. The result of Americans
learning to drink like Jews would be to reduce our
consumption, and our problems, by two-thirds.
   Dan McMurry
   Associate Professor
   Sociology, Anthropology, Social Work
   Middle Tennessee State University
   Murfreesboro, Tenn.
   ---
   Dr. Chafetz's assertion that "we do not need to create new
groups of victims by overestimating alcohol's dangers" --
bolstered by a highly biased selection of statistics and
generalizations -- blindly ignores the fact that the
alcoholic-beverage industry has already victimized these
groups through the heavy target marketing of its product to
women and to young people of both sexes.
   The alcohol-beverage industry spends $2 billion a year
advertising and promoting its products. That's about 20% of
the national budget of Portugal, where Dr. Chafetz claims
that alcohol problems are the exception.
   In 1987, the American Automobile Foundation for Traffic
Safety estimated that between the ages of two and 18,
American children see roughly 100,000 TV commercials for
beer, most of which associate the beverage with fun,
happiness and success, and serve it up with sexual innuendo
as a reward for a job well done. None of them mention that
alcohol-related problems are the No. 1 cause of death for
people ages 15 through 24.
   The entertainment medium compounds this barrage by
glorifying alcohol in movies with enormous youth appeal such
as "Cocktail" starring Tom Cruise, one of the nation's top
box-office attractions. Not surprisingly, the film contains a
product placement for Budweiser and Mr. Cruise's charisma
rubs off on his role as a bartender as seductively as it does
a jetfighter pilot.
   While the alcoholic-beverage industry disingenuously
continues to deny that it targets the young -- despite such
spring-break promotions as Miller Brewing's now infamous
"Beachin' Times" -- it positively crows about its success
with women. Increasing use of alcohol among this group would
suggest that the psyches of young American women are more
frequently under the influence of advertising than they are
victimized by advocacy groups that prefer warning labels to
alcohol-related birth defects.
   Hamilton Beazley
   President
   National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence
   New York
   ---
   There are few sure bets in life, but if you don't drink,
you're not likely to have a baby with FAS or get thrown in
the slammer for driving under the influence of alcohol. It is
hoped Dr. Chafetz would not argue that.
   Those in the liquor industry face the same
diminishing-demand curve as the tobacco industry and they're
worried about their market. But reams of statistical data and
fancy resumes simply will not erase the very real human
horror of FAS and all the other effects of alcohol
intoxication.
   Alan K. Wells
   Memphis, Tenn.
   ---
   I am particularly appalled by Dr. Chafetz's cavalier
dismissal of the problems of adult children of alcoholics
(ACAs). The biggest problem ACAs face in life is not the
possibility of becoming alcoholics themselves. Their biggest
problems are emotional in nature -- they take on the guilts,
fears and shame of the alcoholic and demonstrate the same
self-destructive behavior their alcoholic parents display.
Tens of millions of American lives have been crippled or
destroyed by the problem drinking of their loved ones. Dr.
Chafetz's earlier tenure at the helm of an alcohol-abuse
foundation surely should have brought that point home to him.
   He argues that even mentioning ACA issues is dangerous and
stigmatizing to the ACAs. Nonsense. The only way to break
through an ACA's denial that the problem drinking of another
has deeply affected his or her life is through knowledge of
the disease of alcoholism as it affects the drinker's loved
ones. Would Dr. Chafetz really have us return to the dark
ages of alcohol abuse, when ACAs routinely became as sick as
the alcoholics?
   He then adds that no research exists showing that ACA
disorders are different from those disorders suffered by
children of other dysfunctional families. This misses the
point entirely. Surely Dr. Chafetz knows that the
breakthrough revelation of ACA research is that ACAs in fact
suffer the exact same disorders as do children of other
dysfunctional families. ACAs often cannot develop intimate
relationships, trust others, understand or speak their
feelings, or avoid other psychological disorders. Knowledge
of these facts is the first step on an ACA's road to
recovery. Yet Dr. Chafetz prescribes denial.
   Michael Levin
   Los Angeles
   ---
   Why did the Journal point out that the Health Education
Foundation receives some of its funding from "the alcoholic
beverage industry"? Is this your policy, or was this a
special case?
   You may or may not care to know that wine, beer and
spirits are separate; there is no "alcoholic beverage
industry."
   Philip E. Hiaring
   Editor and Publisher
   Wines &amp; Vines San Rafael, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pilots Group Calls
   7 U.S. Locations
   Deficient in Safety
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An international pilots group put seven U.S.
locations on its so-called "Black Star" list of areas it
considers "critically deficient" in safety.
   The International Federation of Air Line Pilots
Associations said the action was in response to changes in
air-traffic control procedures by the Federal Aviation
Administration in those areas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The seven locations cited are Terminal Control Areas --
chunks of tightly controlled airspace -- around the following
airports: Charlotte, N.C.; Cleveland, Ohio; Dallas-Fort
Worth; Los Angeles; Memphis, Tenn.; Philadelphia; and
Phoenix, Ariz. The pilots group said that it wasn't concerned
about the airports themselves, but about the way the FAA is
managing the areas surrounding them.
   The FAA adopted the disputed procedural changes in Los
Angeles in 1988 and at the other areas since then. Generally,
controllers are required to keep airliners that are flying on
the same altitude within Terminal Control Areas three miles
apart. But now, in the seven areas, controllers aren't
required to meet that standard, but instead may use their own
discretion. The approach is called "conflict resolution,"
meaning controllers may use their own judgment about how to
resolve potential conflicts between aircraft.
   The FAA contends that the new approach, which is still
considered experimental and will be reviewed in detail in
August, hasn't hurt safety and has increased the number of
flights into the airports. "The controller is able to shorten
the separation between two planes, but not to the point where
it endangers the aicraft," said FAA spokesman Robert
Buckhorn. "It works very well." About 20 other Terminal
Control Areas still operate under the tighter rules.
   Controllers like the new rule because it increases their
flexibility, said Larry Barbour, safety chairman for the
National Air Traffic Controllers Association.
   But pilots want the FAA to return to standard separation
rules for all Terminal Control Areas. The new procedures
being used at the seven airports represent an "unacceptable
erosion of safety standards," said Henry Duffy, president of
the Air Line Pilots Association. He said the rule effectively
tells controllers, "Don't let the radar images merge." The
Air Line Pilots Association is a member of the international
pilots group.
   Before the international group added the seven areas to
its list, only one U.S. destination had a Black Star -- the
airport in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. The Black Star listing
doesn't result in a boycott by pilots, or any kind of a
reduction in flights into the listed locations. It does mean
that the international pilots group will advise pilots around
the world to take extra care when flying into the locations
listed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GMAC to Redeem Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial
arm of General Motors Corp., said it will exercise its option
to redeem on June 1, 1990, all of its 12% debentures
outstanding due to mature June 1, 2005. The debentures will
be redeemed at 102% of their principal amount.
   The debentures were sold in June 1980 in the amount of
$250,000,000, of which $119,144,000 are currently
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Motorola Earnings
   Rose Modest 3.3%;
   Stock Jumps $4.25
   ----
   By James P. Miller and Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MOT HIT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Motorola Inc. reported a 3.3% rise in first-quarter
profit, but its stock jumped on indications that the
company's computer-chip business is rebounding.
   Separately, a federal judge delayed until June 18 a key
decision in a heated patent-infringement fight between
Motorola and Hitachi Ltd., assuring that a vital chip supply
isn't in danger of being cut off before then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Motorola, a maker of electronic devices and
semiconductors, said earnings rose to $127 million, or 98
cents a share, from $123 million, or 95 cents a share, a year
earlier. Sales climbed 16% to $2.53 billion from $2.18
billion.
   The earnings figure topped many analysts' projections,
largely on the strength of better-than-anticipated results
for its semiconductor line, which has been depressed by soft
industry conditions.
   Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Ill., said it has seen
"some promising early indications of renewed strength" in
that market. Although the segment's operating profit was off
from a year earlier, semiconductor sales rose 13% and backlog
climbed 17%.
   The earnings news comes on the heels of recent industry
trade group figures showing that chip orders grew at a solid
rate in March. Semiconductor products represented about 30%
of Motorola's sales in 1989; the firm doesn't break out
segment profitability on a quarterly basis.
   First Boston Corp. analyst John M. Geraghty, who had been
expecting earnings of 85 cents to 90 cents a share, said the
chip operation apparently "did a little bit better" than
anticipated. Motorola's semiconductor business, which he
noted "has been under pressure," appears to have put the
worst of the latest industry downturn behind it "for the near
term," he said.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading, Motorola
shares surged $4.25, or 6.6%, to close at $68.50. Volume was
nearly two million shares.
   The company's communications sector, which last year
represented about a third of total sales, showed an 11% rise
in revenue and a 22% increase in orders. Operating profit
declined because of extensive outlays for product
development.
   Motorola's general systems sector, which includes the
company's fast-growing and increasingly important
cellular-phone division, had a 53% jump in sales and higher
operating profit. General systems represented 19% of sales
last year although that proportion is expected to continue
expanding.
   Meanwhile, Judge Lucius D. Bunton, sitting in Austin,
Texas, said he would wait to rule on a Hitachi motion urging
him to lift a stay of an earlier injunction in the convoluted
case. The stay permitted both Motorola and Hitachi to
continue selling the 68030 microprocessor chip, even though
the judge earlier ruled that Hitachi and Motorola had
infringed on each other's patents.
   Motorola said it intends to appeal Judge Bunton's original
patent infringement decision. Hitachi couldn't be reached to
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Judge Orders
   Amgen, Ortho
   To Negotiate
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ AMGN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A private arbitration judge in Chicago ordered Amgen Inc.
and Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. to "negotiate quickly and in
good faith" so that Ortho can begin marketing an anti-anemia
drug to patients in the early stages of kidney disease.
   The binding order doesn't appear to resolve much in a
long-running dispute between Amgen and Ortho over terms of a
1985 agreement under which Ortho has certain rights to market
erythropoietin, or EPO, and two other drugs. Ortho is a unit
of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's something of a cop out; the judge is ordering the
parties to work this out or he will work it out for them,"
said Stuart Weisbrod, a biotechnology analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Corp. "It's a jump ball," said
analyst Peter Drake at Vector Securities International Inc.
in Chicago.
   The 1985 agreement granted Ortho the right to market EPO
for all therapeutic uses other than kidney dialysis patients
in the U.S. Analysts believe that Amgen has tried to block
Ortho from receiving regulatory approval to sell the drug to
so-called "pre-dialysis" patients because of concerns that
Ortho might siphon off dialysis market sales.
   A decision on damages sought by Amgen and Ortho against
each other was delayed until after other issues involving EPO
and the other two products are settled. Amgen said the
negotiations will include terms for Amgen sales of EPO to
Ortho and an accounting for the expected sales by the
companies into each others' therapeutic markets.
   Amgen and Ortho differed in their interpretations of the
order. In a statement, Raritan, N.J.-based Ortho said the
judge found that Amgen failed to comply with its contractual
obligations. An Amgen spokesman in Thousand Oaks, Calif.,
said "we believe we complied with the terms of the
agreement." The judge's order is private and isn't being
released at Amgen's request, an Ortho spokesman said.
   Analysts said the ruling favored Ortho, but wasn't a
surprise because they said it appears to mirror the view of a
federal court judge in Delaware who ordered the arbitration
last year. The evidence suggests that Amgen frustrated
Ortho's efforts to win regulatory approval for pre-dialysis
use for EPO by failing to submit Ortho's clinical data as
part of Amgen's new-drug application, the judge said.
   Amgen received FDA approval last year to market EPO to
kidney-dialysis patients. In December, Ortho asked the FDA to
approve the use of EPO for treating pre-dialysis patients.
Ortho also is seeking approval for use of EPO in conjunction
with the drug AZT for treatment of patients infected with the
AIDS virus.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Ed McCabe's Comeback Vehicle
   Is the Unlikely Beber Silverstein
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WCRSY WNEWS HTG PG GIS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ed McCabe, the co-founder of Scali, McCabe Sloves who quit
the ad business three years ago, is back -- but he's chosen a
most unlikely comeback vehicle: Beber Silverstein, a small,
Miami-based regional ad agency.
   Mr. McCabe, 51 years old, says he will become chairman of
the agency's New York office, a tiny service office that
handles several Coty perfumes. His choice dumbfounded
industry executives, considering that he co-founded an agency
that now bills over $880 million and considering the outsized
reputation he brings with him. One of the most famous -- and
most vocal -- copywriters in the business, he helped
transform Frank Perdue into the "tough man to make a tender
chicken" and crafted campaigns for Volvo, Hebrew National and
others.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I've had all kinds of possibilities," says Mr. McCabe,
who toyed with screenwriting, Broadway and writing a second
book before deciding to come back to the advertising fold. "I
finally decided I didn't want to be in a big, established
agency, and I didn't want to do it completely from scratch.
This is the closest thing to having your own agency without
having the headaches of a start-up."
   Beber Silverstein, one of the few agencies run by women,
is most notable for creating Leona Helmsley's long-running
"the Queen stands guard" ads for her hotel chain. Mrs.
Helmsley fired the agency two years ago after it took on a
Florida condo project from rival developer Donald Trump.
Current clients are mostly regional Florida companies,
including the Humana hospital chain, Florida Power &amp; Light
and Knight-Ridder. Mr. McCabe will become an equity partner
in the $69 million shop, which will change its name to Beber,
Silverstein, McCabe &amp; Partners.
   Mr. McCabe's move is just the latest in a series of
unpredictable steps he seems to thrive on. After almost 20
years with Scali McCabe, he quit the agency at the end of
1986 to dabble in other things, tackled the Paris-Dakar car
race and posed for various glossy magazines with such props
as a Bentley and a glamorous blond girlfriend.
   He later worked on the ad team of the ill-fated Dukakis
presidential campaign, then surfaced at London ad agency
Abbott, Meade, Vickers, which until recently was in merger
talks with Scali. Most recently he finished a book on the
Paris-Dakar race, "Against Gravity," to be published in June.
He refers to himself in conversation as a "Renaissance man."
   Until recently, Mr. McCabe often suggested that he would
never return to the ad agency business. But friends say he
missed being a player on Madison Avenue, where he is a
recognizable figure, a famous name rather than a faceless
author.
   "I think he missed it," says Marvin Sloves, Scali McCabe's
chairman. "I think he needs the money, like any of us, and I
think he found an opportunity where he can make a difference
-- and it's very important for Ed to make a difference in
anything he touches. He isn't a corporate guy; he's got to
change the world."
   Mr. McCabe adds that he "flip-flopped." He says he was
thinking about going to Hollywood, but "it required raising
an enormous amount of money and the prospect of going around
for a year with a tin cup looking for money" wasn't what he
had in mind. "So I started thinking about advertising," he
says.
   Mr. McCabe hooked up with Beber Silverstein after casual
conversations with scores of others. Every time a big agency
job opened, his name was invariably mentioned as a
front-runner. "There were very few people I didn't speak to,"
he says. But he says he chose Beber Silverstein partly
because of his aversion to bureaucracies and to agencies that
are financially-driven rather than creatively-driven. Beber
"is a small, regional agency that has great potential that I
can help them realize," he says.
   Agency executives say Mr. McCabe could have had his choice
of jobs, considering his reputation. Jay Chiat, a friend and
chairman of Chiat/Day/Mojo, calls him "one of the five best
creative people in advertising."
   But Mr. McCabe also must fight a perception of arrogance.
He drew howls of indignation from some in the ad industry,
for example, when he penned a cover story for New York
magazine tearing apart the Dukakis campaign's advertising.
The campaign, he opined, was "perhaps the greatest single
marketing and communications disaster of the 20th century."
The problem, he implied, was basically that Dukakis aides
rejected the ads he suggested.
   Mr. McCabe's friends, though, say the reputation for
arrogance is misguided. "He has a strong ego, otherwise he
wouldn't be any good," says Mr. Chiat, who himself has had to
endure accusations of arrogance. But he adds, "I don't think
he's consciously arrogant. He's impetuous and very emotional
about the things he believes in. Anyone who has a point of
view, the first thing they say about the person is they're
arrogant."
   Most out-of-town ad agencies have failed when trying to
build up a New York presence, but ad executives say Mr.
McCabe may well have a shot at it. A noncompete agreement he
had with Scali expired more than a year ago, he says, so he
can compete freely with the agency he helped found. Says Mr.
Sloves: "Will business be attracted to him because he's
there? You bet. Is the work going to be terrific? You bet.
But if you ask me is he going to be happy? I don't know."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   EARNINGS: WCRS Group PLC reported net income for the
fiscal six months ended Dec. 31 of #35 million ($57.2
million), or 10 pence a share. WCRS changed its fiscal year
to June 30 to coincide with that of Carat Holding S.A., a
media-buying network that it acquired late last year in a
restructuring that transformed WCRS from an advertising
company to a media-buying firm. WCRS last reported net income
for the 14 months ended June 30, 1989 of #13.7 million, or 30
pence a share.
                                                                                                       

   COUPON MACHINE: ActMedia, a Darien, Conn., in-store
marketing firm, today will introduce an electronic coupon
machine designed to dispense coupons to shoppers directly at
store shelves. ActMedia says the dispenser, called the
Instant Coupon Machine, will allow consumer-product companies
and others to get coupons to all consumers, not just those
that clip them from papers and magazines. Four retailers,
including Shop Rite and Waldbaums Food Mart chain, signed up
to use the machines. Many manufacturers, including Procter &amp;
Gamble and General Mills, will offer coupons through the
system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Paper
   Says Profit Fell 19%
   During First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PURCHASE, N.Y. -- International Paper Co. posted a 19%
decline in net income for the first quarter despite a 23%
rise in sales, blaming the drop on high capital spending and
low prices for some products.
   The maker of paper and pulp products, which declined to
forecast 1990 results, may face further pressure this year as
it proceeds with a planned $1.1 billion in capital spending
to improve plants and equipment this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   International Paper said first-quarter net fell to $180
million, or $1.65 a share, from $223 million, or $1.96 a
share, a year earlier. Sales rose to $3.2 billion from $2.6
billion. The company attributed the decline to lower prices
for paper pulps and printing paper that it sells.
International Paper also cited a slightly higher tax rate
overall because of rates in foreign markets and in some
states, and manufacturing delays caused by bad weather and
plant construction.
   John A. Georges, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the most significant first-quarter price declines were
for uncoated printing and writing papers. He said that
"recent increases in industry capacity led to price
reductions even though sales volume remained at healthy
levels." Price increases effective April 1 indicate an
improved supply-demand balance, the company said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
International Paper rose 62.5 cents to $52.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Holder Sues
   Directors for Decisions
   Involving VMS Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VHT VMG VMLPZ VMTGZ VMORZ VST VSLF VLANS XRX
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Xerox Corp. said a shareholder filed a
civil lawsuit against members of its board.
   The suit, filed in Connecticut state court, asks that all
current and several past Xerox directors pay damages of more
than $400 million to the company for decisions they made
regarding Xerox's investments in VMS Realty Partners, a
Chicago real estate concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit also asks that the directors indemnify and hold
Xerox harmless from any loss or judgment that might result
from other lawsuits related to the VMS investments. According
to Xerox's 1989 annual report, 12 such class-action suits
have been filed against the company in federal court.
   Xerox wouldn't comment on the suit.
   Xerox said last week that it will take a first-quarter
pretax write-off of about $400 million, essentially walking
away from its investment in VMS. In February, VMS said it had
ceased all but essential payments to creditors because of
cash-flow problems.
   The shareholder who filed the suit, William Steiner of
Great Neck, N.Y., said he had no comment about the action
"apart from the fact that it is justified. I really don't
want to try it in the papers."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   CS Holding Discusses Banks Leu Link;
   More Swiss Bank May Consolidate Soon
   ----
   By Dennis Baker
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP Z.LEU Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH, Switzerland -- CS Holding, parent of Switzerland's
No. 3 commercial bank Credit Suisse, said it is holding talks
with No. 5 Bank Leu AG, with the aim of forging a link.
   The alliance would take the form of a new holding company
that would house Bank Leu, as well as two smaller banks
already controlled by the CS Holding group, Bank Hofmann and
Clariden Bank. The two smaller banks specialize in investment
management, while the 235-year-old Bank Leu is a large,
independent universal bank. All three would maintain their
names and identities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said CS Holding's announcement signals the onset
of the long-heralded concentration of the banking industry in
Switzerland. "CS Holding is paving the way," said Albert
Pauchard, vice president of economics and investment research
at Handels-Bank NatWest in Zurich.
   Shares of the new holding company would be swapped for
equities of Bank Leu, at a ratio to be set later, and CS
Holding would end up with a majority interest in the new
holding concern.
   If Bank Leu's board recommends acceptance of the offer at
a meeting set for May 10, and Leu shareholders approve, the
transaction could be completed around the end of June. Swiss
regulators are also expected to review the proposal.
   Bank Leu, which has assets of about 15 billion Swiss
francs ($10.01 billion), has faced takeover rumblings in the
past, and management has sought to align its share base in
stable and friendly blocks, so as to cool takeover interest.
   But Bank Leu Chairman Kurt Schiltknecht conceded at a news
conference, also attended by CS Holding Chairman Rainer E.
Gut, that Leu was surprised to learn of the size of CS
Holding's stake. "Let 100 flowers bloom," declared Mr. Gut,
borrowing a phrase from former Chinese leader Mao Tse-tung.
   Despite what market sources said could be some resistance
from long-standing Bank Leu shareholder families who want to
see the company remain independent, analysts speculated that
CS Holding must already have sufficient voting power in Leu
shares to ensure the proposed transaction succeeds.
   The announcement said the CS Holding group has built up a
"substantial shareholding in Bank Leu over the last two
years," but the size of the stake wasn't disclosed. Assuming
that CS Holding controls at least half of the voting shares
of Leu, analysts estimated that the value of the stake could
be between 700 million and one billion Swiss francs.
   Rumors of such a linkup circulated a year ago, but both
companies had downplayed the talk. At that time, analysts
expressed skepticism about the benefits of such a linkup for
the CS Holding group, given Bank Leu's weak market position
and management problems.
   In 1988, analysts were equally doubtful about a proposed
common holding company between Leu and BZ Bank Zurich, a
small upstart that was viewed as trying to bite off more than
it could chew. The negotiations on that idea fell apart amid
criticism.
   Now, however, analysts are somewhat more positive, saying
Bank Leu's new strategy focusing on tailored products and
services for customers will reinforce the bank's potential to
develop its private client base.
   In the view of some analysts, Leu, which in recent years
has undergone a management shake-up and a corporate
restructuring, would have a better future with the CS Holding
tie.
   "Leu is weak in management, but has a strong potential,"
said Mr. Pauchard.
   Bank Leu's past internal turmoil, as well as some
strategic miscues and ill-conceived business transactions,
cost the bank precious time in adjusting to the rapidly
changing European banking scene, analysts have said.
   "It takes time to make that up," said Mr. Pauchard.
   Some stock analysts have contended that Bank Leu is about
midway through its refocusing program.
   In the announcement, CS Holding and Bank Leu noted that
the proposed alliance, including the two smaller private
banks, would "create broad-based synergy effects and enable
the group to develop its position in national and
international investment management business for private and
institutional clients."
   Precisely in that sector, analysts said, lies enormous
potential.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Keating Estimates
   Lincoln S&amp;L Had
   $500 Million Value
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Charles Keating, testifying in his court
battle to regain control of Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan
Association, asserted that the thrift had net worth of
between $500 million and $700 million when federal regulators
took it over last April.
   The regulators combed Lincoln's books after the takeover,
writing down much of its assets, and have estimated that the
thrift's liabilities exceeded its assets by $2 billion or
more. That cost, the regulators say, will be borne mostly by
taxpayers as part of the bailout of the savings-and-loan
industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Stanley Sporkin, who is presiding over the trial in
federal court here, asked attorneys for the government to
call on regulators to explain the write-downs and the overall
valuation of Lincoln. "The government says it's $2 billion in
the red, and the operator says it may be worth $600 million,"
Mr. Sporkin said. "I'm in a quandary." The judge's comments
heartened the lawyers for Mr. Keating.
   Mr. Keating, in the second day of questioning by his
lawyers, focused on several individual Lincoln assets that he
claimed the regulators had severely undervalued in order to
justify taking over Lincoln. Mr. Keating is chairman of
American Continental Corp., the former parent of Irvine,
Calif.-based Lincoln.
   Much of the testimony focused on the Phoenician, an
opulent hotel and resort built by Lincoln in Phoenix, Ariz.,
for $275 million. After selling a 45% interest in the resort
to an investment arm of the Kuwaiti government for $170
million, Lincoln carried the Phoenician on its books at $173
million. Regulators have since written down the value of the
resort to $99 million.
   "That's sick," said Mr. Keating, asserting that Lincoln's
interest is worth $190 million and that the regulators are
ignoring the value of three parcels of land adjacent to the
Phoenician.
   At Mr. Sporkin's urging, Mr. Keating also showed the judge
a colorful brochure describing the Phoenician's, which is
built into the side of a mountain and has eight swimming
pools, including one with a floor lined with mother-of-pearl.
Mr. Keating spent 15 minutes describing the Phoencian's nine
Steinway grand pianos, hand-painted ceilings and gold-leaf
detailing. Mr. Keating fought back tears as he recounted the
night last November when regulators, after obtaining approval
from the Kuwaitis, took control of the resort and posted
firing notices at the homes of Phoenician executives.
   Mr. Keating's lawyers also argued that Lincoln's
real-estate dealings were highly profitable, despite
complaints by regulators that the investments were too risky.
Mr. Keating said that from 1984 to 1987, Lincoln sold an
average of $191 million in land each year, with an average
gain of $58 million.
   Mr. Keating also challenged the regulators' appraisal of a
3,200-acre development called the Uplands in Austin, Texas,
which Lincoln bought from former Texas Gov. John Connally and
former Lt. Gov. Ben Barnes. Regulators wrote down the value
of the development to $30 million from $101 million. Mr.
Keating said the property could be worth $100 million if
handled properly over the next several years. But he conceded
that if sold today, it would probably fetch only $70 million
to $75 million in Austin's depressed real-estate market.
   Government lawyers haven't yet crossexamined Mr. Keating,
who is expected to testify for at least two more days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITC Ruling to Prompt
   Inquiry Into Imports
   Of Norwegian Salmon
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. International Trade Commission
ruled that imports of fresh and chilled salmon from Norway
may be injuring domestic industry.
   The ITC's preliminary decisions, made in response to two
trade complaints filed by U.S. producers and processors of
Atlantic salmon, require the Commerce Department to continue
its investigation of charges that these imports violate the
U.S. anti-dumping act and the countervailing duty law. These
imports total about $94 million a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. producers and processors in Northeastern states,
who formed an ad hoc trade group to file the complaints,
alleged that the Norwegian government has provided various
subsidies to Atlantic salmon exporters. They also charged
that Norwegian salmon has been sold at "unfairly low prices"
to U.S. buyers.
   If the Commerce Department and the ITC issue final rulings
against the imports from Norway, the U.S. could assess
anti-dumping duties or countervailing duties.
   In another decision, the ITC concluded that imports of
electro-mechanical digital counters from Brazil aren't
harming U.S. makers of these devices, which are used for
measuring motor-vehicle mileage and for other purposes. The
decision dismisses the complaint involving these imports,
which total about $1 million a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dresser Acquires British Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Dresser Industries Inc. said it acquired Mono
Group Ltd., a British company that supplies pumps to the
sewage, mining, paper, sugar and chemical industries. The
purchase price wasn't disclosed.
   Mono, based in Manchester, England, has annual sales of
about $75 million. It operates facilities in Manchester and
Melbourne, Australia. Dresser, which supplies products and
services to the energy industry, will merge Mono into its
pump division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rhone Extends Bid for Rorer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C ROR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Rhone-Poulenc S.A. extended the expiration date
of its tender offer for the shares of Rorer Group Inc. until
noon EDT May 4.
   The French chemicals and pharmaceuticals concern said the
offer was extended to coincide with a Rorer shareholders
meeting, at which holders will consider amendments to Rorer's
charter that are a condition of the offer. Rorer also is a
pharmaceuticals concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Shipyard Where Solidarity
   Was Born Is to Go Public
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARSAW (AP) -- The Gdansk shipyard where the Solidarity
trade union was born will be sold to workers and the public
under Poland's new rules for creating private companies from
stateowned enterprises, workers were told.
   Shipyard manager Hans Szyt read a telegram from Industry
Minister Tadeusz Syryjczyk announcing the decision during a
rally by 2,000 workers protesting the slow pace of government
decisions on the facility's fate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Poland should finally understand that we were fighting
for everybody, but we {at the shipyard} had nothing out of
it," Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said at the rally. "The
time of struggle is over. . . . Now we are fighting for
ourselves."
   Each share will be sold to the public for 10,000 zlotys
(about $1.05). Shipyard workers can purchase 20% of the
shares at half price, Mr. Syryjczyk said.
   Previous discussions on saving the shipyard had focused on
a much-publicised offer from Polish-born American heiress
Barbara Piasecka-Johnson, but discussions apparently snagged
on the workers' refusal to accept the pay and no-strike
agreements she required.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Henry Nau, senior staffer at the National Security Council
from 1981 to 1983, writing in the March/April issue of The
International Economy:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bretton Woods standards did not subordinate domestic
growth to international stability, as critics of U.S. dollar
policy began to argue in the 1960s; nor did they manipulate
international mechanisms such as exchange rates to
accommodate domestic expansion or inflation, as was done in
the 1970s. They recognized that domestic and international
stability and growth were directly interrelated. If domestic
prices began to diverge in the major countries, international
prices or exchange rates would also have to diverge. If
domestic economies became increasingly inflexible, countries
increasingly would have to make their balance of payments
adjustments through borrowing or through trade, exchange
rate, and capital market restrictions. There was no way to
have your cake and eat it, too. Domestic and international
policies depended upon one another: Domestic policies
couldn't succeed without international competition, and
international cooperation could not compensate for
undisciplined domestic policies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;L Agency Still Will Pay
   Interest on Certain Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a policy pronouncement applauded by the
bond markets, the federal savings and loan bailout agency
said it would continue interest payments on certain S&amp;L debt
after the S&amp;Ls have been seized by the government.
   It continued to insist that it wasn't required to make the
payments, however.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. said last month that they were reviewing about $20
billion in S&amp;L debt because of questions about the interest
payments. The questions arose when the government's
Resolution Trust Corp. said it believed that the S&amp;L
restructuring law gave it the authority to abandon interest
payments on certain S&amp;L debt even if the interest was backed
by a variety of collateral.
   The RTC announced last week that it intended to adopt a
policy of making the payments.
   Malcolm Dorris, partner with Dechert Price &amp; Rhoads,
outside counsel to Standard &amp; Poor's, said the rating agency
was pleased with the statement. "From a rating perspective,
it eliminates the concern," he said.
   Frances Bermanzohn, general counsel to the Public
Securities Association, called the RTC policy "a vindication
for bondholders. It will restore calm to markets and investor
confidence in the RTC."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.NIT IBM SLM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   California -- $500 million of various general obligation
bonds, due April 1, 1991-2010 were won by a Bank of America
NT&amp;SA group with a bid setting the true interest cost at
6.845%. The bonds, rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P,
were priced for reoffering to yield from 5.80% in 1991 to
6.95% in 2006-2008.
   Cleveland -- $66 million of airport-system revenue bonds,
Series A, due Jan. 1, 1993-2003, 2010 and 2020, and Series B,
due Jan. 1, 1991-2001, and 2020, with capital appreciation
bonds due 2002-2006, were priced by a Smith Barney, Harris
Upham &amp; Co. Inc. group to yield from 6.00% for Series B bonds
due in 1991 to 7.55% for Series A bonds due in 2020. The
bonds were rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Ohio State University -- $54 million of general receipt
revenue bonds, due Dec. 1, 1990-2003 and 2009, were priced by
a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group to yield from 5.90%
in 1990 to 7.22% in 2009. The bonds were rated single-A-1 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A-minus by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp.
   Brighton Area Schools District (Michigan) -- $50 million
of general obligation unlimited tax bonds, Series I, due May
1, 1991, 1993-1997, with capital appreciation bonds due
1997-2010, 2015 and 2020, were tentatively priced by an A.G.
Edwards &amp; Sons Inc. group to yield from 6.00% in 1991 to
7.55% in 2020.The bonds were rated single-A-1 by Moody's and
double-A by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   TMC Pimbs Fourth Financing PLC (vehicle) -- #200 million
($327 million) of mortgaged-backed floating-rate notes due
April 2029 at par and fixed-reoffered price of 99.76 via
Salomon Brothers International Ltd. Interest is .275
percentage point above the three-month London interbank
offered rate for the first 10 years, and thereafter, at a
spread of .50 percentage point above Libor. Fees 0.34.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 10 billion pesetas ($93.1
million) of 14% Eurobonds due April 27, 1995, priced at 101
via lead manager Banco de Bilbao Vizcaya. Fees 1 5/8.
   Nordic Investment Bank (agency) -- 300 million Finnish
markkaa ($75.1 million) of 13 1/4% bonds due May 15, 1993,
priced at 101 1/4 via Postipankki. Fees 1 3/8.
   Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (Austria) -- 100 million
Swiss francs ($66.7 million) of 7 1/4% public bonds due May
21, 2002, priced at 102 1/2 via Wirtschaftsund Privatbank.
Guaranteed by Republic of Austria. Fees 2 3/8.
   International Business Machines Corp.'s IBM Australia
Credit Ltd. -- 75 million Australian dollars ($57.3 million)
of 15 3/8% Eurobonds due May 8, 1992, priced at 101.85 via
lead manager Westpac Banking Corp. Fees 1 1/4.
                                                                                                       

                          OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $250 million issue
due April 25, 1994, was priced at par for an initial yield of
8.91%. The notes, noncallable for two years, will be
reoffered at various prices. They were priced at a spread of
.33 percentage point above the Treasury's four-year note
through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insolvent Olympic Federal
   Loses Two Fights in Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Olympic Federal Savings &amp; Loan, the
insolvent Berwyn, Ill., thrift whose earlier court case
briefly halted the savings-and-loan industry bailout, lost
two court fights to prevent regulators from seizing it.
   The insolvent thrift, with $1.1 billion in assets,
recently won a court ruling that blocked the Office of Thrift
Supervision from seizing it. The S&amp;L had argued that the
action of the thrift office was illegal, because its former
director didn't receive Senate confirmation as required by
the Constitution. The federal appeals court here ruled late
Monday that the case, on appeal by the government, was moot
because Timothy Ryan was sworn in Monday as the new director,
following his confirmation by the Senate last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, the U.S. district court here refused to grant
the thrift a new temporary restraining order, based on
another argument: that the government hadn't properly
considered Olympic's request for financial assistance. But
the district court will hear arguments on the merits of
Olympic's case at a trial, to be held at an undetermined
date.
   The thrift office hasn't announced plans for taking over
Olympic Federal, but because of deficiencies in its capital,
a government seizure appears likely.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Steel Output Down
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French companies produced 1,760,000 metric tons
of crude steel in March, down 0.6% from a year earlier,
according to industry data released yesterday.
   The National Steel Manufacturers Association said the
March results bring French output for the first three months
of the year to 4,972,000 tons, down 2.6% from the like 1989
period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Toughens His Stance
   On Uprising in Lithuania
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- President Bush, slightly toughening his
rhetoric on the uprising in Lithuania, contended that "should
things deteriorate in Lithuania, it would be extraordinarily
difficult" for U.S.-Soviet relations to improve quickly.
   Mr. Bush's comments, made to reporters after he finished a
three-hour meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney, came a day after Soviet leaders said they would
step up pressure in Lithuania in an effort to quell the
problems. The president's statement came just a week after
the White House and Kremlin announced plans for a late May
summit meeting focusing on arms accords.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Bush appeared to rule out any chance that the
summit might be canceled because of the Lithuania uprising,
contending that "when you have complications, that's a good
time to talk."
   In response to a question, the president also said there
is "no trilateral agreement being discussed" among the U.S.,
Canada and Mexico. Mr. Bush said he was pleased that Prime
Minister Mulroney had met recently with Mexican President
Carlos Salinas, and that he plans to meet with Mexican
officials soon as well.
   Mr. Mulroney said he expects the U.S. and Canada to get
together this summer to work out an acid-rain accord. He said
the two sides are waiting for Congress to complete the Clear
Air Act, which includes measures on acid rain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa's Vehicle Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- South African new vehicle
sales in March declined 5.0%, to 30,577 units, from 32,183
units a year earlier, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said.
   March sales were 9.8% higher than the 27,860 units sold in
February, the association said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NAAMSA's director, Nico Vermeulen, said seasonal factors
and a slightly improved manufacturers' supply position had
contributed to a modest improvement in new car and light
commercial-vehicle sales. However, he added that official
measures to cool off the economy continued to have a negative
impact on new car sales, and current difficult market
conditions were expected to persist into the second half of
1990. But sales of new motor vehicles were expected to
improve gradually, provided interest rates declined during
the latter part of the year.
   March sales of passenger vehicles of 19,043 units were
7.0% lower than the 20,477 units sold a year earlier, but
13.4% higher than February sales of 16,799 units.
   Commercial-vehicle sales for March totaled 11,534 units,
1.5% higher than 11,706 units sold a year earlier and 4.3% up
from February's 11,061 units.
   Vehicle sales for the first three months of the year
totaled 84,872 units, down 1.7% from 86,348 units sold in the
same period of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   SEC's Sturc to Leave Post;
   Led Insider-Trading Cases
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- John Sturc, a Securities and Exchange
Commission associate enforcement director who handled the
agency's insider-trading cases against Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., Michael Milken and Ivan Boesky, said he will resign at
the end of April.
   He will join the Washington office of Gibson, Dunn &amp;
Crutcher next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The eight-year SEC veteran was seen as an important figure
in putting together the cases that rocked Wall Street and
helped make the SEC an aggressive and feared investigator of
insider dealings. Mr. Sturc, a 1975 graduate of the Harvard
Law School, also led the SEC's cases against Martin Siegel
and Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Mr. Sturc and William McLucas, director of the division of
enforcement, said the departure won't hurt the SEC's case
against Mr. Milken, the only major case of his that remains
open.
   "His departure is a tremendous loss to the agency and the
division," Mr. McLucas said, "but I don't see it as changing
the focus, direction or continuity in that case in
particular. The case will continue."
   "Bill McLucas is a fantastic lawyer and there are other
people working on these cases and seeing them to a
conclusion," Mr. Sturc said. "I'm not worried about the
Milken case."
   Mr. Sturc's resignation comes four months after SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden elevated Mr. McLucas, who was also
an associate enforcement director, to head the division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Treasury
   Bonds Hurt;
   Stocks Rise
   ---
   Gain Small as Markets
   Remain Lackluster;
   Dollar Moves Down
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Treasury-bond prices were clobbered in a late sell-off,
but stock prices edged higher and the dollar slipped in a
continuation of the lackluster trading that has characterized
financial markets during the past few days.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 9.01 points to
2731.08. Volume continued on the light side, and for the
second consecutive day the market was mixed, with more issues
on the New York Stock Exchange falling than rising.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Long-term Treasury bonds ended moderately lower after
being off through much of the day as traders awaited the
results of the auction of $3.5 billion of 40-year Resolution
Funding Corp. bonds. The dollar fell against the mark and the
yen in thin trading.
   Analysts said U.S. stock prices remain stable, despite
continued volatility in the Tokyo stock market. After two
days of gains, the Nikkei Index of 225 stocks plunged 773.25
points, or 2.5%, to 29624.68 Tuesday. Analysts are divided
about the impact of Japan's stock-market problems on U.S.
stock prices.
   Although U.S. money managers continue to be wary of
potential disappointments as the rush of first-quarter
corporate-earnings reports begins to accelerate, they got a
pleasant surprise yesterday when Motorola reported
better-than-expected first-quarter results. The stock rose 4
1/4 to 68 1/2 on almost two million shares.
   Bond traders said the $3.5 billion Refcorp auction went
much worse than expected. The 40-year bonds were priced to
yield 8.89%. Traders had hoped for better results after the
first auction of Refcorp bonds in January sent prices of
long-term Treasurys into a nose dive. Prior to the auction,
traders said the Treasury had done a better job of preparing
the market for yesterday's sale. Not only was the amount
smaller -- $3.5 billion vs. $4 billion in January -- but the
timing was more favorable, coming considerably in advance of
the Treasury's quarterly refunding auction.
   Currency dealers said the dollar's modest retreat in the
face of restrained central-bank intervention was mostly
because of the sluggish trading in the Passover and Easter
holiday week, rather than any fundamental problems for the
dollar. They said the intervention by central banks selling
dollars for yen has been nothing more than symbolic support
for the Bank of Japan, following the weekend meeting of the
Group of Seven major industrialized nations.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose modestly in light trading. Big Board
volume totaled 136 million shares. Decliners led gainers 740
to 723.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slumped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue fell more than half a point, or more than $5 for each
$1,000 of face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 8.59%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was lower. In late afternoon New York trading
the dollar was quoted at 1.6755 marks and 157.60 yen compared
with 1.6935 marks and 158.23 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jerrico Inc. Holders Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   JERR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Ky. -- Jerrico Inc. said a shareholders meeting
will be held May 11 to vote on its previously announced
acquisition by New York investors.
   Jerrico, which operates a chain of seafood fast-food
restaurants, set April 9 as the record date for those
shareholders entitled to vote on the acquisition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investor group has purchased 19.1 million shares, or
about 98% of the shares outstanding, for $24.25 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What If the IRS Played by the EPA's Rules?
   ----
   By Michael S. Greve
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tax returns are due Monday. This is an appropriate
occasion to give a moment's thought to environmental law -- a
mushrooming shadow tax code that shapes investment decisions,
productivity and job-formation. Consider only the new Clean
Air Act: The 600-page Senate bill (some version of which will
become the law) would impose a "tax" of more than $21 billion
per year. The Environmental Protection Agency -- a green
version of the Internal Revenue Service -- will send hither
swarms of officers to issue permits, shut down factories, and
impose hefty fines.
   But there's a big difference. The Tax Code is actually a
law. Tax rules bind you, and they bind the IRS. Environmental
"law" is more like a plan than like a law. We "plan" the
environment the way Albania "plans" its economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Suppose the IRS Code looked like this:
                                                                                                       

   Section 1. The IRS shall raise $1.4 trillion by April 15,
1991. The IRS shall propose and adopt all necessary
regulations.
                                                                                                       

   It's unlikely anyone would prefer such a law to the tax
tables and forms that we all know and love. IRS rules and tax
tables inform every citizen in advance how much he will owe
the government; they ensure that citizens will be treated
equally; and they curb arbitrary government action. A revenue
goal (like the fictitious Section 1) has none of these
advantages.
   But Section 1 is how the EPA operates. The core of almost
every environmental statute is a collection of "goals" and
"deadlines" the EPA has to attain. The rules of the game are
largely made up by the EPA (or by courts) along the way.
                                                                                                       

   Section 2. If the IRS fails to raise $1.4 trillion by
April 15, 1990, anyone may sue the IRS Commissioner and
request appropriate relief. The court may order the agency to
take whatever steps are necessary to meet statutory goals.
                                                                                                       

   Most of us would consider such a tax law preposterous
(it's not the business of malcontents to go to court and tell
the government how to run its business) and a bit scary
(private citizens would be able to go to court and force the
government to coerce other citizens).
   Yet every federal environmental statute except one has
such a "citizen suit provision." The purpose? Congress loves
to huff and puff about clean air, clean water and the like.
But when it comes to the truly tough decisions -- who will be
hurt and how much -- Congress would rather pass the buck.
Here's how it works:
   -- Congress intentionally sets the goals and deadlines
("Section 1") so that the EPA cannot possibly reach them.
That way, there are always dozens of missed goals and
deadlines.
   -- Next, environmental groups pick a goal they would like
to see enforced, and run to court to demand enforcement.
That's a lawsuit they can't lose.
   -- Next, the court orders the EPA to "get serious" and
sometimes imposes a plan of its own. A sensible way to
determine environmental priorities? No. More likely, a way of
dodging responsibility.
   The EPA can do things under a court order it could never
do on its own: shut down factories, impose transportation
control plans that tell you where and when you may use your
car, and demand cleanups that cost enormous sums of money.
When someone complains, it's "Sorry, we're under a court
order."
   Congress gets a free ride. After all, it's not Congress
but a federal judge who's curtailing transport and banning
hairspray and barbecue lighters.
                                                                                                       

   Section 3. All private tax records shall be open to the
public. If citizen A believes that citizen B has failed to
pay his taxes in full, A can sue B on the government's behalf
and demand payment of taxes and fines. Citizen A shall be
reimbursed by B for his attorney's fees, and A shall be
permitted to collect and retain, for his private use, any
money B owes the government.
                                                                                                       

   Environmental laws are enforced in this manner -- usually
by environmental advocacy groups. In this way, environmental
organizations have collected tens of millions of dollars for
their pet projects.
   If this principle of environmental law were applied across
the board, there would be no more need to wrangle subsidies
out of Congress. Citizens for Mass Transit could write
tickets for speeding and parking violations and use the money
to expand the subway system. Tenants could assess and collect
fines for building-code violations and buy themselves a
condo. And the Tax Code could be enforced by your neighbor,
your employer or employee, your estranged cousin -- any
fellow citizen.
                                                                                                       

   Section 4. Private property may be taken, for just about
any use or none at all, without compensation.
                                                                                                       

   Let's say you bought a piece of land, not knowing that it
contained hazardous waste. The EPA may declare your land a
toxic waste site and send you a "PRP letter." That means you
are a "potentially responsible party" (although you never
polluted). It also means your land is worthless, your credit
dries up, and you may owe megabucks.
   Or let's say you own a piece of land zoned for industrial
use and want to build a plant or factory. Under the Clean Air
Act, the EPA may declare your city or county a
"non-attainment" area. That may mean a construction ban on
your property, and everyone else's.
   To say that these arbitrary and coercive instruments are
needed to protect the environment is like saying that the IRS
should be a lot more arbitrary because we really need the
revenue. The only advantage of environmental "law" may be
that it puts the hassle of tax filings and even the dreaded
IRS audit into perspective: Compared to environmental law,
the Tax Code is a veritable bill of rights.
   ---
   Mr. Greve is executive director of the Center for
Individual Rights, a public-interest law firm in Washington,
D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Lee Berton
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   TAX-PREPARER FEES aren't likely to rise much over the next
few years.
   After hefty fee increases over the past three years, fees
for preparing your tax return "have stabilized," says Robert
Israeloff, who heads Israeloff, Trattner &amp; Co., CPAs in
Valley Stream, N.Y. The intricacies of the 1986 tax act
spurred 10% to 30% jumps in fees of smaller accounting firms
from 1987 through 1989, says Israeloff. The act boosted
training and time to prepare returns, he says, expecting
modest fee increases of 5% to 8% this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bigger accounting firms were forced to almost double their
preparer fees in 1987 after the 1986 act. That year the firms
also had to boost salaries of college graduates by up to 30%
to match pay rises at Price Waterhouse, a major firm. "And we
also had to introduce costly new computer software, which
boosted fees," says Janice Johnson, a BDO Seidman tax
partner. "Now that's all behind us and fees shouldn't rise
much."
   Big preparer H&amp;R Block has kept fees flat since '86 and
won't raise them now. More short-form usage "is keeping
average fees near $50," says Block.
                                                                                                       

   A STINGY GIFT-TAX proposal has estate planners rushing
clients to give.
   The proposal, now before the House Ways and Means
Committee, would limit to $30,000 the amount that each
individual donor can give. Donors can now give as many
$10,000 gifts as they want without having to worry about the
steep 37% federal gift tax kicking in. A committee staffer
says, "There was a feeling" among members of the House
Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, which proposed the
measure, "that there was a potential for abuse here."
   It's unclear whether the issue ever will be put to a vote,
but accountants and estate planners, to be on the safe side,
are counseling clients to give gifts early this year. John L.
Pritchard, a South Orange, N.J., lawyer specializing in tax
planning, is urging well-heeled clients to write checks now
rather than waiting for Christmas. Laura Shanley, a tax
partner at Ernst &amp; Young, CPAs, is offering the same advice
but says only a few clients have taken it to heart.
                                                                                                       

   THE SENECAS' CLASH with New York state over sales tax
isn't resolved.
   In a landmark agreement, the state and the Indian tribe
had made peace and decided to let the tribe collect and keep
a sales tax on gasoline and cigarettes sold to non-Indians on
two reservations. Indians on reservations are exempt from
sales taxes. But opposition from off-reservation truck stops
and oil firms and intra-tribal dissension stalled legislative
approval of the pact.
   "We likely won't get the needed OK from the state assembly
this year," says State Tax Commissioner James Wetzler. So the
state now plans to crack down on truckers who pay no state
tax for fuel bought on the reservation but still take the
full 18-cent-a-gallon tax as a credit to reduce state
highway-use taxes. And the state will audit reservation
stores to get them to levy the tax on non-Indians.
   Some Indian lands are being used "to launder
off-reservation gas and cigarette sales to avoid tax," says
Wetzler.
                                                                                                       

   WIDELY CRITICIZED RULES will get an earlier hearing by the
IRS. Controversial regulations disallowing losses on the sale
of stock in a subsidiary prompted many requests to move up
the hearing dates from next October. So the IRS has agreed to
hold hearings June 26-27, with comments due by June 12.
                                                                                                       

   TIP TO THE TIPSY: Judy Ann Webb, an Elyria, Ohio,
waitress, told the tax court that in 1984 she "got loaded,"
gave away some tips, and underreported income by $2,800 as a
result. She said she didn't think given-away tips must be
reported, but the court ruled she still owed tax of $435 on
the tips she didn't keep.
                                                                                                       

   EXPENSIVE TRAINING: Taking experienced agents off the job
to train 1,100 new revenue agents could cost the IRS nearly
$1 billion in unrealized audit revenue, a new General
Accounting Office report says. The IRS acknowledges it loses
money when it diverts senior agents, and it is considering
contracting people from the private sector to train agents.
                                                                                                       

   CONSUMERS' APPETITE for self-help tax-preparation guides
remains hearty.
   Digestion of changes brought by the Tax Reform Act of 1986
hasn't damped sales. Prentice Hall Trade, which publishes
J.K. Lasser's tax guide, expects total shipments to run at
least 10% ahead of the 513,000 shipped in 1989. Prentice Hall
also markets a book and software package. Ernst &amp; Young's
Arthur Young 1990 guide, published by Ballantine Books, is a
top seller, with 440,000 books shipped in 1989 alone.
Publishers Weekly ranks Consumer Reports' tax guide third by
shipments.
   Sales of software programs are brisk, estimated to be
running about 100,000 more this year than the 300,000 of a
year ago. Chipsoft's Turbo Tax Personal 1040 is ranked
highest in unit sales by Softsel Computer Products, a
wholesaler, and by Waldenbooks. Sales of Andrew Tobias's
TaxCut, which incorporated the Ask DAN About Your Taxes
program, passed the 100,000 mark. Waldenbooks says the Lasser
software packages also sell well.
   Steven Murphy, of Prentice Hall, says, "There aren't as
many new tax issues," but circumstances change.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Arthur L. Nims III is re-elected chief judge of
the U.S. Tax Court for a two-year term. . . . Rhyme with
reason: "April is the cruelest month," the poet wrote of
tax-time tension. "But August could be just as bad, if you
file for an extension."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB T.NA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. said it signed a
definitive agreement to sell its asset-based lending
subsidiary, New England Commercial Finance Corp., to National
Bank of Canada.
   Included in the sale are about $665 million in assets,
which were sold at a premium, Bank of New England said. The
amount of the premium -- the difference between the sales
price and the assets' book value -- wasn't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Bank said the assets represent loans to about 125
borrowers. It said that less than 5% of the assets included
are loans for leveraged transactions and that none are
real-estate loans.
   The sale, expected to close by the end of April, is part
of Bank of New England's previously announced asset-sales
program. Proceeds of the sales are being used to reduce the
company's liquidity problems and to improve its capital
ratios.
   National Bank of Canada, based in Montreal, has assets of
35.9 billion Canadian dollars (US$30.9 billion). Bank of New
England has assets of about $25 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   China's Industrial Output
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- China' slumping economy recorded zero growth in
industrial output during the first quarter, although some
signs of recovery were seen in March.
   State Statistical Bureau figures, reported in the Chinese
official press, also showed that smaller township and private
enterprises continued to expand, while state-run enterprises
showed declining output and productivity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Industrial output for March was up 1.4% from the like
month in 1989. Output in state enterprises was the same as
last year, while collectives showed 0.7% growth, township
enterprises 5.4% and others, mainly small private firms,
32.3%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Creditor Group
   Seeks Trustee
   For Eastern Air
   ---
   Unsecured Claimants Say
   Texas Air Unit Managers
   Can't Forecast Results
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines' unsecured creditors asked a bankruptcy
court to oust the carrier's management and appoint a trustee
to run it.
   While their request had been expected, the forcefulness
with which they made it was not. In papers filed in New York
yesterday, the unsecured creditors lambasted Eastern and its
parent, Texas Air Corp., saying a trustee should be appointed
because "Eastern and Texas Air have proven that they are
unable to accurately project, even for short periods of time,
the likely results of operations."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the 13-month-long bankruptcy-law case, Eastern has
presented five different repayment plans to its creditors,
each offering to pay creditors less than the last. In their
filing, the unsecured creditors said they "will no longer
tolerate Eastern's and Texas Air's inability to adhere to an
agreement once reached. The history of this case convinces
the committee that even if a new plan was negotiated, Texas
Air and Eastern would again find a basis to renege."
   Separately yesterday, Eastern's pilots union won a victory
against the carrier, when a federal judge threw out two
bankruptcy-court rulings that had prevented the union from
challenging alleged violations of labor contracts. But the
decisions won't have any impact on Eastern's reorganization
struggle. The stakes in one dispute are pilot seniority
rights, in the other certain aircraft leases.
   Last week, the unsecured creditors threatened to seek a
trustee after rejecting Eastern's last, scaled-down repayment
offer. In following-through in such strong terms yesterday,
they enhanced the chances of a scramble for control of the
carrier in coming weeks.
   Eastern's equally alienated preferred shareholders are
already asking the court to take Eastern away from Texas Air
and give it to them, the unsecured creditors and a group of
new managers. And later this week, Eastern is expected to
widen the split by unilaterally filing its own new plan for
paying off its debts and emerging from proceedings under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Until now, the
parties had tried to negotiate one plan.
   The unsecured creditors are among the most powerful
players in Eastern's case. Their past opposition to efforts
by Eastern's unions to have a trustee appointed effectively
killed the request. Now, by asking for one themselves, they
are likely to have a powerful influence on the deliberations
of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland, who must
ultimately decide what to do.
   The group specifically asked for a trustee to run the
airline's day-to-day operations and help oversee the pending
sale of Eastern's Latin American routes to AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines for $349 million. The committee also wants
the trustee to seek a buyer for Eastern or to somehow enhance
its value.
   Texas Air and Eastern will certainly oppose the creditors'
bid for a trustee. A spokesman for Texas Air yesterday
attacked their request as "an almost hysterical, highly
one-sided, dramatized document, designed to support the
previously announced negotiating posture of the unsecured
creditors. It totally ignores the historical, continuing and
proposed support by Texas Air and {its Continental unit} of
Eastern's recovery."
   The falling-out between Eastern and its creditors began
last month, after Texas Air said it couldn't live up to a
commitment to pay them about 50 cents for every dollar owed.
Negotiations collapsed after Eastern proposed a 25-cent
repayment instead, and Texas Air refused to underwrite as
much of Eastern's estimated losses as creditors demanded.
   As for the pilots union victory, U.S. District Judge
Robert Sweet in Manhattan vacated a bankruptcy-court decision
that had prohibited the union from forcing Eastern into
arbitration. Judge Sweet also lifted a bankruptcy-court
injunction that had prevented the union from suing Eastern in
federal court in Florida for alleged violations of the
union's collective-bargaining agreement with the company.
   In a ruling filed yesterday, Judge Sweet said Judge
Lifland had given Eastern too much leeway in breaking its
labor contract.
   Judge Lifland had ruled that Chapter 11 gives debtors a
"breathing spell" from creditors' and labor's claims. But
Judge Sweet ruled that Judge Lifland's actions were barred by
the Bankruptcy Code. He said Congress had changed the
bankruptcy law in 1984 to avoid just such actions by
employers.
   An Eastern spokeswoman said the company is considering an
appeal.
   The decision gives the union a green light to seek
arbitration proceedings to determine whether Texas Air has
merged the operations of its Eastern and Continental Airlines
units. Texas Air says no merger has occurred. If an
arbitrator decides there has been a merger, it would trigger
so-called labor-protective provisions, including seniority
rights protecting Eastern pilots.
   Judge Sweet also cleared the way for the union's Florida
suit, in which it alleges that certain leasing agreements
that Eastern entered into with Continental Airlines violated
the collective-bargaining pact.
   ---
   Wade Lambert contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Bond Yield Announced
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government announced an average
yield of 12.54% at an auction of 900 million Canadian dollars
(US$774.8 million) of 11.75% bonds due Oct. 15, 1993.
   Proceeds of the issue will be applied toward the
redemption of C$2.13 billion of government bonds maturing May
1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan to Open Reserves
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- The Central Bank announced that it will
appropriate a part of Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves to
refinance Taiwanese businesses that plan to invest or seek
mergers and acquisitions overseas.
   The move is aimed at using Taiwan's approximately $73
billion in local foreign exchange reserves to expand Taiwan's
economic base and stimulate further development, Yu Chen, the
Central Bank's deputy governor, said at a news conference. He
said the move might trigger short-term capital outflow, but
in the longer term, earnings from overseas investment are
likely to extend Taiwan's economic strength.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those eligible for the loans include companies involved in
natural resource development, high technology, anti-pollution
technology, and management training, he said. The Bank of
Communications, Export-Import Bank of the Republic of China,
International Commercial Bank of China and the China
Development Corp. are the four banks designated to issue the
loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Rises as Regional Banks Rebound;
   Midlantic Adds 2, U.S. Bancorp Gains 1
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   The over-the-counter stock market overcame morning early
jitters to edge up in light but broad-based trading that
heartened veteran investors.
   The Nasdaq composite index closed up 1.72 at 431.90, or
0.4%. The market opened lower in the first hour, but firmed
steadily during the day with support that wasn't confined to
one market sector. Technology, biotechnology, environmental
and some of the battered regional bank shares all did well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Advancing shares just outpaced decliners, 959 to 947.
Nasdaq volume picked up, with 129,503,900 shares changing
hands compared with Monday's 112,366,600.
   While some players stayed on the sidelines because of this
week's religious holidays, traders said they saw selective
buying among bargain hunters.
   "The market looks great," said Richard A. Bruno, managing
director of OTC trading at PaineWebber. "The tone is good,
retail activity is fairly brisk for a week with two holidays
and the institutional interest is pretty good."
   At Kidder Peabody, senior OTC trader Peter Coolidge said
the market strength was "broadly based and not dominated by
any one area." Although many investors were "sitting on the
fence" because of this week's holidays, he said, "activity
was encouraging. Buyers stepped in to take advantage of
weakness." Mr. Coolidge and PaineWebber's Mr. Bruno said
there was interest in environmental issues. Shearson Lehman
Hutton's OTC bank trader Eric Siefert said he saw a rebound
in some regional bank shares.
   Bargain hunting benefited these regional bank shares,
according to Shearson Lehman Hutton's Mr. Siefert. Among the
rebounders that climbed on heavy volume were Midlantic, up 2
to 15 7/8, U.S. Bancorp, up 1 to 26 3/8, Dominion Bankshares,
up 1/2 to 15 7/8, BayBanks, up 3/4 to 16 and Boatmen's
Bancshares, up 5/8 to 30 1/8. Crestar Financial rose 1/8 to
26 3/4.
   Environmental shares got a boost from a report in this
newspaper about the popularity of funds that invest in
companies in volved in cleaning up the environment. Among the
gainers for the day were Clean Harbors Inc., up 1/2 to 8 1/2,
Sevenson Environmental Services, up 1 1/4 to 13 3/4, and
Groundwater Technology, up 1 to 22 3/4.
   In the biotechnology arena, the ongoing competition
between Xoma and Centocor to get to the market first with a
product that treats septic shock sparked activity in both
shares. Centocor was due to release an abstact indicating
that its product would treat more patients than Xoma's.
However, analysts told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
the two studies aren't comparable. Centocor closed down 1 1/4
at 30 1/4, while Xoma closed up 1 3/4 at 18 3/4 on more than
one million shares.
   Technology stocks remained in favor, with MIPS Computer
Systems surging 3 1/8 to close at 23 1/4 and Adobe Systems
closing up 1 3/4 at 38 1/2 on strong volume.
   Adobe got a fast start off the block, surging more than a
point in early trading after Shearson Lehman Hutton analyst
David S. Nelson boosted his short-term investment opinion to
the firm's top "1" rating.
   Mr. Nelson says he thinks investors haven't adequately
valued the franchise Adobe has secured with its PostScript
technology, a software system that integrates graphics, text
and images with printers and electronic terminals. Adobe and
other computer companies are expected later this month to
unveil a series of products using PostScript, which may
include highspeed printing and the use of color, according to
Mr. Nelson.
   Calling Adobe's technology an industry standard, the
Shearson analyst says he thinks the company's shares should
trade at a 50% premium to the S&amp;P 500 and an earnings
multiple of about 20 times earnings. Based on his estimated
1991 earnings for Adobe of $2.95 a share, Mr. Nelson says he
thinks the stock could trade at about $60 a share in the next
12 to 18 months.
   On the merger front, Automated Systems nearly doubled in
price after Cadence Design Systems announced it will acquire
Automated in exchange for stock. Cadence, based in San Jose,
Calif., said it will issue one million common shares in
exchange for all of the Brookfield, Wis.-based company's
shares, at an exchange ratio of 0.3 Cadence shares for each
Automated share. Both software companies showed gains, with
Automated surging 3 to close at 6 1/4. Cadence closed up 1
1/8 at 24 7/8.
   Lancaster Colony leaped more than three points before
Nasdaq temporarily halted trading in the stock after Newell
Co. said it now has a 5.6% position in the maker of
household, automotive and food products and may seek control
of it. Lancaster, based in Columbus, Ohio, shot back that it
plans to oppose Newell, a Freeport, Ill.-maker of home
furnishings. After reopening for trading, Newell closed up 24
7/8, up 1/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chock Full O'Nuts Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   CHF WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHOCK FULL O'NUTS Corp. (New York) -- David S. Weil was
elected to the board of this coffee and food-services
concern, increasing board membership to 11. Mr. Weil, 65
years old, is president and chief executive officer of
Ampacet Corp., a plastics raw-material producer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Dresdner Bank AG:
   Partial Operating Earnings
   Increased 17% Last Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   DRSDY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citing "continuing favorable economic developments,"
Dresdner Bank AG said its earnings in 1989 grew strongly.
   The West German commercial banking group said its group
partial operating profit rose 17% to 1.88 billion marks
($1.11 billion) from 1.60 billion marks ($944 million) a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On a group basis, the company said that the full operating
profit climbed at a higher rate than the partial operating
profit because of higher earnings from trading for its own
account. The bank didn't provide any data on full operating
profit.
   Partial operating profit excludes profit or losses from
trading for its own account. Group results contain all of the
bank's world-wide activities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REAL ESTATE
   ----
   By William Celis III
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI I FIAMA
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   States Try to Take Edge
   Off Mortgage `Points'
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   PROMPTED by consumer complaints, several states would like
to eliminate or cap mortgage "points" and other origination
fees to make housing more affordable. Lenders warn, though,
that loss of the fees would in fact make housing costlier.
   A handful of states have considered such efforts in the
past, and Massachusetts and Rhode Island now have bills in
their statehouses. In Massachusetts, the Legislature is
pondering a bill that would eliminate points on residential
mortgages, while Rhode Island is considering legislation that
would eliminate not only points but also origination fees.
One point is equal to one percentage point of the loan;
origination fees cover appraisals, title insurance and other
expenses.
   The move to contain closing costs has grown in recent
years because of mounting housing affordability problems. The
points and closing costs are enough to make ownership
unattainable for cash-pinched first-time buyers, lawmakers
who introduced the bills argue. All told, buyers pay an
average of $4,000 to $7,000 for points and fees -- in
addition to a down payment, which has gone up in recent years
to 20% from 10% in many major markets.
   Support is uneven in both states for the bills, partly
because lenders have driven home their argument that a loss
of points will bring higher rates. That argument helped
discourage the passage of similar bills elsewhere, most
recently in Pennsylvania.
                                                                                                       

   Bad Real Estate Loans
   Haunt More Than Thrifts
                                                                                                       

   EVERYONE KNOWS that thrifts have a disastrous record in
real estate lending. But many banks can't seem to get it
right, either.
   Looking at the number of real estate loans that go bad as
a percentage of total real estate loans made, the bank
dishonor roll is led by First American Bank &amp; Trust Co.,
North Palm Beach, Fla. Next is the Citibank unit in Dania,
Fla., according to data through Sept. 30, 1989, compiled by
Sheshunoff Information Services Inc., an Austin, Texas,
financial-services information firm. On average, 3% of the
bank industry's real estate loan portfolio goes bad,
Sheshunoff says.
   Citibank, which had two units in the top 50 list of big
banks with high percentages of problem loans, declined to
comment. But spokesmen at the other banks attributed their
loan woes to slowdowns in regional economies, overbuilding or
both. First Interstate, with three units in the top 50, says
the level of bad loans partly reflects the well-documented
problems of overbuilding and over-zealous lending.
   The First Interstate/Arizona unit was "caught up in the
euphoria" of a boom market in the 1980s, says Jerry Jordan,
chief economist at the Los Angeles-based parent. First
Interstate/Houston, where 20.2% of the loans have soured,
bought the bad loans through acquisition. "There was a lot
more junk" in the acquired portfolios than previously
thought, Mr. Jordan says.
   Although bad real estate bank lending has largely been
overshadowed by the thrift mess, that will soon change, says
Dennis Jacobe, director of research for the U.S. League of
Savings Institutions. New England banks, for example, are
likely to show up more often on the Sheshunoff list as the
region's listless economy produces more troubled properties.
                                                                                                       

                 Bank With Bad Loans*
                                                                                                       

                                    TOTAL
                                    PROBLEM
                                    REAL         % NON-
                                    ESTATE       PERFORMING
                                    LOANS**      OR
  BANKS                           (In millions)  FORECLOSED
                                                                                                       

 First American Bank (North
  Palm Beach, Fla.)                    $560        80.2%
                                                                                                       

 Citibank (Dania, Fla.)                 141        74.1
                                                                                                       

 National Bank of commerce
  (San Antonio, Texas)                  133        45.1
                                                                                                       

 Team Bank (Fort Worth, Texas)          673        44.3
                                                                                                       

 Texas Commerce Bank (Austin, Texas)    207        43.4
                                                                                                       

 Bank One Texas (Dallas)              1,716        42.9
                                                                                                       

 Capital Bank &amp; Trust (Boston)          102        40.0
                                                                                                       

 Texas Commerce Bank (Houston)          428        33.0
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   *Banks with $100 million or more of problem real-estate
loans
   **Includes value of foreclosed real estate
                                                                                                       

   Source: Sheshunoff Information Services Inc.
                                                                                                       

   By Some Estimates,
   Appraisal Fees Will Rise
                                                                                                       

   HOME BUYERS are likely to see a jump in closing costs
because of a federal rule that forces states to police
appraisers more closely.
   Under the U.S. thrift rescue bill enacted last summer,
states are rushing to enact legislation by 1991 that would
provide for a board to license or certify appraisers. States
would be required to establish minimum standards for
appraisers, who set values for all properties, be they
single-family homes or office buildings.
   Industry groups say if appraisers have to be approved and
monitored, the cost of appraisals -- required for closing the
deal -- could "easily double" from the current average of
$100 to $300, says Norman D. Flynn, president of the National
Association of Realtors.
   In some places where there is already a shortage of
appraisers, the price could soar. Nevada estimates that the
cost could jump to $600 to $700 from the current average of
$250, the NAR says.
   Some say appraisers are behind the rash of bad real estate
loans. In many cases, appraisers inflated the property's
value allowing lenders to extend more credit to builders, who
in turn were forced to pay fatter lender fees. The practice
has exacerbated the massive failures of thrifts, which have
taken hefty write-downs on real estate whose values were
exaggerated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Matthew J. Stover was
named senior vice president, communications, of this
financial services company, a new position. Mr. Stover
previously was vice president, communications. Toni Maloney
will succeed him in the latter post. Ms. Maloney previously
was director of public relations for Ogilvy &amp; Mather, the
advertising unit of WPP Group PLC.
   Separately, Stephen Silverstein resigned as a senior
executive vice president in charge of limited partnerships at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc., New York, and as
chairman of the Balcor Co. real-estate unit. Shearson, a unit
of American Express, has announced it will no longer
originate limited partnership investments and is winding down
Balcor. Mr. Silverstein won't be succeeded, a Shearson
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CAE Industries Ltd.:
   Link Flight Unit Awarded
   U.S. Air Force, Army Jobs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAE
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   CAE Industries Ltd. said its Link Flight Simulation
division, of Binghamton, N.Y., was awarded two contracts that
total 51 million Canadian dollars (US$43.9 million) to modify
flight simulators for the U.S. Air Force and Army.
   CAE, an electronic and aviation equipment maker, said a
C$32.7 million contract involves modifying and upgrading
three F16 flight simulators, which it built for the U.S. Air
Force. That project, which includes equipment designed and
built at its Houston plant, is scheduled for completion in
1993. A C$18.3 million contract is for the updating of nine
Apache helicopter combat-mission simulators made by the
company for the U.S. Army. Those modification kits will be
developed in Binghamton. Work is scheduled to be completed in
February 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CAE purchased Singer Co.'s Link Domestic Simulation &amp;
Training System division in 1988 for US$560 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Machine Orders Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Machinery orders received by Japanese companies
in February rose 29.4% from a year earlier to 1.659 trillion
yen ($10.48 billion), the Economic Planning Agency said.
   The gain, following a 0.2% year-on-year dip in December
and an 11.3% increase in January, resulted from substantial
increases of orders in all categories, an agency official
said. With the exception of December 1989, machinery orders
have been rising since October 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Detroit Edison Co.:
   Fermi 2 Facility Is Closed
   Following Radioactive Leak
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   DTE
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Detroit Edison Co. said 20,000 gallons of radioactive
water leaked inside the company's Fermi 2 nuclear plant after
an unplanned shutdown.
   No one was contaminated by the water or hurt in the
shutdown, Detroit Edison said, but the plant remains closed
pending investigation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for the utility company said the plant
automatically shut down after a partial power loss. The
company said it doesn't know what caused the outage.
   A few hours after the shutdown, the radioactive water
spilled onto the floor of the turbine room and then drained
into the radioactive waste water recovery system, which
processes such waste water for reuse.
   In July 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission warned
Detroit Edison the $4.58 billion plant risked being closed
unless its performance improved. The commission later dropped
the facility from its list of troubled plants. Fermi 2 had
been on the list for three years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norway's Consumer Prices Up
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   OSLO -- Norway's consumer prices rose 1.1% in March from
February and were up 4.5% from a year earlier, the Central
Bureau of Statistics announced.
   The new index figure was 229.8 as of March 15, up from
227.2 Feb. 15 and up from 219.8 as of March 15, 1989 (1979
equals 100).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Contributing most to last month's increase was the index
group for clothes and shoes, which rose 4.9% from the
previous month, the bureau said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mellon Bank Corp.:
   Firm Will Buy AmeriTrust
   ATM Processing Operation
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL AMTR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mellon Bank Corp., Pittsburgh, said it agreed to acquire
AmeriTrust Corp.'s automated teller machine processing
business. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Under the agreement, Mellon will offer ATM processing
services to 19 financial institutions previously serviced by
Ameritrust through the InstaNet regional network.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mellon will also provide the network line between
AmeriTrust's ASSET network and the InstaNet shared regional
network. AmeriTrust will continue to operate the 270 ATM
ASSET network.
   The InstaNet network has 441 ATMs in the Cleveland area,
with about eight million transactions a year.
   AmeriTrust, a bank holding company based in Cleveland,
said the company decided to leave the ATM processing business
to concentrate on its retail business.
   Mellon, a bank holding company, has been expanding its ATM
processing business. Last month, it acquired the New England
ATM transaction processing business from State Street Bank &amp;
Trust Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend Brief -- Crompton &amp; Knowles Corp.:
   Firm Boosts Payout by 35%
   For Third Year in a Row
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CNK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Crompton &amp; Knowles Corp. directors boosted the quarterly
dividend 35%, to 21 cents a share from 15.5 cents, payable
May 25 to stock of record May 4.
   The move marks the third consecutive year in which the
board of the specialty chemicals and equipment producer has
raised the payout 35%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The board is confident that the company can "sustain the
momentum of the last several years," Crompton &amp; Knowles said.
At March 31, the company had 11.9 million shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bechtel Group Inc.:
   Contract for Airport Project
   Is Signed With Hong Kong
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bechtel Group Inc. said it entered a contract with the
Hong Kong government to manage a $16 billion airport
construction project, one of the largest such projects ever
undertaken.
   The San Francisco closely held engineering and
construction company said the project will take seven years
to complete. It entails building a new airport, a suspension
bridge that would be the longest in the world, a rapid
transit system and a highway to China, among other things.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bechtel didn't disclose exactly how much it stands to earn
from the project. It said the Hong Kong government hopes to
fund half the project through private funds.
   Bechtel's last project of similar size was the
construction of the city of Jubail in Saudi Arabia, a $20
billion project. The city is still under construction.
   The Hong Kong project is the second major transaction
Bechtel has announced in a week. Last week, Bechtel signed an
agreement with the Soviet Union to do a preliminary study on
the feasibility of converting a research center near Moscow
into a technology center similar to California's Silicon
Valley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TDY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TELEDYNE Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Moody's Investors Service
Inc. lowered its ratings on about $34 million of debt of
Teledyne, reflecting the impact of the planned spinoff of the
company's insurance and finance subsidiaries and federal
defense budget cutbacks. Moody's lowered the rating on
Teledyne's senior debt to Baa-3 from Baa-2, and on
subordinated debt to Ba-1 from Baa-3. The rating concern
cited Teledyne's "reduced financial measurements" that will
result from the planned spinoff of the insurance and finance
subsidiaries into a new company called Unitrin Inc. The new
ratings also consider "some unpredictability of cash flow
from the defense sector because of Department of Defense
budgetary constraints," Moody's said. Moody's noted, however,
"the broad diversity of Teledyne's manufacturing businesses
that should be able to generate sufficient earnings and cash
flow to service the higher leverage of Teledyne that remains
after the spinoff." In addition to insurance and finance,
Teledyne has interests in aviation, electronics, specialty
metals and industrial businesses. A Teledyne spokesman said
the rating action "really is no surprise." In New York Stock
Exchange trading yesterday, Teledyne rose $1.125 a share to
close at $71.375.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rally's Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   RLLY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   RALLY'S Inc. (Louisville, Ky.) -- Wayne M. Albritton,
Rally's executive vice president, operations, and Mary Hart,
co-host of the television show Entertainment Tonight, were
elected directors of this fast-food chain. They succeed
William E. Trotter II and James M. Trotter III, two Rally's
franchisees, who resigned from the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Changes
   Crediting of Profits
   For Its Investors
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., the nation's biggest
brokerage firm, is tightening its grip on how it credits
investors' securities proceeds in a move that could save the
firm millions of dollars that had previously gone to
customers.
   The move brings Merrill in line with the practices of
several other major brokerage firms, but has nevertheless
triggered complaints from Merrill brokers, some of whom
feared they may lose business as a result. The brokers claim
the change will deprive some customers of a fraction of the
interest income that they currently enjoy in their Cash
Management Accounts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are 1.5 million such accounts at Merrill totaling
$160 billion in assets, the biggest such pool of cash and
securities by far of any U.S. brokerage firm.
   Under the change, outlined in an internal Merrill memo and
confirmed by the firm's officials, proceeds from sales of
securities that a client wants deposited in his or her
account will be credited the first business day following the
settlement of the trade -- rather than on the same day, as is
done now.
   If a trade settles on a Friday, the proceeds won't be
credited to a client's account until Monday -- depriving the
client of three days of interest income he would previously
have enjoyed, some brokers complain.
   Merrill officials say the change will save them a
substantial amount of money, but wouldn't estimate how much.
However, they say the change won't cost customers a
noticeable amount. A customer who sells 100 shares at $25 a
share, for example, might lose only one day's interest of 50
cents.
   Still, pennies add up, even for small investors. And
Merrill competitors, especially discount brokers, are likely
to try to make hay of the marketing change. Discount firm
Quick &amp; Reilly Group Inc., for example, says it will continue
to pay clients on the settlement date. "People are entitled
to their money on the settlement date, not the day after,"
said President Leslie C. Quick III.
   Merrill, which has been laying off thousands of employees
and looking for other ways to cut costs, won't estimate
exactly how much it might save with the change. But the
savings will be substantial for the firm, which last year
reported its first unprofitable year as a public company
after taking a $470 million restructuring charge.
   "It's obviously worth a chunk of change to Merrill," said
money-fund expert William E. Donoghue, publisher of
Donoghue's Moneyletter, a newsletter on mutual funds. "The
more you trade, the more it costs you; and the larger the
trades, the more it costs you."
   Merrill officials say they have received many complaints
from among the firm's 12,000 brokers. But they say some of
the brokers are simply "confused" about the scope of the
changes.
   Merrill officials say the firm is simply catching up with
the practice at other major Wall Street securities firms,
including Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., the nation's second
largest.
   Until now, Merrill officials explain, clients have been
enjoying interest that wasn't necessarily theirs. Merrill has
lost money by crediting its customers before Merrill itself
receives the proceeds of stock sales, according to Merrill
officials.
   "We're giving them interest from Day One, and very often
it takes us two to three days to get paid," said Patrick J.
Walsh, Merrill's director of asset-accumulation services
responsible for Cash Management Accounts marketing.
   "Something like this is just a minor change in the overall
scheme of all the things CMA can do for a client," he said.
For example, said Mr. Walsh, the Merrill accounts typically
pay interest on cash kept there at a rate two percentage
points above bank money-market fund accounts.
   Merrill's Cash Management Account, which the firm
pioneered, combines a securities account with check-writing
and credit-card privileges. Many Merrill investors put the
proceeds of securities sales into the money-fund part of the
account.
   Mr. Walsh also emphasized that the change applies only to
securities sales in which the proceeds are put back into the
Merrill account -- not to deposits into CMA accounts.
   Separately, in another development that reflects Wall
Street's increased focus on cost-cutting with customers,
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. is considering a substantial
increase in "inactive" fees that it charges to accounts that
don't trade frequently.
   The firm, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
is considering charging as much as $175 to any client who
doesn't make at least one trade during a one-year-period, up
from the current $30 charge. The possible change, first
reported in the industry publication Wall Street Letter,
would be sharply higher than the $50 inactive fees that have
been adopted by several other major securities firms in
recent months.
   A Prudential-Bache spokeswoman yesterday said the firm is
"looking at a number of different options," but declined to
comment further. Prudential-Bache had a loss of $51 million
last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rockwell International Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL Corp. (El Segundo, Calif.) --
Daniel R. Brown was appointed vice president, production
operations, for the company's Space Transportation Systems
division, based in Downey, Calif. He previously was division
director, production operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alleco Inc.:
   Appeal of Bond Decision
   Is Sent to a Lower Court
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alleco Inc., Cheverly, Md., said a federal appeals court
sent back to a lower court Alleco's appeal of an August
decision finding it liable for breaching covenants regarding
$105 million in bonds.
   The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit remanded
the case to the District Court in Minneapolis to determine
whether the federal courts even have jurisdiction over the
lawsuit. The District Court has 90 days to resolve the
question.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last August, the District Court ruled that the trustee of
Alleco's $105 million in 9 1/2% convertible senior
subordinate debentures could declare the bonds in default
because the company, formerly known as Allegheny Beverage
Corp., dissolved stock-conversion provisions when it went
private in 1988.
   Alleco appealed that decision, arguing that it wasn't
responsible for the debentures because Servam Corp. agreed to
assume the payment obligations when it bought Alleco's
food-service operations. Servam has steadily paid both
interest and principal since the 1987 purchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gentner Electronics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GTNR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENTNER ELECTRONICS Corp. (Salt Lake City) -- Jerald L.
Nelson, 47-year-old investment banker, was named a director
of this designer, maker and marketer of audio electronic
equipment. His election increases board membership to seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hilton Hotels Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HILTON HOTELS Corp. (Beverly Hills, Calif.) -- Robert L.
Watson was elected to the new post of vice president,
finance, with this owner and operator of hotels and casinos.
He previously was assistant to the chief financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bristol-Myers Names
   Koslow President
   Of a Products Group
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said it named Marvin
H. Koslow president of its North American consumer products
group, succeeding Ronald A. Ahrens, who is resigning. The
North American consumer products group includes Bristol-Myers
Products, Clairol, and Drackett Co.
   Mr. Koslow had been senior vice president of Bristol-Myers
Squibb. A Bristol-Myers Squibb spokesman said the change had
"nothing to do" with the merger between Bristol-Myers and
Squibb, which occurred in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Koslow, 60 years old, who has worked at Bristol-Myers
for 24 years, developed the corporate advertising, market
research and media buying functions at the company after
supervising the company's broadcast activities at Young &amp;
Rubicam, the advertising concern. Mr. Koslow also was
involved in corporate communications and has managed other
"key functions" in the company, Bristol-Myers said. Mr.
Koslow also was a president of the Association of National
Advertisers and of the World Federation of Advertisers.
   Mr. Ahrens, 50, joined Bristol-Myers as president of its
Bristol-Myers Products division in June 1985. He assumed his
current responsibilities in June 1988.
   Bristol-Myers Squibb is a pharmaceutical, nutritional,
consumer products and medical devices concern with 1989 sales
totaling $9.19 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Henley International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   HINT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HENLEY INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Sugarland, Texas) -- Kent
Kahle, senior vice president of Rotan Mosle Inc., a unit of
PaineWebber Inc., was elected a director of this medical
products company, expanding board membership to seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   Bush Is Right About Lithuania
   ----
   By Irving Kristol
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   There are inherent ambiguities in the American approach to
foreign affairs. We are being driven by a team of four
horses, each with a mind of its own, and it is no easy matter
to prevent them from tearing the stagecoach apart. The four
horses, representing four established modes of thought about
our posture toward the world, are:
   -- Moralistic isolationism, in which the U.S. presents a
shining example of popular government to the world, in the
hope that the nations of the world will notice, be impressed,
and eventually follow suit. We may be saddened if they fail
to do so, but it is not our responsibility to guide them --
and certainly not to coerce them -- along this path. At most,
we may express approval or disapproval of their more extreme
deviations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- Liberal internationalism, a 70-year-old tradition that
has taken tenacious root in the State Department, the media,
academia, and even -- though to a far lesser degree -- among
sections of the populace at large. This envisions a world in
which all nations are obedient to the rules of international
law, as laid down by the United Nations and the World Court
-- a "peace loving" world to be governed eventually by a
"parliament of man" (now re-designated as a "parliament of
persons"). Our State Department is much attached to the
legalisms generated by such a perspective. Most of the other
nations in today's world pay little or no attention to it.
   -- Conservative internationalism, which believes the U.S.
has an original commitment to act unilaterally so as to make
the world safe for "democratic capitalism."
   -- National-interest "realism," which generally prefers
unilateral American action to any multilateral commitment,
but asserts that we should be seriously concerned only about
events abroad that affect us seriously, less seriously
concerned by what affects us only indirectly or obliquely or
remotely, and not at all concerned by what is likely to have
no appreciable effect at all. This is a more complicated
affair than many realists seem to realize, since the U.S. is
a world power and both its action and inaction can be equally
influential. But it is the most venerable mode of thought
about foreign policy, to which most nations, most of the
time, pay obeisance. In the case of the U.S., it often is
co-opted by one of the three other modes, since no one wants
to assert that he is indifferent to something called "the
national interest."
   These four modes of thought are now thoroughly entangled
in the case of Lithuania. Such entanglements are predestined.
We discovered this in the case of Vietnam. Our moralistic
isolationists -- fewer then than now -- saw no reason for our
becoming bloodily involved in this faraway land, and would
have been content with a few symbolic, diplomatic gestures.
Our liberal internationalists got us into the war in order to
affirm the illegality of aggression, direct or indirect, by
one nation against another. Our conservative
internationalists, along with our realists, were divided,
depending on what they saw to be at stake. Some said that we
should simply stay out, others that we should boldly confront
North Vietnam (and perhaps China) to prevent a Communist
takeover of Southeast Asia, and keep open the prospects for
democracy there. None supported the limited war we did fight.
   In the case of Lithuania, it must be said, our confusion
is more than matched by Mikhail Gorbachev's confused
policies. Indeed, one has the right to wonder: Does Mr.
Gorbachev know what he is doing? Is there any rational
explanation, however devious, for his fumbling, irresolute,
in the end bewildering and self-defeating approach to this
issue?
   I don't see any such rational explanation. First, he
announced that he would not use force against Lithuania,
thereby inciting the Lithuanians to declare their
independence from the U.S.S.R. Then he announced that he is
working on some complicated scheme whereby the various ethnic
regions of the Soviet Union would gain not only a large
measure of autonomy, but also the right of secession after a
complex legal process of at least five years' duration. This
inevitably inflamed nationalist aspirations in the Ukraine,
Georgia and elsewhere. Then -- to no one's great surprise --
he sent troops into Lithuania.
   He had an obvious, clear-cut alternative. He could have
said, right at the outset, that Lithuania would not be
allowed to secede from the Soviet Union, but that it would be
accorded a real autonomy, spelled out in some detail. For the
world at large, this would have pretty much settled the
matter. While nations may prattle loosely about the "right to
self-determination," no nation has ever recognized a right of
secession.
   True, the case of the three Baltic nations is special,
since they were delivered to Soviet sovereignty by the
noxious Hitler-Stalin pact. Even so, it is clear that were
they to be liberated from Russian rule, the Ukraine -- which
produces about one-third of the Soviet gross national product
-- would probably demand a similar liberation, after several
centuries of subordination. And so would Georgia, and
Azerbaijan, and all the other constituent provinces of
Russia.
   Mr. Gorbachev, to the world's amazement and most of the
world's delight, made the bold decision to preside over the
liquidation of the Soviet empire in Eastern Europe. But he
did not become president of the U.S.S.R. to preside over the
liquidation of the centuries-old Russian empirean empire that
150 million ethnic Russians today regard as an integral part
of Russia itself.
   Only a political fantasist could expect a withdrawal of
Russia into its ancient ethnic boundaries. Not even the more
militant reformers within the Soviet Union contemplate such a
possibility. In fact, these same reformers have been
prudently silent about Lithuania, since they are well aware
of the larger and more explosive issue of national
disintegration it poses. It is not imaginable that any
Russian government, with or without Mr. Gorbachev, would move
down this path.
   Lithuania is not a lucky country. Perhaps, in a future not
yet foreseeable, under circumstances also unforeseeable, it
will gain the independence it desires and deserves. But it is
not going to happen now, and there is nothing the Bush
administration can do about it. Meanwhile, the Lithuanians
would be well advised to bargain hard for the maximum degree
of autonomy.
   Nevertheless, the administration is coming under much
criticism for recognizing this political reality. There is
even talk of economic sanctions against the Soviet Union. But
this is idle chatter. We tried that under the Carter
administration and it backfired. Besides, not a single one of
our European allies would join us in any such purely
symbolic, totally ineffectual act.
   The Bush administration, quite sensibly, has decided that
it is not in the national interest for the U.S. to
precipitate a crisis in our relations with the Soviet Union
because of Lithuania and the other Baltic nations. In doing
so, it has left itself vulnerable to criticisms emerging from
the other currents of thought about American foreign policy.
As a consequence, it has difficulty articulating sharply, and
defending vigorously, its position. Any American
administration would find itself in the same condition.
   Back in the 1960s, we heard much talk about "speaking
truth to power." In the case of American foreign policy, it
is clear that we have not yet learned how power can speak
unambiguous truths about our national interest to the
American people.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol, an American Enterprise Institute fellow,
co-edits The Public Interest and publishes The National
Interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   `Grievous Misconduct'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   A journalist charged with "grievous misconduct" and fired
by his newspaper for breaking an important story for the
public obviously hasn't lost much in terms of prestige. But
Belgian journalist Paul Belien, who was fired by the Gazet
van Antwerpen because of an article published in The Wall
Street Journal Europe last Thursday (and reprinted on this
page yesterday), has paid for his integrity nonetheless.
Charging Mr. Belien with "grievous misconduct," the Antwerp
newspaper, if it wishes, could deny him both severance pay
and unemployment compensation.
   Mr. Belien learned last fall that Belgium's popular King
Baudouin wouldn't be willing to sign a pro-abortion bill that
was making its way through the Belgian parliament. When his
editor in chief, Lou de Clerck, said he was not interested in
the story, Mr. Belien wrote it for the European edition of
the Journal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Belgians who do not read the Journal only got the news
last week when King Baudouin did refuse to sign, provoking a
constitutional crisis. The matter was resolved when the king
abdicated for two days, allowing the bill to become law. The
Belgian papers could hardly ignore that because it made news
world-wide, but mostly they focused on the constitutional
issue rather than the king's moral position. Mr. Belien
thought, correctly, that the long silence reflected badly on
the press, including his own newspaper, and said so. To his
bosses that was "grievous misconduct."
   Mr. Belien knew full well that he was putting his job on
the line but chose to do so as a matter of principle. If
there is anything to be said on behalf of his editors, it
must be noted that abortion is a sensitive issue everywhere,
including the U.S. It is particularly so in Belgium, a
country that has had a sharp psychological division between
its French- and Flemish-speaking populations for ages.
Flemish speakers, by and large, are the more religious and
thus more likely to side with the king's view that abortion
is immoral.
   But the abortion bill, written by a socialist and a
liberal senator, is extremely liberal by almost any standard.
What appears to have happened is that Belgium's Christian
Democrats, which like the socialists have separate Flemish
and Walloon parties, didn't want to stir public passions by
making a big issue. Their friends in the press, along with
the friends of the socialists, cooperated.
   That's all fine, but newspapers in democracies have a
public trust to responsibly further such debates. The
festering hostility between Belgium's Flemish and Walloons is
not going to go away simply because it is kept in a dark
corner. Belgium's king was wise enough to know that. So, in
our view, was Mr. Belien. Most of all, however, he wanted
simply to be a good journalist. He is not the first reporter
to have been punished for that crime.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Markets and Medical Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Two Republican administrations -- in Washington, D.C., and
California -- have now stared into the abyss of
government-mandated, employer-paid health insurance and
backed away. Their reluctance buys a bit more time to develop
a fundamentally different remedy for soaring premiums and
huge gaps in coverage.
   Already gathering dust is the majority report of the
Pepper Commission, set up by Congress to give bipartisan
legitimacy to mandatory health insurance and long-term care
entitlements. The ploy busted up when neither the panel's GOP
members nor Health Secretary Louis Sullivan wanted much to do
with this vehicle for a $66 billion tax increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Governor George Deukmejian faced a deadline for
legislation his cabinet had prepared to deal with
California's particularly acute problem of escalating costs
and uninsured workers. His aides' plan had more than a dash
of Pepper: a mandate to employers to insure, tax breaks for
businesses that couldn't handle what would effectively be a
stiff new payroll levy, and greater public provision of
medical care for those who still wouldn't fit under this
bigger umbrella. Oh, and "cost containment," too.
   The governor got an earful from small companies. The
Chamber of Commerce didn't like mandates, and was worried
that costs wouldn't in fact be contained once business was
locked in. Ultimately the governor wisely passed on the
scheme.
   The current system is indeed a tangle, but the people
pushing reform the hardest so far haven't come up with
anything feasible.
   Medical advancements have maintained and bettered life for
millions, but the status quo probably is not sustainable. Not
only are too many people priced out of the market, but in an
emergency, nobody wants to turn indigents away. They usually
are treated at hospitals, with the cost either borne by
taxpayers or shifted to the private sector via the insurance
system.
   For reasons both humane and economic, change is in order.
To some extent, it can happen without legislative help. Small
employers are creatively grouping to buy policies. But many
states make this hard when they require that all health
policies cover a vast array of services. A few are now acting
to allow more flexibility. States also can doctor the
incentives somewhat. The Pioneer Institute in Boston,
surveying the metastasizing mess of mandated health insurance
in Massachusetts, devised a tax rebate keyed to an
individual's purchase of his own coverage. Pioneer believes
this would cost the state Treasury less than Michael
Dukakis's program is going to.
   In the main, however, medical-care costs are one issue
properly addressed to Washington, where much of the trouble
started. The bills began to leap when the federal government
became the big third-party payer, greatly loosening the
disciplines of a normal marketplace.
   Medicare, which did open medical doors to millions of
poorer Americans, isn't going to go away, so where do we
begin? For starters, someone has to straighten out the
incentives. One assumption worth building on is that if
individuals pay for the coverage they want, we're likely to
find out that, lo and behold, the marketplace still works in
health care as in just about everything else.
   The National Center for Policy Analysis, a Dallas-based
outfit, has developed an intriguing model for how such a
changeover could occur. It suggests that income taxes apply
to all compensation, even that portion an employee (or his
union) designates should go toward employer-purchased health
coverage. Taxation of benefits is considered a political
nonstarter, though it might make sense if coupled with rate
reduction. Unions especially fight it because they are
dominated by older members who place a higher value on health
care than do younger ones, who might prefer to have the cash.
But the creative politician might cut through this objection
by offering instead a healthy tax credit for an individual's
medical costs.
   It's important, if you aren't to encourage
overconsumption, to link a tax credit to a high deductible.
That way the tax code is cushioning extraordinary blows, but
not casual doctor visits.
   This approach won't fully get government off the hook.
People under-insure themselves in times of good health, and
society's heart bleeds for the hard cases, even if it is
suffering born of folly. So there still will be
cost-shifting, though even now the annual uncompensated-care
bill may be running as low as $8 billion, out of a $550
billion medical-service industry. This means that while some
hospitals are pinched, the overall problem is manageable
without coverage mandates that also invite regulation of the
supply side.
   A lot of people, including many patients, are benefiting
from the current system's excess (notably at the extremely
expensive late stages of fatal diseases). Still, better
health is one of the byproducts of a scientifically
sophisticated and prosperous free economy; that point cannot
be made often enough because the socialists among us keep
denying it. But a phony market system in medicine in which
costs and responsibility are shifted onto unwitting third
parties invites excess, just as was true with financial
institutions. As a result, the market gets blamed and an
engine of better living gets slowed with new restraints.
   That is where we are now, and no new round of "cost
controls" will rescue health care. Nor will nationalization.
Business executives, pressed as they are by benefit costs,
seem to realize this. The vast majority of those recently
surveyed by Roper rejected a bigger role for the government.
The better answer is to turn back to a remedy that has proven
safe and effective: individual consumer choice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Health Services Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   AHTS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN HEALTH SERVICES Corp. (Newport Beach, Calif.) --
Sandra E. Stiles, Joseph A. Boystak, and Roger Kimmel, all
designees of OmniCorp Holdings Inc., were elected to the
board of this operator of diagnostic-imaging centers.
American Health agreed to the three designees as part of
OmniCorp's $7 million infusion to American Health in exchange
for 29% of American Health's stock. American Health says the
OmniCorp designees don't plan any real changes in the way the
company is operated or its goals. OmniCorp is a unit of Omni
Holding AG, a Swiss financial and industrial-services
concern. The designees fill three of four vacancies left on
the seven-member board by the resignation of Gerald Shefsky,
Herman Becker-Fluegel, Garry W. Bond and David H. Brown. The
company said it will fill the fourth vacancy within the next
few months. American Health also said that S. Lewis Meyer,
president and chief executive officer, was named to the
additional post of chairman, succeeding Mr. Shefsky, who
resigned a month ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Non-Bank Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   You've heard about the budget crisis in New York State.
This is what it has come to: The AP reports that a retired
postal worker outbid four banks to loan Genesee County
$110,000 for one year at 5.82%. There may be a financing
innovation in there somewhere, but insofar as taxes are going
up in many states, we suppose someone will see this as one
way to make government pay part of the tax bill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quebec Superior Court
   Rules Against Tribunal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   QUEBEC CITY -- Quebec Superior Court ruled that Canada's
Competition Tribunal, which reviews federal government
antitrust decisions, is unconstitutional.
   In a case involving a Quebec animal-rendering concern,
Judge Jacques Philippon ruled that the federal Competition
Tribunal is unconstitutional because it has the powers of a
court but doesn't have "the essential attributes of
{judicial} independence."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision's immediate impact is unclear. A spokesman
for the Competition Tribunal said he wasn't aware of the
court decision.
   But if the decision is upheld on any eventual appeal, it
could have a farreaching effect. The Competition Tribunal
reviews and can alter decisions of the Canadian Bureau of
Competition Policy, the federal government antitrust agency.
   The judge said the powers of the tribunal "largely exceed
a purely administrative role and put it in the category of a
court with wide powers." He said that because the tribunal
lacks the judicial independence of a court, it therefore
violated the animal-rendering concern's right of association
and right to be heard by an independent and impartial
tribunal.
   Alex Couture Inc., an animal-rendering concern based here
with annual sales of 100 million Canadian dollars (US$86
million), acquired a rendering concern in Montreal in 1987.
The Canadian Bureau of Competition Policy ordered Alex
Couture to dispose of the newly acquired company and
submitted its decision to the Competition Tribunal. Alex
Couture then launched its court challenge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fuji Heavy Industries
   Says Nissan Executive
   Is Elected President
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.FJH NSANY
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. said it will replace
its president with an executive from Nissan Motor Co.,
fueling speculation that the larger company will exert more
control over financially strapped Fuji.
   Fuji, which makes cars under the name Subaru, said
Toshihiro Tajima, the 70-year-old president, "would release
himself from the duty of president" following the shareholder
annual meeting June 28. He will remain as chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the new president will be Isamu Kawai,
67, currently president of Nissan Diesel Motor Co. Nissan
holds 4.4% of Fuji, making Nissan Fuji's largest shareholder.
   Last month, Fuji said it would post a loss of 23 billion
yen ($145.6 million) in the year ended March 31, sharply
higher than the early projected loss of three billion yen.
It's the company's first loss since its shares were listed on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 1960.
   After yesterday's announcement, Nissan President Yutaka
Kume said that "as far as Nissan is concerned, if we were
asked to give Fuji Heavy Industries support and assistance,
we are willing to proceed in that direction on the basis of
discussions once the new organization is in place."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Torchmark Proceeds
   With Seeking Proxies
   For American General
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMK AGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- Torchmark Corp., despite last week's
setback in court, began soliciting proxies in support of its
resolution for American General Corp.'s annual meeting
seeking the sale of the company.
   Torchmark said the resolution, for consideration at the
May 2 meeting, calls on American General's board promptly to
seek a sale or merger of the Houston insurer by hiring an
investment banking firm to solicit offers to acquire the
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Torchmark's resolution also calls for the appointment of a
committee of independent directors to evaluate all
acquisition proposals.
   In Houston, an American General spokesman said the company
will make a recommendation to holders about the resolution
"in the near future."
   In a letter mailed to American General holders,
Torchmark's chairman and chief executive officer, R.K.
Richey, said that pending approval of the resolution, the
insurer plans to submit another bid for American General.
   Torchmark officials wouldn't comment further.
   The company earlier proposed acquiring the bigger American
General, its chief rival, for $50 a share, or $6.4 billion,
in cash and stock. That offer, which demanded a response
within 48 hours, was subsequently withdrawn upon being
rebuffed by American General.
   Undeterred, Torchmark then said it planned to solicit
proxies for a proposed slate of nominees to American
General's board. But American General, arguing that the
nominations missed a deadline, last week won a court-ordered
injunction to keep Torchmark at bay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conoco Orders 2 Tankers
   For Oil With Double Hulls
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   DD
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- A major oil company said it ordered the
construction of two crude tankers designed to help reduce the
chances of an oil spill.
   Conoco Inc., a unit of Du Pont Co., said it wanted the
tankers to be equipped with double hulls, even as new
regulations are being debated concerning the need for such
safety devices. Constantine S. Nicandros, Conoco's chief
executive officer, said the company was going ahead with its
plans regardless of the regulatory outcome.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There is much debate over whether having two hulls would
have prevented the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska last
year, but requiring double-hull vessels nonetheless has been
the focus of tanker safety. Mr. Nicandros wouldn't disclose
the cost of the two tankers, but he said having two hulls
costs 15% more than a single-hull vessel.
   Most oil tankers have a single hull, or skin, to hold oil.
With two hulls, there is an extra layer of protection.
Depending on a tanker's size, it can easily cost $50 million
or more.
   Conoco, which operates several refineries, also said it
would attempt to reduce its toxic air emissions and hazardous
wastes by one-third over the next few years as part of a
broader environmental initiative. Initially, Mr. Nicandros
said the initiative would cost Conoco more than $50 million
annually.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Avions Marcel Dassault-Breguet:
   Group Profit Climbed 36%
   In '89; Revenue Was Flat
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AVM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Avions Marcel Dassault-Breguet Aviation S.A. said group
profit grew 36% to 582.5 million francs ($102.5 million) in
1989 from 427.7 million francs the previous year.
   The French airline company said 1989 earnings came to
500.2 million francs after payments to minority interests.
There was no comparable figure available for 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avions Dassault's revenue was nearly unchanged, however,
at 17.36 billion francs, compared with 17.66 billion francs
in 1988.
   The company said its flat earnings figures reflected
orders taken in 1989 that are scheduled to be filled in 1990.
Thus, revenue from the sales will appear in this year's
results.
   The company said it had booked orders valued at 16.55
billion francs in 1989, representing a 3.6% rise from 15.963
billion francs the year before.
   Analysts said aircraft-company results often are skewed
depending on the flow of orders received and orders filled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quantum Chemical
   Must Pay Damages,
   Federal Judge Says
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CUE
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal judge ordered Quantum Chemical Corp.
to pay damages totaling $24.3 million to Delta Holdings Inc.
for breach of contract and fraud.
   Delta sued in 1985 in connection with its purchase of
Elkhorn Insurance Co. from Quantum in September 1983. Delta,
a New Jersey holding company, paid Quantum $18 million for
the Elkhorn subsidiary, which was later renamed Delta America
Re Insurance Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In federal court in Manhattan, Judge John Keenan said that
Elkhorn clearly was insolvent at the time of the purchase by
Delta, which is closely held. He said that Elkhorn's books
and records understated Elkhorn's liability for loss reserves
by a substantial amount and that the understatement of the
reserves wasn't disclosed to Delta.
   The judge said that Delta had understandably relied on
false representations by Quantum about the subsidiary's
financial condition.
   Judge Keenan ordered that the sale be rescinded. In
addition to returning the $18 million purchase price, Quantum
also must pay $6.3 million to cover the amount that Delta
ended up contributing to the insolvent subsidiary. Quantum,
based in New York, also was ordered to pay interest on the
damages.
   Joseph Dailey, an attorney for Quantum, formerly known as
National Distillers &amp; Chemical Corp., said it is likely that
his client will appeal the decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lomas Financial Corp.:
   Mortgage-Service Portfolio
   To Be Bought by Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Lomas Financial Corp., Dallas, said its Lomas Mortgage USA
subsidiary agreed to buy the $3.5 billion mortgage-servicing
portfolio of Bright Mortgage Co. from Resolution Trust Corp.
   A spokeswoman said the government agency will receive $33
million in cash for the portfolio, leaving it with $100
million in Bright Mortgage assets still to liquidate. It said
Lomas was one of three bidders for the portfolio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lomas said the purchase will increase its
mortgage-servicing portfolio by 17% to $24.5 billion from $21
billion and marks its largest acquisition in recent years.
   Lomas Financial, which is operating under protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code,
said it already has received court approval for the
transaction. It said the move will allow its core
mortgage-banking business to continue to grow.
   Bright Mortgage previously was a unit of Bright Banc, a
Dallas-based savings and loan that was sold by regulators in
early February to Banc One Corp. of Columbus, Ohio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hachette S.A.:
   Consolidated Net, Revenue
   For Last Year Show Gains
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The publishing group Hachette S.A. said its consolidated
profit after payments to minority interests rose 43% to 469
million French francs ($83.3 million) in 1989 from 328
million francs a year earlier.
   The Paris-based group noted, however, that nonrecurring
items accounted for a big portion of the gain, and said its
earnings excluding these elements would have been 331 million
francs, up 2.5% from 323 million francs in 1988. Hachette's
consolidated 1989 revenue was 29.06 billion francs, up 19%
from 24.41 billion francs in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The adjusted figures are in line with the group's previous
forecasts that financial costs associated with its
acquisition of the U.S. publishing groups Grolier Inc. and
Diamandis Communications Inc. would leave 1989 earnings
little changed from a year earlier.
   Following the earnings improvement, Hachette said it plans
to boost its net annual dividend to 3.90 francs a share from
3.30 francs. Payment and record dates weren't specified.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Ennis Business Forms' Hefty Profits Charm
   Some Analysts but Others Are Cool to Stock
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   EBF SREG DPX WCS
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Does Ennis Business Forms resemble a
fast-moving sports car or an old jalopy that's running out of
gas? It depends on whether you're looking at profit or at
sales.
   In terms of profitability, few can hold a candle to the
Ennis, Texas, company, which sells business forms mostly to
small concerns in rural areas and towns. Its return on equity
has been more than 30% in recent years. Per-share earnings
have been growing at 20% a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But sales growth has been pokey. For the five years
through 1989, sales grew only about 4% a year. In fiscal
1990, which ended Feb. 28, analysts estimate sales were about
$140 million, compared with $108 million way back in fiscal
1984.
   The slow sales growth doesn't bother enthusiasts, who have
bid Ennis stock up to a market value of about $317 million,
some 2.3 times sales and more than 15 times earnings. Fredric
E. Russell, a Tulsa, Okla., money manager, has about 7% of
his portfolio in Ennis, owning close to 1% of the company. He
admires the company's skill in expanding earnings, thinks its
large network of close to 30,000 dealers is underappreciated
by Wall Street and expects Ennis to benefit from lower paper
prices this year.
   Another big Ennis fan is money manager Charles Allmon, who
has owned the stock for years in managed accounts and now
holds Ennis shares valued at around $4 million in Growth
Stock Outlook Trust, a closed-end fund he manages. Ennis "is
a classy operator. We've never sold a share," Mr. Allmon
says. "They have a great balance sheet, great return on
equity and they are buying back shares, which I always like
to see. Ennis is going to grow in good times and bad."
   Indeed, share buy-backs have been a support for Ennis's
stock, which closed yesterday at 24. Early last year the
board authorized Ennis to spend $5 million to buy back stock;
when that was done, directors in December authorized $10
million more.
   What about that slow sales growth? "With a return of 35%
on equity, they don't have to grow that fast," Mr. Allmon
says. "They're not a hot-shot outfit trying to grow at 15-20%
a year. They keep on growing at a steady pace."
   Others are less sanguine. Marty McDevitt, analyst with
Cleary, Gull, Reiland, McDevitt &amp; Collopy in Milwaukee, gives
Ennis a weak buy ("accumulate") rating, but gives stronger
buy ratings to competitors Wallace Business Forms, Standard
Register and Duplex Products.
   David Henwood, director of research at Raymond James &amp;
Associates, says Ennis has "the worst revenue growth in the
industry." As a result, he says, "I don't think (future)
earnings growth or dividend growth will be anywhere near as
fast" as past growth was. "I certainly wouldn't recommend
it."
   In some ways, Ennis is like the Boston Celtics, who are
often criticized as too old and too slow, but somehow manage
to perform well at playoff time. The slow growth "does worry
me," says one money manager who owns the stock. "But Ennis
has had problems with slow sales growth for several years
now, and it still keeps bringing earnings down to the bottom
line."
   Kenneth A. McCrady, Ennis's chairman and chief executive
officer, says, "I assure you that no one is more concerned
than I am about our recent inability to grow sales. We
absolutely realize that we cannot continue to grow earnings
at a faster rate than sales."
   In the past few months, he says, Ennis has revised its
incentive plans so that both dealers and plant managers are
compensated partly based on sales growth. (Ennis's dealers
are all independents, mainly printing shops, independent
business-forms dealers and stationery stores.)
   In another move to expand volume, Mr. McCrady says, Ennis
will experiment with "advertising specialties" such as mugs,
T-shirts and other items small businesses can use to
publicize themselves. Ennis won't manufacture these, but will
buy them from others and use its extensive distribution
network to sell them.
   "We have no illusions that we can grow sales 20% a year,
as we've grown earnings-per-share over the past five years,"
Mr. McCrady says. And he doesn't think profit margins can be
pushed much higher: They're already nearly 23% pretax and
more than 14% after-tax. Accordingly, "It's unlikely that we
will continue to experience that kind of earnings growth."
Nevertheless, he says he thinks Ennis, partly by improving
sales, can maintain its unusually high profitability, with a
return on equity of 30% or more.
   ---
   Ennis Business Forms
   (NYSE; Symbol: EBF)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Business forms, paper items
                                                                                                       

   Nine months Nov. 30, 1989:
   Sales: $97.6 million
   Net income: $14.8 million; or $1.11 a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Nov. 30, 1989:
   Per-share earnings: 38 cents vs. 32 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   11,749 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 13.3 million
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: All share figures are adjusted for a 3-for-2 stock
split paid on July 24, 1989
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Color Systems Technology Inc.:
   Financial Change Completed
   As Creditors Get 40% Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CLR GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Color Systems Technology Inc., Los Angeles, said it
completed a financial restructuring, giving its major
creditors a 40% stake in exchange for a reduction in debt.
   Color Systems said the agreement cut its debt to $7.4
million from $26.7 million. In exchange, the company will
issue about 3.5 million new common shares to its creditors,
including General Electric Co.'s General Electric Pension
Trust, U.S. Concord Inc., Equitable Lomas Leasing and
Leasetec Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Color Systems has been negotiating with creditors since
last year, after it defaulted on a loan with General Electric
Pension Trust. The trust took control of, and later sold,
Color Systems' 85-title film library.
   Buddy Young, president and chief executive officer of
Color Systems, cautioned that the future success of the
concern depends on the development and expansion of its
primary business of converting black-and-white film to color
videotape.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Street Isn't
   Snapping Up
   Drexel Staff
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   NW PA BCS PWJ RR SB JEFG BSC MER AXP SLH
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Scan the business press these days, and you're
bound to see a story about a former Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc. employee landing a job somewhere on Wall Street.
   But nearly two months after Drexel's parent filed for
bankruptcy-law protection, only about 20% of all former
Drexel employees have found work in the securities business,
industry executives and executive search firms estimate.
About 4,500 of Drexel's 5,300 employees have been fired since
the parent filed for bankruptcy-law protection in February
and Drexel began liquidating the firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many of Drexel's top professionals have landed on their
feet, of course. As many as three-quarters of the firm's
investment bankers, traders, salesmen and analysts have found
work at other securities firms or launched investment
boutiques, industry executives say.
   The rest of Drexel's professionals, however, plus the bulk
of its support staff, haven't yet found work, they say.
(Drexel's support staff, which includes clerks, trading
assistants, back-office operations personnel and others, made
up about two-thirds of its work force. While no one has
tracked whether these employees have found work outside the
securities business, many are expected to seek employment
within the industry.) And with Wall Street mired in a steep
recession -- nearly 45,000 securities employees nationwide
have been laid off since the October 1987 stock-market crash
-- analysts predict some Drexel staff members may never work
in the securities industry again.
   "The big producers that can carry clients and revenue with
them" haven't had much trouble finding work on Wall Street,
says Joan C. Zimmerman, executive vice president at GZ
Stephens Inc., a New York executive-search firm. But,
"There's still a fairly significant body of individuals who
have not yet found homes," she adds.
   Drexel, for its part, says it hasn't tracked where former
employees have landed. "There's no way to pin it down," a
spokesman says, although he adds that most of Drexel's
professionals have quickly found jobs elsewhere.
   Either way, the mass exodus from Drexel is unprecedented:
Never have so many employees of a major securities firm been
dumped on the job market so suddenly. That's because a firm
the size of Drexel has never disintegrated so quickly. And
while former Drexel employees will probably continue to
filter back into the securities business, the timing of
Drexel's collapse couldn't have been worse.
   "In a roaring bull market, the bottom half gets swept
along," says Arthur Kirsch, a former top Drexel equity
executive who quickly landed a job as chief executive officer
of County NatWest Securities USA. "In a tough environment,
the top half wins and the bottom half has to search around."
   County NatWest has been a big recipient of Drexel talent:
the National Westminster Bank PLC unit has hired 60
professionals -- or fully 20% -- of Drexel's 300-person
equity group.
   But no Wall Street firm has taken on more Drexel people
than Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. The Primerica Corp.
unit has hired about 815 Drexel employees in the past year --
about 100 of them in the past two months.
   Most of those pre-collapse hirings by Smith Barney came
after Drexel decided to get out of the retail, or
individual-investor, brokerage business; Smith Barney bought
16 Drexel offices and hired about 400 brokers, the bulk of
Drexel's brokerage chain.
   Since Drexel's collapse, Smith Barney has hired 17 members
of a Drexel money-management group, led by former Drexel
director Maurits E. Edersheim; Drexel's 23-member
financial-restructuring unit, and such analysts as John
Reidy, a well-known media and broadcasting analyst.
   Drexel's Chicago-based grain futures department of 29
employees also resurfaced at Smith Barney, as well as 15
people from Drexel's financial-futures group.
   Yesterday, Barclays de Zoete Wedd got into the act. The
investment-banking and securities arm of British bank
Barclays Group said it hired several former Drexel senior
stock analysts and support staff to beef up its international
securities business.
   Among the more highly visible Barclays hires: economist
Richard Hoey and investment strategist Abby Joseph Cohen.
   But it's not only investment bankers and stock-market
professionals that have landed jobs. Drexel's demise has also
caused ripples in the commodities industry. Although Drexel
was best known for trading and underwriting high-risk,
high-yield junk bonds, it had a respected commodities-trading
operation that has now scattered to other firms, particularly
PaineWebber Group Inc.
   Much of Drexel's cocoa, energy and metals groups -- 28
people including metals economist Frederick Demler -- were
snapped up by PaineWebber. PaineWebber also hired as vice
chairman G. Christian Anderson, a top Drexel investment
banker, as well as 15 other Drexel investment bankers, nine
in in New York and six in Los Angeles.
   Many smaller firms have benefited. Much of Drexel's
coffee-trading and sugar-trading groups, with a handful of
employees each, went to Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc. in Chicago;
that firm says it has overnight become a leading coffee and
sugar trader. Rodman &amp; Renshaw says it has hired 25 former
Drexel employees in the past two months, and 25 before that.
Rodman &amp; Renshaw's chairman, Kurt Karmin, is a former Drexel
senior vice president.
   "I felt like a scavenger," says Mr. Karmin. But "it was an
opportunity for us to get very good people; we're only
helping people."
   Drexel's once-bustling Beverly Hills hub has helped
bolster the West Coast operations of some Wall Street firms.
One-third of the 35 former Drexel staffers hired by
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Inc. work in its Los Angeles
office.
   Among the most coveted Drexel employees, of course, have
been its junk-bond staff. Drexel virtually created and then
dominated the market for these high-risk, high-yield bonds.
Salomon Inc. has been a big winner, snatching several of
Drexel's junk experts. Earlier this week, Salomon also bought
Drexel's list of junk-bond clients and other junk-bond
financial data.
   Jefferies &amp; Co. also has hired several of Drexel's
junk-bond staff members, including Marc Rapaport, Jess
Ravich, Joseph Radecki, David Sydorick, Roy Johnson and David
Feinman. Jefferies, the brokerage unit of Jefferies Group,
hired two corporate finance professionals, too: Jeffry
Weinhuff and Bruce Raben, the firm says.
   CRT Government Securities Ltd. recently hired 10 former
Drexel bond professionals, including the bulk of its highly
regarded zero-coupon bond desk and John Norris, former
president of Drexel's government-securities unit.
   But some of Wall Street's biggest firms have refrained
from hiring large numbers of top Drexel employees. Bear
Stearns Cos. has hired about 20 former Drexel staffers, but
only a handful of managing directors, including Joel Gold and
Peter Rothschild in corporate finance.
   Some large firms that have stayed away from Drexel
employees are busy laying off their own. Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
hasn't been too interested in Drexel talent, although it did
investment banker Alison Mass, who at Drexel served as a top
aide to merger chief Leon Black, helping him arrange
financing for takeover bids.
   American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings
Inc. says it has hired only about a dozen former Drexel
traders, salesmen and researchers. Shearson is
"cherry-picking more than anything else," a spokesman says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Next PLC:
   British Retailer Had Loss
   Of $76.4 Million in Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   U.NXT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Next PLC said it had a pretax loss of #46.7 million ($76.4
million) in the year ended Jan. 31, reflecting a downturn in
consumer spending and the slower growth of sales compared
with retail costs.
   The pretax loss at the British retailer compares with a
year-earlier pretax profit of #62.3 million. Market
expectations had called for pretax profit of about #28
million to #32 million. In trading on London's Stock Exchange
yesterday, Next dropped 8 pence to 71 pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said per-share earnings fell to to 8.4 pence
from 10.9 pence. The per-share dividend was sliced 36% to 4.7
pence from last year's 7.4-pence payout.
   Sales dropped 16% to #949.2 million from #1.14 billion.
   Next reported exceptional costs of #73.1 million relating
to a reorganization program that involved layoffs in both the
Next Retail and Home Shopping operations.
   Extraordinary profit was #53.7 million from the sale of
various non-core businesses, the company said.
   Profit attributable to holders dropped to #27.8 million
from #177.5 million, as operating profit slumped to #36
million from #92.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Herman Miller Inc.'s
   Chief of Operations,
   President Quits Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   MLHR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ZEELAND, Mich. -- Herman Miller Inc. said its president
and chief operating officer, Edward R. Simon Jr., is
resigning, effective June 1, and that another top official is
taking early retirement. No successor was named for either
man.
   Mr. Simon's resignation came two years after the furniture
maker appointed Richard H. Ruch as its chief executive
officer, putting him above Mr. Simon, who has been president
since 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, Mr. Simon, 52 years old, said "the
direction of the corporation is best served by reducing
duplication and overlapping responsibilities in management. .
. . I recognize that my resignation will provide {Ruch} with
an opportunity for further alignment of the organization,
eliminate confusion and provide a clearer direction for the
company."
   Mr. Simon wasn't available for comment and the company
didn't offer any further details beyond the statement other
than to say that its financial position is solid and neither
the resignation nor the early retirement was forced.
   Herman Miller also said that David L. Armstrong, its
senior vice president for sales and marketing, is taking
early retirement but didn't specify when. Mr. Armstrong is 54
and has been with Herman Miller 11 years, the company said.
   The effect of the two officers leaving is difficult to
assess. Mr. Simon worked for Herman Miller for some 20 years,
during which he helped establish an internal data processing
and information system for the company, led a financial
turnaround at a subsidiary, and helped set up a global
distribution network. Mr. Armstrong directed the introduction
of several new products and served as executive vice
president of Herman Miller Research Corp.
   Herman Miller stock closed yesterday at $19 a share, down
25 cents in national over-the-counter trading.
   In the 1970s and early 1980s, Herman Miller stock was a
highflier, riding the crest of a rapidly growing market for
office furniture. Then the market for office furniture
slowed, causing a "shock" in Herman Miller's earnings and
sales growth, said Wallace W. Epperson, an analyst with Wheat
First Securities in Richmond, Va.
   For the third quarter ended March 3, Herman Miller earned
$11.5 million, or 47 cents a share, on sales of $200.7
million. In the year-earlier quarter, net income totaled
$10.9 million, or 45 cents a share, on sales of $192.6
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News:
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE THRIFT BAILOUT AGENCY flopped in its second attempt to
sell 40-year bonds, a sign that investors aren't ready for
bonds that have extra-long maturities. The $3.5 billion
auction of so-called "bailout bonds" went poorly despite a
higher-than-expected average yield of 8.89%.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury-bond prices tumbled in reaction to the S&amp;L bond
auction. Stocks edged higher, while the dollar fell against
the mark and yen.
   ---
   William Farley plans to surrender majority ownership of
West Point-Pepperell because he is unable to pay for the
$1.56 billion acquisition. The move follows last year's
bitter takeover battle with the textile giant.
   ---
   Lockheed's board easily won its proxy battle against
Dallas investor Harold Simmons. But a slate of Simmons-backed
initiatives also was approved, signaling holders want more
say in the defense firm's revival.
   ---
   The Big Three auto makers are expected to post a 70% drop
in first-quarter earnings, reflecting efforts to clear
bloated inventories. The strategy included a 26.5% reduction
in quarterly production and sales incentives averaging $1,000
a vehicle.
   ---
   Merrill Lynch has tightened its grip on how it credits
investors' securities proceeds, which could save the firm
millions of dollars that had gone to clients. Merrill brokers
are complaining about the move, though it is practiced by
other big brokerages.
   ---
   Bell Atlantic said its Bell of Pennsylvania phone unit
agreed to pay $42 million to settle charges it used
"deceptive techniques" to sell customers more services than
they wanted.
   ---
   Eastern Airlines' unsecured creditors asked a bankruptcy
court to remove the carrier's management and appoint a
trustee to run the troubled Texas Air subsidiary.
   ---
   Credit Suisse's parent is discussing an alliance with Bank
Leu, paving the way for a long-awaited consolidation of the
Swiss banking market.
   ---
   Two Mitsubishi Group firms plan to reunite despite
expected criticism that they are trying to re-establish their
prewar monopoly in Japan.
   ---
   OPEC is growing nervous about the continued slide in oil
prices. But the group is unlikely to take any action before
late May, when it holds its regular midyear conference.
   ---
   Time Warner's long-term public debt was placed on S&amp;P's
CreditWatch with negative implications due to its financing
pact with Pathe.
   ---
   Massachusetts announced steps to help firms obtain loans
amid growing concern that a credit crunch may be worsening
the state's economic woes.
   ---
   Motorola posted a modest 3.3% in first-quarter earnings,
but signs that its computer-chip business is rebounding sent
its stock higher.
   ---
   Westinghouse Electric reported that first-quarter earnings
rose 11%, though revenue dropped slightly.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 136,020,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2731.08, up 9.01; transportation 1176.39, up 5.34; utilities
213.03, off 1.07.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3327.03, off
10.65.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.59, up 0.70; spot
index 134.90, up 0.53.
   Dollar: 157.60 yen, off 0.63; 1.6755 marks, off 0.0180.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc.:
   Nikkei Put Warrant Offer
   Is Postponed by the Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., New York, said an offering of seven
million put warrants on the Nikkei index of 225 stocks on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange has been postponed.
   A Morgan Stanley spokesman said the offering, which was to
be made by Morgan Stanley Group Inc., was reportedly
postponed because of the recent volatility in the Japanese
stock market. In general, increased volatility raises the
price of warrants, making the option-like instruments more
difficult to sell. Yesterday, in Tokyo, the Nikkei index --
which has plummeted 23.9% this year -- rose 2.5% after
falling 3.8% Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, syndicate officials at PaineWebber Inc. said
they plan to price next week a similar offering by
PaineWebber Group Inc. The firm is slated to offer five
million Nikkei stock average put warrants and 3.5 million
Nikkei stock average call warrants.
   A put warrant is an option to sell a security at a
specified price, usually within a limited period. A call is
an option to buy a security at a specified price, also
usually within a certain period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Washington Bancorp.:
   Group Seeks Lower Price
   For Company After Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WWBC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Washington Bancorp. reported a first-quarter loss of $5.7
million, or 80 cents a share. The loss prompted an investor
group that has agreed to buy the company to demand a lower
price.
   A year ago, the bank holding company had net of $3.6
million, or 50 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   WBC Acquistion Corp., which agreed in March to purchase
the company for $19.20 a share, said it remains interested,
but that the agreed-upon price is "no longer realistic." Both
companies said discussions are continuing.
   Washington Bancorp. said the $5.7 million loss included
special charges of about $5.5 million.
   In addition, the company added $3 million to loan-loss
reserves, compared with a $1.8 million addition a year ago.
Reserves totaled $40.4 million, compared with $45.7 million a
year ago.
   At the end of the quarter, the company's nonperforming
loans totaled $101.3 million, from about $60 million at year
end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economoy:
   Big Three Expected to Post Profit Plunge
   ---
   Closings, Incentives Took
   First-Quarter Toll
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY J.MZD J.MOT NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The Big Three U.S. auto makers cured most of
their car and truck inventory headaches in the first quarter
but the medicine had the bitter side effect of sharply
reduced earnings.
   General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp.
shut down virtually all of their North American
automotive-assembly plants in the first two weeks of January
to clear out backed-up car and truck supplies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The strategy helped slice first-quarter production 26.5%
from year-earlier levels. But the cuts, along with sales
incentives that averaged $1,000 a vehicle, also slashed the
auto makers' combined first-quarter earnings about 70%,
according to analysts' estimates.
   Big Three net income for the first three months of this
year could fall to roughly $1 billion, analysts said. GM,
Ford and Chrysler are expected to disclose their
first-quarter results later this month or in early May.
   In the 1989 first quarter, the Big Three posted net of
$3.54 billion, the highest combined earnings for any quarter
in history. The record cost them dearly, however, because the
heavy production that generated the earnings led to an
oversupply that plagued auto makers -- and their dealers --
the rest of the year.
   Analysts said they think Chrysler suffered the most during
the 1990 first quarter because it doesn't have strong
overseas operations to buffer difficulties at home. Analysts
are almost universally predicting the No. 3 auto maker will
just manage to break even for the January-March period. Top
Chrysler officials earlier this year hinted that the No. 3
auto maker would probably avoid posting a first-quarter loss,
despite relatively weak sales and production.
   Chrysler reported a $664 million net loss for the fourth
quarter of 1989 after a $577 million charge for plant
closings, staff reductions and discontinued car lines. In the
first quarter of 1989, Chrysler net was $351 million or $1.50
a share.
   Both Ford and GM were substantially aided by
stronger-than-expected European vehicle sales in the first
quarter, analysts said. But the analysts' earnings
predictions for Ford and GM varied widely. The biggest wild
card is the effect of turmoil in the Brazilian economy, which
virtually halted the auto makers' output there in late March.
   Estimates for Ford's first-quarter earnings range from
$710 million, or $1.55 a share, to $465 million, or $1 a
share. Estimates for GM range between $776 million, or $1.10
a share, and $419 million, or 53 cents a share.
   For the 1989 first quarter, Ford reported a January-March
record of $1.64 billion, or $3.44 a share; GM recorded net of
$1.55 billion, or $2.37 a share.
   For Chrysler, at least, the pain may not have ended last
month. Chrysler closed four of its seven U.S. assembly plants
the first week in April, cutting output by some 15,000 cars
and Jeeps. Chrysler also is shuttering a Canadian car plant
for all of April and will lose about four weeks of output
each at its two minivan plants when it closes the facilities
this summer to retool for 1991 models.
   Despite Chrysler's continuing cost-cutting efforts, these
and other factors will continue to damp earnings until at
least the fourth quarter, although analysts say it's too soon
to tell by how much.
   Still, now Chrysler appears to be more optimistic about
second-quarter sales and production than it was a month ago.
Industry sources say the auto maker is planning to build
201,000 cars and 160,000 trucks in the U.S. during
April-June, compared with the 190,000 and 150,000 it was
scheduling in March. The current forecasts are still 24.8%
and 16.2%, respectively, below 1989 levels, however.
   Ford is scheduling second-quarter car output 5.7% below a
year ago at 446,000 vehicles, while truck production should
fall 4.3% to about 422,000 light-duty, medium-duty and
heavy-duty vehicles. GM's estimated second-quarter car
production should fall 12% below 1989; truck output, however,
is expected to rise 6.5%, partly because the auto maker is
building more minivans.
   "The good news is that the sales decline apparently
bottomed during the fourth quarter of 1989," said Robert L.
Rewey, vice president of Ford's North American Automotive
operations. "The bad news is that the recovery likely will be
quite gradual."
   He said Ford still is forecasting that sales for the
entire industry will total 14.5 million cars and trucks in
1990, about the level of 1989, with sales in the second half
of the year "somewhat stronger than the first, assuming a
pickup in economic growth from its present sluggish pace."
   The 26.5% cut in Big Three first-quarter output left GM,
Ford and Chrysler reasonably well-positioned for the second
quarter and the second half of 1990, with car inventories
falling to an average 69-day level at the end of March,
compared with 78 days on Feb. 28 and 82 days a year earlier,
according to Ward's Automotive Reports, an industry
statistical publication. A return to the sluggish sales of
February, however, would put the companies' current output
schedules in jeopardy. Here's what industry sources say the
10 major U.S. auto makers are currently planning to build in
the second quarter:
                                                                                                       

                           CARS
                                  1990      1989     %Chg.
                                                                                                       

    GM ......................   798,000   907,018   - 12.0
    Ford ....................   446,000   473,160   -  5.7
    Chrysler ................   201,000   267,461   - 24.8
    Honda ...................   112,094    98,283   + 14.1
    Toyota ..................    56,320    33,604   + 67.6
    Nummi ...................    53,200    53,554   -  0.7
    Mazda ...................    49,827    56,435   - 11.7
    DiamStar ................    35,800    17,139   +108.9
    Nissan ..................    19,822    32,129   - 38.3
    SIA .....................     7,400         0      ...
    Total ................... 1,779,463 1,938,783   -  8.2
                                                                                                       

                          TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

    GM ......................   449,000   421,725   +  6.5
    Ford ....................   422,000   440,988   -  4.3
    Chrysler ................   160,000   190,854   - 16.2
    Nissan ..................    40,448    30,265   + 33.6
    SIA .....................     5,800         0      ...
    Total ................... 1,077,248 1,083,832   -  0.6
                                                                                                       

   Japanese-based auto makers and Japanese-U.S. joint
ventures will account for roughly 19% of the expected
second-quarter total, down from almost 23% in January-March,
but ahead of the 15% they took in the second quarter of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV RAISED the possibility of imposing direct rule
over Lithuania.
   As the president of the breakaway Baltic republic blamed
"ultra-rightist" forces for Moscow's threat to use
unspecified political and economic measures against
Lithuania, the Soviet leader warned that he might impose
direct presidential rule in the event of "civilian conflict
or confrontation." Such a step could include martial law and
dissolving the republic's legislature. Gorbachev, who noted
that Lithuania's independence bid could be costly to
international peace, also said that the Kremlin was still
striving to find a political solution to the situation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With opposition expected to a planned economic package,
Gorbachev said his advisory council would meet Saturday to
discuss speeding market changes.
   ---
   Palestinian extremists in Beirut freed a French woman, a
Belgian man and their young daughter after holding them
hostage for more than two years. The three were taken to
Paris following their release by a Libyan-backed group headed
by Abu Nidal. The move came a month after France returned
three jet fighters to Gadhafi.
   ---
   Walesa confirmed that he would run for Poland's presidency
in the country's next elections, according to the state-owned
PAP news agency. A top aide to the Solidarity founder said
Walesa was prepared to force President Jaruzelski to resign
because of the slow pace of political and economic change,
Reuters news agency reported.
   ---
   NASA scrubbed the launch of the space shuttle Discovery
and said it could be as long as two weeks before a new
attempt to carry the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope into
orbit. Space agency officials at Cape Canaveral in Florida
said the countdown was halted by a faulty power unit in the
spacecraft's steering system.
   ---
   Bush said there is "an awful lot to be done" to resolve
U.S.-Soviet arms-control differences before next month's
superpower summit. The president, in Canada for a meeting
with Prime Minister Mulroney, also said that "should things
deteriorate in Lithuania, it would be extraordinarily
difficult" for U.S.-Soviet ties to improve quickly.
   ---
   Federal safety officials concluded that lapses by Boeing
Co., United Airlines and the FAA contributed to the February
1989 failure of a cargo door on a jetliner over the Pacific
Ocean. The resulting decompression caused several feet of
cabin floor to collapse, sending nine passengers to their
deaths.
   ---
   East German legislators haggled over unfilled cabinet
posts, delaying an agreement on East Europe's first freely
elected coalition. The last-minute wrangling reportedly
centered on the post of economic minister, who would play a
crucial role in the nation's change to a free-market system
and in its reunification with West Germany.
   ---
   Greece's Mitsotakis was designated premier and asked by
the president to form a new government. The conservative
leader, whose New Democracy party won 150 seats in the
300-member legislature in Sunday's nationwide elections,
secured the backing of a centrist deputy for a majority.
   ---
   Health researchers have discovered new evidence linking
stress on the job to high blood pressure. The study found
that men who hold jobs with demands over which they have
little control are more likely to have high blood pressure
and to sustain physical changes to the heart than men who
don't face such strains.
   ---
   India's prime minister said the country should be
"psychologically prepared" for an armed conflict with
Pakistan over the disputed Kashmir valley. Singh made his
remarks in New Delhi's Parliament after Moslem secessionists
in the valley killed a Hindu industrialist held since Friday.
   ---
   Western travelers in Beijing said two envoys sent last
week to calm Islamic unrest in China's remote northwest were
killed. Security forces reportedly killed about 50 people in
subsequent riots. Regional officials have declined to comment
on the reports.
   ---
   The Census Bureau reported that the number of men in the
U.S. grew faster than the population of women in the 1980s,
something that hasn't happened since the first decade of the
century. Death rates for men declined more rapidly than for
women, but the report showed that women continue to outnumber
men in the country.
   ---
   Mongolia's Communist Party opened a meeting in Ulan Bator
with an appeal for political and economic restructuring in an
attempt to maintain its 70-year-old grip on power amid
growing pro-democracy demands. The three-day meeting comes
ahead of planned multiparty elections.
   ---
   Mandela will lead an 11-member African National Congress
delegation in talks next month with the government on
black-white power sharing. Following the May 2-4 discussions,
the black nationalist leader will embark on a series of
foreign trips, including stops in the U.S. and the Soviet
Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- SunTrust Banks Inc.:
   First-Quarter Earnings Rose
   Despite Widening Problems
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SunTrust Banks Inc.'s first-quarter earnings rose to 69
cents a share, or $87.9 million, despite continued growth in
its problem assets.
   The regional banking concern's first-quarter profit, which
was in line with most analysts' expectations, compares with
the year-earlier $84 million, or 65 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Atlanta-based SunTrust, beset by further loan problems in
Tennessee and mounting real-estate concern in Florida and
Georgia, charged off $29.3 million in bad loans, a 51% jump
from the $19.4 million charged off in the 1989 first quarter.
   In addition to the charge-offs, the $31 billion-asset
company increased its reserve for possible loan losses to
$351 million in the period from $342.3 million at year-end
1989. The increase relects a 19% rise in nonperforming
assets, which includes $323.8 million in problem loans, to
$415.4 million during the latest quarter from $350.4 million
at the end of 1989.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
SunTrust closed at $21.75, up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Viacom International Inc.:
   Showtime Acquires Rights
   To `Ninja Turtles' Movie
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VIA NLN CBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Showtime Networks Inc. acquired the exclusive rights to a
package of movies from New Line Cinema Corp., the producers
of the hit movie "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles." Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Other than the "Turtles" movie, the package comprises
seven titles, including "House Party," "A Nightmare on Elm
Street 5," "Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3" and "Book of Love."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to a Showtime spokeswoman, the unit of Viacom
International Inc. will broadcast the "Turtles" film next
spring. The first film to air on Showtime will be from the
"Nightmare" series in July.
   The deal between a pay-cable network and a studio comes
two days after MCA Inc.'s Universal Pictures unit agreed to
provide CBS Inc. with all of its direct 1989 releases for
about $50 million. It was the first time in more than a
decade that a television network won first-run broadcast
rights from a Hollywood studio. Usually, movies first appear
on cable TV.
   Separately, CBS said new, one-hour animated episodes of
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" will join the TV network's
Saturday morning line-up beginning in September. The CBS
series won't affect the weekday half-hour animated series
based on the four comic book characters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Newell Co.:
   Holder of Lancaster Colony
   May Seek Control of Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   NWL LANC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Newell Co. said it owns a 5.6% stake in Lancaster Colony
Corp. and may try to take control of the Columbus, Ohio-based
specialty food, glassware and auto accessories company.
   Newell, a home-products concern in Freeport, Ill., said it
purchased the 675,000 shares for $20.47 a share, or $13.8
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Newell said it might seek representation on Lancaster
Colony's board, propose a merger, or seek control of the
company.
   Lancaster Colony, makers of products ranging from pasta
and salad dressing to car-floor mats and gun racks, said it
would fight any takeover attempt.
   John B. Gerlach, president of Lancaster Colony, said
Newell officials called him Monday to request a meeting. But
"we're not the least bit interested in talking," he said.
   Son of the company founder, Mr. Gerlach said he's the
largest shareholder, owning about 30% of Lancaster Colony's
11.8 million shares outstanding.
   Newell and its Anchor Hocking Corp. subsidiary have done
business with Lancaster. In 1986, Newell acquired Lancaster's
aluminum cookware division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCR
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   COUNTRYWIDE FUNDING Corp. -- Moody's Investors Service
Inc. lowered its rating on commercial paper of this Pasadena,
Calif., mortgage banker to Not Prime from Prime-3. The rating
agency also confirmed its Ba-2 rating on medium-term notes of
the company's parent, Countrywide Credit Industries Inc.
About $200 million of long-term debt is affected. Moody's
said the action reflects "the ongoing consolidation of the
residential mortgage market and the potential effect of that
trend on the firm's business outlook." Moody's noted,
however, that Countrywide "has an experienced management as
well as an established, low-cost mortgage-banking network.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Springs Industries Inc.:
   First-Period Net Will Drop
   By About Half, Firm Says
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SMI
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Springs Industries Inc. said its first-quarter earnings
will be about half the 86 cents a share, or $15.3 million,
reported in the same period last year.
   The Fort Mill, S.C., textile manufacturer attributed the
expected profit decrease to "continued declines in both
volume and margins in finished fabrics, and somewhat lower
margins in home furnishings and industrial segments."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year's first quarter was one of the strongest in the
company's history. That 46% increase from the 1988 period
reflected improved performance in all segments, including a
return to profitability of its finished-fabrics operations.
   The company said first-quarter earnings "should follow
more closely the pattern of 1986, 1987 and 1988, when they
were 53 cents, 51 cents and 59 cents a share, respectively."
   Analysts' 1990 earnings estimates for Springs ranged from
$3.70 to $4.10 a share. In 1989, Springs reported earnings of
$3.64 a share, or $64.9 million, on sales of $1.9 billion.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Springs shares closed at $33, down 87.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Romano Varies Menu to Cook Up Another Restaurant
   ---
   Founder of Fuddruckers Sees Tortilla
   Chain as New Recipe for Success
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   EAT
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sometime this summer, New York diners will be introduced
to four Texas Tortilla Bakery fast-food restaurants, created
by Philip J. Romano.
   If consumers go for his spicy Tex-Mex fare, the
50-year-old San Antonio, Texas, entrepreneur will have a
culinary hit on his hands. That wouldn't be unusual: Mr.
Romano created Fuddruckers, a nationwide gourmet-hamburger
chain based in San Antonio, and recently sold his Romano's
Macaroni Grill concept to Chili's Inc., Dallas, for 30 times
his investment cost.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But if the Texas Tortilla units flop, that also wouldn't
be unusual. Mr. Romano has tasted failure more than once. Yet
Mr. Romano shows that by constantly trying new concepts and
moving quickly past failures, an entrepreneur can achieve
long-term survival in even the most mercurial of industries.
   Few businesses are as risky as restaurants. With much of
the business shifting into the hands of powerful chains,
independents can be squeezed out in a heartbeat. And still
they come, thousands of new U.S. restaurateurs every year,
seeking a piece of a $200 billion-a-year market.
   Few have handled the dangers as well -- or as often -- as
Mr. Romano. He has anticipated consumer trends and shown a
knack for promotional gimmickry. Like many other
entrepreneurs, he fits no ordinary corporate mold. For
example, as the chairman of Fuddruckers, he was known to
appear at board meetings in a suit and tie -- but without
socks. When his attorney pointed out the incongruity, Mr.
Romano held out his bare hands and claimed he was wearing
hosiery to match his gloves.
   Since dropping out of the business program at Florida
Atlantic College in 1968, Mr. Romano has been a prolific
innovator. He claims to have caught the salad-bar trend early
at his first restaurant, the Nag's Head Bar in West Palm
Beach, Fla. To attract an exclusive clientele to his Key Hole
Restaurant, which he opened there in 1969, he padlocked the
door and sent keys to lawyers and other professionals. Their
secretaries could also get a free key and cheap drinks, a
gimmick that turned them into de facto salespeople for the
restaurant, which was a big hit.
   With meat prices soaring in the mid-70s, Mr. Romano jacked
up prices 30% at his Friends of Edinburgh Scottish Pub, also
in West Palm Beach. But, after printing new menus, he issued
the old ones to regular customers. They continued to pay the
old prices as long as they brought the menus along. And to
push more customers through his lunch-oriented First National
Bar &amp; Grill there, Mr. Romano had them punch time clocks and
pay by the minute.
   The tricks have usually worked, but not always. Mr.
Romano's Pasta Palace, a combination art-deco movie house and
pasta restaurant, opened in West Palm Beach in 1975, about 10
years before art deco or pasta became chic in Florida. The
restaurant closed fairly quickly.
   Mr. Romano thought he was catching the consumer wave for
lighter fare with his health-oriented 1985 entry in San
Antonio, the Stix Eating Spa. But sales fell way below his
expectations. Researchers said Stix had exceedingly loyal
customers among people who earned more than $75,000 a year;
unfortunately, only 8,000 people in San Antonio made that
much. "It was the right restaurant in the wrong place," says
Mr. Romano, who closed it.
   For a time, Fuddruckers -- founded in 1980 -- was one of
the hottest chain concepts around. But Mr. Romano
overestimated the public's willingness to shell out $5 for a
hamburger. Meanwhile, the huge McDonald's chain broadened its
menu, and rival gourmet-burger operations, such as Chili's,
quickly juggled their menus to keep a step ahead of consumer
tastes. And Mr. Romano -- this time, anyway -- wasn't fleet
enough in adjusting. In 1985, Fuddruckers had a loss of $5.4
million. Mr. Romano sold it the next year.
   Mr. Romano says the chain faltered because it drifted too
far from its original menu. As it happens, however, Mr.
Romano became a multimillionaire by selling his stake in the
company. In addition, 10 investors earned $3.5 million each
on their $15,000 investments in Fuddruckers.
   The restaurateur hasn't done badly with Romano's Macaroni
Grill, either. Starting two years ago with $150,000 of his
own money and memories of his grandfather's warm Italian
kitchen, he built a homey prototype in San Antonio with long
wooden tables and cheap jug wines. To generate excitement on
slow nights, Mr. Romano offers free meals to all patrons on
one Monday or Tuesday a month. The catch: Customers don't
know if they've come on a free night until they get their
bills. The promotion costs about $1,500 a month, far less
than the $5,000 to $6,000 that the restaurant would otherwise
spend on advertising. "I believe a restaurant should be
talked about, not advertised," Mr. Romano says.
   Chili's bought rights to the concept late last year, for
$4.5 million, and plans to open its first such unit this
fall, in north Dallas. Meanwhile, Mr. Romano has moved on to
the next challenge: selling New Yorkers his Tex-Mex fare,
meaning fajitas, soft tacos (made with flour tortillas, not
corn), burritos and refritos (refried beans). Mr. Romano says
a scarcity of soft-shell tacos in Manhattan is what prompted
him and a New York partner to raise $500,000, through a
public offering, to create Texas Tortilla Bakery Inc. to put
Texas Torilla Bakery outlets in Manhattan (Mr. Romano has a
20% stake). They'll sell soft tacos, singly and by the
bucket.
   The Texas Tortilla units -- for which no prototype exists,
not even in Texas -- face formidable hurdles in Manhattan.
There are about 12,000 competing restaurants in Manhattan,
and overhead is stiff: The company paid $100,000 to sign a
Manhattan lease and renovate the space for its first Texas
Tortilla restaurant, twice as much as a Dallas opening would
cost.
   But Mr. Romano and his partner, Arthur Powers, are
convinced that New Yorkers will embrace their promise to
provide quick service in the middle of the day. Working in
their favor will be the paucity of low-priced Mexican cuisine
in Manhattan. New York lacks large numbers of Mexican-born
residents who might open such restaurants. Some fast-food
outlets do feature Mexican food, but Mr. Romano says his
Tex-Mex fare will be new to many New Yorkers. And it will be
priced well below the fancier Mexican fare that many
Manhattan restaurants already offer.
   To promote the venture, Mr. Romano thought of giving away
scrip to his first few thousand customers, who could use it
to buy stock in the company. But he says he dropped the idea
-- as too unwieldy -- after the Securities and Exchange
Commission staff advised him that he would also have to hand
out prospectuses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   American's Frequent-Flier Plan
   Poses Some Confusing Choices
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Airlines wants to play "Let's Make A Deal" with
its frequent fliers.
   Behind Door No. 1 is a dream vacation, starting with a
free, first-class, round-trip airline ticket from New York to
Hawaii, worth $3,000. Behind Door No. 2 is a $1,200 discount
on a brand-spanking-new Toyota Cressida. Either one is yours
in exchange for 60,000 of the frequent-flier credits you have
accumulated over the years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Which would you choose? American, the nation's largest
airline, hopes fervently that some of its frequent fliers
will opt for the less-expensive Door No. 2, which will enable
American to erase at least some of its sizable liability for
unclaimed trips at a relatively low cost.
   But American's program, announced last week, uses a
confusing barter system that experts say will annoy some
travelers -- and cause others to make some ill-advised
decisions. Worse, some of the new discounts are barely
discounts at all because some merchandise is being sold at
inflated prices. Even inexperienced shoppers may do almost as
well buying the goods at stores -- without having to
relinquish their precious miles.
   "You already needed a road map to get through these
programs," says John Holland, publisher of Business Flyer
magazine. "This just makes it a lot tougher."
   American, a unit of AMR Corp., says it is only giving
frequent fliers what they asked for: a chance to win more
than just another ride in a plane. "If you take 20 trips a
year, you may not want an extra trip," says Michael Gunn,
American's senior vice president of marketing. And analysts
say that even if the plan has shortcomings, American's huge
marketing clout will force at least some competitors to copy
the program.
   Under the new plan, which American spent a year
developing, frequent fliers can earn rebates on a host of
big-ticket items listed in a glossy catalog, including cars,
computers, jewelry and even financial services. All they have
to do is give up a sizable chunk of the mileage credits they
have been hoarding for that vacation to the French Riviera.
   It's a profitable swap for American, since it may reduce
the huge amount of mileage that fliers have accumulated over
the years without forcing the airline to dole out tons of
free airline tickets to fliers who may then squeeze out
paying passengers. American declines to discuss its
liability, but the newsletter Frequent estimates the carrier
has a potential liability of 70 billion unused miles.
   American also is paying almost nothing for the new perks.
The companies selling the products cover the discounts, in
exchange for being in the widely distributed catalog. "We get
to reach just the sort of affluent people we want," says
Robert Miller, president of the Fur Vault Inc.
   But travelers may have mixed feelings. They can get some
truly unique awards: For 20,000 miles, they can buy
certificates of deposits at a lower price and higher yield
than the general public. But the awards vary widely in their
monetary value: 50,000 miles qualifies for a $1,000 discount
off a personal computer or $3,130 off a player piano. Some of
the products also must be bought at the prices listed in the
catalog, no matter how far those prices wander from store
prices.
   By cashing in 20,000 miles, for example, American's fliers
can chop 35% off the $4,164 price of a Baldwin floor clock.
But Ken Klopp, a divisional vice president for Baldwin Piano
&amp; Organ Co., concedes the same clock sells for 20% to 35% off
at many outlets anyway. "Obviously, it's not a good deal at
20,000 miles" in some cases, he says, quickly adding that a
better discount is available for 30,000 miles, and that
ordering through a catalog is often more convenient than
shopping in a store, even if it's not always cheaper.
   Similarly, a Fur Vault store in Atlanta said it had a
50-inch mink coat on sale for $1,700, about the same it would
cost fliers to buy the coat through the catalog and give up
35,000 miles. However, Mr. Miller said, judging fur prices is
difficult because quality differs from coat to coat.
   Critics say frequent fliers could end up short-changing
themselves by picking merchandise over the standard free
ticket. To earn the discount, after all, the traveler still
must make a purchase, usually an expensive one. And there's
only one brand of each product in the catalog. "This is
pretty worthless if the car you want isn't a Toyota," says
Randy Petersen, editor of Frequent magazine.
   For its part, American maintains that assigning values to
free tickets is futile; a free ticket may be worthless to a
flier fed up with traveling. Any discrepancies in value, the
airline adds, came because it negotiated separately with each
vendor. The airline also insists that most of the discounts
represent true bargains, though there could be some
exceptions. "As the pioneer of this, we're sort of learning
as we go along," says Mr. Gunn.
   In the meantime, frequent fliers are working furiously on
ways to get the most mileage out of the plan. Some say the
best bargains are rebates that can be applied after a
purchase is made; that way, the vendor can't use inflated
retail prices. Others say the certificate of deposit, used as
a way to guarantee payment for a child's future college
education, may be one of the best deals. For 60,000 miles,
College Savings Bank in Princeton, N.J., says it will give
fliers 8% off all long-term CD payments over five years --
which works out to a $4,800 savings on $60,000 deposited.
   But one of the best tricks, says Mr. Petersen, is to buy
the awards with a credit card that's linked to American's
frequent-flier program. Since American credits one mile for
every dollar purchased on certain cards, the traveler can
reduce the mileage that's being drained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Plans for Lansky Film Become Their Own Saga
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE MCA TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Major movie studios, fresh off a record year,
are rapidly gearing up production and say they're desperate
for scripts with lots of action and good plots. Like this
one:
   A nice young boy from Grodno, Poland (now part of the
Soviet Union), lands in New York with ambition and a head for
business. He rises to become the financial mastermind for the
mob in America. Along the way, he has a few misadventures
with the Feds, crooked union bosses, communist
revolutionaries and guys whose idea of a fashion statement is
cement outerwear. He dies rich, powerful and -- unlike many
of his colleagues -- of natural causes in his 80s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tale even has the virtue of being true. Meyer Lansky
did it all before he died in 1983.
   But getting Mr. Lansky's life onto film has turned into
its own epic saga, offering a graphic reminder that what goes
on behind the cameras can be a lot stranger than what happens
in front of them. The efforts to make a Lansky movie also
raise questions about whether Hollywood's long love affair
with mobsters is confined to the silver screen.
   At latest count, there are four competing projects to
shoot Lansky, the movie. Players have included the likes of
MCA Inc., Time Warner Inc.'s HBO unit, actors Michael Douglas
and James Caan, as well as alleged mobsters known as "Jimmy
Blue Eyes" and "The Conductor."
   At the center of all this is Martin Bacow (rhymes with
taco). In his 68 years, he has been a boxer, sportscaster,
business consultant, screenwriter, director, producer and
self-professed friend of the working man, specializing in
solving movie-industry labor disputes. "A strike has never
lasted more than two hours after I got involved," Mr. Bacow
once said.
   The federal government has been interested in Mr. Bacow's
labor connections. Over the past few years, federal agents
have tailed Mr. Bacow, bugged his phone and even discussed
trying to have an undercover agent invest in his Lansky movie
project, according to wiretap affidavits filed by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation in federal district court in San
Francisco. The documents, filed in 1988 as part of a
labor-racketeering indictment against other people, say the
agency has been investigating whether Mr. Bacow used his
influence to help extort money from movie and TV companies to
ensure labor peace.
   "A pack of lies]" shouts Mr. Bacow. He says he has been
assured by friends in government, whom he won't name, that
the investigation into his activities is dead; he also notes
that the two senior lawyers in charge of the investigation
resigned last year. The government declines to comment on the
status of the case.
   Like many movie heroes, Mr. Bacow says he is a victim of
fate, which has chosen to cast him into the company of
gangsters and other suspect characters for much of his life.
He says, for example, that his boyhood chums on the streets
of Detroit grew up to become members of the city's
once-notorious Purple Gang.
   None of these associations rubbed off, he insists. He
doesn't have any criminal record and says he's not only a
law-abiding citizen, but also a law-abetting one who has
helped the authorities crack cases. "I've had mobsters come
to me to turn themselves in," he says.
   Mr. Bacow, who already has some movie-producing credits,
says he has considered doing a Lansky movie for decades, and
in 1973 even got the subject's personal blessing for the
project at a meeting in Florida, where Mr. Lansky lived. "He
knew I would be fair," Mr. Bacow says.
   But he didn't begin work on the screenplay until after the
mobster's death. Mr. Bacow says that when word about his
project got around Hollywood, he was besieged by would-be
partners.
   One call was from Eugene Giaquinto, then president of
MCA's home-entertainment unit. Mr. Bacow says he tentatively
agreed to sell the home-video and pay-TV rights to MCA for
more than $4 million.
   But there also were calls from the mob. One group wanting
a piece of the Lansky action, according to Mr. Bacow and FBI
wiretaps of conversations in 1987, was New York's Genovese
crime family -- whose reputed leaders include Vincent "Jimmy
Blue Eyes" Alo. They even seemed to have their own candidate
for leading man, actor James Caan. Mr. Alo couldn't be
reached for comment.
   An attorney for Mr. Caan, who had his best-known roles in
the Godfather movies, says the actor was interested in doing
his own Lansky film and occasionally discussed the matter
with Mr. Alo, who was a neighbor in Florida. The attorney
says Mr. Caan routinely talks to reputed mobsters as part of
his continuing interest in playing gangster roles in movies
and insists the actor wasn't part of any plan to interfere
with Mr. Bacow. A spokesman for Mr. Caan says he isn't
working on a Lansky project at the moment.
   According to the FBI wiretap affidavits, Edward "The
Conductor" Sciandra, the alleged underboss of Pennsylvania's
Buffalino crime family, wanted an equity interest in the
Lansky project. His claim seems to have come from his
relationship to MCA's Mr. Giaquinto, whom the FBI suspects of
being Mr. Sciandra's nephew, says one wiretap affidavit. Mr.
Giaquinto didn't return phone calls seeking comment. Mr.
Sciandra denies any ties to organized crime and says any
allegations of wrongdoing are false. He says Mr. Giaquinto is
a "relation" but won't be more specific.
   The wiretaps indicate that neither Mr. Bacow nor Mr.
Giaquinto appreciated these mob overtures. And the MCA
executive seems to have called on other family ties for
protection.
   "Giaquinto said he had John Gotti {the reputed head of New
York's Gambino family} send someone out and they were
knocking heads against the wall," says one FBI affidavit.
MCA, parent of Universal Pictures, suspended and later fired
Mr. Giaquinto after the wiretaps became public in late 1988.
Mr. Gotti couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Bacow insists that mobsters don't have any piece of
his movie project. He says he has a completed script and
financial backers -- "all very legitimate people," he adds --
and he is talking to a studio about a possible distribution
deal for the film. He declines to identify the studio or his
backers.
   He also has competition. Stonebridge Entertainment Inc.,
partly owned by Michael Douglas, and Sony Corp.'s Columbia
Pictures unit say they jointly have a Lansky movie "in
development" -- a popular Hollywood term meaning that filming
could start anywhere from soon to shortly after the end of
life as we know it. They decline to comment further.
   Linda Post, a screenwriter in Santa Monica, Calif., says
she stumbled across another Lansky project recently when she
requested an interview with Mr. Lansky's daughter. She
received a call back from the daughter's producer, who said
they had their own movie in the works. She won't name the
producer.
   Ms. Post's call was part of research on a Lansky
screenplay she is writing for HBO. She also called her old
friend Lowell Bergman, a veteran producer for CBS's "60
Minutes," seeking advice and contacts. They chatted
occasionally after that, and Mr. Bergman had dinner one night
with the project's producer, Lois Luger.
   Though he offered his help gratis, Mr. Bergman says he was
eventually promised a $5,000 "honorarium" if the movie gets
made. "This is the movie business," says Ms. Post. "You try
to get money for your friends."
   But Mr. Bergman then produced a "60 Minutes" segment
entitled "Hollywood and the Mob," part of which recounted the
Mafia tug of war over Mr. Bacow's project. "Bergman was
trying to torpedo my project to help his own," says Mr.
Bacow. Mr. Bergman and his boss, "60 Minutes" chief Don
Hewitt, categorically deny the charge. Mr. Bergman adds that
he has decided against taking any honorarium.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900411-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900411-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/11/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MLP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MESA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (Amarillo, Texas) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it cut the debt ratings of Mesa
Limited Partnership to B-2 from Ba-3 because the company
withdrew a plan to raise as much as $400 million by selling
interests in one of its prime properties. The rating concern
said the move affects about $600 million in debt from Mesa,
an oil and gas concern controlled by investor T. Boone
Pickens Jr., and its Mesa Capital Corp. unit. Mesa had
planned to use proceeds from the sale to reduce its $1.52
billion in debt. Without the offering of units of a new
Hugoton Royalty Trust, Moody's said that it believes Mesa
will be under pressure to generate enough cash flow to meet
its required payments, including its preferred stock
distributions. The rating concern said that Mesa needs either
to sell assets to reduce its debt or to enjoy a "sustained
rise" in natural gas prices to improve its financial
position. In February, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. also cut
Mesa's debt rating, to single-B-plus from double-B-plus. Mesa
said last week that it withdrew the proposed offering because
it didn't look as if it would attract the price it had hoped
for. In addition, the company said that its offering document
was delayed by the Securities and Exchange Commission,
postponing the proposed offering from the strongest part of
the natural gas season to the weakest. A spokesman, however,
said that the bankruptcy of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.,
which Mesa initially chose as its underwriter, didn't delay
the offering and that Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. was ready
to step in and handle the transaction. The Mesa spokesman
said the rating services' moves were expected, but said the
company "made the right moves from an economic standpoint."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
