<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Insurance Tycoon
   Is Jailed in Barbados
   After Long Manhunt
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Fugitive Texas insurance tycoon Robert H. Walker
was arrested last week on the Caribbean island of Barbados
after a 19-month international manhunt.
   Mr. Walker, the former chief executive officer of
Houston-based National County Mutual Fire Insurance Co.,
vanished in 1988 after the company collapsed in the biggest
insurance failure in Texas history.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Walker is being held in a Barbados jail pending a
hearing Thursday on extradition to the U.S., where he faces
29 federal counts of mail and wire fraud. In Texas, he also
faces state charges of theft, misapplication of funds and
filing of false statements in his management of National
County and Walker General Agency, a primary insurance
wholesaler. Both companies were placed in receivership in
late 1988 after National County was declared insolvent.
   David Bourne, chief of the Royal Barbados Police
Department, said Mr. Walker, once rumored to be in
Switzerland, owns at least part of the beachfront hotel where
he was arrested. Mr. Bourne said Mr. Walker has lived there
since March, moving from room to room to escape suspicion.
   U.S. authorities and Texas insurance regulators said they
are seeking court orders so they can seize the hotel, along
with bank accounts and other of Mr. Walker's assets. Mr.
Walker is known for his flashy possessions, including a pair
of $100,000 sterling silver saddles.
   The Texas State Board of Insurance got a tip several
months ago about Mr. Walker's whereabouts, said Chairman
James Saxton. Interpol and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation helped track down the fugitive executive.
   A federal indictment handed down June 12 in Dallas accuses
Mr. Walker of defrauding the insurance companies and their
policyholders of millions of dollars, dragging National
Mutual $56 million into debt. The company's failure left
hundreds of thousands of policyholders in the lurch and
caused a shake-up at the Texas insurance board in which every
member eventually was replaced.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southwest Air's Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   LUV
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southwest Airlines said it completed the
buy-back of one million common shares, in line with a
previously announced program. The air carrier has about 28.1
million shares outstanding. The shares were purchased on the
open market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa to Give
   Troubled Gold Mine,
   East Rand, More Aid
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   O.ERP AFRIC O.RMP
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG -- The South African government decided to
assist the troubled gold mine East Rand Proprietary Mines
Ltd., which was threatened with possible closure and the loss
of about 10,000 jobs because of the low price of gold.
   East Rand, which is managed by the mining house Rand Mines
Ltd., recently applied to the government for further
assistance, as its working cost of about 1,300 rand ($491) to
produce an ounce of gold produced far exceeds the market
price of about 950 rand an ounce.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   East Rand is 30%-owned by Rand Mines, with the bulk of its
shareholders in France and Belgium.
   The acting minister of Mineral and Energy Affairs and
Public Enterprises, Barend Du Plessis, said last week that
the commission that inquired into the desirability of
continued financial support for the mine recommended it
continue operating.
   "In view of the substantial financial commitments which
the state has already made to ERPM, and in view of the
socioeconomic implications of the mine, it is recommended
that the state join with Rand Mines Ltd. and First National
Bank in providing further financial assistance to ERPM," Mr.
Du Plessis said. "This will enable the mine to complete this
drastic reorganization and to continue its operations on the
rationalized basis submitted to the commission."
   The additional financial assistance will consist of a
further loan by Rand Mines and the deferral of certain
interest on existing loans by First National Bank and Rand
Mines until these are repaid. The amount of the new loan
wasn't disclosed.
   A total of 300 million rand ($113.4 million) in government
and bank guaranteed loans previously was made available to
the mine. State aid to the mine now consists of a guaranteed
loan of 220 million rand, including a provision for an
interest subsidy on the bulk of the loan, with the remainder
being interest-free.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heinz Votes on Takeover Law
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HNZ
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- H.J. Heinz Co. said its directors voted to
exclude the food company from all provisions of
Pennsylvania's new anti-takeover law.
   The legislation, signed into law April 27, allows publicly
owned concerns incorporated in the state to exclude
themselves from all or part of its anti-takeover provisions
within 90 days of passage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   U.S. Agency Stands in Way
   Of Computer-Security Tool
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC LOTS NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -- A tiny software company has
developed what is probably the best defense yet against
computer snoops, hackers and viruses, but the National
Security Agency is blocking efforts to expand the
technology's use.
   RSA Data Security Inc.'s approach is already widely used
in Europe. In the U.S., a number of companies, including
Novell Inc., Lotus Development Corp. and Digital Equipment
Corp., have licensed the technology for use in their
products. A Pentagon logistics agency and InterNet, the
nation's premier computer network for researchers, also use
the technology. And now, based on the premise that private
industry won't adopt a computer-security standard until
government does, the U.S. is considering endorsing RSA Data's
approach. If that happens, computer companies will have a
greater incentive to invest in the technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But according to government officials, the National
Security Agency -- the government's largest intelligence
agency and most skilled code breaker -- is objecting to the
choice of RSA Data's technology and is generally reluctant to
move forward on any standard in the field known as public-key
cryptography. The probable reason, the officials say: The RSA
system is too effective. The snoopers blocked by the system
could include the NSA itself.
   Some see the RSA case as a classic example of domestic
companies being deprived of ready access to a valuable
product by national security interests. "The unintended
effect is that the most interesting cryptographic research is
going on outside of the U.S.," says John Gilmore, a computer
consultant in San Francisco. Adds Martin Hellman, a Stanford
University professor: "NSA has a vested interest in not
getting all the knowledge (about security) applied."
   The NSA won't comment on its role, but there's no doubt
that not adopting a standard is costly. Hackers appear to
have little trouble penetrating many computer networks,
sometimes leaving damaging computer viruses. Users of such
networks have no ironclad way of knowing who sent them
messages, making it nearly impossible to safely transmit
legal documents, such as contracts. Moreover, the failure of
U.S. computer makers to offer more stringent security
features seems likely to hamper their sales in foreign
countries, where RSA Data's technique is becoming widespread.
   "There's an economic price to be paid for the inability to
resolve this conflict," says New Jersey Democrat Robert G.
Torricelli, chairman of a House subcommittee that will hold a
hearing tomorrow on computer security. "We are accomplishing
nothing but losing a foreign market."
   RSA Data's products are generally praised by security
experts because they are an advance over traditional
"one-way" encryption. Each user has a secret key, or code,
and a public key published in a directory, and both keys are
produced -- and linked -- by a mathematical formula. Senders
use the addressee's public key to route their messages, and
recipients use their secret key for deciphering. Moreover,
the messages bear "digital signatures," imprinted with the
sender's secret key, which provide proof of the sender's
identity.
   RSA Data was founded by three Massachusetts Institute of
Technology professors who invented the approach in 1977.
Because a description of the company's chief invention was
first published in an academic journal, RSA Data's most
important patent isn't enforceable outside the U.S. The
company's revenue, which is less than $5 million annually,
has also been limited by customer unwillingness to spend
money on security and periodic questions about whether RSA
Data's codes can be cracked.
   But many security experts say RSA Data's solution is
superior to any of the alternatives. "From a technology
perspective, there really isn't an alternative," says Robert
Schleelein, Digital's manager of strategic relations.
   It is unusual for the government to endorse a standard
that requires royalty payments. But such a move may be
justified in this case because "RSA is close to being a de
facto standard," says Dennis Branstad, a computer scientist
at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the
Commerce Department agency that creates technical standards.
   An NSA spokeswoman denies the agency harbors any ill will
toward the company. In fact, some experts believe the NSA
uses RSA Data's technology itself, and the spokeswoman says
that "NSA would never go out and say we don't like RSA's
products."
   But James Bidzos, RSA Data's chief executive, isn't so
sure. He says that in 1982 the Commerce Department began
considering RSA Data's technology as the basis for a standard
for public-key cryptography. RSA Data was asked to submit
technical information and did so, but it never heard anything
from the department.
   The NSA was behind the government's sudden loss of
interest in RSA Data, says a Commerce Department official who
confirms Mr. Bidzos's story. "The project was put on the back
burner" because it was "unclear who was really responsible
for developing standards -- the NSA or us," the official
says.
   The NSA has long influenced the civilian use of electronic
security measures, partly by intense political lobbying and
partly through federal limits on the export of cryptographic
products. In 1987, a report by the Office of Technology
Assessment criticized the NSA's sway over civilian uses of
cryptography, saying the agency's actions had been
"inconsistent," and raised questions about "the boundary
between civilian and military authorities."
   Seeking to shift some control of computer security,
including cryptography, back to civilians, Congress several
years ago approved a law giving the Commerce Department's
Institute of Standards and Technology the power to set
commercial, non-military standards in the area. Last year,
Rep. Torricelli's subcommittee told the institute to develop
a standard for public-key cryptography but allowed the NSA to
help.
   More than a year later, the two agencies still haven't
produced a draft standard. The NSA spokeswoman says the
agency is "cooperating" with the institute, but Rep.
Torricelli thinks the two are deadlocked. "There are
conflicting interests between a perceived need to allow
intelligence agencies to operate freely and (providing)
sufficient protection for our private businesses," he says.
   Complicating matters further, the institute seems
ill-equipped to handle the task of forging a new standard,
which is likely to consist of a series of highly technical
proposals. Even the institute's Mr. Branstad concedes that
the department's work has been hampered by a severely
restricted budget.
   The obstacles to progress have made some of the
institute's advisers in private industry despair that a
federal standard will ever emerge. But even without one,
industry executives believe that RSA Data's products will
catch on as customers become more security conscious.
   Novell, for instance, adopted RSA Data's approach last
month. It made its move, says Richard King, vice president of
software development, because "if you wait around for these
committees to make a decision, you'll go out of business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Getting Ready
   ---
   The Invisible Summiteers:
   Anonymous Sherpas Keep Their Bosses
   From Stumbling on Slippery Summit Slopes
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   WE'VE ALL SEEN the photos. The unshaven mountaineer with
the opaque sunglasses and the impossibly white teeth is
holding his country's flag aloft while he strikes a
conquering pose atop some Himalayan peak. In his other hand
he holds an ice ax. That's all.
   He didn't sprint up five vertical miles of frozen mountain
with only an ice ax. What we don't see are the faceless,
plodding porters who have lugged tons of tents, oxygen
bottles, radios, cameras, toilet paper and freeze-dried
chicken Florentine from the flatlands almost (but not quite)
to the top, just so this heroic picture could be taken. They
are sherpas, and most people can't climb the Himalayas
without them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Heads of state can't climb summits without them either.
   All the nations at the Houston summit have sherpas. Their
more prosaic designation is "personal representative," and
each government, plus the European Community, has had one or
two of them fetching and carrying for the past seven months
just so their bosses can look informed and masterful during
two days in Houston.
   Few outside their circle know who they are, which is fine
with the sherpas. Their First Law: cultivate anonymity.
"Sherpas are invisible," declares one of them -- insisting on
anonymity even for this.
   But much of the really important summit work -- the
selection and shaping of issues -- is done by the sherpas.
They work long hours, shuttling from meetings with their
counterparts to briefings with the heads of government they
serve. "I've always believed that the {summit} event itself
was incidental," says Sylvia Ostry, a former sherpa for
Canada. She has a point, for it is during the preparation,
rather than during the summit itself, that governments find
out what their allies are really thinking.
   The idea is to avoid nasty surprises, insofar as they can
be avoided. That's not always possible. Sherpas can't
anticipate "X-factors" -- terrorist acts, the Tiananmen
Square massacre, or sudden shakeups in a government -- that
erupt at the last minute and beg for some response from the
summit.
   But most issues can be anticipated and shaped. "The sherpa
tees the ball up," says a veteran U.S. sherpa from summits of
the 1970s. "How well it's teed up can determine how well the
heads of state can hit it."
   A good sherpa keeps the boss from appearing isolated,
silly or uninformed. Collectively, the sherpas succeed if at
the summit all the leaders have the chance to look sensible,
statesmanlike, and, if possible, even visionary.
   But never at one another's expense. The sherpas strive to
avoid framing issues in such a way that one or more summit
participants might be embarrassed by the outcome. They are
fearful of what a Bush adminstration official calls "the
political nuclear weapon" -- a summit that ends in an open
fracas or one at which a particular government's policies are
criticized in the final communique.
   At the same time, they must also avoid turning everything
into an agreeable mush; certain kinds of controversy are
dangerous, but a total lack of controversy, of push and tug
between the powers, is worse. A summit that produces nothing
but bland platitudes is not only an empty exercise but also
lousy theater.
   The needed preparatory work is extensive, and the Houston
summit, in effect, actually began last January with the
initial sherpa meeting in Key West, Fla. Since then, the
sherpas have talked in San Francisco, Paris, Washington,
Newport, R.I., and finally Houston. As the summit date drew
closer, the early phase -- a dispassionate sifting of issues
to select those for the summit agenda -- gave way to
cajoling, wheedling and hard questioning.
   All the while the ground was shifting under the sherpas'
feet in a way unknown at previous summits; the world kept
rearranging itself while they talked. "This year," says one,
"it became obvious that there is greater uncertainty, and
higher historical stakes."
   Eastern Europe was in ferment. One summit partner, West
Germany, moved toward unification with East Germany --
raising all sorts of financial and political uncertainties
for the other six summit participants. And the Soviet Union,
a prominent though uninvited presence at all summits, was
changing practically from one sherpa meeting to the next.
   By the time they convened in Paris in May, the sherpas
were gnawing their fingernails over the Soviet problem; the
Great Thaw in the East Bloc, they felt, wasn't playing out
all that constructively in the U.S.S.R. There, reform seemed
chiefly to have blown open a Pandora's box full of ethnic
hatreds and economic chaos. Moscow no longer threatened the
free world with military domination but with its own economic
disintegration.
   During last year's summit, Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev sent a surprise missive reminding the leaders that
his country also was a part of the world order and that he
wanted greater economic interraction with capitalist
economies. Given what has happened since, said one sherpa
after meeting with his colleagues in Paris, "This year he may
knock on the door."
   Whether he does or not, the capitalist leaders will have
to address the economic plight of the Soviets and what they
might do to help out. Says one European sherpa: "This is
delicate because the Soviet Union is a superpower. But the
West should be prepared for a situation where maybe we hear a
cry for help. We haven't yet found answers."
   The sherpas spent most of one meeting grilling Horst
Koehler, sherpa to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. The
two Germanys were poised to push through economic and
monetary unification a week before the Houston summit, and
Germany's summit partners wanted assurances about its likely
effects.
   Economists were edgy about West Germany exchanging its
marks for East German currency at a rate highly favorable to
the East Germans. Wouldn't this touch off a bout of
inflation, the sherpas asked, a virus that other economies
would catch? And if this happened and interest rates had to
be jacked up to quell inflation, wouldn't this stifle growth?
   Not to worry, said Mr. Koehler, a skilled debater. The
German money supply would be expanded only in line with an
expansion of productive capacity, a limit that would help
keep inflation in check. Interest rates wouldn't have to be
raised, investment capital would tend to flow to the East,
and productivity there, now low, would quickly grow under the
nourishment of capital and West German industrial know-how.
   Mr. Koehler managed to put most of the worries to rest. As
a result, it's likely that the summit communique will mention
German unification in positive terms, noting that the new
Germany will contribute significantly to economic growth
elsewhere.
   In another development, the risk of a possible slam at the
U.S. -- open summit criticism of its budget deficit -- has
also been largely defused. After taking considerable heat
from its allies, the Bush administration convened a "budget
summit" with lawmakers to break the political deadlock over
how to shrink the deficit. Although the success of this step
is still much in question, the fact that it has been taken
has probably spared President Bush the embarrassment of being
criticized in his home state for the U.S. government's lake
of red ink.
   Besides these issues, the sherpas have had to agonize over
a host of others, smoothing away sharp edges and dodging
potential stalemates where they could. They include the
environment (Germany, with strong backing from France, wants
specific commitments to cut carbon dioxide emissions thought
to cause global warming, but the U.S. doesn't) and sticky
trade issues, particularly those involving agricultural
subsidies that shield European farmers from competition.
   The sherpas haven't been able to settle every difference
in advance; nobody expects that much, and every summit
outcome has its surprises for them as for everyone else.
Their best reward would simply be a harmonious summit at
which substantial initiatives are taken. Their next best
reward: important new jobs for some of them, jobs in the
spotlight instead of the shadows.
   Many sherpas go on to top positions in government and
finance. They include Robert Hormats, a summit veteran of the
'70s who is now vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International;
Karl Otto Poehl, president of the West German Bundesbank; and
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. At
least one sherpa working this Houston summit, Jacques Attali
of France, already knows where his next paycheck will be
coming from. He will become the first president of the new
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
   ---
   Mr. Carrington is staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's London bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Freshmen Flood
   Black Colleges,
   Defying Trend
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   While many universities expect freshman class sizes to
drop this year, a number of historically black schools are
reporting a boom in freshman enrollment not seen since the
1970s.
   Improved recruitment and higher visibility, as well as an
increase in racial harassment on predominantly white
campuses, have led some black institutions to establish their
first waiting lists ever. Other schools, hit with a deluge of
applications, cut short their admission deadlines by a month
or more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For a number of predominantly black universities, the rise
in applications and admissions brings a welcome increase in
revenue after years of financial strain. In contrast, some
predominantly white schools are considering belt-tightening
maneuvers like laying off staff and freezing salaries. The
number of high school graduates nationwide isn't expected to
rebound to last year's level of 2.7 million until 1997.
   "The pool of black students going to black colleges has
really gotten larger," says Sondra Reine, recruitment
coordinator at Xavier University in New Orleans. Xavier's
freshman class has almost doubled in size in the past five
years, from about 350 in 1986 to about 600 this fall. This
spring, for the first time in Xavier's 65-year history, the
school placed 250 applicants on a waiting list.
   Spelman College, in Atlanta, received 3,315 applications
this year, almost double its total enrollment of 1,789. This
year's freshman class of about 490 will be 6% bigger than
last year's. The school, which was founded in 1881, received
a well publicized $20 million gift from Bill Cosby and his
wife, Camille, in November 1988 just before the college's
first black woman president was inaugurated.
   Morehouse College, also in Atlanta, expects about 650
freshmen this year, 17% more than last year. Hampton
University, in Hampton, Va., says about 1,400 freshmen will
attend in the fall, up 16% from last year, while Florida A&amp;M
University, in Tallahassee, Fla., is predicting 13.6% more
freshmen, or about 2,530 students.
   Admissions officials say the increase in class size has
been accompanied by an improvement in applicants' grades and
test scores. According to the Educational Testing Service,
average Scholastic Aptitude Test scores for blacks have risen
in the past five years to 737 from 722.
   Some schools, like Howard University, in Washington, D.C.,
are expecting smaller freshman classes this year. But many of
these declines follow record freshman class sizes last year.
   The majority of the 1.1 million black college students in
the U.S. attend predominantly white schools. But in the past
five years, the number of blacks attending black institutions
has increased 10% to 294,427, according to the National
Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education. And
that increase has come, the U.S. Education Department says,
as the percentage of black 18- to 24-year-olds enrolled in
colleges has declined.
   Educators attribute the renaissance at black institutions
in part to racial conflicts in many cities and on many
predominantly white campuses. According to the National
Institute Against Prejudice and Violence, a policy-research
group in Baltimore, 20% to 25% of all minority students in
U.S. colleges experience some form of racial harassment every
year.
   But other factors in the trend include high-profile
alumni; awareness created by the television show "A Different
World," which centers on life at a black college; low
tuition; and a renewed desire among many blacks to study in
an environment that is more sensitive to their history,
culture and needs.
   "I recommend that all black students spend at least a
semester at a black school. It's good to be in an academic
setting where you don't have to feel like a minority and you
don't have to worry about racism affecting how you're graded
or evaluated," says Charles M. Boyd, 24, who was accepted at
Harvard University and Princeton University but attended
Howard as an undergraduate. Mr. Boyd is now in his final year
at Harvard Medical School.
   Adds LaTonya Davis, 18, of San Jose, Calif., "I've been
going to {predominantly} white schools all my life. Now, I
want to learn from black professors . . . see my own people
striving . . . working together and getting the job done."
Ms. Davis, who applied to four historically black colleges,
will attend Florida A&amp;M in the fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Societe Generale Sells
   Sogexport Subsidiary,
   A controversial Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   F.SGF F.SAE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Societe Generale, France's third-largest
commercial bank, announced the sale of its controversial
East-West trade subsidiary.
   The subsidiary, Sogexport, has been charged by French
authorities on two separate occasions in recent years with
illegally trying to export high-technology equipment to the
Soviet Union. In both cases, the equipment in question could
have been used to manufacture advanced semiconductors, which
in turn could be used in missiles and military jets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two cases still are pending or under appeal. Societe
Generale, which has insisted that its subsidiary didn't do
anything wrong, said the company sale wasn't linked to the
controversy.
   "Those exports represent only a tiny part of Sogexport's
businesses," a Societe Generale official said. "We simply
decided that banking and international trade were very
different busineses. Other banks have reached the same
conclusion and withdrawn from the trading business."
   Sogexport's buyers are Societe Auxiliare d'Entreprises, a
construction group, and Finexport, an investment group. One
Societe Generale official said that, because the construction
business is increasingly international, it might make more
sense for SAE and a group of investors to own Sogexport.
   Societe Generale didn't disclose the price. But the
complexity of East-West trade together with East Europe's
financial troubles have taken their toll on the Societe
Generale subsidiary. After showing a profit of two million
francs ($361,020) in 1987, Sogexport posted losses of 10
million francs in 1988 and 27 million francs in 1989.
   Societe Generale created Sogexport in 1977 and held 91% of
its shares. Under a special agreement, Societe Generale
agreed to continue its involvement in Sogexport's
mining-equipment export business, notably including a
long-term coal-mining project in northern China.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   `We Are (Not) All Keynesians Now'
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   It seems to me that for several years a large number of
economists were nagging the president about the need to
reduce the budget deficit and to raise taxes for that
purpose. Now President Bush has relaxed his objection to a
tax increase. And all of a sudden economists are being quoted
in the papers warning that the tax increase would cause a
recession.
   These warnings are issued in the sacred name of John
Maynard Keynes. For example, an article in the New York Times
(June 28) contains this statement: "Keynesian theory, still a
mainstay among Western economists, holds that . . ."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few anecdotes from a long life with such talk may
indicate how many grains of salt need to be taken with it.
   Almost 55 years ago, when I was in Jacob Viner's economics
class at the University of Chicago, a student had the
termerity to stand up and say, "The consensus of economists
is . . ." The professor glared at him and asked, "When did
you take the census?"
                                                                                                       

   Lesson: Be careful of judging what is the opinion of
"economists."
                                                                                                       

   About 40 years ago there was a big dispute in this country
about the Federal Reserve's policy of supporting the price of
government bonds. The name of Keynes was entered into this
dispute, and I wrote an op-ed piece for the Washington Post
about what Keynes (who had died in 1946) would have said. On
the morning when my article appeared, I received a call from
a man with a cultivated British accent who identified himself
as Geoffrey Keynes, the economist's brother, and who said
that I was exactly right about what J.M. would have thought.
I was in Seventh Heaven, until the caller dropped the accent
and revealed himself as a young economist friend who was just
pulling my leg.
                                                                                                       

   Lesson: Be careful of judging what Keynes would have said
in circumstances that he did not confront.
                                                                                                       

   At the end of 1965, Time magazine celebrated the successes
of Keynesian economics with a long story and Keynes's picture
on the cover. The article quoted Milton Friedman as saying,
"We are all Keynesians now." This surprised me until I read
in Time's letters column next week a complaint from Prof.
Friedman that the magazine had failed to quote the rest of
his sentence, which was ". . . and there are no longer any
Keynesians."
                                                                                                       

   Two lessons: Be careful in reading journalistic reporting
of what an economist thinks, because essential points may be
lost in transmission, and be careful in judging the state of
Keynesianism in the economics profession.
                                                                                                       

   In 1971, after submitting a budget in which he said that
it was his policy to balance the budget at high employment,
President Nixon said to a reporter, "Now I am a Keynesian."
(He is almost always misquoted as saying that we are all
Keynesians now, which was actually Time's misquotation of Mr.
Friedman.) As a member of the Council of Economic Advisers at
that time I had the job of drafting soothing letters to irate
Republicans, in which I explained that he did not mean
permanent deficits, or fine-tuning or free love, but only to
continue a stable policy through the fluctuations of the
economy.
                                                                                                       

   Lesson: The Keynesianism of presidents, like their other
"isms," is of a limited and expedient kind.
                                                                                                       

   Having said all that, I can hardly now say what
"economists" or "economics" tell us about a possible tax
increase and deficit-reducing package in the current
situation. But I can say something about what the current
situation is and about what I would distill from the present
muddy state of economics.
   Back in 1985, when the federal budget deficit was 5.4% of
the gross national product, Congress passed the
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, which required reduction of the
deficit in six annual steps to zero in 1991. On the average,
that meant reducing the deficit as a percentage of GNP by
0.9% a year. In response to the fear that this path of
deficit reduction might in some circumstances worsen a
decline of the economy, the act provided for deviation from
the path in the event of an actual or officially forecast
recession.
   After G-R-H was passed, the budget deficit declined from
about $200 billion in fiscal 1984-86 to about $150 billion in
fiscal 1987-89, and from about 5% of GNP to about 3% of GNP.
But it seemed to be stuck at the $150 billion and 3% level.
   In January of this year, President Bush submitted a budget
that had a deficit of $124 billion for fiscal 1990 and $64
billion for fiscal 1991, or 2.3% and 1.1% of GNP,
respectively. (These, and subsequent figures, exclude the
costs of the S&amp;L bailout.) Now it appears that the deficit
for the current fiscal year, 1990, will be about $155
billion, or about 2.8% of GNP again, and that without a
deficit-reducing package the fiscal 1991 deficit might be
$160 billion, or about 2.7% of GNP. A deficit-reducing
package of $50 billion, which I understand is what is being
considered, would reduce the 1991 deficit to about $110
billion, or about 1.9% of GNP. This is a smaller reduction of
the deficit between 1990 and 1991, both absolutely and as a
percentage of GNP, than was proposed in the January budget.
   Real GNP in the past year has increased by about 2%. In
the first quarter of 1990 it increased at an annual rate of
1.9%. The rate of unemployment has been stable at about 5.3%
for a year and a half. In January, when the budget was
submitted, the Blue Chip consensus of economists (there are
some things on which we do take a census) was that the GNP
would rise by 1.7% in 1990 and 2.2% in 1991. In June the
consensus was that the GNP would rise by 1.9% in 1990 and
2.3% in 1991. In short, the U.S. is not in a recession, a
recession cannot be confidently forecast, and the outlook for
the economy is no more worrisome than it was six months ago
when a budget was submitted that called for even more of a
deficit reduction than is now being contemplated.
   So the question now is whether a deficit reduction equal
to about 1% of GNP can be safely absorbed by an economy that
is not in recession and that has available to it a
complementary monetary policy to increase the supply of money
if the reduction of the deficit should reduce interest rates
and lead to an increased demand for money. There are versions
of Keynesianism in which the answer to that is "no."
   It might be held that the American economy cannot reach
high employment without a federal deficit equal to, say, 3%
of GNP. It might be held that, whatever the starting point, a
budget deficit can never be reduced without depressing the
economy. But these are extreme views of Keynesian doctrine.
They are as extreme as would be the opposite view that
reduction of a budget deficit no matter how large can have no
effect on the macroeconomy even in the absence of supportive
monetary policy.
   Reducing the budget deficit is a two-sided transaction.
Cutting expenditures and raising taxes, by themselves, have a
negative effect on demand and output, which is what
Keynesians worry about. But on the other side of the
transaction, reducing the government's borrowing requirement
will reduce interest rates, stimulating investment; raise the
value of assets, like stocks and bonds, stimulating
consumption; and reduce the dollar exchange rate, stimulating
exports. It is this side of the transaction that the
administration apparently counts on.
   In my opinion the net of this, in either direction, is
likely to be small, partly because the deficit reduction is
small and partly because we have a monetary policy that aims
to stabilize the economy and contain shocks arising from the
budget or elsewhere. Others may think the risks greater than
I do. But even so there is no realistic ground for sounding a
Keynesian alarm if the government now takes moderate steps to
get on to the deficit-reducing path that it has been seeking,
unsuccessfully, for the past five years.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retail Sales in West Germany
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Retail sales in West Germany in
May rose a real, or price-adjusted, 8.9% from a year earlier,
the Federal Statistics Office said.
   On a nominal, or unadjusted, basis, sales rose 11%, the
first double-digit rise in nominal sales volumes at West
German retailers since the 13% increase in March 1988, when
real sales growth was 7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Hyatt Legal Services Cuts Offices,
   Spins Off Group-Plan Division
   ----
   By Wayne E. Green and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY ABT ROR WX LABOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Hyatt Legal Services is reducing its chain of law offices
and spinning off a profitable division that sells and manages
prepaid group legal plans.
   Joel Hyatt, the founder and senior partner, said the
spinoff will raise $35 million in capital for Cleveland-based
Hyatt. However, the restructuring plan is the latest
indication that the firm may have grown too rapidly. After a
long period of adding new offices, it has been cutting back
its outlets in recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hyatt's moves also reflect broader changes in the
legal-services industry. When Mr. Hyatt founded the company
in 1977, he tapped a big market of blue-collar clients by
opening offices in shopping centers and offering simple
wills, uncontested divorces and other consumer legal products
for low, standardized fees. But after Hyatt dominated the
industry along with Jacoby &amp; Meyers in New York, other firms
began moving into the field. An increasing number of lawyers
began advertising their wares.
   "There's definitely more competition for legal retail
services," says Richard Neimand, executive director of
marketing for Jacoby &amp; Meyers.
   By spinning off its group legal services division, Hyatt
apparently is seeking to exploit a successful part of its
business. It has sold prepaid employee legal service plans to
such companies as General Motors Corp. and PepsiCo Inc.
Prepaid employee plans now account for about 20% of Hyatt
Legal Services' revenue, Mr. Hyatt said.
   The group-plan business is being sold to a newly created
company called Hyatt Legal Plans Inc. The new company is
owned by Hyatt Legal Services' three senior executives,
including Mr. Hyatt, as well as two outside investors, Sheet
Metal Workers' National Pension Fund and a group led by
Robert Bass, one of the wealthy Bass brothers of Texas. The
investors are putting up $35 million, Mr. Hyatt said, in
return for a combination of securities that includes senior
debt, subordinated debt, preferred and common stock.
   Mr. Hyatt said the three Hyatt executives would own the
largest share of the new company, but declined to elaborate.
He said the new capital would be used to beef up television
advertising for Hyatt's law offices, to improve their
computer systems and to pay off debt. He also said Hyatt
Legal Services plans for the first time to create partnership
opportunities for some of its staff attorneys.
   Retrenchment plans call for Hyatt to close or sell 24 of
its 168 law offices. The offices are located in Portland,
Ore.; Houston; the Minneapolis-St. Paul area and the
Tampa-Orlando, Fla., area. Mr. Hyatt said some, but not all,
of the offices were losing money. He said the cutbacks would
affect about 50 of Hyatt's 450 attorneys, but noted that some
of them would purchase their offices. Plans for cutbacks in
Northern California and Denver are also under way.
   In 1986, Hyatt Legal Serices had 200 offices in 22 states.
After the cutbacks, Mr. Hyatt says, there will probably be
between 130 and 135 Hyatt offices in 19 states. He declined
to say whether the law-office chain as a whole is profitable.
   ---
   LIABILITY OF DES MANUFACTURERS limited by Illinois Court.
   The Illinois Supreme Court ruled that a DES plaintiff
cannot collect damages unless she can prove which company
manufactured the drug her mother took.
   In a decision last week, the court refused to adopt a
theory of liability that holds all manufacturers in an
industry jointly responsible for damages from defective
products. The ruling is a setback for DES plaintiffs who
often cannot identify the drug manufacturer that caused the
alleged damage.
   DES, or diethylstilbestrol, was marketed during a 30-year
period beginning in the 1940s. The drug was often prescribed
to reduce the chances of miscarriage during pregnancy. It is
now believed to have caused cancer and other health problems
in the womens' offspring.
   Sandra Smith, 36 years old, who learned in 1978 that she
had a form of vaginal cancer, filed suit in 1980 alleging
that she developed the cancer because her mother took DES
while pregnant. The eight defendants include Eli Lilly &amp; Co
of Indianapolis, Ind., Abbott Laboratories of Abbott Park,
Ill., and William H. Rorer Inc. of Fort Washington, Pa.
Rorer, a unit of Rorer Group, has since changed its name to
Rorer Pharmaceutical Corp.
   DES was regarded as a generic drug and rarely was
prescribed by brand name. The doctor who prescribed the drug
to Ms. Smith's mother had died by the time Ms. Smith filed
her suit. But under the collective liability theory known as
"market share," each company that manufactured the drug might
have been held liable for damages in proportion to its share
of the market at the time the product was used. Four states
-- California, New York, Washington and Wisconsin -- have
adopted some form of "market share" liability in DES cases.
The highest state courts in Iowa and Missouri have rejected
the theory.
   In its decision, the Illinois Supreme court said that
little reliable information existed concerning the companies'
market share. The judges worried that trying to establish
such percentages would be too costly and time consuming. And
the court said it was speculative to impose liability when it
was possible that the company that actually sold the product
wasn't in the case.
   Adopting the theory, the court wrote, "would alter our
tort law significantly while only providing a markedly flawed
alternative with unclear future ramfications."
   Joseph A. Power, Jr., a lawyer for Ms. Smith, said:
"Ninety-nine percent of the DES daughters will now be
disenfranchised. It's almost impossible to prove the
manufacturer of the specific drug their mothers took." Mr.
Power, of the Chicago law firm of Hayes &amp; Power, said he
plans to ask the court to reconsider the case.
   In a dissent, Justice William G. Clark wrote that
"wrongdoing manufacturers" would benefit from the court's
decision.
   But Richard C. Bartelt of the Chicago law firm of Wildman,
Harrold, Allen &amp; Dixon, Lilly's lawyer, said "this
re-establishes fairness in civil lawsuits."
   ---
   WESTINGHOUSE WON an age-discrimination suit brought by the
EEOC.
   The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission had turned
down a $35 million settlement offer from Westinghouse
Electric Corp. two years ago. But last Thursday, the federal
agency -- and the 4,000 retirees it represented -- walked
away empty-handed.
   In an about-face, a federal appeals court in Philadelphia
reversed itself and ruled that Westinghouse hadn't violated
federal law when it forced 4,000 laid-off employees to retire
before age 70. The EEOC claimed the workers should be
eligible for both severance and retirement pay. But the court
agreed with Westinghouse that the layoffs didn't represent
involuntary retirement because they weren't age-related.
Therefore, the court ruled, the workers weren't entitled to
both severance and retirement benefits.
   The workers were offered a choice by Westinghouse of
either early-retirement benefits or severance.
   The EEOC brought suit against Pittsburgh-based
Westinghouse, an electrical products and broadcasting
concern, in 1983. The ruling came after the U.S. Supreme
Court remanded the case to the appeals court last October
because of a June 1989 ruling in which the high court said
employee benefit plans were exempted from federal age
discrimination laws.
   "Westinghouse is pleased with the Third Circuit court
ruling," said company spokesman Jim Schmitt. "It indicates
and confirms the position which Westinghouse has argued
before the courts for nearly 10 years . . . that the company
doesn't discriminate against older workers."
   If the EEOC had accepted Westinghouse's $35 million
out-of-court offer, it would have paid $8,750 in severance
benefits to each of the 4,000 plaintiffs.
   ---
   DIET-PILL FIRMS were shut and their operators criminally
charged in Florida.
   Five officials of Health Care Products Inc., based in
Lutz, Fla., and Overeaters Inc., based in the Tampa area,
were charged with scheming to defraud customers nationwide by
making misrepresentations about weight-loss products.
   Health Care Products sells Cal-Ban 3000, which is largely
guar gum, authorities say. It has been advertised in
Cosmopolitan, the National Enquirer and other publications.
Iowa blocked the sale of Cal-Ban 3000 earlier this year.
Overeaters and Fat Busters Inc., which were merged into
Overeaters, distributed products called Dietol-7 and
Bodi-Trim, respectively, authorities said.
   Bill James, the state attorney in Hillsborough County,
said contrary to the companies' advertising, "These pills
alone aren't going to cause anybody to lose weight without
diet and exercise."
   In a parallel move, the U.S. Attorney in Tampa obtained
court orders to unplug the companies' toll-free 800 telephone
lines. In court papers, the U.S. attorney said the defendants
had been selling pills by phone and delivering them by United
Parcel Service to try to circumvent earlier court orders
obtained by the Postal Service barring sales of the pills by
mail.
   Attorneys for Overeaters couldn't be reached for comment.
Frank Winkles, an attorney for Health Care Products, said
criminal charges are uncalled for since his clients had no
criminal intent to defraud customers.
   Medical experts differ on Cal-Ban 3000's effectiveness, he
says, adding the company offers full refunds to dissatisfied
customers.
   ---
   Noted: Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart, a 300-lawyer Pittsburgh law
firm, has merged with the Boston law firm of McDermott &amp;
Rizzo, which has 10 lawyers. Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart already
has five lawyers in Boston. . . . John McDermott has joined
Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft, a 275-lawyer New York law
firm, as a litigation partner in the firm's Los Angeles
office. Mr. McDermott previously headed the litigation
department at the Los Angeles office of the Chicago-based law
firm of McDermott, Will &amp; Emery.
   ---
   Dana Millbank and Martha Brannigan contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Republic Waste Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   RWIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Republic Waste Industries Inc. said it agreed
in principle to acquire GI Industries. The value of the
transaction will be about $15 million, based on an exchange
of GI Industries' stock for Republic Waste common shares.
   Republic Waste specializes in the collection, processing
and disposal of solid waste. GI Industries is a rubbish
collection company in Southern California.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Postscript
   ---
   Loose Lips
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R26
</SO>
<LP>
   SO MUCH TO talk about. And so little nerve. The
contentious issues seem endless. A unified Germany. A unified
Europe. The end of the U.S.-British special relationship.
U.S.-Japanese trade squabbles. EC trade squabbles with just
about everybody. At the end of their meeting, the summit
leaders will issue a communique saying everything is just
splendid. But before they do, imagine some of the private
conversations -- even if they're probably too candid ever to
occur.
   (See accompanying comic strip -- WSJ July 9, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 280,137
metric tons in the week ended June 30, down 2.6% from 287,537
tons in the preceding week and down 0.5% from 281,421 tons a
year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   A metric ton equals about 2,204.6 pounds. For the year
through June 30, production totaled 7,266,572 metric tons,
down 8.8% from 7,971,417 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BKLA Bancorp Expects Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4B
</SO>
<CO>
   BKLA
</CO>
<LP>
   WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. -- BKLA Bancorp expects a
second-quarter loss of $400,000 to $425,000, reflecting loan
write-offs and an increase in loan-loss reserves at its
principal subsidiary.
   The unit, Bank of Los Angeles, wrote off $988,000 in
problem loans and bolstered its loss reserve by $700,000,
partly based on discussions with federal regulators who
completed an examination of the bank in June, BKLA said. In
the year-ago quarter, BKLA had net income of $267,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank holding company said it expects to return to
profitability in the third quarter and be profitable in the
year. BKLA said that its capital-to-assets ratio continues to
exceed regulatory requirements and that the company's
"liquidity position remains sound."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Airlines' June Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- American Airlines said its June
traffic dipped 0.3% from June 1989.
   The airline unit of AMR Corp. said it flew 6.86 billion
revenue passenger miles last month, compared with 6.88
billion miles a year ago. A revenue passenger mile is one
paying passenger flown one mile. Load factor, or percentage
of seats filled, also fell, to 67.4% from 70.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, American said it flew 36.91 billion
revenue passenger miles, up 5% from 35.18 billion miles a
year earlier. Load factor fell to 61.9% from 62.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Jersey Resources Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   NJR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WALL, N.J. -- New Jersey Resources Corp., a utility, said
Gerald W. Conway, 52-year-old vice chairman, president and
chief operating officer, resigned, effective July 31, to
return to private law practice.
   A spokesman wouldn't comment on plans for a successor. Mr.
Conway has been a director of the company and its subsidiary,
New Jersey Natural Gas Co., since 1977, and chairman of New
Jersey Natural Gas since 1988. Previously, he was the unit's
outside legal counsel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush to Seek Commitment From EC,
   Western Nations on Agricultural Reform
   ----
   By Peter Truell and Michael McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- President Bush today will urge leaders of the
major Western nations -- and the European Community in
particular -- to commit themselves to fundamental reforms in
agriculture to ensure success in the current round of global
trade-liberalization talks, U.S. officials said.
   The president's comments will ensure a contentious first
day at the three-day annual economic summit meeting of the
seven Western industrialized nations: the U.S., Japan, West
Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada. European
Community leaders also attend annual economic summits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Western leaders gathered here over the weekend, Mr.
Bush held bilateral meetings with Japanese Prime Minister
Toshiki Kaifu and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, who
both stand close to the U.S. on some of the major issues
under consideration at the summit.
   Japan's Mr. Kaifu, for example, joined President Bush in
committing "full energy to securing the benefits of an open
world trading system through successful completion of the
current Uruguay round this year."
   These talks under the world trade treaty -- the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- began in Uruguay in 1986
and are to be completed this December. They are currently
bogged down because of disagreement over farm subsidies. The
battle pits major agricultural exporters like the U.S.,
Australia and Chile on one side, which favors sharp cuts and
the eventual elimination of farm subsidies, against the
European Community, which argues that it can't do away with
such subsidies without severely damaging its social fabric.
   The Japanese also -- along with the U.S. -- are resisting
German and French calls for rapid aid of as much as $15
billion for the ailing Soviet economy.
   Japan, however, is likely soon to resume lending to China
several billion dollars that has been held back since the
massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing in June
1989, Mr. Kaifu told Mr. Bush at their meeting. The U.S.
doesn't oppose this move. "The president understands Japan's
wish to restart lending," Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady
told reporters Saturday. "We understand countries can have
different points of view at different points in time."
   Canada's Mr. Mulroney, meantime, is backing the U.S. to
the hilt on the need to slash agricultural subsidies. Both
Japan and Canada have good reasons of their own for
supporting the U.S. on the trade and Soviet issues. Japan has
yet to resolve outstanding bilateral issues with the Soviet
Union, such as four small north Pacific islands under the
Soviets' control since 1945. "It's a legacy of Stalinist
expansionism," a senior Japanese official here remarked.
Until such problems are addressed, Japan opposes direct aid
to the Soviet Union.
   Canada, like the U.S., has a more efficient agriculture
than the European Community, and thus has less to fear from
doing away with agricultural subsidies.
   In addition, Britian's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher,
who met with President Bush last week in London, strongly
backs U.S. opposition to aid to the Soviets. She argues that
such funds would probably be wasted.
   For their part, the Europeans question the intense
pressure the U.S. is putting on agriculture, and don't want
to go into nearly as much detail on the issue. "I'm not sure
it's wise to build up all this pressure, I'm not sure it's
the best climate for negotiations," Frans Andriessen, the
EC's vice president for external relations, said in an
interview Saturday. "It's not the task of the leaders to get
into detail," he added, arguing that the talks now being held
in Geneva at the GATT are the correct place to thrash out the
agricultural issue.
   Trade and agricultural matters are likely to be discussed
before the full summit's opening session this afternoon, as
President Bush holds separate bilateral meetings with West
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President Francois
Mitterrand. Mr. Bush met with EC Commission President Jacques
Delors yesterday.
   Judging by the remarks of Mr. Andriessen and other EC
officials, the Europeans intend to try to impress on the
Houston gathering that their agriculture is different. "The
very structure of agriculture in Europe is completely
different to the U.S. and Canada. It's a small-scale
agriculture with 10 million to 12 million farmers in the EC,
compared with two million to three million in the U.S.," Mr.
Andriessen said. "The average acreage per farm {in North
America} is four times the average in the EC," and in social,
political and human terms, Europe can't allow this farming
community to disappear, Mr. Andriessen said.
   The Europeans also stress that there are other areas of
the GATT negotiations -- such as textiles and procedures for
settling trade disputes -- that also are stymied.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Andriessen, who is effectively the
community's senior trade official, said there's a growing
consensus in Europe that agriculture and success in the
Uruguay Round are linked, and he conceded that without
progress on the farm-trade issue, the GATT talks could be
threatened.
   He says he would like to see the Uruguay Round get a boost
from the summit, but indicates that a recent paper produced
by the GATT agricultural negotiation group in Geneva could be
a starting point for an agricultural compromise between the
major food exporters and the Europeans. "I think there are
many elements that deserve careful consideration, and
possibly to be discussed," Mr. Andriessen said of the paper.
   The overall thrust of that paper was welcomed by a meeting
of trade ministers of 14 major agricultural exporting
countries. But the so-called Cairns Group, which consists
mostly of developing countries, also issued a communique last
Friday expressing "deep concern at the slow progress in
agricultural negotiations" and warned of "the danger of a
crisis." They appealed to participants at the Houston summit
"to ensure that the Uruguay round and especially agriculture
is given top priority."
   Meanwhile, Secretary Brady told reporters that in his
bilateral meeting with Japanese Finance Minister Ryutaro
Hashimoto, the Japanese official had shown "support" for Mr.
Bush's new economic initiative on Latin America. Japan
appears likely to contribute to the investment fund that the
U.S. wants to see at the InterAmerican Development Bank, Mr.
Brady said. Mr. Bush has pledged the U.S. to contribute $100
million a year over the next five years, and proposed that
the fund receive as much as $300 million a year, including
contributions from Japan and Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Looking Back
   ---
   Promises, Promises:
   Past Summits Brought a Lot of Pledges --
   But Many Remain Unfulfilled
   ----
   Compiled by Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R24
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nov. 15-17, 1975, Chateau de Rambouillet, France
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Participants: Gerald Ford, Valery Giscard d'Estaing,
Helmut Schmidt, Aldo Moro, Takeo Miki, Harold Wilson
   Main Subjects: Stimulating economic growth in the light of
the recession that had begun in late 1973; inflation;
quadrupling of oil prices and the problem of future supplies;
unemployment
   Declarations: To promote economic recovery and reduce high
unemployment and inflation; reduce dependence on imported
energy; commit to an open trading system and complete
trade-liberalization talks
   Outcome: The meeting helped boost international confidence
and brought about a rapprochement between the U.S. and France
over the international exchange-rate system. International
trade talks continued, and the West gradually pulled out of
the recession. But inflation, unemployment and energy
supplies continued to be serious problems.
   ---
   June 27-28, 1976, Dorodo Beach, Puerto Rico
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Gerald Ford, Pierre Trudard, Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, Helmut Schmidt, Aldo Moro, Takeo Miki and James
Callaghan
   Main Subjects: The search for policies to sustain economic
expansion; new financial mechanisms to help countries with
balance-of-payments problems, particularly Italy;
international trade talks
   Declarations: To sustain economic recovery and reduce high
unemployment; to seek more balanced fiscal and monetary
policies; to complete multilateral trade talks, the so-called
Tokyo Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), by the end of 1977; to avoid imposition of further
tariffs
   Outcome: Better coordination and cooperation between
summit countries helped to foster more orderly
foreign-exchange markets. Trade talks continued, bu the GATT
round didn't finish until 1978-79. The EC Commission
president was henceforth included in summit meetings.
   ---
   May 7-8, 1977, London, England
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Jimmy Carter, Pierre Trudeau, Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, Helmut Schmidt, Giulio Andreotti, Takeo Fukuda,
James Callaghan, Roy Jenkins
   Main Subjects: Unemployment and inflation; additional
resources for the IMF; problems of energy supply
   Declarations: Recognized need to increase nuclear energy
to help meet world requirements; to continue constructive
dialogue with developing countries to increase flow of aid
and resources; West Germany committed to 5% economic growth
in 1977 to help pull the world economy further out of
recession
   Outcome: Nuclear programs in some summit countries,
particularly France, got a further boost. More discussions
took place with developing country leaders in forums such as
the Conference on International Economic Cooperation. West
Germany's economy grew by 2.4% in 1977.
   ---
   July 16-17 1978 Bonn, West Germany
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Jimmy Carter, Pierre Trudeau, Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, Helmut Schmidt, Giulio Andreotti, Takeo Fukuda,
James Callaghan, Roy Jenkins
   Main Subjects: Reducing U.S. oil imports; shoring up the
slumping dollar; complaints that Japan and West Germany
needed to do mroe to stimulate their economies; the closer
linking of European, and particularly French and German,
currencies
   Declarations: West Germany and Japan pledged to do more to
stimulate their economies; most of the other countries
announced specific growth targets; trade negotiators were
directed to wrap up the GATT round by mid-December 1978
   Outcome: Few countries met their growth targets for 1979.
The GATT round was completed before the next summit meeting.
   ---
   June 28-29, 1979, Tokyo, Japan
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Jimmy Carter, Joe Clark, Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, Helmut Schmidt, Giulio Andreotti, Masayoshi Ohira,
Margaret Thatcher, Roy Jenkins
   Main Subjects: Oil supplies and the possibility of curbing
the West's oil imports; rising inflation
   Declarations: To restrict oil demand and oil imports; to
increase use of coal and expand alternative sources of
energy; assailed recent OPEC decisions to raise oil prices
   Outcome: The West succeeded in limiting its growing thirst
for oil imports, thanks to a burst of oil exploration,
conservation measures and the development of alternatives to
oil.
   ---
   June 22-23, 1980, Venice, Italy
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Jimmy Carter, Pierre Trudeau, Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, Helmut Schmidt, Francesco Cossiga, Saburo Okita,
Margaret Thatcher, Roy Jenkins
   Main Subjects: Inflation; energy; relations with
developing countries; monetary problems; trade
   Declarations: To reduce inflation was the "immediate top
priority"; to break the link between economic growth and oil
consumption during the 1980s; to further development of oil
substitution, exploration and conservation measures; to
double coal production by early 1990; to encourage the
international capital market to recycle funds from
oil-exporting coutnries to developing countries, supplemented
by a mroe active International Monetary Fund and World Bank;
to strengthen international arrangements on export credits,
particularly to reduce distortions in export competition
   Outcome: It wasn't until 1982 and the summit countries got
a grip on inflation. International banks continued to lend
ever larger sums to Latin Americ and other developing
countries with big payments deficits.
   ---
   July 20-21, 1981, Ottawa, Canada
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Schmidt, Giovanni Spadolini, Zenko Suzuki,
Margaret Thatcher, Gaston Thorn
   Main Subjects: Sluggish world economy; high U.S. interest
rates; relations with developing countries; trade; energy;
East-West economic relations
   Declarations: Summiteers, shying away from earlier habit
of setting particular targets, stressed broad goals, such as
the need to spur economic growth by cutting inflation and
reducing public borrowing; stressed a commitment to "low and
stable monetary growth as essential to reducing inflation";
restated commitment to helping developing countries;
condemned the continued Soviet occupation of Afghanistan
   Outcome: The U.S. and Britain continued their experiments
with tight monetary policies as inflation continued to fall
in both countries. West Germany had more success with less
controversial monetary policies, and the U.S. failed to cut
public borrowing.
   ---
   June 4-5, 1982, Versailles, France
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Schmidt, Giovanni Spadolini, Zenko Suzuki,
Margaret Thatcher, Gaston Thorn
   Main Subjects: High international interest rates and the
working ofthe international monetary system; Lebanon;
technology; employment and economic growth
   Declarations: To increase growth and employemtn; to pursue
prudent monetary policies and achieve greater control of
budgetary deficits; to resist trade-distorting practices and
protectionist pressures; to be cautious in financial
relations with the Soviet Union and its satellites,
particularly with regard to export credits
   Outcome: The contries treid to better harmonize their
economies. Within days, France and Italy devalued the franc
and liara against other European currencies. But the U.S.
remained reluctant to use much foreign-exchange market
intervention to address instabilities. The soviet and EAst
European economies continued to stagnate, and were hurt by
the summiteers' cautious attitude in extending further
credits.
   ---
   May 28-30, 1983, Williamsburg, Virginia
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Amintore Fanfani, Yasuhiro Nakasone,
Margaret Thatcher, Gaston Thorn
   Main Subjects: Nurturing the economic recovery; reducing
interest rates, inflation and budget deficits; the growing
developing-country debt crisis
   Declarations: To cut government spending and slow the
steady growth in the money supply; to roll back recently
imposed trade barriers; affirmation of coordinated
foreign-exchange market intervention where needed; support
for developing countries battered by the international debt
crisis
   Outcome: The meeting helped boost confidence in the
growing world-wide economic recovery. But trade barriers and
the international debt problem are both still very much with
us seven years after Williamsburg.
   ---
   June 7-8, 1984, London, England
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Bettino Craxi, Yasuhiro Nakasone,
Margaret Thatcher, Gaston Thorn
   Main Subjects: Public spending; employment; monetary
policy; international debt
   Declarations: To spread the benefits of the economic
recovery; to strengthen policies to cut high interest rates
and inflation; to control monetary growth and reduce budget
deficits; to maintain and increase official development
assistance; to continue with the current international debt
strategy
   Outcome: The economic recovery in industrialized countries
went on, with inflation and interest rates continuing to
decline. But problems with unemployment -- particularly in
Europe -- and with international debt continued to fester.
   ---
   May 2-4, 1985, Bonn, West Germany
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Bettino Craxi, Yasuhiro Nakasone,
Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Delors
   Main Subjects: Economic growth and employment; relations
with developing countries; the multilaeral trading system;
the international monetary system; environmental policies;
cooperation in science and technology
   Declarations: To sustain economic growth, cut inflation
and raise employment through coordinated eocnomic policies;
endorsement of the U.S.-led international debt strategy; to
continue to help African countries racked by famine and
drought; to clamp down on drug trafficking; to commit to
specific national policies (the U.S., for instance promised
to pursue "a rapid and appreciable cut in its public
expenditures" and West Germany pledged to boost its economy)
   Outcome: Although most summit members wanted to begin a
new round of trade talks in 1986, the summit failed to set a
starting date. France said it first wanted to ensure that
such talks wouldn't be aimed at dismantling the EC's common
agricultural policy. West Germany and Japan largely ignored
U.S. suggestions that they should stimulate their economies
more. The U.S. and other summit countries succeeded in
slapping down French calls for an international monetary
conference.
   ---
   May 4-6, 1986, Tokyo, Japan
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Brian Mulroney, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Amintore Fanfani, Yasuhiro Nakasone,
Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Delors
   Main Subjects: Trade; international economic-policy
coordination; the U.S.-Japan economic relationship
   Declarations: To overhaul agricultural policies as part of
a bid to rewrite the world's trade treaty; reaffirmed a
commitment to non-inflationary growth, the environment and
other summit favorites; to cooperate more on fighting
international terrorism
   Outcome: The wrangle over agricultural policies continues
to this day. Following the summit, the Group of Seven, made
up of the earlier Group of five plus Canada and Italy, was
formed. The group was composed of finance ministers and
central-bank governors and has since been the Western world's
most powerful economic coordinating body.
   ---
   June 8-10, 1987, Venice, Italy
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Brian Mulroney, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Amintore Fanfani, Yasuhiro Nakasone,
Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Delors
   Main Subjects: Exchange rates; macroeconomic policies;
trade; agriculture; developing countries and debt;
environment; East-West relations; U.S. budget deficit
   Declarations: Accolades for Japan's $43 billion
growth-stimulating package; to follow up on the February
Louvre accord to stabilize the dollar and other currencies
"at current levels"; to make more progress on agricultural
reform
   Outcome: Japan did boost its economy, but it still hasn't
opened it up to the outside world as much as the other
summiteers hoped. The U.S. didn't get the total endorsement
it sought for its tough action to protect shipping in the
Arabian Gulf, and President Reagan didn't get the support he
wanted on arms control.
   ---
   June 19-21, 1988, Toronto, Canada

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Brian Mulroney, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Ciriaco de Mita, Noburu Takeshita,
Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Delors
   Main Subjects: Imbalances in the global economy;
macroeconomic policies and exchange rates; multilateral trade
talks; newly industrializing economies; developing countries
and debt; the environment
   Declarations: Strong support for Uraguay Round of GATT
talks, for the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement, and for the
European Community's move toward a single market by the end
of 1992; call for continued reform of agricultural policies,
particularly protectionist measures in developed countries;
pledge to give the poorest developing nations -- mostly in
sub-Saharan Africa -- more breaks in the form of further IMF,
World Bank and government credits, and through cuts in their
existing debts
   Outcome: More Western governmetns wrote off or made
concessions on loans to sub-Saharan Africa. The EC began to
make some limited efforts to cut back its huge agricultural
subsidies.
   ---
   July 14-16, 1989, Paris, France
                                                                                                       

   Participants: Ronald Reagan, Brian Mulroney, Francois
Mitterrand, Helmut Kohl, Ciriaco de Mita, Noburu Takeshita,
Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Delors
   Main Subjects: Eastern Europe; the Brady debt strategy;
the environment; Tiananmen Square massacre
   Declarations: To aid Poland and Hungary; to clean up the
world's air and waters; cautious response to Soviet proposal
to link up with the world's industrial economies; endorsement
of new U.S.-backed debt strategy that stressed cutting back
the bank debts and interest payments of developing countries;
call for futher reductions in the U.S. budget deficit;
condemnation of the massacre in Tiananmen Square
   Outcome: Western aid packages were put together for Poland
and Hungary and other states in Eastern Europe. But these
have tended to rely on trade privileges, technical help and
loans. The new debt strategy produced small cuts in the
foreign debt of Mexico and the Philippines. But private
credit to the debtors slowed from a trickle to a drip. China
was denied loans from summit countries for almost a year. The
U.S. still is wrestling with its federal budget deficit.
                                                                                                       

   Sources: "The Seven Power Summit" (compiled and edited by
Peter Hajnal); and The Wall Street Journal
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Continental Homes Holding Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CONH
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONTINENTAL HOMES HOLDING Corp., a Scottsdale, Ariz.-based
home builder, declared an initial quarterly dividend of five
cents a common share, payable Aug. 17 to stock of record July
19.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lufthansa Signs Planes Order
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.LHA F.ABI UTX EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Deutsche Lufthansa AG said it
signed formal documents for the previously announced order of
20 medium-haul A-321 aircraft from the European aerospace
consortium Airbus Industrie.
   The companies agreed on the order in August 1989, with
Lufthansa's supervisory board approving it last September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 51% government-owned Lufthansa announced in March an
order for engines to power these aircraft from a consortium
headed by the Pratt &amp; Whitney engines subsidiary of United
Technologies Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Binks Manufacturing Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   BIN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BINKS MANUFACTURING Co. (Franklin Park, Ill.) -- Donald G.
Meyer, 55 years old, was named a director of this maker of
spray-painting equipment. Mr. Meyer, dean of the School of
Business Administration at Loyola University, is filling a
vacancy on the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Gas Signs Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4D
</SO>
<CO>
   BRG BP ARC OXY MOB
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- British Gas PLC said it has signed an agreement
to buy natural gas from the Welland Fields.
   The fields' owners are Atlantic Richfield Co., the fields'
operator, with 25%; Mobil Corp.'s Mobil North Sea Ltd.
subsidiary, 30%; Gas Council (Exploration), 20%; British
Petroleum Co., 12.5%, and Occidental Petroleum Co., 12.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In accordance with a 1988 report on contract gas prices by
the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, British Gas will buy
only 90% of the gas produced. The remaining 10% will be sold
to competitors of British Gas. The Welland Fields' first gas
will flow in October.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   NATO to Overhaul Military Structure;
   Economic Lifeline to Soviets Is Unlikely
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST FORGN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The U.S. and its allies have offered Soviet
leader Mikhail Gorbachev a helping hand by agreeing to
overhaul the West's military structure, but they aren't
likely to agree this week to offer him an economic lifeline.
   Secretary of State James Baker reiterated over the weekend
that economic aid would be wasted unless certain conditions
-- such as a full commitment to free-market principles -- are
in place.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Furthermore, in meetings before this week's economic
summit in Houston, Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu told
President Bush that Japan will oppose any aid until it
resolves a dispute with the Soviet Union over ownership of
four islands in the Kuril chain.
   At the end of their summit here last Friday, Mr. Bush and
other leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
endorsed a package of historic changes in the alliance's
military structure. They agreed, among other things, to use
nuclear arms only as a "last resort," to soon withdraw
American nuclear-tipped artillery shells from Europe and to
shrink the army in a newly united Germany.
   Those steps are designed to make NATO look less
threatening so that the Soviets will accept a united Germany
inside the Western alliance. They are intended also to allow
Mr. Gorbachev to tell his domestic critics that the West is
responding to his reform program.
   "I would think he could say, `We've been right to reach
out as we have tried to do to the United States and indeed to
improve relations with countries in Western Europe,'" Mr.
Bush told reporters after the NATO meeting.
   But Mr. Bush reiterated that the helping hand he is
offering Mr. Gorbachev won't hold any direct U.S. economic
aid, setting up a debate between the president and other
leaders of the seven industrialized countries who gather this
week in Houston for an economic summit.
   West Germany, in particular, is prepared to make an
impassioned argument that the West should give Mr. Gorbachev
immediate and direct economic help to ensure his political
survival.
   Mr. Bush said at the close of the NATO session that if the
Germans want to go ahead with aid, "that's their business."
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush
had received a letter from Mr. Gorbachev, dated July 4, that
outlines steps Mr. Gorbachev has taken in the Soviet Union
and "asks the summit countries to consider providing
technical assistance and credits" to help his reform efforts.
   In his comments Friday Mr. Bush hinted that there could be
a crack in the door for aid to the Soviets. "Perhaps there
are ways that we can assist them as we go forward," he said,
"with credit or other matters, before we go to direct
government loans."
   Secretary Baker, appearing on ABC News' "This Week"
program yesterday, said that credits are "not right now in
the cards." But officials said the administration is
considering trying to dismantle longstanding legal barriers
to direct U.S. bank loans for the Soviet Union.
   But Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said on the
same television program, "We will provide credits . . . . We
want to send out a signal that this leadership in the Soviet
Union is valid and valuable."
   The remarks were later clarified by Derek Burney, who is
Canada's ambassador to the U.S. and Mr. Mulroney's special
assistant for the summit. He said the prime minister was
referring to two existing Canadian programs for the Soviet
Union -- one by the Canadian Wheat Board and the other by
Canada's Export-Import Bank. The Soviets aren't making full
use of either program, indicating that Canada could extend
credits to the Soviet Union without any new measures.
   The U.S. and its NATO allies did succeed in settling
disagreements over how to begin revamping the military
alliance. They agreed to thin out its forces on the
alliance's front line and begin putting them under new
multinational commands.
   In addition, the U.S. worked out an agreement declaring
that nuclear arms are weapons of "last resort" but endorsed
in the summit's final communique a statement that nuclear
arms will continue to "fulfill an essential role in the
overall strategy of the alliance." Britain and France wanted
such a statement to make clear that the alliance wasn't
suggesting that nuclear weapons could be discarded.
   The allies also agreed on pulling nuclear-tipped artillery
shells out of Europe. The U.S. originally had proposed taking
out the shells -- whose short range makes them nearly useless
as East European countries leave the Soviet military orbit --
only when the last Soviet soldier is withdrawn from Europe.
West Germany wanted to move more quickly.
   So NATO agreed that the weapons will be taken out as soon
as talks begin next year on a treaty cutting short-range
nuclear arms in Europe and the Soviets take the "reciprocal
action" of withdrawing their own nuclear artillery.
   The U.S. and West Germany agreed to make a general pledge
to shrink the army in the united Germany when a
conventional-arms agreement with the Soviets is signed late
this year, while putting off a formal agreement on the army's
size until a follow-on conventional-arms deal with the
Soviets.
   The allies, as expected, also agreed to invite Mr.
Gorbachev to address a future NATO meeting and to invite
countries of the Warsaw Pact to establish a "diplomatic
liaison" with NATO.
   ---
   Michel McQueen in Houston contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norway's Offshore Crude Oil
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAVANGER, Norway -- Crude oil production from Norway's
offshore fields averaged 1,654,000 barrels a day in May, up
from 1,630,000 in April and 1,500,000 a year earlier, the
Norwegian Petroleum Directorate said.
   Total petroleum production in May was 8.8 million tons of
oil equivalent, up from 8.5 million tons in April. May
production was divided into 6.8 million tons of oil, 1.8
million tons of oil equivalent of natural gas, and 200,000
tons of oil equivalent of condensate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The country's North Sea fields produced 44.7 million tons
of oil equivalent in the first five months of this year,
compared with 43.2 million tons a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Free-Trade Talk Puts Mexico in Spotlight
   ---
   Plan for Pact With U.S. Brings
   Its Firms International Suitors
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTERREY, Mexico -- A wisp of cigar smoke, the calling
card of a foreign investment banker, hangs in the air of
Alfonso Romo's office.
   "Last year I was begging that banker to talk to me," Mr.
Romo, president of the conglomerate Grupo Pulsar S.A., says
of the dealmaker who has just walked out the door. "Now I'm
not only getting calls from him but from one or two new
bankers each week."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's the same story nearby in the slick corporate offices
of Grupo Alfa S.A., Mexico's largest private company. "If we
had one banker every three months visiting us two years ago,
it's now one a week," says Peter Hutchison, senior vice
president for corporate finance. "They're smelling business."
   With its recent decision to negotiate a free-trade
agreement with the U.S., Mexico has finally captured foreign
capitalists' attention, if not yet their investment. Mexican
businessmen say more foreign moneymen have been crawling
around the country in the past few weeks than at any time
since the lending frenzy that triggered the 1982 debt crisis.
   In Monterrey, the center of Mexico's heavy industry and
home to its most internationally competitive companies,
foreign dealmakers are exploring joint ventures. In Mexico
City, the American Chamber of Commerce reports a 50% increase
in inquiries about investment. The Canadian Chamber of
Commerce, which shut down during the depths of Mexico's
recent economic crisis, reopened last month amid talk of a
free-trade zone extending from Quebec to Quintana Roo.
   Even the Japanese, who had been bluntly critical of
Mexico's investment climate, are perking up. Kimihide
Takimura, chief of a Mitsui Group unit and the dean of
Japanese businessmen in Mexico, recently traveled to Toronto
to study details of the U.S.-Canadian free-trade pact. "We
have to learn the mechanics of these agreements and look at
Mexico more seriously now," he said.
   Unfortunately for Mexico, looking is about all investors
are doing at the moment. The burst of investor activity
hasn't been translated into a flurry of new projects or an
inflow of foreign capital.
   But the interest excited by Mexico's free-trade gambit
contrasts sharply with the yawn that greeted its previous
efforts to lure foreign investors. Last year, President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari played two cards to attract foreign
investors: a modest liberalization of Mexico's nationalistic
investment law and a renegotiation of its foreign debt. But
the total value of new investment projects has hardly
changed.
   Meanwhile, Mexico's need for foreign exchange has only
grown more urgent. The pillars of Mexico's low-inflation
economic strategy -- a reduction of trade barriers and a
stable exchange rate -- have ignited a surge of imports.
   This year, Mexico will post a deficit in the current
account, the broadest measure of trade, of around $5 billion.
In the short term, the government can cover such deficits
with the $8 billion to $10 billion it will earn -- much of it
in dollars -- through privatizations of the state telephone
monopoly, the commercial banks and a steel company. "The
privatizations have bought time through the end of 1991,"
says Salvador Kalifa, a leading Monterrey economic
consultant.
   By then, Mexican officials hope to be well on their way
toward negotiating the free-trade agreement. The assured
access to the U.S. market, they predict, will bring in a
steady flow of foreign investment.
   "My only doubt is the timing," says Lorenzo Zambrano,
director general of Cementos Mexicanos S.A., one of the
biggest cement makers in North America. "How quickly can
negotiations move? How soon will the investor interest we're
now seeing be translated into new projects?"
   The pressure of time has some Monterrey businessmen
worried. They fret that the Mexican government's acute need
for foreign exchange will cause it to rush into an
unfavorable trade deal that will harm Mexican industry.
   But most businessmen are upbeat. "So far the political
management has been brilliant, and one has to think President
Salinas has a few more cards up his sleeve," says Mr.
Zambrano. Three-quarters of Monterrey executives
participating in a recent newspaper poll thought a free-trade
pact would benefit Mexico.
   Most industrialists here have their minds on the foreign
business partners who might arrive with free trade rather
than on the foreign competitors who also would enter Mexico.
   "Traditionally it has been difficult to do joint ventures
with foreign companies in Mexico because there was no
certainty of access to the U.S. market," says Eugenio
Clariond, director general of Grupo IMSA S.A., a steel, auto
parts and construction company.
   For instance, IMSA and a U.S. partner last year reached a
preliminary agreement to build what would have been the
largest auto battery factory in North America. They even
obtained an option on the land. But the project was scrubbed
after competing U.S. battery makers began lobbying to stop
preferential customs treatment of batteries imported from
Mexico. Mr. Clariond says a free-trade agreement would halt
such protectionist tactics; he says the number of inquiries
he has received about joint ventures has "skyrocketed" since
Mexico started preliminary negotiations.
   The prospect of free trade is the most important reason
investors view Mexico differently, but it isn't the only one.
Only a few months ago, Alfa's Mr. Hutchison was concerned
about competition for funds from the newly liberalized
economies of Eastern Europe. But increasingly, investors he
talks with complain of the frustrations of doing business in
a region without a free-enterprise tradition. "Eastern
Europe's proving not to be the land of milk and honey, and
Mexico's looking like a safer bet," says Mr. Hutchison.
   Finally, Mexico's attractiveness to investors has been
enhanced by its easing of anti-inflationary price controls
that have hamstrung many companies. Increasingly, the
government has relied on competition from imports to keep
prices in line, rather than on artificial controls.
   Grupo Gamesa S.A., a big Monterrey food maker, says its
products now are underpriced by about 10%, compared with 20%
last year. "The increased flexibility on pricing makes it
easier for potential foreign partners to make clear financial
projections," says Alberto Santos, president of Gamesa. Mr.
Santos says it's no coincidence that he has received six
calls from foreign investment bankers in the past month, more
than he received in most years in the past decade.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sumitomo Cement Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sumitomo Cement Co. established a joint venture
in South Korea to produce calcium carbonate, a material used
to make better-quality printing paper, company officials
said.
   The joint company, Korea Fimatic Co., is capitalized at
one billion won ($1.4 million) and is 60%-owned by a local
concern, Korea Electric Chemical Co., and 20% each by
Sumitomo Cement and Fimatic Ltd., a Japanese chemical
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The joint venture this month will start building a plant
capable of producing 3,000 tons of calcium carbonate a month
and will sell the product to paper companies in South Korea.
The plant is to go into operation next February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Marietta Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ML LK GQ HRS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Martin Marietta Corp. received a $326.8
million Air Force contract for modifications to space launch
facilities at Cape Canaveral, Fla.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lockheed Corp. got an $82.4 million Air Force contract for
the launch complex at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif.
                                                                                                       

   Grumman Corp. was awarded a $54.2 million Navy contract
for F-14 aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Harris Corp. received a $33.6 million Air Force contract
for electronics equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PMSC WTSLA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange and the National
Market System of the over-the-counter market each announced
one new stock listing.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Policy Management Systems Corp., a Columbia, S.C.,
supplier of standardized software systems to the insurance
industry, begins Big Board trading tomorrow under the symbol
PMS. It previously traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   Wet Seal Inc., a specialty retailer of women's apparel,
based in Irvine, Calif., began trading over the counter last
week under WTSLA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviet Communists' Future Looks
   More Conservative, Less Powerful
   ---
   Gorbachev, Facing Prospect
   Of Rightward Shift, May
   Reduce Politburo's Role
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel and Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet Communist Party appears set to emerge
from its landmark 28th Congress with a new lineup of leaders
who will wield a lot less power.
   As the congress enters its final week, delegates on both
left and right say Mikhail Gorbachev seems sure to weather
sharp criticism of his policies and be re-elected
general-secretary of the party. But the rest of the ruling
Politburo, which the congress will also elect, could be
completely overhauled, with a new generation of conservatives
rising to power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   More than half of the current Politburo members, including
Mr. Gorbachev's closest allies, have signaled their intention
to give up their party posts. Senior officials say Mr.
Gorbachev is hoping to compensate for these potentially
damaging losses by stripping the Politburo of much of its
current political power.
   According to Ivan Frolov, the editor of Pravda and a
Gorbachev confidant, moves are afoot to prevent members of
the recently created presidential council from serving on the
Politburo.
   Such maneuvering fits with Mr. Gorbachev's overall plans
to transfer political power from the party to the government.
If he can win backing for a clear division between the
Politburo and the presidency, he could remove the party from
government decision-making. Among those serving on the
presidential council are Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze, Alexander Yakovlev, a Gorbachev confidant, and
the heads of the army and KGB.
   Messrs. Shevardnadze and Yakovlev have already hinted they
will leave their party posts, but much hinges on the army and
KGB chiefs. Radicals are demanding an end to party control of
both, but conservatives reject such calls.
   It remains uncertain whether Mr. Gorbachev will seek the
backing of the conservative-dominated congress for such a
move. Mr. Frolov, the Pravda editor, said he didn't expect
the division to be written into party rules, which are being
revised.
   The expected election of a conservative-dominated
Politburo under Mr. Gorbachev's leadership is likely to cause
alarm among radicals grouped in the so-called Democratic
Platform, who are a distinct minority at the congress.
Liberals worry that Mr. Gorbachev might not be able to
contain the conservatives. A more conservative Central
Committee "will be able to grind the reforms of any leader,
to turn him into a figure who reigns but doesn't rule," wrote
delegate Pavel Voshanov in the daily Komosomolskaya Pravda.
   But the radicals remain deeply divided about their
tactics. Some are calling for a walkout at the congress,
followed by the formal establishment of an alternative party.
But others argue that it is better to work for change from
within.
   "We have a group of comrades who will stay regardless of
the outcome of the congress. They see their role as the
democratic balance in the party," says Vyacheslav
Shostakovsky, a founder of Democratic Platform who is also
rector of the Moscow Higher Party School.
   Some now predict there won't be a formal split. "It's more
likely to be a big exodus of people who just turn in their
party cards," says Nikolai Seleznov, a Democratic Platform
member and congress delegate from Sverdlovsk. Yuri Prokofiev,
a moderate who heads the Moscow Communist Party organization,
has predicted that as many as one-third of the party's 19
million members could leave.
   The party thus seems set to lose much of its clout and
many members, at the same time as it shifts to the right.
Such a scenario was outlined Friday by Boris Yeltsin, the
former radical Politburo member who was recently elected
president of the Russian Republic. In a calm speech, received
attentively but coolly by the congress, he warned the party
that it faced "historic defeat," unless it agreed to a
radical overhaul. "Those who think about other variants
should look at the fate of the Communist Parties in Eastern
Europe," he warned. "They were separated from the people . .
. and found themselves sidetracked."
   One indication of how the congress delegates already seem
out of step with the feelings of ordinary Soviet citizens was
contained in an opinion poll published over the weekend in
Izvestia. It showed that when asked about the future of
agriculture, a key issue, a majority of congress delegates
thought that the present collective and state farms held the
best prospects for the future. In contrast, 80% of ordinary
people who were polled disagreed.
   Such a division was also clear in a pair of meetings that
Mr. Gorbachev has held recently. Meeting with first
secretaries of city and regional party committees, a layer of
bureaucracy that is particularly resistant to change, Mr.
Gorbachev was sharply attacked for failing to listen to their
problems and defend their interests.
   But the tone was completely different at a session with
lower-level party workers, those who organize party
activities in factories and institutions. Political analyst
Pavel Gutyonov wrote in Izvestia that support there is
greater for Mr. Gorbachev's policies than for the
middle-level officials' demands.
   One miner and party organizer from Kuzbass complained that
his own region's first secretary was constantly using the
workers' movement "as his personal truncheon" in the battle
to retain conservative policies. "He isn't correct," the
miner said. "The president {Mr. Gorbachev} is closer to us
than the first secretary is."
   Mr. Gorbachev remains determined to hold the party
together. On Saturday, he crushed an attempt by conservatives
to separately evaluate the personal performance of each
Politburo member. "I want to tell you something," Mr.
Gorbachev said, "If you want to split the party, if you want
to bury it, then you're going the right way about it."
Shortly afterward, the congress approved a counterproposal to
vote on the leadership as a whole.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Analogies Don't
   Vindicate Poindexter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   I cannot agree with your argument for leniency toward John
Poindexter with regard to his lying to Congress
("Poindexter's Punishment," Review &amp; Outlook, June 8). Your
example of Robert McNamara's lying to Congress about the deal
to remove missiles from Turkey does not vindicate the
practice of lying. In "Vietnam: A History," Stanley Karnow
reveals that Mr. McNamara also lied to Congress over American
involvement in the South Vietnamese naval operations that led
to the Gulf of Tonkin incident. This pattern of deceit by the
executive branch led to the passing of the War Powers
Resolution, the type of clumsy regulation that the Journal
frequently argues against.
   The best way to prevent this type of regulation is to
facilitate truthful communication to the public of executive
operations where propriety is in question. In this manner,
information can act as a catalyst for democracy to check
specific executive policies. This type of check is more
efficient than the long-term regulations resulting from
congressional dissatisfaction with duplicitous and deceitful
executive communications. Testimony before congressional
committees not only informs the committee members but also is
a process to mobilize the check of democracy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mark D. Robins
   Chestnut Hill, Mass.
   ---
   Once again you mounted your bully pulpit to put forth
another Alice-in-Wall-Street-Land argument based on patently
absurd analogies.
   Notwithstanding the fact that the Iran-Contra affair and
the Cuban missile crisis are about as historically analogous
as the invasion of Grenada and the bombing of Hiroshima, you
have gone off the deep end in using such an analogy to
attempt to exonerate Mr. Poindexter for his management role
in a scheme in which millions of taxpayer dollars were
misdirected, and from which the profits are still missing.
   Richard Newton Meyer
   Los Angeles
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New-Jobs Total
   Grew Slowly
   In Latest Month
   ---
   But Unemployment Fell,
   Heating Up the Debate
   On Cut in Interest Rates
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department's new jobless figures
pose a difficult problem for government policy makers.
   The numbers show the economy is expanding at a painfully
sluggish rate, with only 40,000 new jobs created in June.
Manufacturing employment fell by 30,000 during the month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But at the same time, the unemployment rate among
civilians remained at historic lows, dropping to 5.2% in June
from 5.3% in May. Many economists, including those at the
Federal Reserve, believe joblessness can't drop any lower
without sparking increased inflation.
   As a result, the new numbers aren't likely to prompt the
Federal Reserve to ease credit. Fed officials wouldn't
comment on the numbers for the record. But it was clear they
saw little reason in the report to change their course and
move toward lower short-term interest rates.
   "This is the classical mixed bag," said Robert Dederick,
chief economist at Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. "We have a
slower economy but one that is growing about as fast as we
can afford to."
   Bush administration officials have been pressuring the Fed
recently to help the economy by easing credit. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady, in particular, made repeated
comments last week calling for lower interest rates.
   The U.S. Chamber of Commerce also lashed out at the Fed
Friday, with economist Lawrence Hunter saying the employment
numbers show "it's time for the Fed to let interest rates
fall" to keep the economy out of recession.
   But Fed officials, aware that the unemployment rate is
near its lowest level in two decades, can find little
justification for easing. They note that the low unemployment
rate is confirmed by other data, such as independent state
figures on claims for unemployment insurance. Moreover, they
see no evidence in the latest report that the economy is
sliding into recession.
   The slow job growth in June was due partly to the layoffs
of 55,000 temporary census workers. Excluding these
government workers, who have skewed the numbers in recent
months, job growth in June was about 90,000. That's about the
pace of private job growth that has been typical since the
first of this year, although it's less than half the rate of
the first half of last year.
   The mystery in the Labor Department numbers, however, is
that growth in the labor force -- those people actively
seeking jobs -- has also slowed sharply in recent months.
Janet Norwood, who heads the department's Bureau of Labor
Statistics, said the civilian labor force rose by only
290,000 people in the first six months of 1990, compared with
1.5 million in the first half of last year.
   The reason for this sluggish growth isn't entirely clear.
In part, it reflects demographic trends, with fewer
teen-agers entering the work force each year. It also seems
to reflect a slowing of the flood of women who rushed into
the work force in the 1970s and 1980s. And it's also due to a
rise in discouraged workers, who have given up looking for
employment.
   The result is that, despite sluggish job growth, the
unemployment rate -- which is the percentage of the total
labor force unable to find employment -- is dropping.
   The June growth in payrolls followed a revised increase of
355,000 in May. But that, too, was distorted by an
unexpectedly large hiring of temporary census workers.
Excluding government workers, May's rise was about 94,000.
   Including the military, the unemployment rate in June
dropped to 5.1% from 5.3%.
   The numbers in the employment report are adjusted for
seasonal variations.
   Separately, the Fed confirmed that its policy-making Open
Market Committee voted 10-1 in May to maintain a steady grip
on credit without leaning toward either easier or tighter
policy.
   A summary of the committee's May 15 meeting, released
Friday after the customary six-week lag, shows that Fed
policy makers "generally agreed" that keeping interest rates
steady would produce "relatively moderate but sustained
economic expansion."
   The Fed officials also concluded that "the prospects for
significant reduction in inflation pressures during the
quarters immediately ahead were not promising," the summary
says.
   Lee Hoskins, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland, dissented at the May 15 meeting. A consistent
advocate of "zero inflation," Mr. Hoskins wanted tighter
monetary policy. The voting members of the committee include
the six current Fed governors and five of the 12 district
reserve bank presidents.
                                                                                                       

   Here are excerpts from the Labor Department's employment
report. The figures are seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       


                                          1990     1990
                                       (millions of persons)
                                                                                                       

   Total labor force ...................  126.5    126.6
     Total employment ..................  120.0    120.0
   Civilian labor force ................  124.8    125.0
     Civilian employment ...............  118.4    118.4
     Unemployment ......................    6.4      6.7
   Payroll employment ..................  110.8    110.8
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment: (percent of labor force)
                                                                                                       

   All workers .........................    5.1      5.3
   All civilian workers ................    5.2      5.3
   Adult men ...........................    4.7      4.7
   Adult women .........................    4.5      4.6
   Teen-agers ..........................   14.1     15.5
   White ...............................    4.5      4.6
   Black ...............................   10.4     10.4
   Black teen-agers ....................   31.4     29.4
   Hispanic ............................    7.1      7.7
                                                                                                       

   Average weekly hours: (hours of work)
                                                                                                       

   Total private nonfarm ...............   34.7     34.6
     Manufacturing .....................   41.0     41.0
     Factory overtime ..................    3.8      3.8
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   AKLM ITL NDCO OCLB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Acclaim Entertainment Inc., offering of two million common
shares, via Salomon Brothers Inc. and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Itel Corp., offering of 16.7 million common shares of
Itel, via First Boston Corp., Lazard Freres &amp; Co., Salomon
Brothers, Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd., Lazard Brothers &amp;
Co., and Salomon Brothers International Ltd.
                                                                                                       

   Noble Drilling Corp., proposed offering of five million
common shares, of which four million are being offered by
holders, via Salomon Brothers and Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Office Club Inc., offering of 1.3 million common shares,
via Salomon Brothers and William Blair &amp; Co.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NOBLE DRILLING Corp. filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to offer 10,350,000 common shares -- five
million for itself and four million for shareholders. The
remaining shares cover overallotment agreements with
underwriters. Monday's edition misstated the size of the
offering.
   (WSJ July 11, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): By the Numbers
   ---
   Snapshot of the Seven:
   A Statistical Portrait of the Summit Countries
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R16
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BY ANY MEASURE, the seven summit countries carry enormous
economic clout. Together, they account for about 55% of world
gross national product, 54% of world exports and 55% of world
imports. Income per capita in the seven countries ranges from
$12,810 to $21,020. Here's a closer look at how the seven
stack up.
   ---
                       Per-Capita GNP
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   GNP per person, based on 1989-90 data, in U.S. dollars.
Comparing the Summit Seven with an array of poorer nations.
                                                                                                       

   Japan ....................................... $21,020
   United States ...............................  19,840
   West Germany ................................  18,450
   Canada ......................................  16,980
   France ......................................  16,090
   Italy .......................................  13,330
   United Kingdom ..............................  12,810
                                                                                                       

   Venezuela ...................................  $3,250
   Hungary .....................................   2,460
   Poland ......................................   1,860
   Mexico ......................................   1,760
   Turkey ......................................   1,280
   Thailand ....................................   1,000
   El Salvador .................................     940
   Zimbabwe ....................................     650
   India .......................................     340
   China .......................................     330
   Zaire .......................................     170
                                                                                                       

   Source: The World Bank
   ---
                       Economic Focus
                                                                                                       

   Consumer Expenditures (annual percentage changes)

    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990*
                                                                                                       

   Canada
    -2.6%  3.4%  4.6%  5.2%  4.2%  4.9%  4.3%  4.0%  2.4%
                                                                                                       

   United States
     2.8   1.3   4.7   4.8   4.7   3.9   2.8   3.4   2.7
                                                                                                       

   Japan
     4.1   3.2   2.7   2.7   3.1   4.3   5.1   3.5   4.2
                                                                                                       

   France
     3.5   0.9   1.1   2.4   3.7   2.7   2.8   2.9   2.8
                                                                                                       

   West Germany
    -1.3   1.7   1.5   1.4   3.4   3.5   2.7   1.7   3.4
                                                                                                       

   Italy
     1.3   0.6   2.1   3.1   3.8   4.2   4.1   3.8   3.2
                                                                                                       

   United Kingdom
     0.9   5.1   1.8   3.7   5.5   6.1   7.1   4.8   1.3
                                                                                                       

   Consumer Prices (annual percentage changes)
                                                                                                       

    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990*
                                                                                                       

   Canada
    10.8%  5.8%  4.3%  4.0%  4.2%  4.4%  4.0%  5.0%  4.8%
                                                                                                       

   United States
     6.1   3.2   4.4   3.5   2.0   3.6   4.1   4.8   4.6
                                                                                                       

   Japan
     2.7   1.9   2.3   2.0   0.6   0.1   0.7   2.3   2.3
                                                                                                       

   France
    11.8   9.6   7.4   5.8   2.5   3.3   2.7   3.5   3.1
                                                                                                       

   West Germany
     5.3   3.3   2.4   2.2  -0.1   0.2   1.3   2.8   2.9
                                                                                                       

   Italy
    16.5  13.1  10.8   9.1   5.9   4.7   5.0   6.3   5.9
                                                                                                       

   United Kingdom
     8.6   4.6   5.0   6.1   3.4   4.1   4.9   7.9   8.2
                                                                                                       

   Interest Rates
                                                                                                       

                                                    March
    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
                                                                                                       

   Short term
                                                                                                       

   Canada

                                                                                                       

   United States
    12.4   9.1  10.4   8.0   6.5   6.9   7.7   9.1   8.4
                                                                                                       

   Japan
     7.1   6.7   6.4   6.6   5.0   4.1   4.4   5.3   7.3
                                                                                                       

   France
    14.7  12.6  11.9  10.1   7.8   8.2   7.9   9.3  10.6
                                                                                                       

   West Germany
     8.9   5.8   6.0   5.4   4.6   4.0   4.2   7.1   8.4
                                                                                                       

   Italy
    19.4  17.8  15.3  13.9  11.9  11.1  11.2  12.7  13.3
                                                                                                       

   United Kingdom
    11.6  10.1   9.9  12.2  10.9   9.7  10.3  13.9  15.3
                                                                                                       

   Long term
                                                                                                       

   Canada
    14.4% 11.8% 12.7% 11.1%  9.5%  9.9% 10.2%  9.9% 10.8%
                                                                                                       

   United States
    13.0  11.1  12.5  10.6   7.7   8.4   8.8   8.5   8.6
                                                                                                       

   Japan
     8.3   7.8   7.3   6.5   5.2   5.0   4.8   5.1   6.9
                                                                                                       

   France
    15.7  13.6  12.5  10.9   8.4   9.4   9.1   8.8  10.0
                                                                                                       

   West Germany
     9.0   8.1   8.0   7.0   6.1   6.2   6.5   7.0   8.9
                                                                                                       

   Italy
    21.6  19.5  16.6  14.6  12.2  11.6  12.0  13.3  14.2
                                                                                                       

   United Kingdom
    13.1  11.3  11.3  11.1  10.1   9.6   9.7  10.2  12.3
                                                                                                       

   *Estimates
   Source: International Monetary Fund
   ---
                         Human Data
                                                                                                       

                                                   All
                                                   Develop-
                               West                ing
  Canada  U.S.  Japan  France  Germ.  Italy  U.K.  Countries
                                                                                                       

   Population (in millions, 1988-89)
    26    249    123     56     61      58    57    3,900
                                                                                                       

   Annual population growth rate (1988-2000)*

                                                                                                       

   Life expectancy at birth (1988)
    77     75     78     77     75      77    75      62
                                                                                                       

   Mortality rate (under age five, per 1,000; 1988)
     8     13      8     10     10      11    11     121
                                                                                                       

   Adult literacy rate (1985)
    99%    96%    99%    99%    99%     97%   99%     60%
                                                                                                       

   Scientists and technicians (per 1,000, 1970-87)
    257    55    317     83    139      83   N.A.    9.7%
                                                                                                       

   Health expenditure (as % of GNP)
   1960
    2.4%  1.3%   1.3%   2.5%    2.2%  3.2%   3.4%    0.9%
   1986
    6.6%  4.5%   4.9%   6.6%    2.6%  4.5%   5.3%    1.4%
                                                                                                       

   Education expenditure (as % of GNP)
   1960
    4.2%  3.8%   4.0%   2.4%    4.0%  3.2%   3.5%    2.4%
   1986
    7.4%  5.3%   5.0%   5.9%    3.8%  4.0%   5.3%    3.9%
                                                                                                       

   Military expenditure (as % of GNP)
   1960
    4.3%  8.8%   1.0%   6.3%    4.0%  2.7%   6.4%    4.2%
   1986
    2.2%  6.7%   1.0%   3.9%    3.1%  2.3%   5.0%    5.5%
                                                                                                       

   Gross domestic savings (as % of GDP, 1987)
     22%   13%    34%    20%     25%   21%    18%   24.1%
                                                                                                       

   Private expenditure on health (per capita, 1985)
    $99  $100   $119    $115    N.A.  $51    $84    $7.10
                                                                                                       

   *Projection
   Sources: United Nations Development Program, May 1990; The
World Bank
   ---
                  Labor-Force Participation
                                                                                                       

   Labor force as a percentage of the civilian working-age
population.
                                                                                                       

                                         1980     1989
                                                                                                       

   Canada ............................   64.1%    67.0%
   United States .....................   63.8     66.5
   Japan .............................   62.6     62.2
   France ............................   57.2     55.6*
   West Germany ......................   53.2     55.2*
   Italy .............................   48.2     47.8*
   United Kingdom ....................   62.5     63.6*
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rates as a percentage of total labor force
                                                                                                       

                                         1980     1990**
                                                                                                       

   Canada ............................    7.5%     7.6%
   United States .....................    7.1      5.2
   Japan .............................    2.0      2.1
   France ............................    6.4     10.0*
   West Germany ......................    2.9      5.4*
   Italy .............................    4.4      7.4*
   United Kingdom ....................    7.0      6.2*
                                                                                                       

   *Preliminary
   **First quarter, seasonally adjusted
   Source: U.S. Dept. of Labor
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stockbrokers' Average Pay
   Increased 10.4% Last Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Wall Street may be suffering from a recession,
but the lowly stockbroker still commands a good paycheck.
   Average earnings of U.S. securities brokers who deal with
the public rose 10.4% last year to $78,711 a broker, the
Securities Industry Association reported in its annual survey
of broker pay.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was the first gain in broker pay since 1986, when
average broker earnings rose to a record $97,100 from $79,575
in 1985, the securities association said.
   Why the pay gain last year? Brokers who serve the public
get paid largely through commissions on transactions, and
their commissions are higher when the market rises. Last
year, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose about 27%. Also,
the pay gains reflect a business pickup last year at various
regional brokerage firms taking part in the survey.
   The securities association's pay survey covered 52 member
brokerage firms, which employ 39,000 sales people, or close
to half of the industry's total sales personnel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Riedel Expects to Post Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   RIE
</CO>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- Riedel Environmental Technologies Inc.,
citing delays in Environmental Protection Agency orders and
other environmental remediation work, said it expects to
report a net loss in its second quarter. In the year-earlier
quarter, the company earned $563,000, or 16 cents a share, on
$19.1 million in revenue.
   The company also announced that it received approval from
Seattle to proceed in a joint venture for a 10-year, $42
million sludge management services contract. Riedel's stock
closed Friday at $12.25 a share, down 12.5 cents, in American
Stock Exchange composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Massachusetts Banking Bill
   Is Signed by Gov. Dukakis
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4C
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, as expected,
signed into law an interstate banking bill that allows banks
outside New England to buy or open banks in the state.
   The law will take effect in 60 days. A bank, however, can
choose to opt out of the interstate banking provisions until
July 1, 1992, if two-thirds of its directors vote to do so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until now, only other New England-based banks have been
able to enter the Massachusetts market.
   Gov. Dukakis said, "By opening up Massachusetts to
out-of-state banks, we will help stabilize our banking
industry, as well as increase the amount of capital available
which can potentially help the credit crunch in this state."
   Analysts, however, don't expect out-of-state banks to
descend on Massachusetts any time soon. Many of the state's
banks are suffering from slumps in the local real-estate
market and economy, and therefore aren't considered
attractive takeover candidates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Must a Soviet Collapse Precede Reform?
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRAGUE -- Anti-communist political leaders from the Soviet
Union meeting here last week had little interest in what the
world press sees as a historic event back home, the 28th
Congress of the Soviet Communist Party in Moscow. They
believe that the party already is dead, incapable of
self-reform. As hard-bitten veterans of prison camps and
other indignities, they are not so naive as to imagine that
the Communists in the governing soviets will voluntarily fire
themselves. But they think that the system is collapsing and
that it soon will be possible to build new, democratic,
free-market edifices on its shards.
   A letter was read to the group from Gennady Cherepanov, a
dissident lawyer who didn't make it to Prague because the
Soviet authorities had thrown him in jail. "The time of hope
is over," he wrote. "To sweeten communism is impossible. It
has to be destroyed." Few disagreed with that. There was a
consensus that Western attempts to prop up Mikhail Gorbachev
can only prolong the agony.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Communist Party is losing strength every day," said
Yuri Yarim-Agaev, president of the Center for Democracy in
the U.S.S.R., a U.S.-based group that helped organize the
conference. Even if the party congress produces something
other than tedium before it winds up Friday, it will not put
food on Soviet tables or lessen the anger of the people.
World chess champion Gary Kasparov, here as leader of the new
Democratic Party in Russia, repeated his prediction that
there will be no Soviet Union by the end of next year.
   With all due allowance for exaggerated hopes of political
dissidents, the Kasparov prediction is not beyond belief. As
the Journal's David Brooks, Paul A. Gigot and Peter Gumbel
reported last week, the signs of disintegration within the
party and the state are unmistakable. All over the U.S.S.R.,
party and nonparty factions are engaged in turf battles over
who will control buildings, newspapers and broadcasting
stations. Outright fighting in Azerbaijan, Armenia and
Uzbekistan in recent months has demonstrated the potential
for civil war. One knowledgeable Russian, not involved with
the Prague meeting, says that Armenia has 90,000 young men
available for guerrilla warfare.
   Western leaders, such as Francois Mitterrand of France,
see a danger of catastrophe -- war, famine, civil disorder
and epidemics caused by a breakdown of water and sewage
systems. Such fears are realistic. But the dissidents believe
a breakdown is inevitable, and necessary if there is to be
true reform.
   It may well be. Mikhail Gorbachev's five-year effort to
reform Soviet communism from within has produced nothing but
expanded economic disorder. Anti-communism has been spreading
rapidly, particularly in the non-Russian republics, where new
national fronts have begun to achieve significant power and
to demand independence from the "center," meaning Moscow. The
stage at the Prague Palace of Culture, where the conference
was held, had seats for representatives of separatist
movements in 11 non-Russian republics, plus places for
Russian democrats, a representative of the Crimean Tatars and
an envoy of the Jewish movements.
   Georgi Chanturia, representing the National Democratic
Party of Georgia, said that the use of Soviet troops and
poison gas to put down demonstrations in the Georgian capital
of Tbilisi in April last year enraged Georgians. They now
reject Gorbachev hints at confederation and are demanding
total independence, he said.
   Tafik Gasymov represented the Popular Front of Azerbaijan,
which had for all practical purposes seized control of the
republic's government before Soviet troops shot their way
into Baku early this year. Since then, he says, "the movement
has become much stronger. Freedom cannot be driven away." Mr.
Gorbachev's blockade of Lithuania has done little to damp
down demands for independence in the Baltic States.
Moldavia's delegate said that his country, populated by
people who regard themselves as Romanians, was raped along
with the Baltic States by the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact and the
resulting Soviet occupation in 1940. Byelorussia's
representative claims Stalin massacred 100,000 of his
countrymen in the war years. Stalin's wartime deportation of
the Crimean Tatars to Kazakhstan, with more than half dying
along the way, was recounted.
   In short, there is a long list of grievances against the
Communist Party. It still has its "sword and shield," the
KGB, to help it control populations. But Georgi Katsenkov, a
former apparatchik for the Central Committee of the party,
said the KGB too is being disrupted from within, as evidenced
by the recent disloyalty of retired KGB Maj. Gen. Oleg
Kalugin. He broke secrecy to describe a vast KGB network of
spies and "agents provocateur" operating within the Soviet
population.
   "There also are certain trends toward dissolution in the
army," said Mr. Katsenkov. "The standard of living for
officers, even generals, is low. Lower-level officers exploit
the privates. Over five years, more people have died inside
the army than were killed in Afghanistan."
   The conference had as its theme "The Peaceful Road to
Democracy" but its communique warned of civil war and accused
the central authorities of provoking ethnic conflicts "so
they can represent themselves as the instruments of peace and
quiet." This policy, the communique said, is "turning the
country into a giant Beirut." To resolve the problem and
prevent bloodshed "it is necessary to dissolve the union and
permit the establishment of independent democratic states."
   The Soviet economy continues to spin downward.
Distribution of goods has been disrupted by rail-car tie-ups,
generating food shortages. The country is short on foreign
exchange and its credit rating is sinking. Communist Party
members have been defecting in droves in such places as the
Western Ukraine. Moscow clearly is worried about defections
by local militias, or police forces, of the type that
occurred in the Trans-Caucasus. Mr. Gorbachev took pains to
disarm the police in Lithuania. Army desertions and refusals
to serve have been spreading.
   But there was one note of warning. Karen Simonyan, a
member of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R., said that the
new "islands of freedom" within the Soviet Union "bear the
burden of the unknown." There is a danger of famine, he said,
and "what may happen in the near future could be tragic."
Hence, public rancor may turn against the democratic
movements. The Communist apparatchiks could say to the
people, "Now you have democratic leaders and look what you
have. You can have us and stability or democratic leadership
with chaos and anarchy."
   Perhaps that is a danger, but it may be an irrelevant one
if the Soviet system is in fact heading down the road to
total collapse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Program Trading Accounts
   For Less Big Board Volume
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Program trading accounted for an average of
10.9% of New York Stock Exchange volume, or 15.6 million
shares daily, in the week ended June 22, the exchange said.
   This was down from an unusually large 22.3% of volume the
previous week, which included program trading associated with
the quarterly expiration on June 15 of stock-index futures
and options.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Big Board's latest weekly data on program trading
showed that the biggest program traders in the week ended
June 22, accounting for about 70% of all program activity,
were Morgan Stanley Group Inc., the Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
unit of General Electric Co., Susquehanna Investment Group,
the First Boston Corp. unit of CS First Boston Inc., and
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   Program trading is the simultaneous, rapid-fire purchase
or sale of 15 or more, and often hundreds, of stocks. The
most common form is stock-index arbitrage, in which stocks
are bought and sold with offsetting trades of futures and
options. The Big Board said that of the five most active
program-trading firms, only Merrill Lynch's program trading
didn't involve index arbitrage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Chapter and Worse
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Everything that is written
   Has been written before;
   There are slight variations,
   Hardly anything more.
   Close analysis shows
   There is nothing to it --
   Unless, of course,
   You're trying to do it.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Conveniently Deaf
                                                                                                       

   When parents warn
   Of snares and sin
   The ear teen-agers
   Turn is tin.
   -- Bert H. Kruse.
   ---
   Public Pest
                                                                                                       

   All the world loves a lover, except the people who are
waiting to use the phone.
   -- Sam Ewing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Honda's Acura Again Tops
   An Auto Satisfaction Index
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC G.DAI GM TOYOY F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   AGOURA HILLS, Calif. -- For the fourth year in a row,
Acura, the luxury car division of Honda Motor Co. of Japan,
topped the customer satisfaction index of J.D. Power &amp;
Associates, an auto market research concern.
   Mercedes-Benz AG of West Germany, a unit of Daimler-Benz
AG, Toyota Motor Corp. of Japan, Detroit-based General Motors
Corp.'s Cadillac and Honda had the other top-ranked
nameplates in the index, which is used by car companies in
marketing campaigns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index is based on a survey of owners of new autos
about their level of satisfaction with their vehicles and
dealers after a full year of ownership; this standard ruled
out consideration of two new luxury cars, Toyota's Lexus and
Japan-based Nissan Motor Co.'s Infiniti.
   GM's Buick was the only other domestic nameplate in the
top nine besides Cadillac, though Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford
Motor Co.'s Mercury and Lincoln made big jumps from a year
ago. Five of the top nine spots were grabbed by Japanese
companies; two spots were taken by German luxury nameplates.
   The customer satisfaction index is different from the
initial quality survey, released last week by J.D. Power. The
initial quality survey, which measures defects reported by
owners during their first 90 days of ownership, tends to have
a greater effect on sales of specific models.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.BNL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

26, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with a 4 3/4% coupon
at par, via Nomura International Ltd. Guaranteed by Sanwa
Bank. Each $5,000 bond carries one warrant, exercisable from
Aug. 17, 1990, through July 12, 1994, to buy shares at an
expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing price when terms
are fixed Friday. Fees 2 1/4.
   Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia (Indonesia) -- $80 million of
9.45% Eurobonds due July 24, 1995, priced at par via Sumitomo
Finance Asia Ltd. Fees 1 3/4.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 75 million Australian
dollars of 15 3/4% Eurobonds due Feb. 14, 1992, priced at 102
via Hambros Bank Ltd. Coupon is repayable at the end of the
18-month maturity. Fees 1.
   Lavoro Bank Overseas N.V. (Italian parent) -- 100 million
Swiss francs of 7 1/4% privately placed notes due July 31,
1995, priced at 101 3/8 via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Guarantee by Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. Fees 1 1/2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   WMS to Post Loss
   For Quarter, Citing
   Weak Sales, Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4B
</SO>
<CO>
   WMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- WMS Industries Inc. said it expects to report
a fiscal fourth-quarter net loss, citing weaker-than-expected
sales of amusement games and a $3 million charge to cut staff
and move its headquarters to Chicago.
   WMS makes pinball machines under the Williams and Bally
names and video games under the Williams and Bally/Midway
names. The company also owns and operates hotels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The $3 million charge for the quarter ended June 30 equals
about 35 cents a share, based on an average 8.5 million
shares outstanding at March 31. In the year-earlier fourth
period, WMS earned $2.4 million, or 28 cents a share, on
revenue of $42.7 million.
   Eleven of the 15 staff members at headquarters won't make
the move, WMS said. Overall, the company has 1,700 employees
in its hotel operations and 1,500 on the games side. WMS
estimates the head office relocation will save $2 million a
year.
   With the relocation come some executive changes. Louis
Nicastro, WMS's 62-year-old chairman and chief executive
officer, adds the post of president. Neil Nicastro, 34, the
chairman's son, becomes chief operating officer and remains
executive vice president and treasurer. Norman J. Menell, 59,
formerly president and operating chief, becomes vice
chairman.
   Harold H. Bach Jr., a 58-year-old former partner at the
accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young, becomes WMS chief financial
officer, succeeding Paul Shackford, 40, who isn't making the
headquarters relocation, which the company expects to
complete this month.
   WMS also said it expects to post a loss for the fiscal
year, reflecting operating losses, the fourth-quarter charge
and a third-quarter write-off of $7 million, or 83 cents a
share, on the company's shareholding in Divi Hotels N.V.
   WMS attributed the operating deficits to last year's
Hurricane Hugo and its effects on the hotel business and to a
delay in the introduction of new video-game models.
   The senior Mr. Nicastro said, however, that as these video
games are unveiled, WMS "expects to secure a significant
share" of the world-wide market. He said WMS's "hotel and
casino properties are in better condition, with more
facilities than ever before."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Award Against Baxter
   Set Aside by U.S. Judge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A federal judge set aside a jury's $5.7 million
damage award to the investor group that bought a subsidiary
from Baxter International Inc.
   U.S. District Judge Suzanne B. Conlon upheld the panel's
finding that Baxter had defrauded the investor group, Medcom
Holding Inc., when Baxter sold the group its Medcom Inc.
medical-training materials operation in 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the judge ordered a new trial on the issue of damages,
saying that the jury's award wasn't "rationally related to
the evidence." The jury had also awarded Medcom Holding $10
million in punitive damages; Judge Conlon postponed a ruling
on the reasonableness of the punitive damages award until the
conclusion of the new trial.
   The judge let stand, however, the federal jury's March
finding that Baxter violated securities law, breached its
contract with Medcom Holding and committed common-law fraud
in the sale.
   Baxter paid more than $50 million when it acquired Medcom
in 1982. It took losses on it for the next several years, and
eventually sold it to the investor group for $3.8 million.
The group had contended that Baxter provided a misleading
balance sheet and misrepresented the value of Medcom's
inventory of medical-training films when it offered the unit
for sale in 1986.
   A Baxter attorney declined to comment on the ruling.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iberia Makes Only Offer
   To Buy Argentine Airline
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM E.ILA Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUENOS AIRES -- A consortium led by Spain's Iberia Air
Lines made the only offer for the Argentine government-owned
airline Aerolineas Argentinas when bids were submitted
Friday.
   Terms weren't disclosed, and the government reserved the
right to reject the offer. A ruling was expected this week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An 85% share of Aerolineas is for sale for $236 million,
plus $1.5 billion of the airline's debt paper.
   The Iberia group's offer was made in conjunction with
local businessmen who own the small Argentine airline Austral
and the First Boston Corp. investment banking unit of CS
First Boston Inc.
   The Italian carrier Alitalia, Varig Brazilian Airlines and
Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR Corp., parent of American
Airlines, all had expressed interest in the sale but didn't
submit bids.
   The Aerolineas sale is part of the Argentine government's
plan to restructure the country's economy by reducing the
role of the state. Last month, the sale of 60% of the state
telephone company was granted to Telefonica S.A. of Spain and
Bell Atlantic Corp., Philadelphia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Lord Geller, Never Fully Recovering
   From Defections, Merges Into WPP Unit
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WPPGY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Lord, Geller, Federico, Einstein, the
beleaguered WPP Group PLC ad agency that never fully
recovered from the defection of its top executives two years
ago, is being merged into another WPP unit.
   London-based WPP late Friday said LGFE would be folded
into its Brouillard Communications unit, which would be
renamed Brouillard/LGFE.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger that marks the end of the LGFE agency caps a
tumultuous couple of years there. The agency, once known as a
creative hot shop that dreamed up the Charlie Chaplin-like
"Little Tramp" ads for International Business Machines Corp.,
had billed an estimated $220 million in 1987. But after its
six top executives walked out in a bitter fight with Martin
Sorrell, WPP's chief executive, the agency went into a
tailspin from which it never fully emerged.
   The latest blow came last week, when Schieffelin &amp;
Somerset Co., perhaps its largest client, pulled its $7
million Hennessey cognac account from the shop.
   As of Friday, LGFE had shrunk to $43 million in billings,
WPP said. New York-based Brouillard, an agency specializing
in corporate-image programs that was once a smaller sibling
to LGFE, bills about $70 million, putting the combined shops'
billings at an estimated $110 million.
   "The loss of Schieffelin &amp; Somerset brought LGFE below the
critical mass that we thought was necessary to justify a
separate agency," a WPP spokesman said.
   The merger also puts Brouillard executives in day-to-day
control of operations. James H. Foster, president and chief
executive officer of Brouillard, will retain that post in the
merged company. Agi Clark, who had been LGFE's chief creative
officer, will be chairman. The management lineup throws into
question the futures of LGFE's top executives, Tim Elliott,
who had been chief executive officer, and J. William Wardell,
who was president.
   The WPP spokesman would say only that both of those
executives are "committed to make sure there is a smooth
transition of LGFE clients to the merged agency." The roles
of Norman Geller and Gene Federico, both board members who
aren't involved in day-to-day operations, aren't likely to
change, the spokesman added.
   Executives at a number of LGFE's clients couldn't be
reached, and it's not clear whether all will follow to the
merged shop. Remaining clients include Prince Manufacturing
Inc., Sheridan Distributors Inc. and Chemical Bank.
   The LGFE defectors formed their own agency, Lord Einstein
O'Neill &amp; Partners, in March 1988. That shop, after a strong
start, had some big setbacks, including the loss of its
largest account, Saab-Scania AB, earlier this year. However,
the agency recently won an assignment from American Telephone
&amp; Telegraph and several brands from Perrier Group of America
Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Ingersoll's Goal of a European Network
   Of Newspapers Meets Doubts in Industry
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR U.REE U.IPR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Ralph M. Ingersoll II, after agreeing to
relinquish his highly leveraged U.S. newspaper empire last
week, has pinned all his hopes on Europe.
   But the American publisher is far from realizing his
ambitious dream of a European regional newspaper network. In
fact, the few holdings amassed so far in Britain and Ireland
are causing him bigger and costlier headaches than
anticipated. Mr. Ingersoll owns several daily and weekly
papers in Birmingham and Coventry, England, and holds a 50%
stake in Irish Press Newspapers Ltd., publisher of two
dailies and a Sunday paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late Friday, the Irish Press said the three papers will
cease publication July 23. Its half-dozen unions have balked
at a management proposal to axe 240 of more than 700 jobs.
Union officials hope to reach a compromise in the next two
weeks but "there is a growing fear" that the papers will in
fact close, one union negotiator said yesterday.
   "Expectations were quite high when he came in" to Britain
in 1987, recalled Fiona Cooper, an associate director in
Coopers &amp; Lybrand Deloitte's communications division in
London. "At the moment, I don't see Ingersoll as a major
player in the regional newspaper industry in the U.K.," she
added. "He just has not had any impact at all."
   Mr. Ingersoll was in London Friday, but unavailable for
comment, an aide said.
   Because of his limited success so far in Britain, some
newspaper-business watchers doubt Mr. Ingersoll's claim that
his Ingersoll Publications Ltd. unit has equity valued at
between $200 million and $300 million. The figure "could be
fantasy," said Craig Fitt, media analyst at Moody's Investors
Service Inc., which withdrew its debt rating last February on
a large part of U.S.-based Ingersoll Publications Co.
"There's no way of knowing with that company," Mr. Fitt
asserted.
   Last week, the U.S. parent announced that E.M. Warburg
Pincus &amp; Co. will acquire all of Mr. Ingersoll's stock in his
three U.S. companies, which publish metropolitan daily
newspapers. Mr. Ingersoll, in turn, is acquiring Warburg's
50% stake in London-based Ingersoll Publications Ltd. The
unit has annual revenue of $178 million, cash flow of $40
million and bank debt of $109 million, according to
Ingersoll.
   Those revenue and cash flow numbers seem high to some
industry experts because Ingersoll Publications Ltd. reported
after-tax profit of #1,940,000 ($3,458,000) on revenue of #58
million for 1988, the latest figures available from U.K.
authorities. "It leaves one feeling a little puzzled," said
Eric de Bellaigue, a publishing analyst at London broker
Panmure Gordon. He said that most regional U.K. newspaper
chains sell for a multiple of about 10 times earnings. Based
on the 1988 figures -- which exclude Ingersoll's subsequent
and undisclosed investment in Irish Press -- "you're looking
at a market capitalization of about #20 million," he said.
   It's also debatable whether the fortunes of Ingersoll
Publications Ltd. have improved much since 1988. The British
newspaper industry has been hit hard by an advertising slump
in recent months, compounding Mr. Ingersoll's difficulties in
digesting his #62.5 million acquisition of the Birmingham
Post and Mail newspaper group.
   Readership of the Birmingham Evening Mail in the Midlands
area, England's industrial heartland, fell about 10.6% to
521,000 last year from 583,000 the prior year, according to
one leading industry survey. Mr. Ingersoll launched 28
different editions of free weekly papers for Birmingham
suburbs last year but, rivals say, scant advertising forced
him to cut the number to eight. Competitors also claim he has
shelved ambitious plans to build a new printing plant for the
Birmingham papers, and instead is installing new presses. He
also apparently intends to relaunch the Post, a morning
tabloid with an estimated 29,000 daily circulation, in
broadsheet form this fall.
   "I haven't seen any significant changes" in the
competitive climate since Mr. Ingersoll entered the U.K.
market, said Roger Rix, chief executive officer of Reed
Midland Newspapers, a unit of British publishing giant Reed
International PLC, whose papers include the Birmingham Daily
News. The free paper publishes 276,000 copies four times a
week. "Given the publicity (about Mr. Ingersoll), I was
expecting to see a quantum leap in input and in ideas," Mr.
Rix went on, "There was a feeling that there were a number of
lessons that could be transferred from the American market."
   Mr. Ingersoll has said that he wants to start new
publishing ventures, primarily daily and weekly newspapers,
in Europe. His primary interests are Sweden and, in
particular, Germany. While conceding that there is plenty of
competition from German publishers, he said he believes
German readers are better educated and more interested in the
printed word than their American counterparts, and thus would
welcome new publications. Last week, at the time of the split
with Warburg, he said he also is interested in entering
magazine publishing in Europe.
   To finance the expansion, Mr. Ingersoll has said he will
turn to European banks and investors, who he believes will
welcome the opportunity to invest with him.
   But with his hands full managing his British and Irish
newspaper investments, Mr. Ingersoll may be unable to expand
his European empire quickly, some analysts believe. "He may
not have the resources or standing to do that for a little
while," said Panmure Gordon's Mr. de Bellaigue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Digital Equipment to Unveil New Line
   Of MicroVAX Machines to Counter IBM
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Taking aim at International Business Machines Corp.,
Digital Equipment Corp. is expected today to unveil a new
generation of its strong-selling MicroVAX computer line,
which analysts say has brought in more than $7 billion in
sales since its debut in 1986.
   The new line underscores Digital's strategic commitment to
proprietary-design minicomputers, despite increasing
competitive pressure from smaller machines running standard
software. Like IBM, Digital has an enormous base of customers
who have made long-term investments in its design.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The minicomputer business is actually alive and doing
reasonably well for Digital and IBM," though for other
companies it has probably died, says Jay P. Stevens, an
analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   The MicroVAX -- at the low end of Digital's flagship line
-- has been a solid performer in a difficult year, growing
about 10% to $2 billion in annual sales, Mr. Stevens says.
But it hasn't been enough to offset the collapse of high-end
revenue in the fiscal year ended June 30, as sales of
Digital's 8000-series machines dwindled to almost nothing and
customers awaited the mainframe-class VAX 9000.
   Despite its reliance on the VAX, Digital in the past year
has stepped up marketing of a new computer design that runs
on standard software, and has built products to bridge
standard and proprietary designs of its own and those of IBM,
Apple Computer Inc. and others.
   In a further reflection of the changing market, Digital
has redesigned its newest VAX for client-server computing, in
which one or more computers act as servers or hubs for
networks of smaller desktop machines. In a departure from
traditional design, the new VAX has several processors nearly
as powerful as the central processor that are dedicated to
speeding up data traffic on the network and allowing
especially fast access to disk-storage devices.
   The new line, to be called the VAX 4000, delivers more
power than IBM's top-of-the-line AS/400 minicomputer, at less
than half the cost, Digital Vice President Bill Demmer said
Friday.
   "The real competition is IBM, and always has been," Mr.
Demmer said. He said several smaller competitors such as
Compaq Computer Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc. present
"short-term tactical situations" but that IBM remains
Digital's key strategic focus.
   Dean Witter's Mr. Stevens called the new line aggressively
priced and said it appears somewhat faster than expected. The
models will range in price from $60,910 to $329,000,
depending on configuration.
   The VAX 4000 makes its debut at a scaled-back DECWorld
sales exposition in Boston, the first in two years. At the
show, Digital also is expected to introduce new
network-management software, computer servers dedicated to
tasks such as database access or intensive scientific
computing, and products that tie computer networks together
and connect them to high-speed optical data links.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Star Wars:
   After Recent Setbacks,
   NASA Faces a Fight
   Over Project Funding
   ---
   Financing May Be Cut Off
   For the Space Station,
   Environmental Satellites
   ---
   A Debate Over `Big Science'
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, already badly wounded by troubles with the
Hubble Space telescope and the space shuttle, is facing two
more potentially crippling blows.
   Congress is threatening to cut off funds in December for
NASA's proposed $37 billion space station because it's
overweight, underpowered, hasn't proven it can perform
important scientific experiments and may require extra space
shuttle flights for assembly in orbit. "This is the last
point at which we can pull the plug," says Rep. Bill Green of
New York, the ranking Republican on the House appropriations
panel that oversees NASA.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, the White House is reconsidering its support
for NASA's next big science project, a plan to spend as much
as $50 billion for six enormous satellites that will monitor
the Earth's environment. Officials at the National Space
Council, headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, fear that
NASA's design is too risky, too complex and too likely to
overrun its budget -- just as the space telescope did. "The
question is, do we have a design that has an acceptable level
of risk and {provides} a maximum return as quickly as
possible?" says Elizabeth Prestridge, a spokeswoman for the
Space Council.
   These new problems, coming on top of the grounding of the
shuttle fleet and the crippling of the space telescope,
promise the most painful re-examination of the nation's space
program since the space shuttle Challenger blew up four years
ago. Congress plans at least three sets of hearings on NASA's
problems after it resumes its session tomorrow, and two
investigations of the space station.
   President Bush's plans for the U.S. to land an astronaut
on Mars by 2019, which already faced long odds of winning
funds on Capitol Hill, may be the first victim of the
criticism directed at NASA. Another victim will probably be
the already strained relationship between NASA and the Space
Council, which blame each other for problems encountered in
the space program.
   "At the present time, NASA's eyes are bigger than its
stomach," says Sen. Albert Gore, the Tennessee Democrat who
heads the Senate science and space subcommittee. He doesn't
believe the agency could cope with a new exploration project.
   The debate over NASA also will stoke the growing
resentment on Capitol Hill and in the scientific community
against big science projects, which scarf up a bigger
fraction each year of the government's $62 billion a year
research-and-development budget and invariably run into
trouble.
   Since 1983, the U.S. has spent more than $25 billion on
big research projects such as the Strategic Defense
Initiative, the space station, the National Aerospace Plane,
the Human Genome Project and the Superconducting
Supercollider. None has advanced further than the design and
testing stage. Next year, the Bush administration plans to
propose a $400 million supercomputer network, too. If these
projects are ever completed, their total cost would rise into
the hundreds of billions of dollars.
   "There may be a move away from big science because of the
problems {with Hubble}," says Lyman Spitzer, the Princeton
astronomer who conceived the idea of an orbital telescope 44
years ago and who still supports big projects. "It will
strengthen the argument that big, expensive instruments are
just a mistake."
   Even before the Hubble problems, the House voted to kill a
proposed $200 million laser, which would be used to test
Einstein's theories of gravity, because of fears it would
reduce money available for individual scientists.
   NASA thought it had put its problems behind it after it
reorganized following the Challenger disaster in 1986, flew
10 successful shuttle missions and drew rave reviews when the
unmanned Voyager spacecraft explored Neptune last summer. "We
have a new NASA," says William Lenoir, the agency's associate
administrator for space flight. "We think we have rebuilt our
organization, rebuilt our processes."
   But the events of the past few weeks have made the new
NASA look distressingly like the old one. The agency
discovered that two of its shuttles were leaking potentially
explosive hydrogen fuel and suspects the problem may involve
a set of valves that initially failed a series of acceptance
tests in 1983. NASA has grounded the fleet indefinitely while
it investigates. The agency also found a fundamental defect
in one of the mirrors on the $2.5 billion Hubble Space
Telescope that leaves the craft myopic and puts off for at
least three years many of the experiments astronomers had
planned.
   In many ways, Hubble set an unenviable model for NASA's
big science projects. The space agency hyped Hubble's promise
-- claiming it could see to the edge of time -- signed up
scientists to act as lobbyists, divvied up jobs among a
number of NASA centers that don't work well together and
underestimated the project's costs. By the time cost-overruns
and other problems surfaced, NASA already had invested so
much in Hubble that Congress, which approved the added funds,
didn't have the gumption to kill or revise it.
   Now, NASA managers say that the space station -- the
agency's biggest project since the Apollo moon landings --
faces serious design problems that could increase its cost.
Already, the project is running quadruple its $8 billion
price tag.
   NASA envisions an orbital station the size of the U.S.
Capitol, outfitted with three laboratories, living quarters
and a crew of eight. The station would be built in 18
different giant pieces on the ground and assembled in orbit
during 28 space shuttle missions that would take 4 1/2 years
to complete, beginning in March 1995.
   The roots of the station's problems are its complexity and
its reliance on the fragile space shuttle for construction.
Thousands of different pieces must come together, like an
enormous jigsaw puzzle, to build the space station. So far
the pieces don't fit right.
   Consider the U.S. space station laboratory. (Japan and
Europe are building their own labs for the station.) Early in
the project, NASA hoped to launch the laboratory on one
shuttle, but the proposed lab has grown so heavy that NASA
now counts on two launches -- one for the laboratory and one
for the equipment -- and may have to add a third. Once in
orbit, astronauts in bulky space suits will have to carry
racks of lab equipment into the tight confines of the
laboratory like moving men lugging big couches up narrow
staircases.
   During recent design reviews, NASA has added up the weight
of all the parts to be hauled into space to see whether space
station components could fit into the projected number of
shuttle flights. The station is now about 30% overweight, or
about 150,000 pounds, according to a NASA report obtained by
Space Station News, a Washington, D.C., newsletter. As a
result, the agency probably will have to add more shuttle
flights to construct the station and reduce the size of some
station facilities.
   At the same time, the number of hours required for
astronauts to service the space station is growing, raising
doubts about whether the station can be adequately
maintained. NASA expects two astronauts in spacesuits to
replace defective parts during periodic, six-hour maintenance
checks of the station. Space walks are inherently risky
because of the possibility of accidents and the unknown
effects on humans of prolonged exposure to space radiation.
   In February, two NASA officials reported that the station
would require 2,284 hours of space walks annually. That's
about one walk every other day, about 15 times as many as Mr.
Lenoir's goal for the project. Now space agency officials
expect that a final space walk report will add at least
another 250 hours.
   Even more serious is the shrinking amount of power for
experiments. "That will be harder to fix," says James Sisson,
a space station manager at Marshall Space Flight Center.
"With weight, you can always add shuttle flights. With {space
walks} you can accommodate more time. But with power, you're
limited to what comes out of the solar arrays."
   The space station will have a total of 75 kilowatts
available. But the operation of the station itself will
require so much power that so far it has only 10 to 15
kilowatts available for experiments -- less than the 30
considered adequate for the labs.
   The House appropriations committee was so spooked by the
station's problems that it passed a provision, which cleared
the House in June, that could cut off space station funding
unless NASA can certify during a December design review that
the station will have adequate power and fully equipped
laboratories. If the Senate goes along, Congress is expected
to appoint a panel to monitor the station's progress. "We
don't want the station to turn out to be a floating can with
a couple of wall sockets in it," says Kevin Kelly, the senior
staffer of the Senate appropriations panel overseeing NASA.
   Mr. Lenoir, who has responsibility for the space station,
says the agency will be able to meet Congressional
requirements. He argues that the space station is early
enough in its design life for problems to be fixed. He says
engineers have vastly overestimated the number of
measurements that must be taken to monitor whether the craft
is working well. Reducing those measurements will reduce the
number of sensors required -- saving weight -- and release
more power for experiments. "Unless we're way wrong, I don't
expect a budget or schedule problem" as a result of the
station problems, Mr. Lenoir says.
   But others are less sanguine. "The potential is there for
years of delay or billions of dollars in additional costs,"
says Mark Oderman, managing director of CSP Associates Inc.,
a Boston space consulting firm that tracks the space station.
   The station's other major problem is its reliance on the
space shuttle to cart station segments into space. Even if
the shuttle turns out to be 98% reliable -- a higher
reliability rate than the shuttle has yet demonstrated --
Congress's Office of Technology Assessment calculates that
there is an 88% chance of a shuttle crash before the station
is complete. (NASA didn't comment on that estimate.) Should
an accident occur during a launch of a crucial station
component -- say, the laboratory -- it could set the station
back years because NASA isn't making spares.
   Similar uncertainties face the agency's next big science
project: a grand plan to launch a series of climate
satellites called the Earth Observing System. The White House
is re-evaluating its support because of fears NASA may be
gambling too much on this project, too.
   Each of the $3 billion EOS satellites would carry up to 16
different instruments, including some as big as Volkswagen
Beetles, making the satellites the most complex and costly
ever launched. If NASA's schedule holds up -- it's already
about three years behind -- the first satellite, EOS-A, will
go into orbit in 1998. Five other satellites will follow over
15 years.
   When EOS was first proposed in 1982, NASA expected
astronauts to be able to repair the climate satellites either
from the space shuttle or from a craft docked to the space
station.
   The space agency later canceled those repair plans when it
became clear that shuttle couldn't reach the right orbit for
EOS, but an unmanned Titan rocket could. But NASA didn't
reduce the complexity of the climate satellites. Now, if one
important system on EOS should fail, such as the power or
propulsion, all the instruments aboard would fail too,
without any chance of fixing the problem in orbit. That could
cripple U.S. climate research.
   "They've taken a spacecraft design that makes good sense
on a shuttle, and put it on a Titan, where it makes terrible
sense," says John Pike, a space analyst for the Federation of
American Scientists.
   The problem with Hubble -- where a fundamental flaw in the
craft's most important instrument, its mirror, was only
discovered after launch -- brought home the riskiness in EOS
to the White House. Now the National Space Council says it is
awaiting the results of several EOS studies before deciding
whether it should try to restructure the program.
   The first study, by the National Academy of Sciences, is
due out early next month and is expected to suggest that NASA
could replace some of its huge satellites with constellations
of smaller, less-expensive ones. In October, a harsher report
is expected, which will challenge the underlying premise of
EOS -- that big, complex satellites are necessary to answer
pressing climate questions.
   This study is being conducted by the Marshall Institute, a
small Washington think tank led by Robert Jastrow, a
prominent space scientist who once worked at NASA and is held
in high esteem at the White House. An earlier Marshall
report, which took a skeptical look at predictions of global
warming, is believed to have influenced White House Chief of
Staff John Sununu's hard-line views on the subject.
   Mr. Jastrow says EOS is wrongheaded and far too expensive
because it doesn't zero in on the most important climate
questions, such as whether clouds are increasing or
decreasing. (Clouds reflect heat into space, potentially
eliminating much of the feared increase in global
temperatures.)
   NASA could save money and get results more quickly, he
says, if it launched a half-dozen small satellites, at a cost
of $1 billion to $2 billion, specifically to measure clouds.
"Like Hubble, EOS is another example of mega-science," Mr.
Jastrow says. "NASA is going for the big project at the
expense of an incremental approach" that could yield valuable
information sooner.
   (NASA didn't respond to requests for comments on Mr.
Jastrow's views, but it has defended the big-satellite
approach as providing the best way to get a complete look at
changes in the environment.)
   Lennard Fisk, NASA's head of space science, says that the
problems with Hubble don't foretell problems with EOS. Hubble
suffered because its management was split between two
competing centers, he says, not because of the spacecraft's
inherent complexity. With that experience in mind, he says,
he insisted that EOS be run from a single center, Goddard
Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md.
   But the coalescing of so many problems at one time does
suggest a pattern. The space shuttle, space station,
telescope and EOS all have their antecedents in the days
before the Challenger disaster, when NASA's budgets were flat
and the agency was struggling to find a mission. "NASA had to
do everything at a higher level of risk then," says John
Logsdon, director of the Space Policy Institute at George
Washington University. "It's come back to bite us."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Place Real Books at Core of Education Reform
   ---
   By Christopher de Vinck
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<LP>
   We have become a nation of education assessors, test
givers, chart makers, speech givers, strategists and
consultants. But after all the reform-movement rhetoric since
the early 1980s, after all the blue-ribbon conferences,
reports, conventions, articles and books on how to reform
education, we find that students haven't made any significant
gains in their reading and writing and thinking abilities.
   According to the National Assessment of Educational
Progress, "Levels of writing performance in 1988 appeared to
be substantially the same as in 1974. Many students continued
to perform at minimal levels on the writing assessment tasks,
and relatively few performed at adequate or better levels."
NAEP added that while "the overwhelming majority of young
adults adequately perform reading tasks at the lower levels,
sizable numbers appear unable to do well on tasks of moderate
complexity, and only a relatively small percentage of this
group is estimated to perform at levels typified by the more
complex and challenging tasks."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NAEP went on to say that "it is clear that there is no
single step or simple action, which if taken, will allow all
individuals to become fully literate. Becoming fully literate
in our society is a lifelong pursuit affected by such factors
as home environment, economic situation, aspirations,
opportunities, and education. As a result, we must recognize
the intergenerational effects on literacy."
   But there is a simple step, there is a single action that
will have the most significant effect on a child's literacy
-- on his or her whole being -- and that step is to make the
reading of real literature on an everyday basis the principle
upon which the foundations of our education reform movement
rest. It is time to step away from stultifying readers and
textbooks, work sheets and drills.
   The very best curriculum for our schools can be found in
the best bookstores, not in the corporate-developed,
committee-written textbook series that cost millions of
dollars and take several years to produce. Have you ever
caught a child secretly reading a textbook under the bed
covers with a flashlight?
   Children reading "My Father's Dragon" on their own in the
first grade or "James and the Giant Peach" on their own in
the third grade are the secret to education reform. Children
reading and understanding "Anne of Green Gables" on their own
in the sixth grade will reduce dropout rates. Children
reading and understanding "To Kill a Mockingbird" and "Iron
and Silk" in the ninth grade are the answer to poor SAT
scores. Teen-agers reading and understanding "A Tale of Two
Cities," "Death of Ivan Illyich" and "One Hundred Years of
Solitude" will make poor writing skills a thing of the past.
   For the past 14 years, I have made an observation about my
own high school students: The very best are those students
who came from strong homes and read many, many real books on
their own.
   The average students came from strong homes, but depended
exclusively on schools and mind-numbing textbooks for their
"education," which meant that the students were taught to
read, but they didn't.
   The weakest students came from weak homes and depended
exclusively on textbook reading programs for their
"education."
   There are many reading programs in this country utilizing
real books as the core of the curriculum, such as the Ohio
Reading Recovery program, the Open Sesame program in some New
York City schools, and the California Reading Initiative. The
results prove again and again that if you give a child a rich
and varied reading experience, that child will succeed in
school.
   But these programs do not add up to a thousand points of
light. Most schools are still teaching children with one
dreary fill-in-the-blank work sheet after another. Most
schools have not given children a reading habit, a writing
ability or a thinking power.
   In a survey sponsored by Pizza Hut last fall, the nation's
governors listed their favorite children's books. Robert
Casey of Pennsylvania cited "The Red Badge of Courage." Mike
Sullivan of Wyoming remembered Dr. Seuss and "Winnie the
Pooh." Robert Martinez of Florida listed "Lassie Come Home."
Mario Cuomo of New York enjoyed "The Swiss Family Robinson"
and William Donald Schaefer of Maryland mentioned "The Tale
of Peter Rabbit." The list went on and on.
   Will our governors work to bring class sets of books like
these into the hands and hearts of all children in America?
If we continue to place any other priority at the very center
of our education reform movement, we will simply continue to
fail.
   ---
   Mr. de Vinck, a teacher living in Pompton Plains, N.J., is
the author of "The Power of the Powerless" (Doubleday).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East Germans Press Unwelcome Soviet `Guests,'
   The Military, to Leave Their Towns, Villages
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   NEURUPPIN, East Germany -- Margot Ohm still remembers the
day -- July 22, 1983 -- when a Soviet missile exploded behind
her house in the nearby village of Frankendorf, blowing off
the roof and shattering all the windows.
   "Fortunately, we were away for the day, at my son's
wedding," recalls Mrs. Ohm, who works in a state-run shoe
store. Soviet and East German officials rushed to the scene,
but they offered no explanation of why the rocket had landed
in her back yard instead of on the nearby target range. "That
wasn't the sort of thing you asked about back then," she
says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But those days are over.
   When a Soviet warplane accidentally dumped three bombs on
another nearby village last month, local citizens launched a
petition and penned a testy letter to Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev.
   While this might seem a normal response anywhere else,
it's remarkable in East Germany, where for decades no one
dared criticize the Soviets. Now, however, the Soviets are
under mounting pressure to get their 380,000 troops out of
East Germany. In villages where daily life is often disrupted
by a Soviet air base and target range, the sentiment is that
the sooner they're gone the better.
   Indeed, finding a way to ease the Soviets out without
alienating them threatens to slow German unification.
   The West, eager to keep a united Germany in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, is packaging concessions aimed
at smoothing the way for a graceful Soviet exit. The deal may
bring drastic cuts of the united Germany's armed forces,
perhaps down to 200,000 men, from the combined total of
almost 600,000 now.
   But East German officials, who met with their Warsaw Pact
allies this month, say the Soviets are planning to stay for
at least seven more years.
   Many East Germans may not be willing to wait that long.
Just days after last month's accidental bombing, protesters
marched to Neuruppin's sprawling air base. About 100 East
Germans from the crowd of 6,000 scrambled over a coil of
barbed wire and rushed onto the airport's runway, turning
back only after confronting armed Soviet soldiers.
   Even if East Germans are willing to tolerate a long
transition, last week's introduction of the West German mark
into East Germany shatters an economic system that supported
the Soviet presence.
   Soviet officers were active in East Germany's thriving
black market, swapping such commodities as gasoline for East
and West German currency, which they used to buy goods
difficult to obtain at home. They also operated an extensive
gray market for labor, sending their wives and even
conscripts to work in East German factories.
   Neuruppin's large meat packing plant, for instance, has 20
Soviet women among its staff of 250. "It happened
everywhere," says Reiner Frank, who was Neuruppin's mayor for
the past two years.
   Much of this activity will come to a grinding halt after
East Germany converts to a market economy. As of last week,
the Soviets were paid in West German marks.
   On the official level, East Germany is hardly a hotbed of
anti-Soviet sentiment. But in everyday life, East Germans
sneeringly refer to their Soviet "guests" as "Ivan." These
feelings are especially strong in towns and villages close to
military installations.
   Neuruppin's air base, for instance, is nestled close to
the town's central business district. Planes taking off and
landing create a racket that begins at 6 a.m. and often goes
on until midnight.
   Citizens have quietly lobbied against the base for two
years, writing letters that disappeared into the vast Soviet
military bureaucracy. Only since November have they become
bold enough to stage public rallies. The one last month
featured placards reading: "Ivan, aren't you homesick?"
   Unlike bases in West Germany, where community relations
are considered routine, the Soviets don't have anyone to
formally hear East German complaints.
   "I telephoned the Soviet commander every night for five
weeks before I finally got through to somebody to complain,"
says Norbert Arndt, the gardener in Neuruppin's cemetery,
which lies right under the airport's flight path.
   Leading a visitor down a dusty path between rows of
headstones, Mr. Arndt points to the graveyard where all trees
were removed 20 years ago so that planes could fly even
lower. "Most days," he says, "you can smell the burning jet
fuel -- a really nice touch for a funeral."
   In the nearby village of Raegelin, where three bombs fell
last month, the top 33 feet of the town's church steeple were
removed in the early 1970s to make it easier for warplanes on
their way to the target range. "It wouldn't have occurred to
anyone to complain," says Hartmut Pieper, the town's mayor.
   Working his way through the tall grass on the edge of a
farm pond, Mr. Pieper points to a muddy gash -- the only
evidence left from a bomb that slammed into the ground here,
narrowly missing a group of children who were fishing.
   "We're just finding out that we have a voice in these
matters, and that's new for us," says Margaritt Gerlich, a
spokeswoman for the Neuruppin chapter of the political group
New Forum, which supports an immediate halt to all Soviet
flights in the region.
   While eager to see the Soviets leave, many East Germans
seem to accept the past injustices as another legacy of the
nation's troubled history. "To most of them {the Soviets},
we're still fascists -- whether we're East or West," says
Jeorg Schultz, an unemployed truck driver.
   Crouched over the bar at Zum Brauhof, one of Neuruppin's
watering holes, Mr. Schultz says that the Soviets live
separate lives and that he prefers it that way. They
certainly aren't welcome in this bar. "They have their own
places," says Frank Grothe, the bartender.
   Neuruppin, a shabby town dominated by spires of a
12th-century church, reflects the tense relations that exist
between Soviets and East Germans. Although nearly as many
Soviets live here -- about 28,000 -- as Germans, the two
groups almost never mix.
   About the only point of daily contact is the town's
cobblestoned main street, where Soviet officers and their
wives shop for goods not available in their own commissary.
And this is where tempers really flare. East Germans complain
that the Soviets buy up whole stocks of scarce items, such as
children's shoes.
   There is a still darker side to the tensions. "I would
never walk on a side street here alone at night," says a
young East German housewife. "There are simply too many
stories about women attacked by soldiers."
   Local officials say it is impossible to quantify the
amount of crime linked to the Soviet air base, but even Mr.
Frank, the former mayor, concedes, "I don't know if the
police were allowed to keep records of it."
   The Soviets conduct their own foot patrols in Neuruppin --
always two soldiers accompanied by an officer. Locals
complain, however, that their own police would never take
action against a Soviet soldier. "If I got jumped by a
Russian, they'd ask me how I knew," says Mr. Grothe, the
bartender. "And if I said it was by the way he talked, they
would tell me the Poles talk the same way. Of course, we have
a lot more Russians here than Poles."
   The prospect of a Soviet pullout is giving some East
Germans a new sense of perspective. Mrs. Ohm, who says she
was very upset about damage to her house, has now decided
that authorities did the best they could to make amends.
Soviet troops cleared the rubble, and East German workers
made the repairs at no cost. The East German government even
bought her new furniture. "At least they were fair," she
says. "They fixed it up nicer than it was before the
accident."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Desmarais, Frere Cement Partnership,
   Will Combine Holdings in Pargesa, GBL
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.PAR B.GBL T.POW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Canadian financier Paul Desmarais and
Belgium's Albert Frere cemented their new alliance but stayed
mum on their ultimate plans for the two European holding
companies they control, Pargesa Holding S.A. and Groupe
Bruxelles Lambert S.A.
   Messrs. Desmarais and Frere said they agreed in principle
to formally combine their holdings in Pargesa and GBL. Their
combined 50% interest in Pargesa, a Swiss investment concern,
will be transferred to a new holding company equally owned by
the Frere group and by a subsidiary of Power Corp. of Canada,
which is controlled by Mr. Desmarais.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Frere's 8% interest in GBL will be transferred to a
second new holding company, also equally owned by Mr. Frere's
group and the Power Corp. subsidiary. Pargesa holds an
additional 37% of GBL, giving Messrs. Frere and Desmarais
effective control of GBL. Mr. Frere is also chairman of GBL.
A Power Corp. official said the 37% block of GBL will
continue to be held by Pargesa.
   Messrs. Desmarais and Frere announced in February that
they hold 50% of Pargesa and intended to work together
closely. Since then they have been working out the details of
their alliance, but haven't said much about their investment
plans or how the partnership will work.
   A Power Corp. official said Friday that "our intention is
jointly to actively develop the holdings of Pargesa and GBL."
He declined to elaborate. He said the agreement in principle
will be signed by the end of the summer.
   Pargesa and GBL have been cleaning house since Messrs.
Frere and Desmarais teamed up. In a series of sometimes
complex transactions the two concerns have sold certain
interests in other companies and reorganized their respective
links to French banking concern Cie. Financiere de Paribas.
Through various companies Mr. Frere and Mr. Desmarais hold
nearly 10% of Paribas, giving them an important voice at the
merchant bank.
   As Pargesa and GBL tidy up, they are accumulating cash,
giving Messrs. Frere and Desmarais a war chest of unknown
size. Pargesa and GBL officials have said both companies are
actively seeking new investments.
   Bolstering their cash position is Mr. Desmarais's
substantial funds in Canada. Mr. Desmarais said last month
that any Power Corp. investment in Europe will be funneled
through Pargesa. Power Corp. and its Power Financial Corp.
subsidiary each sold major interests in other companies last
year. At March 31 Power Corp. had about 750 million Canadian
dollars (US$645 million) in cash and short-term investments.
   Emile Quevrin, a GBL director, said recently that part of
the proceeds from GBL's asset sales will be used to help
raise the company's interest in Petrofina S.A., a big
Brussels-based oil and petrochemical concern, to 25% from
about 20%. But Mr. Quevrin said "we aren't in a hurry" and
that GBL will wait for favorable market conditions.
   Regarding other possible investments, Mr. Quevrin would
only say GBL will favor industries with which it has some
experience. At a shareholders meeting at the end of May, Mr.
Frere said the company will seek high-quality companies where
it can have a significant influence.
   That may reflect in part Mr. Desmarais's influence. A
successful investor in North America, Mr. Desmarais's Power
Corp. usually seeks a controlling stake in companies it
invests in.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Edberg Prevails, Zina Emerges
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   London -- In a time of world upheaval -- even when what is
being heaved up looks pretty good -- it's reassuring that
Wimbledon, bless 'er, remains an anchor of stability. The
world capital of turf tennis last weekend crowned two singles
champions whose names have become familiar to people who
don't know a volley from a trolley.
   The men's winner, on an untypically British sunny Sunday,
was lanky Stefan Edberg of Sweden, who has been in three
consecutive finals here and won two of them. As in the
others, his last-day foe was the German redhead Boris Becker,
a three-time Wimbledon winner. They've already become to
grass-court tennis what Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran are to
boxing, and because they're both young (Stefan is 24, Boris
22) could easily wind up the better-known pair.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The women's champ, crowned on Saturday, was 33-year-old
Martina Navratilova, an even-more-familiar face and forehand.
Her straight-sets victory over Zina Garrison gave her a ninth
silver plate here, a 52-year record. The previous mark was
held by Miss H.N. Wills and Mrs. F.S. Moody, which is to say
Helen Wills Moody. Martina's mark also gets a hyphen of
sorts, because she's won Wimbledon both as a Czech and, since
1981, an American. (But no, she assured one midweek
questioner, she wasn't going to move back home to Prague
however democratic it has become.)
   From a competitive standpoint the men's bout was the
better event, going the full, five-set distance. Edberg,
serve-and-volleying beautifully, took the first two sets,
both 6-2, and Becker, doing the same things more
purposefully, if not more artistically, took the next two,
both 6-3.
   The pair played "after you" for a while in the last set,
when two Edberg doublefaults led to a Becker service break
and 3-1 game lead, only to have Becker reciprocate by missing
two easy-looking volleys to lose his serve in the next game.
Edberg smacked a couple of backhand service-return winners to
break again in game nine, and made it game, set, match and
championship, 6-4, in the next when Becker clunked a service
return wide off his racket frame.
   Becker attributed his fatal slow start to tiredness,
traceable to his previous six matches. Especially draining,
he said, was his four-set, two-tiebreaker semi on Friday
against Goran Ivanesvic, an 18-year-old Yugoslav who serves
as hard as a 17-year-old Becker said he once knew; namely,
himself as 1985 Wimbledon champ. Ivanesvic is one of those
grass-court naturals who might prevent a future Edberg-Becker
rematch or two here.
   The same cannot be said for No. 1 ranked and top-seeded
Ivan Lendl. His three-month drive to win the only Grand Slam
title that has eluded him ended Friday at Edberg's hands.
It's true Stefan played near-perfect tennis, but it's
probably also true that Ivan lacks the grass knack.
   Edberg said he found that win bracing instead of tiring,
and an aid to his Sunday win. Another help, he said, was the
memory of his loss to Becker in this event last year after
beating him in 1988. "Once you have won here, it is never
good to come in second," said the fella who's also won two
Australian Opens. In other words, winning is better than
losing.
   The biggest news on the ladies' side wasn't Martina's win,
but that her finals' opponent was Garrison. The 26-year-old
former public-courts player from Houston had been a
decade-long tennis tourist, but while she had considerable
cash to show for her travels (about $2.5 million in prizes)
she'd always come up semishort in Grand Slam events, as in
semifinals. She'd been in three of those but never made a
final round, a circumstance she attributed both to her stars
and herself.
   "I've never had that little, bitty breakthrough," she said
at midweek, later adding, "Maybe it was because I wanted to
win so bad I'd tighten up."
   In two memorable three-setters, though, Garrison shed her
loser's label and added her name to the short-but-growing
list of players who are, at long last, making Slam womens'
sides more than the one-gal show they were in 1988 and '89,
when Steffi Graf gobbled up seven of the eight. Garrison's
breakthrough wins were quarterfinal victory over Yugoslavia's
Monica Seles, the 16-year-old French Open winner, and her
semifinal triumph over Graf.
   The Seles match was the more dramatic, if only because
Garrison lost the first set and faced a match point at 6-7 in
the third. But she fought that off with a ferocious,
down-the-line forehand winner and never looked back, taking
the set, 9-7.
   Match point in Garrison's victory over Graf was equally
decisive, coming on a service ace. As in the Seles bout,
Garrison rushed the net effectively, overcoming her foe's
base-line power. Graf, who lost only two singles matches all
last year, now has failed to win her last three tournaments.
"Fraulein Forehand" has excuses, including a nagging sinus
condition and a tabloid feast over allegations that her
father has fathered a child with a young woman not his wife.
But it just could be that the rest of the pack has gained a
step on her.
   The final, though, was all Martina, as were all her
matches here. She skimmed through the draw without losing a
set, which meant that her oft-times shaky composure never was
tested. Against Garrison, whom she'd beaten 27 of 28 times
going in, she banged home 75% of her first serves, won the
race to the net, and forced numerous errors, mostly from
Garrison's backhand. The score was 6-4, 6-1, and the match's
last six games were hers. "She was a step ahead of me every
time," said Garrison.
   Martina said that she played better in this tourney than
she ever had, and that her three-year Slam-title drought made
her victory all the sweeter. "This one tops it all," said
she.
   Garrison said that, after the match, Navratilova told her
this would be her last Wimbledon, but that was perhaps
wishful thinking, because Martina herself later said it
wasn't so. "I said I thought she would win, and that I
probably wouldn't be here when she did. But I meant six or
seven years from now, not next year," the champ smiled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   At Madrid Palace Set for 1992 Gala,
   Ghosts Are in the Media Spotlight
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- For the 1992 commemoration of Columbus's
discovery of America, Madrid plans to transform the Linares
Palace into the House of America, but for now it has a house
of horrors on its hands.
   The uninhabited 19th-century mansion has always had a
bizarre reputation among Madrid residents, beginning with an
allegedly tragic marriage, a murder and suicide. Rumors of
hauntings have floated around for years, but they were never
taken seriously until the appearance of parapsychologist
Carmen Sanchez de Castro.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few weeks ago, Ms. Sanchez de Castro's recordings and
photographs purporting to give evidence of ghosts unleashed a
Spanish media circus. Her photographs showed weird lights;
the recordings are said to have captured the words
"murderers, murderers."
   The circus intensified with Ms. Sanchez de Castro's arrest
in connection with a bad check written nine years ago.
However, she was released the following day, apparently
protected by a statute of limitations.
   Now everyone's wondering what the next twist will be in a
project that, if not cursed, has acquired some bizarre
attributes. Some even speculate that the alleged hauntings
reflect sinister undercurrents in Madrid's real estate
market.
   "This building has been a black spot on the Madrid
property market for years," says a Madrid-based writer and
specialist in paranormal phenomena, who asks not to be
identified. "A series of things have been happening which may
be coincidence, or may not."
   Built in 1873 for Jose Murga, first marquis of Linares,
the lavishly decorated three-story mansion occupies a prime
site in the central Plaza de Cibeles, diagonally across from
the Bank of Spain.
   Popular lore alleges that the marquis's wife, Raimunda,
was discovered to be the illegitimate daughter of the
marquis's father and a beautiful cigarette-factory worker.
Some say the couple lived in celibacy after the discovery.
Others hold that a child was born, only to be murdered at
once and its corpse hidden inside the building. The marquis
is alleged to have later committed suicide.
   Whether or not such blood-curdling stories are true --
they were roundly denied by a member of the Spanish Academy
-- the palace's subsequent history has been problematic.
   Upon the marquis's death, the mansion went to his
goddaughter Raimundita. If one believes in the curse, it was
perhaps fated that at the start of the Spanish Civil War,
Raimundita's daughter would be visiting her aunt and uncle in
a village outside Madrid when a group of militiamen came to
call. As the men began to arrest the aunt and uncle,
Raimundita's daughter tried to intervene. The three were shot
together.
   For a while, the house was rented to a shipping company.
In the 1960s, it was sold to the Confederation of Spanish
Savings Banks, but its plans to convert the mansion into a
new headquarters languished, and for years the palace was
left empty.
   The building was recognized as a national monument in 1976
and was used as a movie set a few years later.
   Ill fortune apparently didn't visit again until 1988, when
a property company sold the palace to Emiliano Revilla, a
former sausage maker who was launching a new career as a
property developer. A band of terrorists, however, had other
plans for Mr. Revilla. Soon after purchasing the palace, he
was kidnapped by the Basque separatist group ETA. His
eight-month kidnapping is the longest by the ETA to date.
   In a theory held by the Madrid writer, Mr. Revilla had
been warned to stay away from the palace. Rather than being
of a ghostly nature, though, the writer says these warnings
were part of a real estate "war."
   In February, Mr. Revilla reached an agreement with the
Madrid city council to exchange the building for another
piece of real estate in a transaction valued at 3.1 billion
pesetas ($30 million). And so came about the seemingly
ordinary plan to design the House of America in connection
with the 1992 World's Fair in Seville.
   But then the vague rumors about hauntings began to
surface, culminating two weeks ago with a furor of public
comment after the release of Ms. Sanchez de Castro's
findings.
   Reporters and private citizens broke into the mansion,
forcing security guards to call the police to get them out. A
few days later, a radio crew with permission to spend the
night there claimed to have recorded voices in a well saying,
"Raimunda," "No, no, no," and "Never again."
   Pictures and tapes aside, security guards say they've
never noticed anything abnormal at the palace. And a
representative of an association that investigates the
paranormal is accusing Ms. Sanchez de Castro of fabricating
evidence to publicize a book she apparently has hoped to
publish.
   City officials, meanwhile, don't discount the possibility
of spectral voices in the palace, but they say the hauntings,
true or not, won't affect their plans. Restoration of the
future House of America is scheduled to start this autumn,
says a spokesman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   N.V. Philips Won't Make
   '90 Payout, Analyst Thinks
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG
</CO>
<LP>
   An analyst at Amsterdam-Rottendam Bank N.V. predicted that
N.V. Philips, the troubled Dutch electronics giant, wouldn't
pay a dividend for 1990.
   A spokesman for the Dutch electronics concern declined to
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, Philips's new chairman, Jan Timmer, announced
plans to eliminate 10,000 jobs, or 3.5% of the company's work
force, and forecast a loss of about two billion guilders
($1.1 billion) this year, compared with net profit of 1.37
billion guilders in 1989. At that time, he refused to say
whether Philips would be able to afford a dividend.
   In 1989, the dividend was two guilders a share, the same
rate the company has paid since 1983.
   The Amro analyst, Peter Berg, urged investors to be
cautious in buying Philips shares because the company had
released only a rough outline of its strategy for stanching
huge losses in its computer and semiconductor divisions.
   On the Amsterdam Stock Exchange Friday, Philips shares
slipped to 30.20 guilders from 30.50 guilders Thursday.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Timmer said in an interview with Philips's
in-house newsletter that the company needs a "change of
culture" and urged executives to shed their bureaucratic
habits, while advising employees to renounce "the mentality
of meekly accepting . . . things because you think you are
fighting a losing battle."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Milan Stock Market's Rise Is Expected to Slow
   This Quarter as Foreign Buyers Look Elsewhere
   ----
   By Sara Gay Forden
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- After having outpaced its European counterparts
in the first half, the Milan stock market is likely to see
its advance slowed in the third quarter, analysts say.
   Although sentiment hasn't turned sour, the mood is already
a bit lethargic, and buying interest will become increasingly
selective, analysts predict. The market's leading industrials
are expected to lag behind the market, while
telecommunications, cement, food and selected textile stocks
will still be attractive, they added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts predict the general MIB index will maintain
itself above 1060 through the July-September period. This
would be 6% above its level at the beginning of the year, but
down about four percentage points from its 1990 high of 1113
reached on June 14. The MIB closed at 1065 Friday after a
weak session.
   The strong inflow of foreign buying that lifted the index
during May and June could be diverted to other European
markets over the summer as international investors look for
greener pastures, the analysts said.
   "International money follows performance, and we may see
it shifting from Italy to France, which has been quiet
lately, or back to Germany if the market perceives a unified
German market will pose no threat to inflation," said Albert
Alonzo, Italian market analyst with Barclays de Zoete Wedd in
London.
   A major factor spooking foreign buyers recently is the
sudden escalation of labor unrest just as Italy takes on its
role as president of the European Community. Government
attempts to head off a general strike by Italy's three
leading unions set for Wednesday have been unsuccessful so
far. The conflict is expected to test a delicate political
balance in Italy's governing coalition headed by veteran
Christian Democrat Giulio Andreotti.
   "We're going to see relatively slower progress over the
third quarter largely because the conflict between
Confindustria (Italy's manufacturers' association) and the
unions will probably not be resolved until the end of the
quarter at the earliest," Mr. Alonzo said.
   Confindustria wants to abolish the "scala mobile"
automatic wage index by next year and is urging that wage
increases be linked to performance instead of the current
"escalator," which is tied to inflation.
   Until the social tensions are resolved, the cost of labor
remains a wild card in Italy's macroeconomic picture, with
major implications for inflation and interest rates. Although
inflation is on a downtrend, "it still hasn't been beaten,"
Mr. Alonzo asserted.
   Italy's cost of living rose 5.6% in June from a year
earlier, down from 5.7% in May, and the Bank of Italy
predicted last week that it will fall to around 5% by the end
of the year if wage costs can be kept under control.
   Mutual funds are heavily invested in blue chips Fiat and
Generali, two shares that drive the Milan market. Together,
they represent some 20% of the Milan market's total
capitalization.
   Analysts said the telecommunications sector is still
hitting strong notes and shows little sign of abating.
   "There's nothing to cloud the horizon" on
telecommunications shares, said Suzanne Miller, sector
analyst for Barclays de Zoete Wedd in London. "You keep
expecting some sort of short-term consolidation, but it never
materializes."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo stocks finished higher on thin volume Friday, with
interest flocking instead to the secondary markets,
particularly the Tokyo Stock Exchange Second Section.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 93.45
points at 32445.12. The index lost 94.25 points Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index fell
2.56 points to 32442.56.
   Friday's volume on the First Section was estimated at 450
million shares, off slightly from 473 million Thursday.
   Winning issues outnumbered losing issues, 512 to 438,
while 174 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the First Section, which dropped 1.31 points Thursday,
added 2.16 points, or 0.09%, to 2364.20.
   The Second Section index, which advanced 30.96 points
Thursday, soared 69.23 points, or 1.63%, to close at 4323.03.
Volume in the Second Section was estimated at 48.6 million
shares, compared with Thursday's 31.4 million.
   Electrical parts shares were strong advancers, helped by
local news reports that the industry remains healthy. Hirose
Electric soared 250 yen ($1.66) to 7,350 yen, and Yokogawa
Electric rose 20 to 1,630.
   Among blue-chip winners were Kyocera, up 110 to 8,970, and
Sony, up 60 to 8,800.
   London share prices closed on their intraday highs Friday,
buoyed by a firm performance on Wall Street and a broad-based
program trade by an unidentified securities firm.
   Sentiment remains nervous on the almost daily release of
profit downgradings and Thursday's comment by the U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer that interest rates would have to
remain high because of the excessive amount of credit in the
economy.
   Friday, the end of the current two-week trading account,
saw brisk volume, with 739.8 million shares traded compared
with 386.8 million Thursday. Dealers ascribed the hefty
volume in part to a share trade in Cable &amp; Wireless. Dealers
reported that 50 million shares were traded, but this
couldn't be confirmed.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index closed
up 8.6 points at 2340.
   The narrower FT-SE 30-index ended up 6.8 points at 1865.0,
while the September FT-SE 100 futures index closed at 2412.0,
up 19 points.
   Shares gaining Friday included the banks, which continue
to receive favorable comment after being downgraded on debt
worries. Analysts reckon that all the bad news is now
factored into the prices.
   Midland gained 6 pence (seven cents) to 397, Lloyds was up
12 pence at 299, Barclays gained 7 to 398 and National
Westminster was up 7 at 329.
   Shares losing ground included Rank Organisation, which
shed 8 to close at 833, and Hawker Siddeley, which lost 6 to
610.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Frankfurt, Zurich
and Brussels, lower in Stockholm and Madrid, were mixed in
Amsterdam and were little changed in Paris. South African
gold stocks closed marginally higher.
   Share prices closed higher in Taipei and Manila, mixed in
Hong Kong, Singapore and Wellington, lower in Seoul and
little changed in Sydney.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                              Jul 5     Jul 4     Year
                                                                                                       

    U.S. ..................   329.1     332.8    + 1.2
    Britain ...............   694.8     701.9    - 3.6
    Canada ................   390.2     393.1    - 9.8
    Japan .................  1312.0    1313.6    -20.7
    France ................   559.1     563.5    - 1.4
    Germany ...............   310.1     310.6    + 8.7
    Hong Kong .............  2492.6    2497.9    +18.9
    Switzerland ...........   228.7     230.3    + 3.6
    Australia .............   320.4     317.4    - 3.2
    World index ...........   523.3     527.6    - 7.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Telling Tales out of the Courtroom
   ----
   By Andrew Blum
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Ask the average person about lawyers and the odds are you
will hear either gripes or jokes.
   In "Lawyers and Thieves: Legal Shenanigans, Courtroom
Scandal, and the Endless Hunt for Money" (Simon &amp; Schuster,
224 pages, $19.95), by New York attorney Roy Grutman with
Bill Thomas, a former reporter for the Baltimore Sun, we get
both, beginning with the opening line. "My mother has sued
everyone in our family but me," writes Mr. Grutman. He is
eager to prove the legal system is more like waste treatment
than justice.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As Mr. Grutman tells it, the book is not about attorney
shopping but "about how much they cost, in money, time and
trouble," and not about ethics "but about the constant
competition for cases that keeps the courts clogged and makes
sure lawyers are always on the prowl."
   Some of the lawyers he describes are Louis Nizer (a
"shrunken head in a three-piece suit"), Edward Bennett
Williams (whose clients included John Connally and Jimmy
Hoffa), Gerry Spence (who just walked Imelda Marcos out of
racketeering and fraud charges) and Melvin Belli (the aged
king of torts, whose "stewardess wives" and son Caesar Mr.
Grutman loves to disparage).
   According to Mr. Grutman, one of the truisms about lawyers
is that they will represent anyone. After all, he himself has
represented pornographers and preachers, and for 18 years
handled cases for Penthouse. Another client was the Rev.
Jerry Falwell, who hired Mr. Grutman to go after Hustler
publisher Larry Flynt although the Moral Majority leader had
already tangled unhappily with Penthouse in court.
   "Clearly he understood the most essential truth about the
legal profession," writes Mr. Grutman. "A lawyer is a
utensil, like a knife or fork. It doesn't make any difference
who ate with it last, only that it was sufficiently sanitized
between meals."
   Now with the firm of Grutman, Greene &amp; Humphrey, Mr.
Grutman shares other insights dating from 1950s
personal-injury scams in the Bronx to his time with Finley,
Kumble, the megafirm that collapsed in a mountain of debt and
egos. At Finley, Kumble for six years starting in 1970, Mr.
Grutman writes he was there while firm head Stephen Kumble
"proceeded to turn the practice of law from a profession into
a bicoastal bait-and-switch operation."
   Elsewhere in the book, he insists that "of course, not all
lawyers are thieves." But Mr. Grutman is not shy about
bashing lawyers like Mr. Belli for suing on behalf of a dead
man.
   Switching to corporate law, Mr. Grutman discusses New York
takeover-specialist Joseph Flom of Skadden, Arps, who he says
would never be confused with an ambulance chaser. "Yet every
year Flom earns between $3 million and $5 million cleaning up
after corporate collisions."
   While not naming names, he likes to remind people that
there are overbillings galore in law. And in an amusing piece
of advice, Mr. Grutman suggests caution about starting legal
action, especially libel. "Think of the worst thing that
could be said about you. Now imagine hearing it announced in
a courtroom by an attorney with a very loud voice whose job
it is to tear you to shreds."
   Among the problems with this book is that when anecdotes
give way to general discussion, the prose goes dry. And Mr.
Grutman often inflates his ego a notch or three. Returning to
Mr. Belli, Mr. Grutman boasts of representing Mr. Falwell
during the PTL scandal when Mr. Belli handled Jim and Tammy
Bakker. "By the time the two of us met on TV . . . even Belli
must have realized that the more exposure the case got the
less his clients benefited . . . he stalked off the set in a
huff."
   Mr. Grutman is mostly on the mark though in his discussion
of the jury system. Noting that it thrives on an uninformed
populace, he writes that at the trial of Oliver North,
lawyers sought jurors with little knowledge of the
Iran-Contra affair. "Was this a jury of North's peers or a
cross-section of global-village idiots?"
   He also attacks a favorite target of lawyers -- insurance
companies -- saying insurance commissions are stocked with
ex-insurance people "the same way the Russians send KGB
agents to work at the U.N."
   After doing his share of trashing his own profession, Mr.
Grutman tries to redeem it a bit, recalling the words of the
late Mr. Williams, who won cases no one else would take: "No
doctor worthy of the name turns away a patient . . . no
clergyman . . . turns away a suppliant sinner . . . only a
lawyer is expected to turn away a client because society
regards him as . . . obnoxious."
   Nonetheless, writes Mr. Grutman sadly, the system has its
inequities. "Plenty of legal help is available for someone
who wants to file a multimillion-dollar lawsuit. If you
simply happen to be the victim of a crime, you are on your
own."
   While the book is entertaining, one is left with several
questions, including which lawyer may sue Mr. Grutman first.
More important, if the legal system is such a low way of
earning a living, why is Mr. Grutman still hanging out his
shingle?
   ---
   Mr. Blum is a reporter for the National Law Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Us in Relation to Them:
   Real Cause for Alarm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   In her haste to bash the Japan-bashers, Susan W. Liebeler
ignores some of the disquieting implications of the Graham
and Krugman study (review of "Foreign Direct Investment in
the United States" by Edward M. Graham and Paul R. Krugman,
Leisure &amp; Arts, June 11). They argue that the competitive
strengths of American firms have declined relative to those
of foreign firms; thus the growth of foreign direct
investment (FDI) is "a part of the general decline of U.S.
economic pre-eminence." While Ms. Liebeler and Messrs. Graham
and Krugman want to draw a sharp line between FDI and the
trade deficits the truth is that a troubling connection does
exist. Both FDI and the trade deficits reflect a declining
ability of American firms to compete with their Japanese and
European rivals.
   If there were no costs to this decline, it would perhaps
be easier to accept the do-nothing policy prescription of
Messrs. Graham and Krugman. But there are real costs. Family
incomes in the U.S. have stagnated since 1973. The wages of
production workers continue to fall by roughly 1% a year. Our
growing international debts have limited American influence
in international affairs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   My question for Messrs. Graham and Krugman and Ms.
Liebeler is: Why shouldn't we be alarmed at the prospect of
reduced economic and political opportunities?
   Martin Kohli
   Industrial Cooperation Council
   State of New York
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Discovery Airways Loses
   U.S. Operating Authority
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government revoked Discovery Airways'
operating authority, saying the airline failed to take steps
to ensure that it isn't owned or controlled by foreigners.
   The Transportation Department said Discovery failed to
meet several conditions it imposed when it granted the
airline provisional operating authority last spring. Under
U.S. law, foreigners can't control or own more than 25% of
the stock in American airlines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hawaiian Airlines, a unit of HAL Inc., had filed suits
charging that Discovery was foreign owned.
   Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner said that even
after being given "numerous opportunities to satisfy our
concerns over its foreign control and compliance problems . .
. {Discovery} has failed to do so or even to show any
credible inclination to do so."
   The department had required that Philip Ho, owner of 75%
of Discovery's voting stock and president of Japanese-owned
Nansay Hawaii, place his Discovery shares in a voting trust
to prevent Nansay from "exercising control over Discovery
through Mr. Ho." It also ordered the carrier to appoint an
executive committee to direct corporate policy and to
prohibit one of the airline's founders, an Italian citizen,
from serving on it or performing any liaison functions.
   The Transportation Department said Discovery still can
seek a permanent license in a hearing before an
administrative law judge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Legal Officer
   Sentenced for Corruption
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Despite pleas for leniency and promises of
future cooperation with government investigators, the former
chief of the commercial crime unit of Hong Kong's Legal
Department was sentenced to eight years in prison for
corruption.
   Charles Warwick Reid last month pleaded guilty to a charge
of possessing assets deemed disproportionate to his official
income.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Friday's sentencing, Hong Kong's chief justice, Sir Ti
Liang Yang, ordered Mr. Reid to pay the local government
HK$12.4 million ($1.6 million), the value of his assets when
he was formally charged in March 1989. Mr. Reid has 28 days
to appeal the court's decision.
   Chief Justice Yang allowed a two-year reduction of the
maximum penalty of 10 years because of Mr. Reid's guilty plea
and his willingness to cooperate with the government.
   Mr. Reid's lawyer, Anthony Corrigan, Queen's Counsel,
argued that the court's leniency would elicit assistance from
the defendant in bringing other corrupt government officials
and businessmen to trial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DeKalb Genetics to Report Currency Loss,
   Will Slash Fiscal Third-Period Earnings
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4A
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM SEEDB
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEKALB, Ill -- DeKalb Genetics Corp. expects to report
tomorrow that an unexpectedly large Argentine currency loss
will reduce its net income for the third quarter ended May 31
to less than half of the year-earlier quarter, Bruce P.
Bickner, DeKalb Genetics chairman and chief executive
officer, said.
   That prediction indicates that DeKalb Genetic's fiscal
third-quarter net income will be less than $2.4 million, or
43 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 fiscal third quarter, the agricultural seed,
poultry and swine breeding concern generated net income of
$4.8 million, or 85 cents a share, on revenues of $83.8
million. Mr. Bickner said the company expects to report flat
revenues for the most recent third quarter.
   DeKalb Genetics, which sells seed to corn, sorghum and
sunflower farmers in Argentina, was stung by the government's
actions there to curb inflation.
   Before the government's campaign, the company had hedged
some of its receivables in anticipation that the austral, the
Argentine currency, would continue to devalue. But the
government's action resulted in the austral strengthening
against the U.S. dollar. Meanwhile, soaring interest rates
increased the expense of the loan the company had taken to
finance its hedge. As a result, the company expects to report
that its third-quarter interest expense increased
significantly from the year-earlier period.
   The company said it is taking steps to reduce its exposure
to additional currency losses, but that it isn't clear how
long that will take. "The fluctuation in Argentina will
continue to be a problem," said Richard O. Ryan, president of
DeKalb Genetics.
   Because of the drop in third-quarter net income, DeKalb
Genetic's earnings for the year ending Aug. 31 will probably
fall below Wall Street expectations. The fourth quarter
usually isn't a significant period for seed companies such as
DeKalb Genetics, which sell most of their products in the
winter and spring.
   Mr. Bickner said the company expects its net income for
the full year to rise about 15% from the $12.1 million, or
$2.14 a share generated for fiscal 1989.
   That forecast indicates that the company is on the track
to report fiscal 1990 net income of about $2.45 a share. In
the spring, some Wall Street analysts had been expecting the
company to generate fiscal 1990 net income of as much as
$2.90 a share.
   In the U.S., the third quarter ended May 31 is often the
period when seed sales peak. However, this year at DeKalb
Genetics a larger-than-normal proportion of U.S. seed sales
occurred in the second quarter ended Feb. 28, Mr. Bickner
said.
   As a result of this shift, the company's third-quarter
revenues from sales of corn and soybean seeds, among other
things, dropped about 15% from the 1989 third quarter.
   However, total seed sales in the U.S. for the second and
third quarters combined are running ahead of the 1989 pace,
Mr. Bickner said.
   Among other things, U.S. sales of corn seed are expected
to be up 5% from 1989, he said. Mr. Bickner added that the
company's market share of U.S. corn seed probably increased
slightly to more than 9% amid some of the toughest
promotional activity in the industry in several years.
   Price discounting was intense in part because an unusually
wet spring delayed planting for so long that corn farmers had
to trim their plans. As a result, many seed companies expect
to see a higher-than-normal proportion of seed returned to
them by their dealers. Farmers usually won't use seed that
was held over from a planting season until it is retested for
its ability to germinate.
   DeKalb Genetics's weakest-performing seed line this season
has been sorghum. Its supply of sorghum seed was tight
because an October frost reduced the yield of fields it had
planned to have harvested in Texas and Kansas. A few months
later, a freeze damaged its sorghum-seed producing fields in
Florida.
   Mr. Ryan said the company's swine breeding business should
benefit from the trend among farmers to begin expanding their
hog herds. Because of a tight supply of hogs fat enough for
slaughter, the price of hog this spring at times soared about
50% above year earlier levels. Sales of breeding stock in the
third quarter jumped 37% from the same 1989 quarter, he said.
   About 65% of DeKalb Genetic's closely held Class A common
stock, which has voting rights, is controlled by descendants
of the company's founder, Thomas H. Roberts Sr. The company
issues nonvoting Class B common shares to the public.
   In national over-the-counter trading on Friday, DeKalb
Class B shares closed at $43.50, up 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank Results
   In Southwest
   Look Weaker
   ---
   Lower 2nd-Period Net Seen
   Due to Drop in Loans,
   Credit-Quality Problems
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4C
</SO>
<CO>
   FBT NCB FCOM SFSI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southwestern banks, plagued by continuing credit-quality
problems and sluggish loan demand, generally are expected to
report weaker earnings for the second quarter.
   "A lot of banks are planning to take an unusually heavy
provision for loan losses, trying to build up reserves," said
Bruce Hoyt, an analyst with Boettcher &amp; Co., Denver. "This
will probably be one of the toughest quarters of the year."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts are even starting to question the health of some
banks that have already been bailed out, such as First City
Bancorp. of Texas and the former Texas banking network of
First RepublicBank Corp., which was bought by NCNB Corp.,
Charlotte, N.C., in 1988. (First RepublicBank isn't related
to First Republic Bancorp of San Francisco.)
   Both rescues included massive infusions of federal aid
that purged the books of sick loans and drastically lowered
the risk to the new owners. But now, concern is rising about
possible problems in the loans extended by the new
managements since they assumed control. Analysts are
particularly worried that the bailed-out banks have been
risking too much of their capital in nationally syndicated
loans financing highly leveraged companies.
   "We think that a story that has been viewed as being
without risk is now taking on a different flavor," writes
Charles W. Peabody, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., in
a recent report to investors.
   He notes, for example, that loans in NCNB's Texas bank
grew 14% in the year ended March 31, 1990, adjusted for bad
credits that were sloughed off to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. as part of NCNB's takeover agreement. This
increase came despite weak loan demand in Texas. During the
same period, credits extended by banks in the state fell by
13%, according to regulatory statistics.
   Mr. Peabody views this as evidence that a significant
portion of the NCNB-Texas loan growth occurred outside of
Texas in syndicated loans. "We expect additional problems to
surface in the NCNB-Texas bank's portfolio" in the second
quarter, Mr. Peabody writes.
   But Timothy Hartman, vice chairman of NCNB-Texas, denied
Mr. Peabody's assertions. He said that bank's loans actually
grew more than 20% during the period and that "the vast
majority of the loans were to businesses and consumers in
Texas." Mr. Hartman said NCNB-Texas sold more national
credits than it acquired during the period and said
nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans will be
less than 0.8 of 1% in the second quarter, or below the
percentage at the end of the first quarter. He also said he
expects the Texas unit's earnings to be "comparable" to the
first-quarter figure of over $75 million.
   At First City, a Houston-based bank holding company
acquired in 1988 by an investor group led by A. Robert
Abboud, some problems with out-of-Texas loans have already
bobbed to the surface. Since the beginning of the year, four
major out-of-state borrowers that owe the bank a collective
$72.5 million have filed for bankruptcy-court protection,
including Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and Federated
Department Stores Inc.
   Mr. Abboud, former chairman of Chicago-based First Chicago
Corp., says he expects to collect the full amount due on the
loans and believes the rise in nonperforming assets is
slowing. But the problems helped contribute to disappointing
earnings during the first quarter. At the end of June, First
City said it expects to report that second-quarter net fell
to between 75 cents and 95 cents a share from $1.08 a year
earlier.
   The weaker earnings also reflect the expense of
consolidating First City's disparate operations. Before the
takeover, First City had 59 separate banks. With the advent
of branch banking in Texas, the new management team has
slimmed that number down to 20, and has consolidated many
back-office functions. Mr. Abboud said he expects to further
reduce staff by about 700 during the next year, or 10%,
through a combination of dismissals and attrition.
   A final reason for First City's poor quarter was a
slowdown in sales from the company's collecting bank, a
separate institution set up to liquidate bad loans that were
on the books before Mr. Abboud's group took over in April
1988. First City, which receives an incentive fee for selling
the assets, said gross collections were around $45 million in
the second quarter, less than half the $104 million collected
in the year-earlier period.
   Mr. Abboud said collections slowed in part because buyers
are waiting to see whether sales by government regulators of
real estate seized along with failed thrifts will drive
prices lower. He said First City held some property off the
market to allow time for demand to rise again. "We will not
discount," he said.
   But some analysts suggest a gloomier explanation: The
collecting bank may have already unloaded most of its
easy-to-sell assets, they say, and further sales might
require deeper price cuts. First City says it doesn't expect
that scenario to happen.
   Elsewhere in the Southwest, several other banks also
reported bad news during the second quarter. First Commerce
Corp., New Orleans, said it expects second-quarter earnings
to fall to between 35 cents and 40 cents a share from 58
cents a share last year.
   First Commerce blamed the decline in part on a rise in
nonperforming assets caused by continued weakness in the New
Orleans and Alexandria, La., markets. The bank holding
company said it doubled its provision for loan losses for the
quarter to $12 million from $6 million in the comparable
period a year ago.
   In Albuquerque, N.M., Sunwest Financial Services Inc. said
it recorded additions to loan-loss reserves and write-downs
totalling $7 million due to a regulatory exam in April. The
bank holding company said in May that it expected "additional
adjustments" due to the exam, as well. The problems "reflect
the continuation of the extremely weak real estate sector and
the slow-growing Albuquerque economy," the company said.
   Meanwhile, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. recently lowered its
ratings on First Security Corp.'s senior debt to triple-B
from triple-B-plus, citing worries that the Salt Lake City
bank holding company has put creditors at greater risk by
warehousing problem credits at a nonbank subsidiary and using
debt to fund the unit.
   "Although First Security's exposure to commercial real
estate and construction loans has decreased dramatically
since 1985, and little new business has been booked, problems
within the portfolio continue to arise," the rating agency
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Let's Clear the Air
   About the EPA's Views
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   I am writing to follow up on an environmental item that
appeared in "Notable &amp; Quotable" on April 20. The item
begins: "Environmental Protection Agency analyst E.G.
Vallianatos, writing in the Oct. 10 issue of the Chicago
Tribune . . ." and goes on to reprint Mr. Vallianatos's
fanatical diatribe against capitalism as an "earth-heating,
destructive, suicidal system."
   I wish to make it very clear that Mr. Vallianatos's
personal opinions expressed in the quoted piece represent
neither the policies of the Environmental Protection Agency
nor the views of this administration. Mr. Vallianatos is a
midlevel analyst in the biological division of EPA's Office
of Pesticide Programs and has no professional knowledge of
nor acquaintance with the development or dissemination of
policy regarding the problems of climate change or global
warming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the future, may I suggest that the opinions of
individual EPA employees no more represent agency policy than
the opinions of one working for General Motors, the Sierra
Club or the Marriott Corp. Unless officially transmitted,
they are personal views.
   Lewis S. Crampton
   Associate Administrator
   Office of Communications and Public Affairs
   Environmental Protection Agency
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Marlboro
   Just Says
   No on Logo
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MO RJR J.SEL PEP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   With Marlboro decals on toy cars, Marlboro billboards in
video racing games, and Marlboro logos scrawled across tiny
tots' T-shirts, Marlboro maker Philip Morris certainly looks
like it wants kids to smoke.
   Philip Morris has denied that it encourages children to
smoke, and today the mammoth cigarette company will try to
prove that: It plans to announce a crackdown on the
unauthorized use of its cigarette logos by children's toy and
game companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent months, Philip Morris and other cigarette makers
have been criticized for standing by idly while their logos,
or close likenesses of them, pop up on video games, toy cars,
and candy. Philip Morris doesn't give permission for its
brand names to be used for kids' toys, but it hasn't actively
cracked down on many transgressors, either.
   The crackdown, and the hoopla Philip Morris hopes to stir
with its announcement today, isn't about to appease the
company's critics, who are already attacking the move as
posturing.
   They charge Philip Morris with hypocrisy for suddenly
"discovering" that children's products use the Marlboro
trademark without permission.
   "If Philip Morris really wanted to stop {the kids'
products}, it could have" done so years ago, says Michael
Pertschuk of the Advocacy Group, a Washington anti-smoking
group. But since it hasn't bothered, "the assumption was that
Philip Morris pushed its cigarettes to kids. Whether or not
that's true, it's a cheap public relations shot for Philip
Morris to cross their hearts and swear they never intended to
do any such thing."
   The critics take Philip Morris to task, too, for accusing
other companies of exposing its cigarette brands to kids --
when Philip Morris itself, intentionally or not, does
precisely that.
   "It's a little bit absurd, when this is a company that
{pays} to put Marlboro logos where kids can see them," such
as in sports arenas and race tracks, says David Blum, whose
anti-smoking group, Doctors Ought to Care, has been one of
Philip Morris's loudest critics. "Are they going to go after
Shea Stadium and all the other places where they pay good
money to expose their logos to kids?"
   Earlier this year, DOC asked the Federal Trade Commission
to investigate Philip Morris after it uncovered several video
games chock full of Marlboro logos. In one, Super Monaco GP,
dozens of Marlboro billboards, logos and signs appear on a
race track. Sega Enterprises, the San Jose, Calif., company
that created the video, says that following complaints from
Philip Morris, it is removing the logos, which it didn't have
permission to use.
   Other cigarette companies have come under fire for
marketing programs that critics insist are aimed at kids. A
recent Winston Cup newsletter, published for fans of the
cigarette-sponsored car races, for example, included a "Kids'
Korner" with a contest offering a Winston Cup sweatshirt as a
prize. And an ad for free Camel T-shirts in Sports
Illustrated prompted some teens to call a toll-free number
and say they were older than the offer's limit of 21. After
the shirts arrived, so did coupons for free packs of
cigarettes. Both Winston and Camel are made by RJR Nabisco.
   An RJR spokeswoman says that the cigarette company doesn't
market to kids, and that it "very vigorously" cracks down on
companies that use its logo illegally. She notes that the
company took legal steps against five different candy
cigarette makers between 1979 and 1981, and that "we aren't
aware of any others" using RJR logos or look-alikes.
   Philip Morris executives declined to comment on their new
crackdown. But one executive close to the company says that
Philip Morris "hadn't aggressively sought out" firms that
helped themselves to its logos before.
   Philip Morris is taking the offensive now, the executive
adds, because "it doesn't need this kind of scrutiny. The
next time somebody holds something up and says Philip Morris
encourages kids to smoke, it can say, `Time out -- that's not
the case.' "
   ---
   Mullen Loses Smartfood
                                                                                                       

   Frito-Lay pulled its estimated $10 million Smartfood
popcorn account from Mullen and awarded it to Levine,
Huntley, Schmidt &amp; Beaver in New York.
   Mullen, based in Wenham, Mass., lost the Smartfood
business after it created a commercial for another client,
Veryfine Products, that pitched Veryfine juice as an
alternative to sodas such as Pepsi and Coke. Frito-Lay is
owned by PepsiCo and executives there judged the account to
be a conflict, Mullen said.
   Jim Mullen, the agency's president, said his shop will
retain the public relations assignment for Smartfood popcorn,
an account it has handled since 1986.
   The account is a big win for Levine Huntley, whose
Frito-Lay roster has been growing. It creates ads for
Frito-Lay's Light snack line and also a new product,
Sunchips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   NEA Storm Still Rising
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The tumult over at the National Endowment for the Arts
reached a mini-climax of sorts, when the Endowment finally
rejected funding for four theater artists, whose creative
endeavors have been causing a stir in recent weeks.
   One of those refused grants was Karen Finley, known for
solo theater performances in which she smears chocolate and
bean sprouts over her mostly nude body. Another, no less
distinguished expression of her past artistry has involved
the use of vegetables, which Miss Finley inserts into her
body. In recommending Miss Finley for an NEA grant, the panel
described her work as "courageous and candid" social
criticism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The NEA also rejected funding for John Fleck, an
underground artist of sorts, who had been recommended for an
NEA grant by an enthusiastic peer panel. Mr. Fleck's onstage
specialty includes urinating into a toilet bowl made up like
a shrine, and bedecked with a picture of Jesus Christ. In an
interview, Mr. Fleck told us that since he considered his
body sacred, what came out of his body was therefore also
sacred. Mr. Fleck also explains that his performances express
a political and social vision. The same is true of Miss
Finley who has explained that she is "being punished because
I am a morally concerned artist." Holly Hughes and Tim
Miller, whose artistic endeavors run along similar lines,
also were rejected for funding.
   It is self-evident to most people that the government is
under no obligation to finance art -- regardless of merit --
simply because that art represents a particular political,
social or sexual viewpoint. This simple fact has apparently
eluded vocal "arts" supporters and pundits across the nation,
who have divined an act of censorship in the rejection of the
four grants. Thus the NEA's decision has raised the usual
cries of alarm, and the usual suggestions that the dark night
of fascism is about to descend on the United States -- that
is, if it had not already done so.
   A panel of academics and others involved in theater arts
at once issued a statement expressing their "alarm" and
warning that the rejections would create "a climate of fear
for artists and audiences throughout America." Most
Americans, we suspect, will recognize these forebodings as
blather of a familiar sort.
   Those sounding these warnings appear to be confused about
some elementary matters. Apparently they believe -- or they
want the citizenry to believe -- that the right of free
expression is somehow at issue in the decision to refuse a
grant. But the refusal of a grant, of course, has nothing to
do with the curtailment of free expression, or First
Amendment rights. Those who keep insisting it does should at
least bear in mind that the argument can cut both ways.
Americans who look at a work offered as art, and who decide,
on the basis of their tastes, discrimination and view of
community standards, that it is a piece of garbage not worth
funding, also are entitled to the right of free expression.
   A considerable number of troubling questions about the NEA
remain, one of which is the question of its direction.
Chairman John Frohnmeyer has, at best, provided uncertain
leadership. When the Senior Deputy Chairman, Alvin
Felzenberg, tried to caution Mr. Frohnmeyer about some of the
more questionable projects being put forward for funding, Mr.
Felzenberg's days were numbered. Then, in May, Mr. Felzenberg
returned a phone call made by Evans and Novak, who were
preparing a column on Karen Finley's theater act, at the time
in the running for a grant.
   Agitated over the growing, and in our view, well-merited,
notoriety connected with certain NEA grants, Chairman
Frohnmeyer focused his suspicions on the Senior Deputy. He
then ordered a complete computer search of Mr. Felzenberg's
phone records. Shortly thereafter, Chairman Frohnmeyer fired
Mr. Felzenberg -- a man who has, by all accounts, compiled a
sterling record as an arts administrator. None of this speaks
well for Chairman Frohnmeyer's tolerance of diversity -- that
same tolerance that we hear the National Endowment has been
trying to do so much to nurture.
   In the end of course, the important issue is that of the
NEA itself. The question of whether government should be in
the business of funding art has always been a thorny one. The
Endowment was originally intended as an educational
enterprise, whose mission was to transmit the values of
civilization, to make great works of art, from the past to
the present, available to citizens.
   It is now involved heavily in something a far cry from
those original purposes, having arrogated to itself the role
of funder for "cutting edge" creativity as represented by
Miss Finley and Mr. Fleck. Those Members of Congress who want
to salvage the Endowment would do well to consider
legislation that would bring the agency back in line with its
original purpose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   After 30 Years, New Hand Steers Laidlaw
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LDMFA T.TMA CP
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- When Michael DeGroote bought Laidlaw Inc. in
1959, it was a small trucking company, with 20 vehicles and
one customer.
   By the time, late last month, that Mr. DeGroote announced
his plans to retire, he had built Laidlaw into North
America's largest school bus operator and second-largest
hazardous waste management company. Laidlaw, based in
Burlington, Ontario, expects to post $2 billion in revenue in
its current fiscal year, up from $1.4 billion in the year
ended Aug. 31, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. DeGroote plans to hand over the reins of the company
to Donald Jackson, Laidlaw's newly arrived president.
Although Mr. Jackson hasn't been appointed chief executive,
Laidlaw officials say he will be in control of the company. A
chairman is expected to be named before the end of the year,
when Mr. DeGroote steps down from that post.
   "For thirty years, Mike DeGroote and Laidlaw have been
synonymous," said William Genco, an analyst with Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co. in New York. "It's not exactly easy to replace a
legend. Those are big shoes to fill."
   The move stunned the investment community, although Mr.
DeGroote had given early warning of his intentions in 1988,
when he sold voting control of Laidlaw to Canadian Pacific
Ltd. On the day of the announcement last month, nervous
investors traded more than seven million Laidlaw shares.
Laidlaw's Class B shares fell 38 cents a share in national
over-the-counter trading to close at $21.75 a share.
   While the share price has bounced back to $23.375 Friday,
investors and analysts are keeping a careful eye on Mr.
DeGroote's hand-picked successor. Mr. Jackson, who joined the
company only last summer, now faces a dual challenge. He must
continue Laidlaw's strategy of growth through acquisitions
and oversee its transition to a large multinational concern
without losing the company's entrepreneurial style.
   "I come with some entrepreneurial skills and background,
but also with some formal education and a knowledge of the
major industrial players in the field," said Mr. Jackson. "I
want to blend Laidlaw's historical strength, its
entrepreneurial skills, with the management skills that are
needed to oversee its transition to a global enterprise."
   Mr. Jackson is no stranger to the two industries in which
Laidlaw is a major player -- transportation and hazardous
waste treatment and disposal.
   A graduate of the University of Western Ontario's master
of business administration program, he founded his own
company, Rentway Canada Ltd., in 1967. Two years later, both
Mr. Jackson and his company were snapped up by Calgary-based
Trimac Ltd., a holding company with interests in
transportation, waste disposal services and oil-field
services.
   In 1973, Trimac handed Mr. Jackson the task of building up
a new chemical waste concern, Tricil Ltd., in a joint venture
partnership with C-I-L Inc. C-I-L has since become the
Canadian unit of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC of Britain.
   "Trimac and C-I-L each put in $2 million," Mr. Jackson
said. "We grew the company . . . through acquisitions until
it was sold last December for a total of $240 million."
   In the 1970s and 1980s, Messrs. DeGroote and Jackson found
their companies competing head-to-head as both moved into the
burgeoning hazardous waste disposal business.
   "He was a very tough competitor, a very good negotiator,"
Mr. DeGroote says of Mr. Jackson.
   Mr. DeGroote recalls one contract, in Hamilton, Ontario,
where Laidlaw was then based. "We were sure that we totally
had it in the bag. But Tricil got it, with a competitive
price and what the clients described as an exceptionally
professional presentation. That one hurt."
   Eventually, Trimac asked Mr. Jackson to find a buyer for
its 50% stake in Tricil, and a deal was struck with Laidlaw.
After a three-year court battle between Trimac and C-I-L,
Laidlaw completed the $240 million acquisition in December.
But Mr. Jackson had left Trimac in 1987, and has launched a
suit against Trimac, alleging breach of contract and seeking
damages of 16.8 million Canadian dollars (US$14.5 million).
   In a countersuit in the Court of Queen's Bench in Alberta,
Trimac is seeking C$20 million in damages, alleging that Mr.
Jackson acted improperly in the Tricil negotiations.
   Laidlaw watchers say the company is likely to undergo some
significant changes as it continues to grow and Mr. Jackson
puts his own stamp on the organization.
   "Clearly, there's going to be more of an emphasis put on
the hazardous waste side of the business, given his
background at Tricil," said Steve Garmaise, vice president of
Toronto-based First Marathon Securities Ltd.
   Mr. Jackson agrees that Laidlaw is likely to make further
investments in the hazardous waste industry under his
leadership.
   "That's where the opportunities are, that's the fast
growth sector," he said, noting that about 60% of Laidlaw's
revenues and 70% of its net income come from that business.
   But Mr. Jackson sees his main contribution to Laidlaw as
"providing the management skills that are appropriate to the
running of a $2 billion company.
   "Entrepreneurship is what built the company, but if that's
all we have, we run the risk of building a foundation that
doesn't support that growth," he added.
   Mr. Garmaise and other analysts agree that Laidlaw needs a
more formal management structure, given its size and growing
complexity.
   "This is no longer a company where everything can be
overseen by one man," Mr. Garmaise said. "It needs more
structured reporting, cost controls and so on," He said this
is particularly true of Laidlaw's school bus business, hit by
shrinking margins. Mr. Jackson describes performance
improvements there as "a priority."
   Perhaps the biggest challenge confronting any successor to
Mr. DeGroote will be reassuring the investment community that
there will be no upheavals at Laidlaw as a result of the
management changes.
   "Changes can cause a temporary loss of momentum at a
high-growth company," said Merrill Lynch's Mr. Genco.
   Mr. Garmaise points to the different personal styles of
Messrs. DeGroote and Jackson.
   "Everyone at Laidlaw used to talk like truck drivers:
casual, slangy, no long words, because that's how Mike
talks," he said. "If you were educated, you didn't want to
appear too educated. Don strikes me as a much more polished
person, who thinks carefully before he speaks."
   But Mr. Jackson plays down any talk of a culture clash
with Laidlaw's freewheeling managers.
   "The company has grown through integrating acquisitions
and new people," he said. "There's much more tolerance for
newcomers than the average outfit, as long as you show you
can do the job. I felt at home here after my first two
weeks."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pizza Chain Faces Charge
   Of Religious Bias in Hiring
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE (AP) -- The state Human Relations Commission has
charged Domino's Pizza Inc. with religious discrimination for
refusing to hire a bearded Sikh man, whose religion bars him
from shaving.
   The nationwide chain requires all employees to be
cleanshaven, but no Maryland health law prohibits food
service employees from having beards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The June 28 commission complaint said that Prabhjot S.
Kohli, of Catonsville, was refused employment when he applied
for a job as manager of a Domino's store in December 1987.
   Herb James, personnel director of LOOC Inc., the Domino's
franchise that interviewed Mr. Kohli, said the complaint was
"a slap in the face to us when we are desperately trying to
work things out with this individual."
   Mr. James, quoted in Saturday's Baltimore Sun, said Mr.
Kohli knew the dress code and policies when he interviewed
for the job and that he also was unwilling to work the
weekend and night hours required. He said other company jobs
that did not involve contact with the public were available,
but Mr. Kohli refused to consider them.
   Mr. Kohli, now an engineer with the State Highway
Administration, said he applied for the advertised position
of senior manager because he had 18 years' experience as a
salesman. He said he was not interested in the other jobs.
   The complaint, filed with the state administrative hearing
examiner, asks that Domino's pay Mr. Kohli for two years of
lost earnings and that he be hired as a Domino's manager. The
examiner's office will hold a public hearing later.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banks Rush to Commit $7 Billion to RJR,
   Triple What Firm Needs for Refinancing
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR SPC J.FUJ J.LTC CMB CCI BT MHC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bankers said they have deluged RJR Nabisco
Inc. with $7 billion of loan commitments for its debt
refinancing plan, more than triple what the tobacco and food
company needs.
   The banks' rush before a deadline of last Friday suggests
that big money is once again becoming available for
leveraged-company transactions, after a yearlong halt.
Citibank's head of leveraged lending, Todd Slotkin, predicted
that the RJR loan would help "bring back confidence" in bank
lending to heavily indebted companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   RJR is seeking to retire more than $4 billion of
high-yield junk bonds whose interest rates must be reset by
April. Those bonds had been seen as potentially ruinous to
RJR because their rate must be reset so that the bonds trade
at face value. The bonds had sunk as low as 58 cents on the
dollar last winter, raising the specter that RJR might have
been forced to reset their interest rate at 20% or higher.
   In its refinancing package, RJR plans to use $2.25 billion
of fresh bank loans to help buy back bonds. Other money for
the refinancing will come from an equity infusion by Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., new preferred stock and existing
bank-credit facilities. In total, bankers calculated, only
about 32% of the $7 billion that banks pledged to RJR will
actually be borrowed. The remaining loan commitments will go
unused.
   As recently as three weeks ago, bankers said they didn't
know how much difficulty RJR and KKR, the company's major
shareholder, would face in borrowing money from the banks.
"This loan really snowballed," said a Japanese banker who
worked on the RJR refinancing.
   Several bankers said they were attracted to the RJR loan
by the big fees involved, as well as a belief that the
refinancing package will improve RJR's creditworthiness. RJR
last month agreed to pay fees as large as 4%, some of the
most lucrative bank fees on record, after protracted
negotiations with the banks.
   The banks' rush into the loan the past two weeks may cause
some chagrin for RJR's chief financial officer, Karl von der
Heyden, and KKR. The two companies declined to comment. It's
understood, however, that KKR and Mr. von der Heyden
grudgingly accepted the high fees this spring on the belief
that banks wouldn't lend otherwise.
   Still, bankers insisted they weren't bluffing KKR and RJR
during the fee negotiations or trying to make up for
practices during the great debt boom of the 1980s, when banks
put up much of the money but got little of the profit.
Instead, bankers said the high fees were needed to get banks
to relax the leveraged-lending limits they had imposed on
themselves in the past year.
   "Getting this thing moving was a lot like breaking the ice
on a frozen river," said a veteran leveraged-company lender.
"You need something drastic to break the ice. Once you do
that, the river flows along quite nicely."
   Bankers said the RJR loan will be made by nearly 30 banks,
led by seven agent banks that have each pledged $350 million.
The agents are: Security Pacific Corp., Fuji Bank, Long-Term
Credit Bank, Chase Manhattan Corp., Citicorp's Citibank,
Bankers Trust New York Corp. and Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
Formal loan documents are expected to be signed in the next
week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Forstmann Begins Tender Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FST GRL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Forstmann Little &amp; Co. began its tender offer
for all shares outstanding of General Instrument Corp. at
$44.50 each, or a total of $1.42 billion.
   On Friday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, General Instrument's common closed at $45.625, up
12.5 cents. Counting options that would be converted in the
purchase, the maker of cable-television equipment has more
than 32 million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Forstmann's bid, scheduled to expire at 12:01 a.m. EDT
Aug.14, unless extended, is conditional, among other things,
on at least a majority of the shares outstanding, on a fully
diluted basis, being tendered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Lands
   British Airways
   Order for 21 747s
   ---
   Deal, Which Also Includes
   12 Options, Has a Value
   Of at Least $3.8 Billion
   ----
   By Jill Bettner and Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BA BAB U.RR F.ABI MD
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Airways PLC ordered 21 Boeing Co. 747-400 jumbo
jetliners valued at about $3.8 billion, and took options for
12 others, which could bring the total value of the deal to
$6.4 billion.
   Deliveries under the order, which Seattle-based Boeing
described as its third-largest ever when options are
included, will begin in 1992 and would stretch through 1999.
In London, British Airways Chairman Lord King said the
airline's biggest order ever "will ensure that we have a
sufficient flow of 747-400 aircraft to meet the growth of our
intercontinental network" forecast for the 1990s and beyond.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The firm order for 21 of the 386-passenger, long-range
planes -- plus British Airways' conversion of two options to
firm orders late last year -- would boost the airline's
747-400 fleet to 42, larger than that of any other carrier,
Boeing said. The planes will be powered by Rolls Royce
RB211524G engines. In 1986, British Airways ordered 19 of the
jetliners and took options for 12 more, including the two
that were converted to firm orders in December. The remaining
10 options are still outstanding. Were all its options
converted, the British Airways 747-400 fleet could swell to
64 by the end of the decade. British Airways already has
taken delivery of 13 747-400s from that 1986 order.
   British Airways said it had negotiated the right to
convert the 747-400s it ordered into any new variant of the
aircraft that Boeing might develop in the 1990s.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Boeing stock closed at $60.50, up $1.25 a share. British
Airways shares traded late Friday on London's Stock Exchange
at 211 pence, up 2 from Thursday.
   A spokeswoman for the airline confirmed it also is talking
with Boeing about a possible purchase of the aerospace
concern's proposed 767-X airliner, a new 350-seat plane it
hopes to launch as the 777. The spokeswoman said British
Airways also is talking with McDonnell Douglas Corp. about
its MD-11 aircraft and to European aircraft maker Airbus
Industrie about its A-330, which are much further along in
the development process.
   "All three options are being studied. All three are in
contention," she said, adding that the airline expects to
choose "very late" this year. She declined to say how many of
those planes British Airways plans to order.
   The 747-400 order brings Boeing's total orders so far this
year to 242 aircraft valued at $22.7 billion, the company
said. Last year at this time, the company had orders for 602
aircraft valued at $33.2 billion.
   Separately, Boeing said it expects to reduce its work
force in the state of Washington by about 2,700 during the
second half of the year, making the total 1990 reduction
about 5,600. Such a reduction would exceed by 600 the size of
the employment decline that Boeing had projected in January.
Reductions generally are related to a lower volume of
military work, Boeing said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stone Container
   Mills in Quebec
   Ratify Labor Pacts
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   STO LABOR CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Workers at three Stone Container Corp. paper
mills in Quebec narrowly ratified new labor contracts, but
the settlement, which sets the pattern for contracts covering
30,000 pulp and paper workers in eastern Canada, may run into
trouble at other mills.
   "We still face some difficulties in the rest of Canada,"
said Don Holder, president of the Canadian Paperworkers
Union. He said some companies may be reluctant to grant
workers perquisites, such as bonus vacation pay, which are
included in the contracts at Stone Container, a Chicago-based
paper and packaging concern. Given the slim margin of
approval at the three Stone Container mills, rejection of the
contract at some other mills is a possibility, Mr. Holder
said. He said the union leadership is satisfied with the
settlement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just 56.4% of workers at the three Stone Container mills
voted in favor of the contract. The three-year agreement
includes an hourly wage increase of 85 Canadian cents (73
U.S. cents) in the first year and 5.5% pay increases in each
of the following two years. The current base wage at mills in
eastern Canada is 15.37 Canadian dollars (US$13.22) an hour.
   The three paper mills are operated by the
Stone-Consolidated Inc. unit of Stone Container. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Stone Container
shares closed at $15.75, up 12.5 cents.
   Analysts said the settlement may face a rough ride at
certain mills but generally expect that it will be adopted
without major problems throughout the region by the end of
the summer. They said the agreement at the Stone Container
mills removes the threat of an industrywide strike in eastern
Canada, because in pattern bargaining, other sites usually
fall in line with the initial settlement. This in turn may
force North American newsprint producers to give up a June 1
price increase. "There's definitely going to be pressure,"
said Stephen Atkinson, an analyst at Deacon BZW Ltd.
   The threat of a strike helped most major North American
newsprint producers push through price increases of about 5%
last month. Eastern Canada is a major source of newsprint for
U.S. and Canadian publishers. The benchmark Eastern U.S. list
price for newsprint rose 5.4% to $685 a metric ton from $650.
A metric ton is 2,204.6 pounds. A similar increase took
effect in other markets, where the pricing system is slightly
different. Newsprint now is sold at about a 19% discount from
list price.
   In anticipation of a possible strike, publishers built up
their inventories of newsprint this spring. Analysts said
publishers now will probably reduce inventories.
   Separately on Friday, the Canadian Pulp and Paper
Association said Canadian production of newsprint in May rose
2% from a year earlier, as the industry operated at 97% of
capacity.
   The industry group said Canadian mills produced 847,000
metric tons of newsprint in May, compared with 830,000 tons a
year earlier. For the first five months of this year,
production fell 1.6% to 3,971,000 metric tons from 4,037,000
tons.
   The 97% operating rate in May was up from 93% in April and
96% in May 1989.
   The association said U.S. consumer stocks at the end of
May totaled 1,299,000 metric tons, a 40-day supply, up from
1,276,000 tons at the end of April, a 37-day supply. Canadian
mills' stocks at the end of May totaled 358,000 metric tons,
down from 372,000 tons at the end of April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN ISUZU MOTORS sold 9,405 imported trucks in June,
and a total 12,403 vehicles during the month. The numbers
were reported incorrectly in the auto-sales table in Friday's
edition because of an error by the company.
   (See: "Autos: Japan Cars Score Sales Coup in U.S." -- WSJ
July 6, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Co. said that responsibilities of
executive vice president Charles A. Heimbold Jr. include the
health care and medical products groups and corporate
strategic planning and development, as well as the consumer
products group. Mr. Heimbold's duties weren't fully described
in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Who's News: Bristol-Myers Puts Davidson in Role
With Added Duties" -- WSJ July 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   When a Good Deed Can Be a Good Deal
   ----
   By Barbara D. Phillips
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Kathleen Orzech, vice president of personnel at First
American Bank in New York, was having problems with the
employees on the first rung of her company's ladder. "I
wasn't having trouble finding entry-level employees. But I
was having problems with their quality and attitude. There
aren't many people willing to be dues-payers," Ms. Orzech
says.
   The answer to Ms. Orzech's problem was offered by John
Ingram, an old associate who heads an executive search firm.
This certainly wasn't an executive-level search, but Mr.
Ingram had become involved in an employment program designed
specifically to bring enthusiastic entry-level employees to
corporations at reduced costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Orzech was skeptical when Mr. Ingram asked that she
take part in this program, which places mentally ill people
in part-time "transitional" jobs. She hadn't even heard of
the organization sponsoring it: Fountain House, a 42-year-old
independent, nonprofit organization aimed at rehabilitating
New Yorkers who have spent time in mental hospitals.
   This was three years ago. Today, Ms. Orzech is a leading
booster of the Fountain House clubhouse's Transitional
Employment Program. "You can't beat it," she says. "There's a
work ethic. The program prepares them well." Ms. Orzech's
enthusiasm for the program has led her to chair the Fountain
House Employers Advisory Council, whose 16 employer-members
are charged with trying to expand the employer base, which
has shrunk some of late due to corporate layoffs. She also
has impressed her bosses with the cost savings offered by
Fountain House.
   Employers that hire Fountain House participants are spared
the expense of providing them with such costly
company-mandated benefits as medical insurance, pension
contributions, profit-sharing and vacation days. And although
Fountain House participants stay only about six months at a
job, employers are spared the expense of retraining, since
all training is done by Fountain House staff placement
managers (there are 57 in all who share responsibility for
managing the system). Additionally, all absences are covered
by Fountain House members or staffers.
   Ms. Orzech says the first Fountain House employees had to
be "forced down the throat of the mailroom supervisor." But
when another job opened up three months later, the same
supervisor asked for a Fountain House member to fill the
slot. The bank now has four outdoor messengers, an office
assistant and a porter from Fountain House. "They are just
part of us now, not any different from anyone else," Ms.
Orzech says.
   Katherine Kenworthy, head of technical services at
Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore, the large law firm, is one of the
newest members of the cheering section.
   Cravath took its first Fountain House member, Jerry, in
December of last year. "He was a model worker: never late,
never absent, never complained," says Ms. Kenworthy. "And he
is so smart and would quietly help out even when not asked
to. We wish we could have kept Jerry, but that isn't the
arrangement." Now the firm has two new Fountain House members
and Ms. Kenworthy is "very happy with them."
   The Cravath employees' duties are varied. They work in the
library sorting incoming mail, shelving, and gluing pockets
in books. They cover the firm's 13 floors, hand-delivering
rush orders of articles, printouts and books, and man the
conveyor belts that deliver information that can take a
slower route. "They are always looking for things to do. They
never chitchat, and there is no goofing off," she says in the
tone of someone who has seen a lot of both in her time. "They
are highly motivated and appreciate the opportunity. I highly
recommend the program."
   The Transitional Employment Program, developed in 1957, is
the linchpin of Fountain House's vocational rehabilitation
program. Members are paid market-rate wages (from minimum
wage to $10 an hour) by 31 New York employers. These vary
from big law firms, media companies, ad agencies, and banks
to the Bronx Zoo, the Natural Resources Defense Council, a
nursing home and a hardware store.
   Once trained, the members work side-by-side with employees
hired the old-fashioned way in such jobs as mailroom clerk,
indoor messenger, outdoor messenger, plant-care worker, news
assistant (at this newspaper) and office assistant. Last
year, Fountain House members earned nearly $585,000 at 168
transitional placements.
   And if an employee doesn't work out? Some members do fail
in a transitional employment placement, but it is a
relatively painless experience both for members and
employers. Fountain House workers are assured that they will
be given as many opportunities as they need to try again and
succeed, and employers know that help is just a phone call
away. A Fountain House staff manager quickly comes in and
takes the member out. And if a replacement worker cannot be
quickly found, the staff manager does the job.
   "I've tried other agencies {that place handicapped
workers}," says Charlotte Pentek, director of corporate
office services at Continental Insurance, "and it doesn't
work without the support system." Twenty-one Fountain House
members have gone through Continental's mail/shipping area
and five through the legal department since July 1987.
   A relatively new program for companies needing help with
tedious, seasonal work is Fountain House's Enclave Program.
Started two years ago, it is targeted at more severely
disabled members or those not ready for more traditional
transitional employment placements. Members work in
supervised groups, doing such things as tagging goods at
Hoffritz, sorting proxies at Prudential-Bache and stuffing
envelopes at Columbia University.
   When members are ready to move on to full-time employment,
Fountain House staffers in the Full-Time Employment Program
help them. Last year, about 50 members got independent jobs
through the fulltime program, a triumph announced by the
ringing of a bell in the clubhouse. One "graduate" is quoted
in the 1988-89 Fountain House Report: "As I was growing up,
doctors, teachers, and even some members of my family thought
I wouldn't work full time because of my illness. If you hear
that for a long enough period of time, you start to believe
it. . . . After {the Fountain House Transitional Employment
Program}, I started my full-time job, and now I'm working my
fifth year on that job."
   The transitional employment strategy is belatedly catching
on across North America. Some of the clubhouses with the
largest transitional employment programs (there now are about
150) are Beach House in Virginia Beach, Va.; Gateway House in
Greenville, S.C.; Genesis Club in Worcester, Mass.; The Green
Door in Washington, D.C.; Independence Center in St. Louis;
Lakeside House in Richmond, Va.; Laurel House in Stamford,
Conn.; New Frontier Center in Everett, Wash.; Progress Place
in Toronto; The Club in New Brunswick, N.J., and Vail Place
in Minneapolis. There even is a Fountain House in Malmo,
Sweden, the first clubhouse in Western Europe to provide
transitional employment.
   In a time when the phrase "mentally ill" seems linked in
the public mind with "homeless" and "helpless," that is good
news indeed. Hiring the mentally ill can be both a good deed
and a good deal.
   ---
   Ms. Phillips in an assistant editorial features editor at
the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BC Sugar to Buy
   50% of Lantic
   For $94.2 Million
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BCS.A T.JN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- BC Sugar Refinery Ltd., in
a two-step move that would make it Canada's biggest sugar
refiner, said it agreed to acquire 50% of Montreal-based
Lantic Sugar Ltd. for 110 million Canadian dollars (US$94.2
million).
   The pact to acquire the stake from Lantic's 100%-owner,
Toronto-based Jannock Ltd., includes an option enabling BC
Sugar to acquire Jannock's remaining interest in Lantic, on
terms that weren't disclosed, after Dec. 31, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The acquisition of Lantic Sugar provides a good strategic
fit for BC Sugar's long-term interests," said company
president and chief executive officer, William Brown.
Lantic's two refineries in eastern Canada produce about
450,000 metric tons of sugar annually, or about 50% of
Canada's output. Lantic also operates a big sugar refinery in
Yonkers, N.Y.
   Century-old BC Sugar, which produces about 21% of Canada's
refined sugar at plants in British Columbia, Alberta, and
Manitoba, has been seeking to expand outside of its
traditional western Canadian base for some time. Indeed, BC
Sugar was foiled in January when a previous pact to acquire
50% of Lantic from Montreal's Steinberg Inc. was thwarted by
Jannock.
   Jannock, a diversified manufacturing concern, exercised
its right of first refusal to acquire Steinberg's stake in
Lantic, after BC Sugar made its original offer. But BC Sugar
continued to pursue Lantic, and Jannock "ultimately came to
the decision that they were interested in taking on a
partner," Mr. Brown said.
   Jannock's executives weren't available for comment.
   BC Sugar, which had revenue of C$289 million last year,
plans to finance the purchase entirely through bank debt, Mr.
Brown said. As a result, long-term debt will jump to about
C$140 million from the current C$30 million, said James
Hudson, vice president, finance, compared to shareholders'
equity of about C$94 million. "We're comfortable with that,"
he said.
   Mr. Brown said BC Sugar doesn't expect to encounter
opposition to the proposed purchase from Canada's antitrust
regulators, whom he said view the transaction favorably.
"That's been covered off," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Administration Targets 100 S&amp;Ls
   For Accelerated Probe on Fraud Charges
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, in its latest
response to Democratic charges that it hasn't prosecuted
savings-and-loan fraud vigorously, has chosen 100 thrifts for
accelerated investigation.
   Thrift regulators and Justice Department officials said
last week that newly formed investigative teams drawn from
several federal agencies would review fraud allegations
involving these 100 S&amp;Ls. The officials declined to identify
the targeted institutions. Eventually, enforcers intend to
draw up a list of 300 to 400 major thrift-fraud cases to
investigate, a total far smaller than previous estimates and
one sure to draw criticism from Democratic lawmakers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The numbers haven't been perfected yet," said acting
Deputy Attorney General William Barr. "But it's a universe of
hundreds" of potential major cases. Allegations of
substantial fraud in commercial banks could add another
"couple hundred" cases to the government's list of targets,
he said. Thousands of allegations of fraud involving $25,000
or less are likely to remain unaddressed, officials
acknowledged.
   The criteria used for selecting the top 100 cases included
the amount of losses attributed to illegal actions, the
egregiousness of allegedly fraudulent behavior by thrift
executives and borrowers, and the size of the institutions
involved. No additional resources, beyond those already
announced, will be deployed to address the worst cases,
officials said. Instead, prosecutors and investigators will
be reassigned to problem areas, such as Kansas and Florida,
Mr. Barr said.
   The purposeful disclosure of the list of high-priority
cases is one of a series of actions by the administration to
demonstrate its seriousness in addressing the S&amp;L mess.
Attorney General Richard Thornburgh previously announced the
formation of a variety of regional task forces and the
appointment of special officials to coordinate prosecution of
thrift fraud. President Bush himself attended a recent
campaign-style rally at the Justice Department, where he
exhorted federal prosecutors flown in from all over the
country to "leave no stone unturned" when investigating S&amp;L
improprieties.
   Many of these same prosecutors, as well as senior
officials of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, say,
however, that the Reagan and Bush administrations, as well as
Congress, haven't provided sufficient resources to battle a
wave of potential criminal cases that began to overwhelm
enforcers as early as the mid-eighties.
   Separately, a Senate subcommittee chaired by Sen. Howard
Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) plans a hearing today on the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board's December 1988 sale of 15 Texas S&amp;Ls to
an Arizona insurance businessman who had been charged with
securities fraud in 1976.
   Mr. Metzenbaum plans to question former Bank Board
officials and state insurance regulators about the
transaction in which James Fail bought the insolvent thrifts
using $1,000 of his own, $70 million in borrowings, and
another $50 million he pledged to invest over the next two
years. The government put up $1.85 billion of assistance in
the deal.
   Mr. Fail was charged with securities fraud in Alabama, but
the charges were dropped and Mr. Fail agreed not to sell
insurance in the state. However, one of Mr. Fail's companies
pleaded guilty to securities fraud in Alabama, investigators
for Mr. Metzenbaum have learned.
   Mr. Metzenbaum also intends to investigate the role played
by an ex-aide to President Bush, Robert Thompson, who wrote
letters to Bank Board officials to help Mr. Fail bid for the
Texas thrifts, according to Mr. Metzenbaum's investigation.
Mr. Thompson had previously handled congressional contacts
for Mr. Bush when Mr. Bush was vice president.
   Mr. Fail and Mr. Thompson couldn't be reached for comment.
A press spokesman for Sen. Metzenbaum said Mr. Fail, Mr.
Thompson, and Danny Wall, who was chairman of the Bank Board
when the thrifts were sold, declined invitations to testify
today.
   ---
   Paul Duke Jr. contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- B.F. Goodrich Co.:
   Carlisle Cos. Agrees to Buy
   Off-Highway Braking Line
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4C
</SO>
<CO>
   GR CSL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   B.F. Goodrich Co. said it agreed to sell its Off-Highway
Braking Systems business to Carlisle Cos. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   The business, based in Bloomington, Ind., makes brakes and
hydraulic controls used on construction, mining and other
off-highway vehicles. It had sales of about $47 million in
1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Goodrich, an Akron, Ohio, maker of plastics, specialty
chemicals and aircraft parts, said the divestiture reflects
its belief that the business would be a better fit "within a
company specializing in groundtransportation equipment."
Carlisle, of Syracuse, N.Y., makes products for automotive,
industrial and construction markets.
   Goodrich said the sale is subject to approval by
appropriate governmental agencies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sun Sportswear Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Sales Fell
   Up to 12%; Weather Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4B
</SO>
<CO>
   SSPW
</CO>
<LP>
   Sun Sportswear Inc., Kent, Wash., one of the nation's
largest screen-printers of casual sportswear sold in discount
retail stores, said cool spring weather caused second-quarter
sales to drop between 9% and 12% to an estimated $22 million
to $23 million from $25.1 million a year earlier.
   Officials attributed the poor performance to slowing
orders and an inventory buildup. Earnings and sales data
won't be available until the end of the month, a spokeswoman
said. But, reflecting the sales slump, Sun Sportswear shares
plunged $1.25, to close at $8.25, in national
over-the-counter trading Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Arctic Open
   Has Many Hazards
   To Tee You Off
   ---
   The Good News Is That You
   Can Play All Night Long;
   Bring Along Your Mittens
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   AKUREYRI, Iceland -- It is just after midnight when Hugh
Harvie finds his golf ball on the tundra of the 12th fairway.
Positioning his nine-iron for the approach shot, the Scotsman
turns to his caddie and says, "Laddie, I canna see the
green."
   The caddie points through the fog at a pennant flapping in
the distance. Mr. Harvie chips, looks, listens. Way off,
there is the conk of ball hitting boulder and richocheting
into the rough.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Wee bit of a slice on that one," Mr Harvie says, his
breath clouding in the frigid air. Reaching for the flask in
his golf bag, he adds, "If I don't find the ball, I may just
lie down and hibernate until dawn."
   He could be a long time sleeping. There are no dawns here
in midsummer, and no sunsets, either; at this latitude, the
sun shines all night. This allows Mr. Harvie and 100 other
golfers to knock-around-the-clock at the Arctic Open. The
tournament is held at the world's most northerly 18-hole golf
course, just 50 miles from the Arctic Circle.
   This polar stage attracts odd players, mostly here for the
novelty of the event. The 1990 field includes a Mormon
missionary from Utah who proselytizes in sand traps, and an
English golf writer who plans to marry his caddie between
rounds. "The bride wears thermals," declares Lisa Bateman,
shivering as her fiance, Neil Elsey, shanks a ball toward a
ditch filled with murky water. The ditch, used to channel
run-off from melting snow, is one of many at Akureyri. Mr.
Elsey puts his head down and hikes into the howling wind.
"You're looking at the extremists here," he says. "The real
golf fundamentalists."
   They have found a fitting shrine in Akureyri. The golf
course is perched amid snow-capped peaks, beside a
cobalt-blue finger of sea. Spread out below is a fishing
township founded by a 10th century Viking named Helgi the
Lean. In winter, temperatures can skid to minus-85 degrees
Fahrenheit, leaving fairways lumpy when the ground finally
thaws. Polar bears sometimes visit these parts, hitching a
ride aboard icebergs from nearby Greenland.
   Still, by Icelandic standards, golfing in Akureyri is
luxurious. One course lies on an extinct volcano and several
others are bordered by old lava fields. "We also have trees,"
says Akureyri's pro, David Barnwell, pointing at a few
stunted, wind-bent birches huddled near the 18th hole. In a
harsh land where glaciers cover more ground than forests,
most golf courses are lucky to sprout a few shrubs.
   In midsummer, Akureyri's latitude (just north of Nome,
Alaska) also affords 24-hour sun -- at least in theory. A
brochure advertising the Arctic Open tells of shorts-clad
golfers sending putts and shadows across the green at 2 a.m.
The club's pro shop even sells black golf balls, which are
easier to pick out when driving into the low-lying midnight
sun.
   That was last year. This year, the pro shop's best-selling
item is mittens. At tee off the mercury reads 34 degrees,
with pelting rain and 25-mile-per-hour winds making
conditions, well, arctic. "I wouldn't put my dog out in this
slop," says the Scotsman, Mr. Harvie. The tall, ruddy
hotelkeeper is wrapped in long johns, two pairs of pants, two
shirts, two sweaters, mittens and tartan cap. "I feel like a
great hairy ball," he says.
   John Rives, a U.S. Navy supply officer from North
Carolina, arrives in a Pebble Beach golf cap -- then quickly
adds a Navy-issue wool cap underneath. "I haven't had this
much fun since boot camp," he grumbles, searching for his
ball in the boggy, boulder-strewn rough. His playing partner,
Jeff Marks, is more philosophical. "God called me to Iceland
so I really can't complain," says the Mormon, who is based in
Akureyri. Mr. Marks is playing well, despite the conditions.
"We're the only sober ones out here," explains his caddie, a
fellow missionary.
   Tippling between shots isn't the only hazard of the
36-hole Open. Greens are small and covered in coarse grass
that hinders putting. Bunkers are better now that
groundskeepers have filled the traps with fine white sand,
replacing the black, sticky crushed lava that was there until
a year ago. The fairways, obscured by snow until mid-May, can
be patchy, but it is the swampy rough that inspires loathing
and fear.
   "I left my driver at the hotel because my whole mission is
just to stay on the fairway," says Jack Cristwell, an
Alabaman posted to a U.S. Navy station near Reykjavik. "Get
off the fairway," he adds, "and you're in deep `kimchi.'" Or,
to be more precise, you're in a glacial rubble of rocky
outcrops and spongy hillocks, which is exactly where Mr.
Cristwell spends much of the night. Finishing with a
first-round score of 102, double his handicap, he complains,
"The only thing driving straight is the rain."
   The play of the 100 other competitors, three of them pros,
is equally wretched. Englishman John Rooks opens the
tournament by dribbling a tee-shot six inches, on his way to
a 71-over-par score of 142. West German Manfred Kleindienst
ends the midsummer's nightmare with a 3:30 a.m. bunker shot
for his lousiest score in five years. "It could have been
worse," he says, lips numb and eyes filled with tears from
the wind. "I could have died of exposure."
   In the clubhouse, officials tally soaked scorecards and
chalk up triple-digit scores in disbelief while players seek
solace at the bar. The well-stocked lounge includes a potent
Icelandic schnapps known as "Black Death." But having fired a
102, Mr. Harvie thinks an even stronger draught is required.
"A half pint of arsenic," he says.
   Several hours later, Mr. Harvie and another Scotsman don
kilts for the wedding of Ms. Bateman and Mr. Elsey at a local
church. The reception is abbreviated. After a few glasses of
a French wine labeled "Le Bogey," golfers (including the
newlyweds and chaplain) return to the course to do just that.
   Though the weather is slightly better than the night
before, the golfing isn't. London lawyer Martin Kagan, who
had golfed throughout most of Europe and decided to try
something new, follows his first-night 125 with a
second-round 123. "At least I golfed consistently," he says.
"Consistently bad." Blowing his nose, he adds, "Next year,
I'll be playing in Portugal."
   Not surprisingly, Icelanders fare better. The chaplain who
performed the Elseys' wedding fires a hole-in-one, his first
ever and the only one of the Open. And the winner of the
trophy for amateurs is Akureyri headmaster, Jon Hannesson.
Asked for the key to victory, he replies: "Wearing the right
clothes." In his case, light-weight Gore-Tex and ear muffs.
"Most players had on so many layers, they could barely swing
a club," he says.
   Some day, Mr. Hannesson may have to add a dog sled to his
golfing gear. Twenty miles north of Akureyri, on a blustery
ridge above the town of Husavik, lies a nine-hole course that
the tourist literature describes as "tricky." So tricky, in
fact, that the fairway of the fourth hole winds through a
narrow gully and dead-ends in a snowfield, with the green
lying on a small ledge just above.
   "It would be amusing to have an Arctic Open here," says
the course chairman, Ausmunder Bjarnason. He is parked by the
first tee, watching sleet turn to snow flurries, and
pondering whether to cancel a scheduled tournament. Mr.
Bjarnason recognizes that Husavik's course is far from
meeting tournament standards. But he harbors some hope,
nonetheless. "We're waiting for the greenhouse effect," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rough Launch:
   GM's Plan for Saturn,
   To Beat Small Imports,
   Trails Original Goals
   ---
   Model Due Out in October
   Won't Best Rivals on Cost
   Or on High-Tech Features
   ---
   But Gung-Ho Workers Help
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM HMC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SPRING HILL, Tenn. -- Richard G. "Skip" LeFauve, the top
man at General Motors Corp.'s Saturn subsidiary, is listening
to phrases that could describe his operation's brand-new
small car.
   "All-new aluminum engine, fail-safe sophisticated
marketing research and highly automated assembly technique .
. . a revolutionary change from a company and industry that
heretofore have stressed slow, evolutionary change."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. LeFauve smiles and nods. But the passage isn't about
Saturn at all. It's from J. Patrick Wright's 1979 best
seller, "On a Clear Day You Can See General Motors." It was
GM's billing for the Vega, its botched 1970 effort to build a
small car as cheap and as good as the imports.
   "I'll be darned]" Mr. LeFauve exclaims. Once over his
surprise, he adds: "We've had many letters from people
saying, `Don't let this be another Vega.'"
   It has been seven years and more than $3.5 billion since
GM Chairman Roger B. Smith first said Saturn would tackle the
very assignment Vega flunked: to prove that GM could build a
top-quality small car in the U.S. At a time when GM thought
that the "magic bullet" of technology would solve its
competitiveness problems, Mr. Smith promised a lot from
Saturn.
   The cars would shame the Japanese, he said. He predicted
that Saturn's high-tech wizardry and team-spirit culture
would inspire all American industry in its battle with Japan.
Alluding to the moon rockets that inspired Saturn's name, he
called it "a project of cosmic dimensions."
   But now, as Saturn is about to start building cars for its
long-awaited launch in late October, it clearly won't reach
many of Mr. Smith's ambitious goals.
   For starters, Saturn's cars won't offer a revolutionary
advance over the Japanese. "Two or three years ago, we would
have been well ahead of the competition," says Luther Coggin,
a Saturn dealer in Jacksonville, Fla. "By the time we hit the
market, we won't have a giant edge."
   And although Saturn's management, which stresses worker
involvement in decisions, certainly differs from GM's stodgy
corpocracy, labor-management barriers have been coming down
throughout the auto industry. Even within GM, cooperation
between members of the United Auto Workers union and
white-collar engineers and plant managers has significantly
improved quality and productivity at factories such as the
Buick City complex in Flint, Mich., and the truck plant in
Fort Wayne, Ind.
   As for beating the Japanese on cost, Saturn hasn't done it
yet. One big reason is the enormous expense of the new
Tennessee factory. For $1.9 billion, Saturn constructed one
of the most highly integrated car plants since Henry Ford
began building automobiles at his massive Rouge complex near
Detroit in 1927. Saturn's facility will be able to produce
about 240,000 cars -- and their engines and transmissions --
a year. But to be profitable over the long term, Thomas G.
Manoff, Saturn's vice president of finance, concedes, Saturn
will have to double that capacity.
   While Saturn was incubating, Honda Motor Co. spent about
$2 billion developing its own U.S. car-building operation.
The original Marysville, Ohio, plant started up in 1982 by
building an existing model, the Accord. Automation was
modest; some 35% of the welding was done manually. Honda
developed its facilities in stages, adding capacity as demand
required and more sophisticated automation as workers became
more adept at using it.
   Saturn, in contrast, started out trying to design a
facility so automated that much of it would run without human
workers. But Saturn abandoned much of that goal, partly
because other high-tech GM operations simply didn't work.
   Moreover, Honda, once it got started, moved faster. GM
took more than three years to decide that Saturn should have
its own plant and should locate it in Tennessee. Meanwhile,
Honda expanded the Marysville assembly plant and began
building its Ohio engine factory. Then, in 1985, it launched
an all-new Accord whose development had started before the
Saturn project was conceived.
   The result: For roughly what GM spent at Spring Hill,
Honda got not one but two assembly plants with total annual
capacity of 510,000 cars -- more than double Saturn's. Honda
also got a factory capable of building almost all the
engines, transmissions and related components needed by its
auto-assembly operations and its Ohio motorcycle plant.
   Thus the question: Does GM need an expensive new operation
to do what Honda does as a matter of course -- build
top-quality cars at competitive prices in the U.S.?
   Top GM officials say five years ago, the answer clearly
was yes. GM's traditional car divisions weren't reaching
import-oriented consumers, and the prospects of forging
cooperative agreements with the UAW looked dim. Saturn, with
its separate dealerships and radical -- for GM-labor
agreement was viewed as a crucial laboratory for concepts
that could reinvigorate the huge corporation.
   Privately, some GM officials concede that they have since
discovered that the company's traditional operations could
change on their own, albeit slowly. Not only has progress
been made on labor relations, but there are signs that
traditional GM marketing divisions can fight the Japanese.
Last fall, Chevrolet overhauled the marketing effort for its
stumbling Geo brand to woo Japanese car fans more
aggressively. The result: Geo sales since Oct. 1 are up 59%
from the year-earlier period. However, there's a catch. The
hot-selling Geo Storm coupe is made in Japan. But the
best-selling Geo is the Prizm, a sedan built in California by
union workers at a GM-Toyota joint-venture plant.
   Nevertheless, GM executives say the company needs Saturn.
"It's vital that we have a car marketed squarely to those
people who won't even come into our showrooms today," says
Robert C. Stempel, who is slated to succeed Mr. Smith as
chairman on Aug. 1. "That's where Saturn is positioned."
   That's also why Saturn may hold a private ceremony,
instead of a public party, for Mr. Smith to fulfill his
pledge to drive a car off its assembly line before he
retires. Saturn officials worried that television footage of
GM's chairman waving from the front seat would scare off the
very import buyers the subsidiary must attract.
   It isn't entirely Saturn's fault that it won't fulfill Mr.
Smith's promises. Some of his goals were wildly unrealistic
or simply not worth meeting.
   Mr. Smith wanted Saturn to be a totally computerized
"paperless" operation; Saturn people quickly learned this was
impossible. He wanted Saturn to build cheap, good-mileage
subcompacts. But since 1983, sales of cheap little cars have
dropped along with gasoline prices.
   Now, Saturn will offer cars about the size of a Toyota
Corolla. Base prices on Corollas range from just under $9,000
to just over $13,000. It isn't exactly clear how Saturn
prices will compare, but Saturn officials say they expect the
majority of their cars will sell from roughly $10,000 to
almost $13,000 after adding popular options such as air
conditioning and radios.
   As for the cars, dealers who have driven them praise their
peppy multivalve, four-cylinder engines, smooth
transmissions, appealing looks and good handling. The
interiors have such features as windshield-wiper and light
controls on easy-to-reach stalks on the steering column. Jay
Wetzel, vice president of engineering, calls the cars "sports
touring sedans and coupes."
   But all this describes nearly a dozen other competing
models, including the Honda Civic, Mazda MX6 Coupe, Toyota
Corolla and Corolla's twin, Chevy's Geo Prizm. In short,
Saturn is headed into a traffic jam, and many dealers say it
will have a hard time fulfilling its vow to grab 80% of its
sales from non-GM brands.
   That leaves a final goal: sparking revolution in GM's
hidebound corporate culture. It's far too early to judge
Saturn on this score. But a decade of like-minded efforts,
ranging from multibillion-dollar acquisitions to a sweeping
reorganization, shows that change comes slowly and painfully
at the world's largest corporation.
   Saturn officials say they routinely share information with
their GM peers. But some at GM view Saturn both as a tacit
rebuke to their competitiveness and as a rival for corporate
resources. And not without reason. The billions spent on
Saturn helped delay the launch of a new line of four-door
mid-sized cars that GM needed in the late 1980s to counter
Ford Motor Co.'s Taurus and Sable models. That delay
contributed to GM's plunge in U.S. market share from 44% in
1983 to 35.7% as of the end of June, and it cost the auto
maker billions.
   At least one GM official wanted to kill Saturn. Elmer W.
Johnson, an executive vice president, argued that Saturn
needlessly diverted resources at a time when GM was closing
plants and struggling to sell existing brands. He even voiced
his opposition to GM's directors. But Chairman Smith's pet
project survived, and Mr. Johnson chose to leave GM.
   Now, Saturn officials want to dump all the baggage heaped
on them by friends and foes. In less than four months, they
must crank up a new, highly complex factory to build an
all-new car for a network of showrooms still largely under
construction. Even Toyota Motor Corp., the industry's
quality-efficiency leader, avoids building new products in
new plants.
   Saturn is biting off even more complexity. It must
persuade car buyers already boggled by more than 600
different models to go out of their way to find a brand they
know nothing about. To ice the cake, Saturn is doing all this
in one of the weakest car markets since the early 1980s.
   The man in charge of all this, Mr. LeFauve, is a
soft-spoken 55-year-old whom co-workers regard as a genuinely
decent person and one of GM's quiet stars. A believer in
worker involvement long before it became fashionable in the
industry, he has been known to invite hourly employees as
well as executives to private parties.
   In his 34 years at GM, Mr. LeFauve has run several
manufacturing operations, including the Rochester Products
division, where he oversaw a cooperative effort among
workers, the University of Alabama and GM management in 1983
to cut $2 million out of costs and save a carburetor plant in
Tuscaloosa, Ala.
   Mr. LeFauve has thrown himself -- and even his
leisure-time reading -- into his latest challenge. He was
especially intrigued by C. Gayle Warnock's "The Edsel
Affair," an insider's history of Ford's disastrous effort to
launch an all-new division and car in the late 1950s. The
people "responsible for Edsel had no control over actual
production," so quality "suffered," Mr. LeFauve says he
learned. "There's where Saturn is strikingly different."
   Saturn is also strikingly different in the
almost-religious fervor displayed by Mr. LeFauve and his
3,300 or so co-workers, some 1,600 of whom are union workers.
   These people accepted a union agreement without job
classifications or myriad work rules. They also waived all
UAW seniority rights to return to their old plants. GM
salaried workers who joined Saturn didn't have to make that
sacrifice. But both UAW and salaried employees will be paid
at least 20% less than their regular GM counterparts -- with
the proviso that they can make up the difference and more if
Saturn meets certain goals.
   In exchange for the sacrifices, Saturn employees also have
unprecedented involvement in all of the subsidiary's
operations. For example, Saturn's union workers, like those
at many U.S. auto plants, help develop factory processes. But
they also are members of the teams that helped pick dealers,
the advertising agency and even the paving material for
parking lots (a concrete mixture was chosen over asphalt,
which cost more). And workers in each group interview and
hire co-workers; Saturn doesn't have a traditional personnel
department. Its extensive, continuous training program mixes
such esoterica as "Principle-Centered Leadership" with more
traditional fare, "Paint Ovens Overview."
   Employees say all this is crucial to their mission:
building not just a car but "systems that will make the
customer feel very loved, if you will, by the vehicle," says
James Bovenzi, a finance manager. But Saturn's gung-ho
approach to people is reminiscent of GM's initially
enthusiastic, later scaled-back embrace of robots. UAW
officials caution that the Saturn system probably won't work
elsewhere.
   Saturn's best chance of producing true innovations for GM
may lie in its dealership and distribution network. It's an
area where change is next to impossible in existing
operations because state franchise laws strongly protect the
status quo. Saturn handpicked dealers whose operations scored
high in customer-satisfaction surveys and whose pockets were
deep enough to build up to $2 million in new facilities.
Saturn gave the dealers exclusive territories, many of them
more than triple the size of a normal Big Three franchise.
   Russell Hand, for instance, will be the only Saturn dealer
in the sprawling Culver City-Inglewood-Torrance area south
and west of Los Angeles. The wide territory may provide
enough sales volume to offset the relatively low per-car
profit inherent in cars selling for less than $13,000.
   But because of the exclusive territories, Saturn shoppers
might not see the discounting common in other dealerships
because, as Mr. Hand puts it, he won't have to "waste time
and energy trying to steal sales from the Saturn dealer three
blocks away." Saturn officials insist that they won't offer
cash rebates.
   In return for the huge franchises, Saturn is asking
dealers to give their facilities a uniform look, with sales
offices and service bays side-by-side in the front. They also
insist that dealer personnel be trained in
customer-satisfaction techniques.
   The trouble is, for much of Saturn's first year, many
Americans won't be able to find a Saturn dealer at all. To
match its gradual production phase-in, Saturn plans a
region-by-region launch, starting in the West and Southeast.
Even after 12 months, Saturn expects to have only about 110
sales outlets nationwide -- a smaller number than Jaguar,
which sells fewer than 20,000 cars a year in the U.S.
   Saturn also will have trouble outdoing rival auto makers'
promises of unparalleled buyer satisfaction. Every month, it
seems, yet-another brand announces free roadside service,
generous leases, even free maintenance. GM's Oldsmobile
division last fall gave customers who didn't like their new
Olds after 30 days the option of trading it in for full
credit toward a different Olds model. Oldsmobile's sales
nonetheless continued to slide.
   To set itself apart, Saturn is counting on something
hardly revolutionary: advertising. It has a $100 million
marketing budget. And it has hired Hal Riney &amp; Partners, a
small San Francisco agency known not for car advertising but
for lump-in-the-throat paeans to American values.
   Dealers say the early versions of the launch ads follow
the tone of a 22 1/2-minute video, made largely for internal
use, that juxtaposes soft-focus images of Tennessee farmers,
newborn calves and hackberry trees with shots of the huge
factory and silhouettes of the car. "It's spring, in Spring
Hill, Tennessee," Mr. Riney says, in the same distinctive,
gruff baritone and cadence he used to say "it's morning in
America" for his most famous client, Ronald Reagan. The
symbolism is similar, too: Saturn promises a rebirth of the
American car just as Mr. Reagan promised a new day in
American politics.
   But, given the odds against them, Saturn officials are
trying to reduce expectations. "Judge us on quality right
away," Saturn's Mr. Wetzel says. "Judge us on market share in
five years."
   By that time, GM and Saturn may have a better answer for
the question that has dogged the project almost from the
start: Was this really necessary? In the meantime, Saturn's
people are working and worrying with almost equal ardor.
   "We're real, real determined," says Laurie Danko, a
continuing-education coordinator who has been with Saturn
from the start. "We want this to work real bad." But, she
adds, the project also "scares the hell out of us. My husband
works here, too. We have all our eggs in this basket."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Publicity Effect'
   Aided Stock Picks
   By Market's Pros
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The market pros featured in the Journal's Investment
Dartboard column have chalked up an impressive-looking
performance record since the stock-picking competition began
in October 1988.
   In a series of one-month contests, the pros' picks
outperformed a random "dartboard portfolio" -- selected by
Journal staffers heaving darts at the stock pages -- 15 times
out of 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a careful study of the results indicates that the
achievement isn't as great as it appears. Much, if not all,
of the pros' edge seems to reflect a "publicity effect," as
readers rushing to buy the featured stocks bid up the prices.
   To minimize the impact of the publicity effect and make
the contest more meaningful, the battle of the pros against
the flying darts will henceforth measure the results on a
six-month basis. That will provide ample time for the
publicity effect to dissipate and make the outcome a better
reflection of stock-picking ability.
   With the permission and encouragement of the Journal,
Douglas Loeffler, senior quantitative analyst at the money
management firm Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark, studied several
aspects of the contest, including the publicity effect. His
method differed in some respects from that used in the
column. For example, instead of the dartboard portfolio, he
used the New York Stock Exchange Index as a comparison point.
   Mr. Loeffler found that the pros' successes, measured over
a one-month period, were to a large extent self-fulfilling
prophecy.
   On publication days, he found, stocks featured in the
Investment Dartboard column rose an average of nearly 3.5
percentage points relative to the Big Board index. On the two
following days, they rose some more; this "after-effect"
started out as about one percentage point but has grown over
time to more than two percentage points. In stock market
studies, differences of this magnitude are considered quite
large.
   After the surge, the stocks gravitated back toward the
mean. They slightly underperformed the exchange's index for
the remainder of the month, ending about 3.5 percentage
points ahead of the index.
   That means that readers couldn't achieve big gains by
buying the stocks recommended by the contestants. If they
bought the day after publication or later, they would do no
better than the market. This was true both for one-month and
six-month periods, Mr. Loeffler found.
   Readers who bought the featured stocks on publication day
might have beaten the market modestly. But the possible gain
from such a tactic falls short of the 3.5 percentage-point
outperformance credited to the pros, because most readers
would have to buy the stocks for a price higher than the
previous day's close. Also, the readers would have to pay
commissions to buy and sell.
   Until now, the column has measured results from month's
end to month's end, regardless of the day the article was
published. Thus, the gains theoretically achieved by the pros
were much greater than any gains a reader could achieve by
following the pros' advice.
   "If one buys all of the recommended stocks at the closing
price on publication day, the results are a broker's dream
and an investor's nightmare," Mr. Loeffler wrote. "Even
without transaction costs, the results for the 20-month
period are pathetic. The investor could have done much better
in T-bills." His conclusion: "Don't try this at home."
   No special trend was observed in the days preceding
publication, indicating that the contestants didn't try to
take advantage of the publicity effect to make money for
themselves or clients. The pros' picks rose, on average, in
three of the five prepublication trading sessions, but not to
a statistically significant degree.
   Contrary to what some people had predicted, the pros'
picks, as a group, weren't especially risky or volatile.
Their "beta," a measure of volatility, was only slightly
greater than that of the average stock.
   That there was a publicity effect came as no surprise. The
very first Investment Dartboard column mentioned that such an
effect was expected. But the effect was larger than
anticipated, was growing and was affecting the outcome of the
contest. Had the Journal measured results from the close of
trading on the day the article appeared (eliminating most of
the publicity effect), the pros would have beaten the market
only half the time.
   Starting with this month's column, each Dartboard contest
will illustrate the results achieved by the four investment
pros who made selections six months earlier. The two who did
best over that period will be invited back for another try.
   In addition to providing more time for the publicity
effect to wear off, making the pros-vs.-darts battle more
even, the longer period should also make the contest among
the pros themselves a bit more fair. Because small stocks
tend to be more sensitive to publicity than large ones,
contestants who picked small stocks had an edge in a
one-month comparison. (However, this factor alone didn't
determine the outcome: Some big stocks have won, and some
small stocks have fallen on their faces.)
   The debate over whether any group of market professionals
can consistently outperform the stock market averages has
simmered for at least three decades. The "efficient market
theory," also known as the "random walk theory," says that
outperformance is basically a matter of luck.
   According to this theory, which is held by many academic
students of the market, all known information is factored
into stock prices almost instantaneously. Therefore, only
unknown factors can move stock prices. This being the case,
an amateur -- or a monkey throwing darts -- can pick stocks
as well as the pros.
   Needless to say, the theory is unpopular on Wall Street,
where brokerage houses and money managers make their living
by persuading clients that they have superior knowledge or
insight into what the market will do and which stocks will
perform best.
   Burton Malkiel, a Princeton University economics
professor, popularized the efficient market theory in his
book, "A Random Walk Down Wall Street," first published in
1973. Mr. Malkiel threw out the first dart for the column's
contest in the fall of 1988.
   The idea behind the column was to make a modest
contribution to the debate and provide a source of investment
ideas for individuals -- plus a little fun, to boot.
   The first Dartboard column said: In the real world, of
course, no serious investor bets everything on a single
stock. And Mr. Malkiel notes that Investment Dartboard isn't
a fair test of the efficient market theory, because of the
small number of stocks involved and because a "publicity
effect" might make stocks highlighted in this space perform
better than others, at least temporarily.
   Mr. Malkiel couldn't be reached for comment on this
article. But for the record, he was right.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Massachusetts Approves Boost in Taxes,
   Imposes 5% Levy on Range of Services
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   Months of budgetary paralysis ended Saturday morning when
the Massachusetts Legislature passed a tax increase of as
much as $1.6 billion -- including a 5% levy on the fees of
lawyers, accountants, engineers and architects in one of the
nation's broadest taxes on services.
   The bill, expected to be signed today by Gov. Michael
Dukakis, immediately came under fire from business leaders
and representatives of professional groups, who said it will
further cripple the already sluggish economy of
Massachusetts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inevitably, the bill's passage will strengthen forces
behind a petition on the November ballot to roll back taxes
and spending, adding unlikely activists such as engineers and
accountants to the state's growing anti-tax movement.
   "This bill's outrageous," said Eugene M. Freedman, an
executive at the accounting firm of Coopers &amp; Lybrand and
chairman of the Massachusetts Business Roundtable. "It will
be damaging an already fragile economy and creates an
impression that this state is hostile to business. The fact
is, this Legislature has still done nothing to arrest the
rate of growth in expenditures; they don't understand that,
like a business, if you don't have the revenues, you don't
spend the money."
   After spending several contentious weeks in a conference
committee, the tax bill passed Saturday is, in fact, much
less sweeping than the original sales tax proposal, proffered
by the state Senate, which extended to many more areas of the
service economy. The original plan, proposing a tax on
everything from financial services to banking and real
estate, was watered down after vigorous opposition by
business leaders and threats by several companies to leave
the state.
   In taxing the service economy to balance its budget,
Massachusetts is going further than other industrialized
states, such as Connecticut and New York, which have
attempted similar initiatives during the past year.
   Services are expected to constitute 70% of the nation's
economy by the year 2000, versus only 30% in 1950,
emboldening an increasing number of state officials to begin
looking toward the service sector for much-needed revenue.
New York's proposed tax, however, crumbled under opposition
from professional groups. In Connecticut, a similar bill
passed last year, includes only architects and engineers,
along with several other service industries.
   A similar proposal in Florida three years ago set off a
national outcry among lobbyists and was defeated.
   The Massachusetts bill will raise almost $1.1 billion for
this fiscal year which began July 1 and $1.6 billion in
fiscal 1992, helping to ease the state's continuing budgetary
crisis. Even with the new taxes, most of which would go into
effect on Dec. 1, state officials concede that more spending
cuts will be needed to balance the budget for the current
fiscal year.
   Meanwhile, officials at the Massachusetts revenue
department reported that tax receipts were even more sluggish
than expected in June, closing out fiscal 1990 with a 3.3%
decline in total collections from the previous year,
including a 19.3% plunge in corporate-tax receipts.
   The newly passed tax bill slightly raises the state's
income tax rate to 5.95% retroactively to Jan. 1, and then to
6.25% for 1991 and back to 5.95% for 1992 and subsequent
years. Even though the rate was due to drop from 5.75% to 5%,
the new higher rates are still lower than that of many
industrialized states, such as New York and California.
   In the more controversial area of sales tax, the new bill
applies a 5% tax to 594 services -- everything from car
repair to commercial photography -- with an array of levies
and exemptions that many tax specialists are already calling
confusing and possibly unenforceable.
   Among the most notable provisions is one waiving the sales
tax for professional bills of less than $20,000, allowing
small businesses and most private clients to be excluded from
taxes for using a lawyer, accountant, architect or engineer.
   In any event, tax specialists note that the bill, like
taxes on services tried in other states, will cause confusion
that may make the state's tax-collection task difficult and
expensive. For instance, a Massachusetts business that
employs an out-of-state accounting firm, will have to pay a
"use fee" equal to the newly passed sales tax on such a
service. Similarly, out-of-state companies that use a taxable
service in Massachusetts will have to pay the 5% based on
verification of where the service is actually delivered.
   "There are a host of legal problems that may cause this
tax to collapse, because the way services, especially
professional services, are delivered is not easy to measure,"
said John Dubitzky, a Boston attorney who represents a number
of financial services groups. "One thing's certain: For those
who have the good fortune of being tax lawyers, there will be
an awful lot of litigation and new business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Air Force Secretary Donald Rice Is Under Fire
   From Lawmakers Who Question His Strategy
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- With the Air Force budget belching black
smoke and heading into a tailspin, a lot of people are
wondering whether the right pilot is at the controls.
   No one can dispute Air Force Secretary Donald Rice's
credentials for the job. A lanky Ph.D. economist who before
he turned 33 was president of Rand Corp., one of the world's
pre-eminent think tanks, Mr. Rice has spent nearly all of his
adult life analyzing defense issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many lawmakers and other critics, however, do question the
scholarly, slow-talking secretary's strategy and political
instincts. They contend that he -- as well as the rest of the
Air Force's leadership -- has failed to react swiftly enough
to the repercussions of the diminishing Soviet military
threat. While the Navy has largely successfully sold the
importance of maritime power in the current era and the Army
has adopted a reasonably cooperative attitude toward budget
cutters, the Air Force has dug in its institutional heels.
   The result is that it has, if anything, become even more
of a target for public flak and raids on its budget by
Congress. "The Air Force isn't very credible in making its
case" says Gordon Adams, head of the nonpartisan Defense
Budget Project, because "the leadership seems wedded to a
backward-looking approach . . . that Congress isn't likely to
swallow." Rep. John Dingell, (D., Mich.) has complained that
lax management controls illustrate "the chaos within Air
Force management."
   Under any circumstances, the Air Force would probably be
having the toughest political time of any of the services
right now. In an era of big federal deficits and
defense-budget cutting, it promotes the military's most
expensive and embattled new weapons. In addition, says
Secretary Rice, "there is so much focus on the Air Force"
because of deep-seated public suspicion of anything connected
with nuclear weapons. "We are the service most closely
associated with {such} weapons," he says.
   Responding to critics, the Air Force chief invariably
tries to shift the focus from personal questions to broader
management issues. Despite close ties to the Pentagon
bureaucracy since his earlier days at Rand, "we have done
quite a lot to shake up the acquisition system" and to
declassify details about weapons projects that "had been kept
under wraps longer than necessary," Mr. Rice says.
   But others say the Air Force's situation has been made all
the more difficult because of a string of embarrassing
procurement snafus, lobbying missteps and management lapses
that have undermined public and congressional support.
   So far, Mr. Rice has balked at bringing in someone new to
run the Air Force's procurement office, despite major costs
and quality problems afflicting the C-17 transport, the next
generation air-to-air missile and other weapons. Even
frustrated supporters blame him for plugging unrealistically
high spending requests and then failing to provide Congress
with adequate information to support them.
   Sen. James Exon (D., Neb.), an essential ally on the Armed
Services Committee, last month warned that he wouldn't wage
an all-out fight to protect Air Force programs "only to have
the usual procedure where next year the administration comes
back with some sad story about higher costs."
   Mr. Rice has made some recent moves to placate critics. In
the past few months, he has tried to shift the Air Force's
emphasis toward conventional threats and potential Third
World hot spots, instead of missiles and long-range nuclear
missions.
   Taking the offensive, Mr. Rice also asserts that many
earlier foul-ups are now becoming public precisely because he
prodded the generals to be more forthcoming. Critics often
lambaste the service, he says, "without recognizing that the
Air Force uncovered and identified the problems" in the first
place. "They don't stay bottled up like they used to."
   The desperate fight to save the Air Force's crown jewel,
the B-2 Stealth bomber, illustrates the limits of this new
spirit of openness. Since Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's
decision months ago to build only 75 of the proposed
132-plane fleet, lawmakers have been clamoring for detailed
cost estimates. But the Air Force has fended off many of
those demands -- perhaps because they might show that further
cuts in B-2 production rates could push costs into the
stratospheric region of nearly $1 billion for each plane.
   Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.) is so
worried about erosion of support for the Air Force that he
quietly organized a special task force of GOP congressional
aides to study the B-2 -- and presumably recommend a
legislative strategy different from the one offered by the
Pentagon. "The silk-scarf set is willing to sacrifice
everything to keep the B-2 alive," says Jay Kosminsky, a
defense analyst at the Heritage Foundation.
   To find money for the bat-shaped bomber, the Air Force
also turned its back on White House policies to develop two
mobile nuclear-tipped missiles: the large, multiple warhead
MX and the less powerful Midgetman, intended to be trucked
around U.S. highways on specially equipped trailers.
   Mr. Rice wants to save $3 billion next year alone by
putting both missiles on the back burner. But many GOP
stalwarts who invested a lot of political capital last year
to push development of both systems angrily dismiss the Air
Force's position as a sell-out. Even Gen. Larry Welch, the
Air Force chief of staff, acknowledges that "there is a lot
of blood on the floor" from those battles.
   Making matters worse, the Air Force has recently weathered
a series of reports and allegations about its procurement and
accounting practices. Investigators, for example, identified
some $13 billion of excess spare parts at Air Force locations
around the country. A radar-warning contract with a potential
value of $2 billion was tainted by alleged influence-peddling
involving consultants and an important civilian Air Force
acquisition official.
   Just a few months ago, the General Accounting Office found
a $2.4 billion accounting discrepancy in some of the Air
Force's space-related accounts and concluded that officials
balanced the books by resorting to "unsupported and arbitrary
adjustments."
   "They love to make the room dark, show you lots of slides
and bring in generals with plenty of stars to brief you,"
says Rep. John Kasich (R., Ohio), one of the leaders in the
bipartisan effort to kill the B-2. "I just don't believe
their numbers."
   For all the service's woes right now, Mr. Rice still
pursues his dream of having the Air Force compete
aggressively with the Navy as the primary vehicle to project
U.S. power around the world. Air Force generals claim they
can fill that role at a lower cost than aircraft
carrier-based planes, if only Congress and the public gives
them the chance. "We are getting shot out of the sky by the
Navy," former Air Force Secretary Verne Orr flatly told a
defense group earlier this year. "They're making points with
the public and we are not."
   But earning that chance to compete won't be easy for the
Air Force's leaders. "They have to learn how to sell a
mission and a mystique, like the Marines," says Jeffrey
Record, an Air Force critic at the Hudson Institute. "They
can't just peddle airplanes any longer."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Railroads Turn
   To Cutting Costs
   For Profit Gains
   ---
   Growth of 5% to 7% Is Seen
   In the Second Quarter;
   Industrial Freight Eased
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4B
</SO>
<CO>
   BNI CSX CRR UNP NSC SFX
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   The railroad industry, turning to cost cuts to offset
continuing slow industrial freight shipments, is expected to
post average second-quarter earnings gains of 5% to 7%.
   For the expected strongest performer, Burlington Northern
Inc., earnings growth reflected robust coal and grain
shipments and the company's limited exposure to the vagaries
of new automobile shipments. But even railroads that are more
heavily dependent upon industrial freight shipments fared
reasonably well, analysts said, reflecting vigorous
cost-cutting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The railroads' improved efficiency is boosting earnings
in a lackluster economy," said Gary Yablon, an analyst at
Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co., who expects the group's
second-quarter profit from continuing operations "to be up in
the mid-single digits." Mr. Yablon said railroads have
tightened scheduling of freight trains, lowered car-hire
costs, reduced manpower, cut material use, and reduced
little-used track.
   A Burlington Northern spokesman said the company is
"comfortable" with analysts' estimates that second-quarter
net income was about 81 cents a share compared with 74 cents
a share in the year-earlier period. The spokesman said
continued growth in coal shipments reflected new contracts
with utilities in the railroad's territory and test shipments
of low-sulfur Western coal to utilities in the Midwest and
East concerned about more stringent air pollution standards.
He added that Burlington Northern benefited from higher
shipments of corn to West Coast ports from the Midwest.
   CSX Corp., the only member of the group to disclose
results, reported last week that second-quarter net income
dropped 28%. However, CSX's earnings from continuing
operations rose 20%, reflecting improved results at rail,
barging and container shipping units.
   Analysts said that they expect Consolidated Rail Corp. to
post moderately higher earnings but that per-share earnings
for Union Pacific Corp. and Norfolk Southern Corp. will be
flat.
   Some analysts say rail operations were disappointing at
Santa Fe Pacific Corp., which faces tough competition for
freight from trucks and other railroads. Estimates of Santa
Fe's second-quarter earnings range from nil to two cents a
share. In the 1989 quarter, Santa Fe had net of $2.7 million,
or two cents a share. A Santa Fe spokesman wouldn't comment
on analysts' projections.
   Rail carloadings at the major railroads were up 1.3%,
according to the Association of American Railroads. Shipments
of coal rose 5.8%, chemicals were up 3.6%, and metals
increased 3.2%. Grain carloads were off about half a percent.
Carloadings of some higher-value freight were down, with
motor vehicles declining 4%, lumber 8.3% and paper less than
1%.
   Some analysts were cheered by the overall traffic gain.
"At this time a year ago tonnage was sliding, but now tonnage
is improving," said Andras Petery, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co.
   Michael Lloyd, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., said
he is encouraged by rail shipments of finished automobiles,
which improved toward the end of the second quarter after a
very weak beginning. However, Mr. Lloyd believes that the
improvement partly reflects inventory -- building in
anticipation of a strike by the United Auto Workers union,
whose contract expires in September.
   "I'm worried that the stocks of the railroads will respond
positively to near-term traffic trends, trapping investors
for possible disappointment this fall," Mr. Lloyd said.
   When CSX reported that second-quarter net dropped to $109
million from $151 million, CSX said that earnings in the 1989
second period were inflated by gains from the sale of
subsidiaries. CSX said rail pretax operating profit rose
7.8%, reflecting improved coal tonnage that offset the extra
expense of an expanded locomotive repair program. Auto
traffic, while not reaching levels of the year-ago quarter,
improved sharply from the first period of 1990, the company
said. CSX said operating profit rose 40% at its
container-shipping unit, Sea-Land Service Inc., while
operating profit jumped 25% at the barge unit, reflecting
strong coal shipments and expanded operations at the marine
construction division.
   Some analysts expect Conrail to report second-quarter net
income of $1.30 to $1.40 a share compared with net of $1.19 a
share a year ago. One analyst said second-quarter results
included an after-tax gain of about 21 cents a share from
sale of a branch line. Conrail officials wouldn't comment on
analysts' estimates other than to say that traffic levels are
"relatively flat."
   Union Pacific officials said per-share earnings were about
the same as the $1.41 a share earned in the 1989 second
period, but net income fell slightly, reflecting higher
interest expense related to a share-repurchase program. The
officials cited earnings improvements at its rail, truck,
hazardous waste and real estate units. The officials said
earnings of the company's oil and gas unit won't match
after-tax earnings of $55 million in the year-ago quarter,
which included a $17 million gain on gas contract
settlements. Higher gas volumes in the recent quarter offset
price declines in oil and gas and flat oil volumes, the
officials said.
   They added that the rail unit benefited from a 1%
improvement in carloadings and a reduction in railroad work
force to 31,500 from 32,800 a year ago.
   Norfolk Southern wouldn't comment on analysts' projections
that net income was flat at 99 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Europe vs. the World
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Economist Milton Friedman once described a paradox of
democracy, which he called "the law of the few." It's a
phenomenon by which a special-interest group shrinks in size
but grows in political clout. For example, government
subsidies to farmers that were unthinkable when agriculture
was a big part of the economy become possible when farmers
are few. This law now threatens to undermine the free-trading
system that has served the West so well for 40 years.
   The problem is a crazy-house of farm subsidies and trade
barriers, especially in the European Community. The U.S.,
backed by Australia, Canada and most everyone else, wants to
put world agriculture trade on a more sensible, free-market
footing. The EC countries, especially France and Germany, are
resisting. If progress isn't made at this week's Houston
summit of industrial nations, the issue could scuttle the
Uruguay Round of trade-opening talks that is supposed to end
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This truly is a case of the many held hostage by the few.
By one measure, farming accounted for only 2.7% of the
European economy in 1987 but last year cost EC consumers and
taxpayers some $93 billion in subsidy. The result is lakes of
wine, mountains of cheese and other European delights.
Jacques Delors, the EC president who may be the world's last
socialist, nonetheless intends to explain in Houston that
this can't be changed because European farming is somehow
different. If he means economically bizarre, he's right.
   The U.S. is also a sinner, to be sure, with subsidies,
quotas and "marketing orders" of its own. The U.S.
Agriculture Department figures farm subsidy and protection
cost Americans some $38 billion in 1986, or $681 for every
non-farm household. But at least the U.S. wants to point the
world in a more rational direction. Clayton Yeutter, the U.S.
Agriculture Secretary, has estimated that the nominal rate of
global protection on farm goods has doubled to 40% from the
mid-1960s. At the same time, tariffs on industrial goods have
fallen to less than 6% from 40%.
   Something's got to give, and the Aussie-U.S. proposals
aren't even all that radical. Beginning next year, the U.S.
wants to convert all non-tariff farm barriers -- quotas,
licenses and the like -- into tariffs, and then start
lowering tariff rates. This is the same pattern followed for
industrial goods since World War II. Second, the U.S. wants
to phase out all export subsidies and bans -- in other words,
to let farmers everywhere play by the same rules. Europe can
even keep its farmers on the dole, so long as its subsidies
stop distorting international trade.
   These reforms would be especially helpful for the Third
World, where agriculture remains the major employer. But the
U.S. and other industrial countries also consider them a
prerequisite to making progress on other trade issues.
Failure, said Mr. Yeutter recently, "would likely trigger an
escalation of restrictive trade actions and counter-actions
-- in short, an agricultural trade war nobody wants, and
nobody wins."
   This food fight is also something of a test case of
European economic unity. As Europe becomes one market in
1992, it has to decide if it's going to pick trade fights
with everyone else. If Europe wants to establish a new world
of trading "blocs," protectionists elsewhere will no doubt
oblige them. Then European consumers will pay most of all.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sale of Spain's Enasa
   Threatened As Man
   May Pull Out of Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI G.MAN E.ENA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spanish truck maker Empresa Nacional de
Autocamiones S.A., or Enasa, looks increasingly like it will
have to seek an alternative to plans for its linkup with MAN
AG and Daimler-Benz AG.
   Though Spanish officials insist that they still hope to go
ahead with the plan to sell 80% of Enasa to the two West
German companies, the likelihood that MAN will withdraw from
the plan appears to be increasing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The European Community Commission and the West German
cartel office have opposed the accord on the grounds that it
infringes competition rules.
   MAN, meanwhile, appears to have decided that the
transaction is less attractive than it thought, because of
new business opportunities in Eastern Europe.
   If MAN does pull out, Spanish Industry Minister Claudio
Aranzadi said, Daimler will seek a new partner to join it in
taking over the Spanish truck maker.
   For its part, Mr. Aranzadi said, the Spanish government
won't go ahead with plans to purchase 8% of MAN's shares.
   Terms of the original agreement signed with the two West
German companies in December valued Enasa at 36 billion
pesetas ($356 million); MAN and Daimler were to take 60% and
20% of Enasa, respectively.
   Since the agreement, however, the uncertainty surrounding
Enasa's future has caused its sales to fall, while MAN's
shares have risen sharply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hoping to Cash In on a `Peace Dividend,' Turks
   Are Pursuing Stronger Ties With the East Bloc
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ISTANBUL, Turkey -- Need a bundle of Romanian scythe
blades? Some Czech ball bearings? A set of Soviet
compressed-air diving tanks, perhaps? Or, at a knockdown
price, one of those "Made in the U.S.S.R." watches beloved by
Italian and New York boutiques?
   All these and more are piled high on tables in an old
parking lot next to Istanbul's Grand Bazaar. This so-called
Polish Market is one of the stranger byproducts of the
upheavals in Eastern Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Yes, it is junk, but it's cheap," said Ali Mutlu, head of
the 250 Turkish stall-holders.
   Free at last to travel abroad, bright-eyed East Europeans
are selling whatever they can bring to the market to raise
money for purchases of long-cherished jeans and cheap Turkish
consumer goods. Such informal trade is only a small part of a
swelling tide of contacts and commerce between Turkey and the
nearby countries of the East bloc, especially the Soviet
Union.
   Optimistic Turks hope that their strategic position --
once important as the guardian of the southern third of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization's frontier with the Warsaw
Pact -- may pay a "peace dividend" of unrivaled access to new
markets in the southern Soviet republics, the Balkans and
Transcaucasia.
   Turkish President Turgut Ozal goes as far as to speak of a
Black Sea "economic zone" running as far east as the port of
Trabzon, where a border opened in 1988 now brings regular
busloads of bargain-hunting Soviets from Georgia and
Azerbaijan.
   "It's a fit -- our consumer goods and their natural
resources," said Tayfun Beyazit, executive vice president of
Yapi Kredi Bank, which says it finances 40% of Soviet-Turkish
trade. He had to speak up to be heard over the jackhammers
tearing up the Istanbul street outside for a big pipeline
network to distribute Soviet natural gas in Turkey.
   Imports of gas from the Soviet Union piped in over the
Bulgarian border since 1987 are due to rise to between 3.5
billion and four billion cubic meters (122.5 billion and 140
billion cubic feet) this year and reach six billion cubic
meters by the mid-1990s, said Boris Rudnev, commercial
attache at the Soviet Embassy here. "We have signed a total
$1.2 billion worth of trade deals so far this year. It could
be $2 billion by the end of the year," he added.
   Turkey-East bloc trade volume was already up 43% in 1989
to $2 billion, of which $1.3 billion was with Moscow. The
number of East bloc visitors grew 21% to 300,000 last year;
in the first two months of 1990, their numbers increased by
50% -- mostly because of Soviets and newly freed Romanians,
who in January clogged the main road from the west to
Istanbul for weeks.
   Turkey's new state Export-Import Bank is doing its part by
pushing loans, so far mostly to buy Turkish consumer goods;
$300 million was advanced to Moscow in 1989 and $50 million
to Bucharest in May. Turkey also is making similar offers to
Budapest and Warsaw.
   Another $350 million credit to Moscow for Turks to build
about 15 factories in the Soviet Union will be signed soon,
according to the bank's general manager, Turgay Ozkan.
   "The Soviet loans are all secured against the cash element
of future gas payments," Mr. Ozkan said. Turkey makes 30% of
its gas payments in cash and 70% in goods and contracting
services.
   Turkey's credit rating has overtaken the Soviet Union's in
the past year, and Istanbul businessmen complain of
increasing delays in payments from the Soviets. "The
traditional roles have reversed, but we are very cautious,
not just jumping in, not lending for the sake of lending,"
Mr. Ozkan said.
   Turkey is especially hopeful that its building industry --
which has considerable foreign experience -- will flourish in
the Soviet Union; Turkish contractors say their prices
undercut those of Western European companies by 30% or more.
   Ten Turkish companies won Soviet construction contracts in
the last two years, but only five of them through the
gas-payments program, said David Tonge of Istanbul
consultants International Business Services.
   "The Turks have the advantage of being close by, a labor
force at ease with Soviet conditions and businessmen used to
confusing bureaucracy," said Mr. Tonge. He is about to
publish "Turkey: Route to the Soviet Market," aimed at those
who want to do business in the Soviet Union via Turkey.
   "Many U.S. companies are thinking of making
investment-manufacturing operations in Turkey with the
long-term aim of exporting to the Soviet Union," said Marc
Grossman, deputy head of mission at the U.S. Embassy, in a
recent speech to businessmen. "We welcome Soviet-Turkish
trade expansion . . . there is no reason why Turkey cannot
turn into a major supplier of the Soviet Union," he added.
   Turkey's advantages are largely relative: Foreign
investment is far simpler and safer than in the East bloc,
good Turkey-U.S. and Turkey-Soviet trade agreements are
already in place and, as a backstop, the Turkish domestic
market is growing rapidly.
   Repatriation of profits from the Soviet market also may be
helped by the way Turkey is considering buying Soviet rail,
metro and other technology in major projects.
   One result of the new Turkish-Soviet cooperation is
Greenair, which Turkish businessmen say is the first-ever
joint venture between the Soviet airline Aeroflot and a
private-sector group. Three Greenair Soviet-built Tupolevs
already are flying Turkish domestic routes, and the airline
plans to expand to Europe and Japan. Ali Sen, the main
Turkish partner, said Greenair was aiming to manage a fleet
of 40 Soviet planes by 1992.
   But despite all the talk, there are no examples yet of
major Western investment in Turkey aimed mainly at exporting
to the East bloc, although Mr. Grossman said there had been
some expansion of existing investments.
   "We're working hard at it, but our approach is very
opportunistic," said a representative of a major U.S. company
that exports large amounts of detergent made by its Turkish
subsidiary to the Soviet Union. "It's something we think
could dry up completely next year."
   Soviet diplomats themselves note that seven joint ventures
set up in Turkey in the past two years and five more to come
still are minor operations for the 1,500 foreign companies in
Turkey. Flights from Istanbul to Moscow may be booked weeks
in advance, but at the Istanbul bazaar Soviet rubles aren't
accepted, while Hungarian forints, Czech korunas and even
Polish zlotys are.
   "Really, their (the Soviets') buying power is zero," said
Nasir Yenihayat, whose jeans-shop window on the cobbled road
up from a dock for Soviet cruise ships was decorated with two
model Soviet cars. "They pay in dollars and try to barter
with vodka and toys. We don't lose money, but we don't rip
them off either. We know they are in a tough position."
   Ishak Alaton, a Turkish business leader who now keeps
books by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev on his coffee
table, believes there is more to the Turkish-Soviet
relationship than just an economic conjunction.
   The European Community's polite rebuttal last year to
Turkey's application for EC membership meant that the East
bloc was worth considering as an alternative partner, Mr.
Alaton said, adding that he sometimes feels treated as a
second-class citizen in the West but not in Moscow.
   "In some ways, we are tired of waiting" for EC membership
and social acceptance, he said. "The Turk is tempted to think
he has found (in the Russian) a long-lost cousin he can
embrace."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Some Investors Venture Into Shares of Thrifts
   And Analysts Like the Looks of Certain Issues
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   BVFS WAMU JSBF AFFFZ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A few fearless investors are venturing out
among the wreckage of the savings institutions.
   Nobody is predicting that investors will suddenly embrace
the savings industry as they did a year ago, when thrifts
were among the darlings of the over-the-counter market. But
there's hope for at least a handful of thrifts' shares,
market watchers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors are in no hurry to repeat the mistake of last
year, when they expected the thrift-bailout bill to cleanse
the scandal-ridden industry and groom it for acquisitions by
bank holding companies. Those hopes dimmed as problem real
estate loans multiplied and big banks' shares sagged,
diverting their attention from the acquisition field.
   "A lot of people were burned, anticipating massive
acquisitions and takeover activity directly after the signing
of the bailout bill" last August, says E. Gareth Plank of San
Francisco, thrift analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds.
   In fact, this year's first half brought a 12% decline in
the Nasdaq "other financial" index, which includes many small
savings-and-loans. (The year-ago half saw an increase of
about the same size.) As the thrifts sagged in the six months
through June, the broader Nasdaq Composite Index of OTC
stocks climbed 1.2% and the Nasdaq Industrial Index jumped
10.9%.
   "There's nothing safe about {investing in thrifts} unless
you take a lot of time to differentiate among the few
companies that are survivors, the few companies that are
well-run and the few companies that have successfully
balanced risk and return," says Nick Adams, portfolio manager
of New York's $70 million First Financial Fund, which invests
largely in thrift issues.
   Among 400 publicly traded thrifts, about half have met the
tough new minimum-capital and other requirements of the
government's thrift bailout legislation, says Allan G.
Bortel, a Sutro &amp; Co. vice president and veteran thrift
industry analyst. Before recommending a stock, Mr. Bortel and
some other analysts apply higher standards than the
government does.
   "An investor should first look at capital," advises Mr.
Bortel. "Everything else flows from that."
   New federal regulations require thrifts to maintain 3% of
their total assets in "core capital," notably common
stockholders' equity. Mr. Bortel says he looks for savings
concerns with 4% to 6% of their total assets in core capital.
He also values management expertise, preferring 20 to 30
years of experience in the highly cyclical thrift industry,
and inside ownership of stock and stock options. And he keeps
an eye on expenses, preferring to see them held to 1% or 1.5%
of total assets for a traditional portfolio lender.
   As a general rule of thumb, he says, a thrift with core
capital equaling 4% to 6% of total assets shouldn't have more
than 1.5% to 2% of total assets tied up in nonperforming
loans. Other factors to consider are the kinds of loans made
by a thrift (single-family loans are safest); whether a
portfolio is well-matched in terms of maturities of deposits
and loans; and whether spreads -- the gap between what a
thrift pays out on deposits and what it earns on loans -- are
expanding or shrinking.
   Sound thrifts may prove to be more attractive takeover
candidates than the laggards seized and auctioned by the
federal government, says Dean Witter's Mr. Plank. Many
suitors are likely to have more appetite for healthy thrifts
than for the "freebies from the government," he says.
   Investing in S&amp;Ls as takeover possibilities is risky, Mr.
Plank says, as thrift mergers can easily unravel during the
lengthy regulatory reviews required. "You have to buy {thrift
stocks} based on fundamentals," he says. "If you can't buy
them on fundamentals, you have no business looking at them on
a takeover basis."
   Among the various analysts' favorite thrifts are:
   Bay View Capital of San Mateo, Calif. With a core capital
ratio of just under 6% at year's end and about 1% of its
total assets tied up in nonperforming loans, Bay View is
"quite a contrast to the horror stories you read about," says
Mr. Plank. Last October's San Francisco-area earthquake not
only rattled Bay View's headquarters but pummeled its stock,
Mr. Bortel notes. At 17 7/8, the stock is trading below book
value of about $26 a share and selling at less than six times
Mr. Plank's estimated 1990 earnings for the thrift of $3.50 a
share.
   Washington Mutual Savings Bank in Seattle is benefiting
from the relatively strong economy and housing market in the
Pacific Northwest, says Mr. Plank. The thrift has a core
capital ratio of just under 6%. A rumored takeover candidate,
Washington is trading at a small premium. It was at 16 7/8
Friday, more than seven times Mr. Plank's estimated 1990
earnings of $2 to $2.30 a share.
   JSB Financial, New York. The holding company for Jamaica
Savings Bank, JSB Financial recently converted to a federally
chartered stock savings bank from a mutual savings bank,
raising $160 million from the public, depositors and
employees. "People have gone crazy about the huge amount of
capital they're sitting on," says Mr. Bortel, noting that the
thrift has a core capital ratio of about 18%. Its
nonperforming loans are "virtually non-existent," at about
0.14% of total assets at the end of 1989.
   America First Financial Fund 1987-A. A partnership that
went public in 1987, America First owns EurekaBank, of Foster
City, Calif., which it bought from the government. As of
March 31, its core capital was 6.5% of total assets. Mr.
Bortel calls its Northern California market an "excellent
franchise."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks managed to recover from Thursday's
loss in slow trading.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 1.35 to 460.54, a 0.3%
gain, as volume rose to more than 101 million shares from
97.8 million Thursday. Advancing issues outpaced decliners,
956-843.
   St. Paul Bancorp dropped 1 1/2 to 9 5/8 after the Chicago
thrift reported a loss for the second quarter of $1.72 a
share. It had net income of 45 cents a share a year earlier.
The loss reflects a $30 million loan-loss provision,
including a $26 million addition to reserves at the thrift's
principal subsidiary, St. Paul Federal Bank for Savings,
directed by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Without that
reserve, St. Paul said second-quarter net would have been 43
cents a share.
   Sun Sportswear fell 1 1/4 to 8 1/4 after the Kent, Wash.,
maker of casual sportswear said sales for the second quarter
were 12% below the year-earlier period, pushing net
"considerably below" a year earlier.
   Mack Trucks surged 1 1/4 to 6 1/2 after France's Renault
said it will launch a $6-a-share bid Thursday for the 55% of
Mack that it doesn't already own. The French auto maker
currently owns about 44.5% of the Allentown, Pa., truck
manufacturer. Mack also said it expects to report a $130
million loss this year and may soon be in default of certain
provisions of its credit agreement with Citibank and Credit
Lyonnais.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Genetic Testing May Mark Some People
   As Undesirable to Employers, Insurers
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   To all outward appearances, Joshua is a healthy, normal
two-year-old. But his medical record may permanently brand
him as undesirable to insurers and employers.
   Joshua has been diagnosed as suffering from an inherited
disorder called polycystic kidney disease. But he's not
really suffering. The disease, which damages the kidneys,
usually doesn't cause health problems before adulthood and
may progress slowly even then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet when Joshua's father recently changed jobs, the new
employer's health insurer wouldn't cover the child because of
his predisposition to the disease. "We finally got health
insurance for Josh" with a different insurer, says his
mother, "but we didn't tell the company about his disease."
   Joshua's case illustrates an issue usually raised only by
experts gazing darkly into crystal balls and foreseeing the
classification of people by their genes. A number of similar
cases have surfaced, suggesting that the issue already is
hitting home. Besides grappling with insurance problems,
people known to have disease-associated genes reportedly have
been denied jobs and the chance to adopt children.
   Such anecdotal reports -- circulated among genetics
experts recently -- aren't "hard evidence" that genetic
discrimination is occurring, cautions Philip Reilly, head of
Boston's Shriver Center for Mental Retardation. "But concern
is appropriate. . . . The reports may be very early warning
signs" of discrimination, which "could be a big problem 10
years from now, when we might have 100 tests for genetic
diseases." Such tests could put millions of people into
high-risk disease categories, branding them for insurance and
employment purposes in much the same way those diagnosed with
AIDS infections are often marked.
   Health and life insurance companies typically require
access to the medical records of people seeking coverage and
ask about pre-existing medical conditions; people who don't
disclose such conditions risk losing their insurance.
   Research advances of the past decade already have vastly
amplified doctors' ability to diagnose and sometimes palliate
disorders caused by faulty genes. But cures generally remain
years or decades away. Meanwhile, insurers and employers --
squeezed by soaring health-care costs -- are trying harder to
minimize financial risks posed by chronic, costly diseases.
Improved tests for genetic diseases give them new, powerful
tools for limiting their exposure to those risks.
   "If an individual had undergone genetic tests and had
information about them, an insurer would want to know" when
making coverage decisions about the person, says Jude Payne,
a senior policy analyst for the Health Insurance Association
of America, a trade group. "While some people might consider
that discrimination, the insurance industry would consider it
standard policy."
   But testing for a genetic disease typically gives a
prediction of illness that says little about the course of
the disease and the costs it might entail. The age of onset
and the severity of gene-associated diseases vary widely due
to patients' differing life styles, treatments and
little-understood effects of the "expression" of genes. It's
"cockeyed" to base insurance or employment decisions on such
hazy predictions, argues Paul Billings, who directs genetics
at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco.
   That, however, is just what a number of insurers and other
organizations are starting to do, according to a survey of
geneticists and other medical professionals that Mr. Billings
recently conducted with three other researchers. Among 29
cases of "genetic discrimination" reported to them were ones
in which:
   -- A patient diagnosed as carrying a gene for Gaucher's
disease was denied a government job because of the diagnosis
despite the fact that the patient wasn't expected to get
sick. The disease, which causes liver enlargement and other
problems, occurs only in people whose cells each have two
copies of its "recessive" gene -- one from each parent.
   -- A pregnant woman whose fetus was diagnosed with cystic
fibrosis was told by her health maintenance organization that
it wouldn't cover the child's medical expenses. The HMO later
reversed the decision after the woman complained.
   -- A couple's application to adopt a child was denied
because one spouse had a family history of Huntington's
disease and was at risk for the inherited disorder, a fatal
disease that causes progressive mental degeneration.
   Insurers question the validity of such anonymous
anecdotes, which may omit or distort crucial facts. And even
if genetic discrimination sometimes occurs, anecdotal reports
say nothing about its prevalence. "I really disagree . . .
that there is rampant discrimination," says Robert Pokorski,
chairman of the American Council of Life Insurance's genetic
testing committee. "Insurance companies can't make money by
denying risk."
   Moreover, in a preliminary study at Johns Hopkins
University, researchers found that people with
neurofibromatosis, a genetic disease that can cause
disfigurement, "lacked insurance at about the same rate as
the general population," says Reed Pyeritz, who led the
study.
   Still, many medical experts worry that rapidly
proliferating genetic tests are cracking open a Pandora's
box. More than 4,000 genetic disorders have been identified,
and tests for dozens of them are now possible. (For economic
and other reasons, many potential tests aren't yet practical
for wide use.)
   The dizzying pace of genetic findings is expected to
accelerate further as the $3 billion federal Human Genome
Project, which is aimed at identifying all 100,000 or so
human genes, takes off in the coming year. Among other
things, the 15-year project promises to elucidate genes that
contribute to major scourges such as heart disease, cancer
and Alzheimer's disease. "The insurance issues raised by
genetic screening are about to grow phenomenally," says Harry
Ostrer, a geneticist at the University of Florida.
   Currently, all 50 states require screening of newborns for
certain diseases, including genetic ones. And optional
prenatal testing for genetic disorders is surging.
   Last year Kim Roembach-Ratliff of Prairie Village, Kan.,
had prenatal tests that showed her son would be born with
spina bifida, a crippling disorder associated with faulty
genes in which part of the spinal column is exposed. About
the same time, her husband applied for health coverage under
his new employer's insurer.
   "When we called the agent {for the new insurer}," she
says, "he told me, `I'm sorry, we can't extend insurance to
you'" because of her child's expected health problems. Those
problems have turned out to be relatively minor, she adds,
and her six-month-old son probably will be able to walk with
leg braces. Meanwhile, the couple has been able to get an
18-month extension of coverage under the previous employer's
health insurance program.
   In Columbia, Mo., Mark Gibson, a manager with American
Fidelity Assurance who handled the couple's application, says
it was denied because the spina bifida diagnosis represented
a "pre-existing" medical condition not coverable under the
company's rules.
   Most tests for genetic diseases are now done prenatally or
at birth. But there may soon be more testing of adults,
partly because of a trend toward self-insurance among
employers. (Self-insured companies directly fund their
employee's health plans.) Such employers "have a strong
incentive to find out about employees' health risks,"
including genetic diseases, says Deborah Stone, a Brandeis
University professor of law and social policy.
   Few, if any, employers are believed to be testing workers
for genetic diseases. But a federal study indicated that more
than half of employers medically screen job applicants, and
many companies request access to medical records that may
contain the results of genetic tests.
   Fearful of being denied insurance or other things, some
people who suspect they carry disease-associated genes --
perhaps because of family histories of a disease -- decline
to use new tests that could put black marks on their medical
records. "We get about a call a day from people asking about
getting tested for Huntington's disease," says Richard Myers,
who directs a testing program for the disease at Boston's
Massachusetts General Hospital. "But we only do about three
or four tests a year." One reason is that a Huntington's test
can cost $3,000 to $4,000. But "the greatest deterrent to
getting tested," he adds, "is that it makes people feel more
vulnerable to losing whatever protection they now have" via
jobs or insurance.
   Currently, "the legal protections against genetic
discrimination are quite fuzzy," says Brandeis's Ms. Stone.
It's unclear, for example, whether laws barring
discrimination by employers and insurers against people with
disabilities apply to people with genetic diseases.
   Laws to protect people with medical problems don't always
work, anyway. "AIDS testing by employers is illegal
everywhere, but it's still done by some companies," says Mark
Rothstein, a University of Houston authority on medical
screening.
   Some states have set up "high-risk" pools for insuring
people who can't get commercial health insurance, typically
funded in part by insurers. But the pools probably would be
overwhelmed by the number of risky cases potentially
identifiable through genetic testing. "Ultimately," says the
Shriver Center's Dr. Reilly, "the best solution to the
problem may be some sort of national health insurance."
   ---
         Prevalence of Some Genetic Diseases
                                                                                                       

   Estimates of the number of Americans having diseases with
a genetic cause or an important genetic ingredient:
                                                                                                       

 DISEASE                INCIDENCE        NATURE OF ILLNESS
                                                                                                       

 Adult polycystic       300,000 to       Kidney damage and
 kidney disease         400,000          failure
                                                                                                       

 Down's syndrome        250,000          Range of mental
                                         retardation
                                                                                                       

 Sickle-cell            50,000           Impaired
 anemia                                  circulation,
                                         anemia, pain
                                                                                                       

 Cystic fibrosis        30,000           Chronic respiratory
                                         infections and
                                         digestive problems
                                                                                                       

 Huntington's           25,000           Progressive mental
 disease                                 and neurological
                                         degeneration
                                                                                                       

 Duchenne muscular      20,000 to        Muscular
 dystrophy              30,000           degeneration,
                                         weakness
                                                                                                       

 Hemophilia             20,000           Uncontrolled

                                                                                                       

 Phenylketonuria        Below 10,000     Mental deficiency
                                                                                                       

 Alzheimer's disease    2 to 4 million*  Progressive
                                         mental degeneration
                                                                                                       

   *Heredity may account for only a fraction of these cases.
   Sources: Office of Technology Assesment and various
disease foundations
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. and Canada
   To Begin Talks
   On Acid-Rain Pact
   ----
   By Michael McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Leaders of the U.S. and Canada agreed to begin
negotiations on a treaty to reduce acid-rain emissions.
   The discussions will begin July 16 in Ottawa, said Prime
Minister Brian Mulroney and President Bush in a joint
appearance following a brief meeting. President Bush said he
decided to go ahead with the talks even though Congress has
yet to pass a comprehensive Clean Air Act.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The measure has passed both houses of Congress, and
discussions to resolve differences between the two versions
begin next week. Both versions include specific provisions
for sulfur-dioxide emissions, which produce acid rain. In the
past, the reluctance of the U.S. to enter into such
discussions has been a sticking point in the generally warm
relations between the U.S. and Canada.
   The treaty could include specific timetables for reducing
acid-rain emissions, details for a joint research and
monitoring program and provisions for settling disputes.
   Although the two leaders, meeting before the start of the
economic summit of industrial nations, emphasized the
progress in resolving environmental issues, their talks came
amid lingering disagreement among the summit partners over
environmental issues.
   A draft copy of the environmental portion of the summit
communique obtained by this newspaper shows that more than
one-third of the document remains in dispute, with pre-summit
negotiators unable to decide on such issues as whether global
climate change is the most important environmental issue
facing humanity, or only one of several environmental
priorities.
   Summit leaders are also expected to discuss the importance
of preserving forest land and helping underdeveloped nations
protect their environments while promoting economic
development. But they disagree on how extensive this
assistance should be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ABF Mulls an Offer
   To Berisford for Some
   Of Its Food Concerns
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BRF U.ABF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Associated British Foods PLC, or ABF, said it's
considering making an offer for British Sugar and other
food-manufacturing companies of Berisford International PLC,
the troubled United Kingdom food, financial-services,
property, commodities and industrial group.
   Berisford previously had said it was willing to sell any
part of its business to reduce its net debt of #1.02 billion
($1.82 billion). At the same time, the company reported a
sharp deterioration in net earnings attributable to
shareholders as a result of provisions taken against New York
property investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ABF, which owns 23% of Berisford, said the only solution
open to Berisford is the early sale of its profitable British
Sugar unit. Analysts have estimated the sale of the sugar
operations could fetch as much as #1 billion.
   A spokesman for Berisford said the two companies had been
involved in talks for two weeks with a view to ABF making an
offer for all of Berisford. "There are several people who
have been discussing various things with Berisford," he said.
   He added that some of those involved in talks were foreign
companies.
   Harry Bailey, ABF's chief executive officer, said ABF
wants to "sit down and discuss" making an offer for British
Sugar that could also include Berisford's flavors,
fragrances, and fruits and nuts importing units as well as
businesses that are associated with British Sugar, like its
beat pulp unit.
   ABF said an early sale of British Sugar would allow
Berisford to realize optimum value for its remaining assets
and reduce the need for forced sales.
   Mr. Bailey said ABF had #1 billion in cash available for a
purchase, although he said that figure couldn't be used as an
indication of what ABF considered British Sugar to be worth.
   British Sugar is the main component of Berisford's Bristar
food and agribusiness division. In the six months ended March
31, British Sugar's profit before interest and taxes rose 19%
to #59.1 million from #49.6 million the year before.
Berisford's overall profit before interest dropped 21% to
#57.2 million from #72.6 million.
   In its latest results, ABF said pretax profit for the year
to March 31 jumped 20% to #284 million from #237 million and
earnings per share rose 18% to 14.67 pence from 12.4 pence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Ex-S&amp;L Official
   Avoids Making
   Escrow Deposit
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt and Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A Los Angeles federal judge spared Thomas A. Spiegel from
a government demand to immediately deposit $19 million in an
escrow account, dealing the Office of Thrift Supervision at
least a temporary setback in its landmark case against the
former Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association executive.
   Columbia, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., is currently
insolvent, reflecting roughly $1 billion in losses and
write-downs of its once lucrative junk-bond portfolio,
developed over the years because of a close relationship
between Mr. Spiegel and former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
junk-bond exponent Michael Milken. Columbia is currently
attempting to sell the bonds to minimize further losses,
although most people believe the government will eventually
seize the thrift.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Judge Stephen Wilson agreed to a
government-requested freeze of the assets of Mr. Spiegel and
his wife and ordered Mr. Spiegel to post a $1 million bond by
this Wednesday. The order allows the couple to continue
paying reasonable living expenses but subjects single
expenditures of more than $5,000 to government review and
possible court challenge.
   Last week, the OTS alleged in an administrative complaint
that Mr. Spiegel improperly diverted $19 million in funds
belonging to Columbia for such disparate personal uses as
airplanes, condominiums, guns and concert tickets. The
action, believed to be the largest attempt to obtain
restitution from a thrift executive, also sought a $5 million
civil penalty against Mr. Spiegel. Originally, the OTS had
ordered Mr. Spiegel to meet the escrow demand by noon PDT
last Friday.
   At a Friday court hearing, however, lawyers for Mr.
Spiegel argued that the law under which the OTS was
proceeding didn't authorize the agency to obtain funds in
advance of a hearing, especially where the individual being
attacked wasn't any longer an employee of the institution and
a direct threat to its financial well-being. Mr. Spiegel
resigned as Columbia's president and chief executive officer
last December and as a consultant in May.
   "Congress intended to give the OTS authority to issue
these kinds of extraordinary orders when it was necessary to
protect the financial integrity of a thrift. That {authority}
does not exist when you have a former officer," asserted
Dennis Perluss, a Los Angeles lawyer for Mr. Spiegel.
   While deferring final judgment on the ultimate legal
questions, Judge Wilson said there were enough grounds to
temporarily enjoin the government from requiring the $19
million escrow because "this case clearly raises serious
questions and that the balance of hardships tips sharply in
plaintiff's favor," according to his order. He set a hearing
for July 30 to consider Mr. Spiegel's request for a further
preliminary injunction.
   An OTS spokesman said the government was nonetheless
pleased with the financial restraints that the judge imposed
on Mr. Spiegel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   N.V. Philips to Sell
   Certain Operations
   To Royal Nedlloyd
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG N.RNG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EINDHOVEN, the Netherlands -- N.V. Philips said it plans
to sell its Dutch transport and freight-forwarding operations
to Royal Nedlloyd Group N.V.
   Philips and Nedlloyd didn't disclose terms of the planned
sale but said the operations involved employ about 450
people. The two companies said they are still discussing the
services that Philips would need under the new arrangement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By turning over its transport and logistics departments to
outside specialists, the Dutch electronics giant is seeking
to concentrate on its core businesses.
   For Rotterdam-based Nedlloyd, the purchase would be the
latest in a series of acquisitions that have boosted its
annual revenue from road transport to about two billion Dutch
guilders ($1.1 billion) from 700 million guilders two years
ago. The acquisitions have made Nedlloyd one of Europe's
biggest trucking and logistics companies and reduced its
dependence on the depressed ocean-shipping trade.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bolt Technology Says
   It Can't Repay Debt;
   Luskin Retires as Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- Bolt Technology Corp. said it can't
repay $6.7 million in debt principal and has entered into
discussions with its bankers to avoid seizure of collateral.
   Separately, the maker of seismic equipment for mineral
exploration said Chairman Bernard Luskin, 65 years old, had
retired as president and chief executive officer. Succeeding
him will be Raymond M. Soto, formerly treasurer and senior
vice president, finance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Soto said in an interview that a bankruptcy-court
filing by Bolt is a "possibility but not a probability,"
adding, "We'll be having discussions with the bank over the
next several days." The loan is owed to Connecticut Bank &amp;
Trust Co., a unit of Bank of New England Co.
   For the first nine months of the fiscal year ended June
30, Bolt posted a loss of $2.4 million, or 51 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $1.1 million, or 22 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue for the first nine months of fiscal
1990 totaled $4.2 million, compared with $6.1 million the
year before.
   Mr. Soto declined to specify results for the quarter just
ended but said they "were in line" with the trend for the
first nine months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cray Sells Supercomputer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4C
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR TCSFY
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Cray Research Inc. said Thomson CSF of
France purchased an X-MP-216 supercomputer.
   The machine was installed at the Paris concern's Radar
Countermeasures for use in scientific applications in
electromagnetism, optics and mechanics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Datapoint Corp. Loses
   Appeal in Patent Case;
   Financial Impact Seen
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DPT NT
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- Datapoint Corp. said a federal court
of appeals has reversed significant portions of a 1988 trial
court decision in a patent infringement suit, raising the
possibility of a "highly material" adverse financial impact
against the company.
   The troubled computer systems maker was sued in 1982, at
the height of its economic success, by Northern Telecom Inc.,
a unit of Montreal-based BCE Inc., which claimed Datapoint
had violated a data entry computer patent. But the case
wasn't tried until 1987, after Datapoint had suffered a
string of financial reverses, and resulted in a ruling that
Datapoint had infringed the patent but that the patent was
unenforceable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The more recent decision reverses that part of the trial
court ruling that found the patent unenforceable and paves
the way for possible award of damages. Datapoint said it will
seek to have the appeals court decision reversed.
   Although Datapoint said it could not predict the amount of
any award, it acknowledged that any award to Northern Telecom
"could be highly material." Northern Telecom initially
claimed its damages were at least $65 million.
   An award of that magnitude would be a serious blow for
Datapoint. For its third quarter ended April 28, Datapoint
reported a loss of $8.4 million, or $1.07 a share, compared
with a loss of $21.3 million, or $2.35 a share, in the same
period a year earlier.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Datapoint
shares closed Friday at $2.375, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Renault to Seek the 55% of Mack Trucks
   It Doesn't Own With Bid of $99 Million
   ----
   By Richard Koenig and Neal Templin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.RNA MACK NAV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Renault Vehicules Industriels, boosting its bet that it
can turn around troubled Mack Trucks Inc., plans this week to
start a $99 million tender offer for the 55% of Mack it
doesn't already own.
   If the Renault offer succeeds, the French truck maker will
have taken over Mack as the U.S. company faces a still
sluggish market for heavy-duty trucks, draining financial
losses and an urgent need to refinance its debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paris-based Renault, a unit of government-owned Regie
Nationale des Usines Renault, is trying to shore up Mack,
which gives Renault an entry into the U.S. market amid an
international consolidation in the truck industry. Renault
already puts the famous Mack name on some trucks it exports
to the U.S.
   At a Mack board meeting in Paris Friday, Renault disclosed
its plans to begin a $6-a-share tender offer Thursday for the
16.5 million common shares of Mack outside Renault's control.
The offer is conditioned on agreement by Mack's lenders to
relax the terms of their loans to Mack.
   The market anticipated a higher bid to surface as Mack
shares Friday rose $1.25 to close at $6.50 apiece. Mack was
the most active stock in national over-the-counter trading,
with 2.6 million shares changing hands. The stock traded
higher than $15 as recently as early 1989.
   The Mack board, four of whose nine members are Renault
officials, didn't immediately respond to the proposal except
to say it had set up a committee to study it. But Ralph
Reins, Mack's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a
letter to employees that he views the Renault bid as "a very
positive development in the longterm restructuring efforts of
Mack."
   Analysts noted that, in addition to the chance the board
might negotiate a higher price by Renault, there has been
speculation that another big U.S. truck maker, such as
Navistar International Corp., might yet make a rival offer
for Mack.
   Mack isn't a big player in the long-haul truck market, but
its strong position in the "vocational" market that includes
mining, refuse and construction vehicles might be attractive
to another bidder. Yesterday, Navistar couldn't be reached
for comment.
   Mack, based in Allentown, Pa., has been a souring
investment for Renault, which began to accumulate its current
45% ownership in 1979. The parent Renault also owns a warrant
and convertible debentures in Mack that raise its position to
61% on a fully diluted basis.
   In recent years, Mack has struggled through the rocky
start-up of a plant in South Carolina, contentious relations
with the United Auto Workers union and foulups in introducing
a new long-haul truck model. Currently, its share of the
North American heavy-duty truck market stands at between 12%
and 13%, down about six points from a decade ago.
   Though a new, Renault-approved management has taken charge
of Mack during the past year, the company still faces a
sagging domestic market. Sales of heavy-duty trucks in the
U.S. in 1990 could fall 14% from 1989 levels to 125,000
units, according to Gary McManus, an analyst at Merrill Lynch
Research/U.S. The Mack work force has been pared by another
870 people this year to 7,000, after drastic cuts in previous
years.
   In Paris, Elios Pascual, a senior vice president of
Renault and a member of Mack's board, told Dow Jones
International News Service that Renault has "started to see a
change in mentality at Mack, but we came to the conclusion
that it would be impossible to carry out the restructuring of
Mack that is necessary without having complete control" of
the U.S. company.
   As Renault announced its plans to lift its stake to 100%,
Mack was making some downbeat forecasts. Though Mack early
this year had hoped to achieve profitability by the end of
1990, it said it now doesn't expect to break into the black
before 1992. It projected losses of about $90 million,
including a charge of $21 million related to warranty
reserves, for the first half of 1990, and a loss of about
$130 million for the full year.
   Last year, the company incurred losses of $185.4 million,
or $6.24 a share, on sales of $1.75 billion.
   Renault said its tender offer will be conditioned on
waivers from Mack's lenders that would allow Mack to remain
in compliance with its loans through 1990.
   Currently, Mack expects to be in technical default of
terms of an agreement with a group of banks led by Citicorp's
Citibank and Credit Lyonnais, once Mack's second-quarter
results are announced. That agreement, reached this year,
covers a three-year term loan of $148 million. Mack is also
seeking a long-term extension of the maturity date of a $350
million revolving credit agreement between its Mack Financial
Corp. subsidiary and a second banking group.
   Vincent Hartnett, an executive at Penske Truck Leasing
Co., one of Mack's biggest customers, said an acquisition by
Renault would strengthen Mack. "Renault had a commitment as a
stockholder, but that commitment will only be stronger as a
full owner," he said.
   But Winfred Weldon, a Detroit-area Mack dealer who owns
4,000 shares of Mack stock, called Renault's offer low,
because he believes Mack has taken its biggest lumps and will
do well in the future. "Where could a {bidder} buy a
corporation as big as Mack Trucks for this kind of money?" he
asked.
   Renault said its tender offer will expire Aug. 8.
Conditions in addition to the waivers by lenders are approval
of the offer by Mack directors unaffiliated with Renault, and
the tendering of sufficient shares to give Renault a 90%
stake in Mack before the exercise of Renault's warrant or the
conversion of its debentures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN MNI I.FER FREST MDEST HIT
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHO HAS HEARD ABOUT THE EC?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seven out of 10 Washingtonians are unaware of plans to
turn the European Community into the world's largest single
market by late 1992, according to an EC survey.
   But 73% who know of the plan think it's a good idea that
the 12 EC nations will remove their internal borders by late
1992, the survey found. The EC's Eurobarometer poll
questioned 1,001 Washingtonians about the EC early this year.
   The survey showed that 47% of Washington, D.C., residents
were aware that the EC existed. That compared with 61% of
Moscow residents. Within the EC, awareness of the community
rated 66% on average, with Danes being most aware (88%) of
the EC but least enthusiastic about it; only 31% of Danes
called the community a "good thing."
   The poll found the lowest awareness of the EC in Spain
(51%). Italians were most enthusiastic about the community,
with 66% giving it their full endorsement.
                                                                                                       

   WHALING BAN CONTINUES
                                                                                                       

   The International Whaling Commission ended a conference in
the Netherlands with an agreement to continue a global ban on
commercial whaling. The agreement prompted Japan to blast the
regulatory body for succumbing to environmentalist pressure
and to threaten withdrawal from the commission. Japan, along
with Norway and Iceland, had wanted the minke whale excluded
from the ban, claiming the minke, smallest of the
commercially valuable whales, was no longer in danger of
extinction.
                                                                                                       

   A NEW ITALIAN PLASTIC
                                                                                                       

   Montedison S.p.A., an arm of Italy's Ferruzzi Group,
announced the market launch of cornstarch-based biodegradable
thermoplastic materials. The first production line for
Mater-Bi -- the trade name under which the materials will be
sold -- recently went into regular operation at a plant in
central Italy. Mater-Bi will be sold in market segments where
biodegradability of plastic materials is valued, such as
human hygiene and personal-health care, medical-surgical aids
and certain packaging applications.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH CARE IN RURAL CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Medical care in rural China is in such short supply that
500 people share a single health worker who probably has
never had professional training, the China Daily reported. By
contrast, six health workers serve every 1,000 urban
residents, the newspaper said. Furthermore, 63% of the
medical staff in hospitals at the township level "have never
received regular professional education," the paper quoted an
official of the Ministry of Public Health as saying. In an
attempt to narrow the gap between urban and rural health
care, the ministry has launched a program to emphasize the
training of medical personnel in the countryside, the
official said.
                                                                                                       

   ISRAELI POLL ON GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   Most Israeli Jews don't object to German unification,
according to a poll published in the Jerusalem daily Yedioth
Ahronoth. The poll showed 36% of those asked approved of a
united Germany despite memories of Nazi Germany's murder of
six million Jews in World War II. Thirty-five percent of the
602 people questioned were indifferent about German
unification. About 28% of those polled were unhappy about
unification, with most saying they feared the consequences of
another greater Germany.
                                                                                                       

   HITACHI AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Hitachi Ltd. has reached an agreement with China
Greatwall Computer Group Corp. to develop software that would
allow Chinese-made terminals to be attached to Hitachi's
general-purpose computers, Hitachi officials said. A Japanese
software maker, Intercom Inc., is also a party to the
agreement. Currently, local customers must buy Hitachi
terminals to work on Hitachi's computer systems, which is a
drag on sales of Hitachi general-purpose computers.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN TRIMS RICE SUBSIDY
                                                                                                       

   Japan cut by 1.5% the price it will pay to rice farmers
this year.
   The cut is the first in two years, but it is much less
than some government officials were hoping for to stem U.S.
criticism of Japan's rice market, which is virtually closed
to imports. An earlier Ministry of Agriculture plan to cut
the price paid to farmers for their rice crops by about 5%
was killed when it was opposed by members of the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party, who depend heavily on farmer
support. The party had requested a freeze on the price.
   Japan's government regulates and subsidizes the domestic
rice market, buying much of the rice crop and reselling it to
consumers at lower prices. The subsidy cost the government
311.7 billion yen (about $2 billion) in fiscal 1989.
   The 1.5% reduction is expected to help cut the budget by
about nine billion yen.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Former Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev's daughter Galina won
a court action for the return of a country house, a
Mercedes-Benz car and other valuables, a Moscow newspaper
reported. The items -- including cash valued at more than
$100,000 -- were confiscated when her husband, Yuri
Churbanov, was convicted of corruption in 1988. . . . The Sea
of Galilee, which provides a third of Israel's fresh water,
has dipped to the lowest level ever recorded, an Israeli
water official said. After two dry winters, Israel is facing
its worst water crisis in modern times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Fast Track:
   Jan Sussman Coins Way to Clean Up in Laundry Business
   ---
   Entrepreneur's Approach Expands
   Coinmach Industries in a Saturated Market
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROSLYN, N.Y. -- To most coin-operated-laundry
entrepreneurs, collecting all those quarters is just a chore.
But to Jan Sussman, president of Coinmach Industries Co., it
is an opportunity to squeeze out more profit.
   Priding himself as a master of coin-collection efficiency,
Mr. Sussman has programmed Coinmach's computer to predict
when each of the 75,000 machines the company handles will
have taken in the $40 necessary to justify a trip. It
continually redraws routes for collectors who will handle 340
million quarters this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Mr. Sussman, all this also conjures up a vision of new
expansion. "Our next step is to take a look at our expertise
in coin handling and security," he says. "I believe I can go
into any Long Island town and collect coins from parking
meters at half the cost."
   While the parking-meter diversification move is still a
pipe dream, the approach shows how Mr. Sussman has made a
mundane business grow in a saturated market. Coinmach's
revenues have surged nearly fivefold in less than a decade,
to a projected $85 million this year from $18 million in
1981. Its work force has multiplied to 340 from 80 over the
period. The company has become one of the largest operators
in the highly competitive New York metropolitan area
coin-laundry market.
   Mr. Sussman's basic formula is simple: Improve your core
business activity and find new niches that really make sense.
"You have to redefine yourself by asking, `What am I really
good at,'" he says. That may seem obvious, but he claims,
"When you ask those questions, the world kind of opens up to
you."
   His primary activity remains installing and servicing
washing machines and dryers in leased space in apartment
buildings. To make the operation more efficient, he designed
a computerized "management-information" system. He says this
enables Coinmach to handle 1,500 daily phone complaints
within 10 seconds each, guarantee repair calls within nine
hours and achieve a 98.2% "hit rate" in getting the right
parts from the storage room to the repair crews. This
compares with a 75% industry average, he says.
   Mr. Sussman also initiated motivational programs for
employees. As blue-collar workers move along a "growth path"
of four "personal achievement categories," they win bonuses
-- and the right to wear shirts of progressively lighter
shades. Starting with blue shirts, they move on to light blue
with thin stripes, then light blue with wide stripes and
finally pure white. They advance in the shirt hierarchy by
attending classes (one is taught by Mr. Sussman),
demonstrating their skills and undergoing performance
reviews. In the Coinmach classroom, signs bearing
inspirational slogans, such as "I'm Super Good, but I'll Get
Better," adorn the walls.
   By giving his rank-and-file more incentives and greater
responsibilities, the 38-year-old Mr. Sussman claims he has
been able to eliminate a layer of supervisers. "One reason
U.S. companies almost got wiped out by the Japanese is that
we overmanaged," he says.
   But Coinmach is also looking for diversification
opportunities. One of its fastest-growing divisions sells
turnkey laundromats to investors. If a would-be entrepreneur
has trouble raising the money to buy a store, Coinmach's
recently created Credit Control Co. will lend the money (at a
hefty profit for itself).
   In addition to all this, Coinmach:
   -- Sets up on-premise laundries in res taurants, hotels,
health clubs and the like. Among the 200 or so clients are
Manhattan's upscale Tavern on the Green restaurant and Har
vard Club.
   -- Builds ready-to-operate dry-cleaning establishments for
investors.
   -- Sells commercial laundry parts at discount prices via
an 800 number.
   -- Remanufactures its own run-down machines at the rate of
125 a week, stripping the paint in acid tanks and installing
new motors.
   In addition, Mr. Sussman says he is mulling the idea of
remanufacturing machines for households. He's also
considering ways to market service-information software
programs.
   Coinmach's growth hasn't been without its glitches. The
company recently lost its biggest Manhattan location, the
giant Peter Cooper Village-Stuyvesant Town housing complex
with 1,100 machines, to rival Gordan &amp; Thomas Cos. of East
Orange, N.J. And it made an embarrassing stumble in the
mid-1980s, a joint venture with a group of small telephone
companies to set up a network of pay telephones. "The phones
didn't work. They were terrible," Mr. Sussman says. Worse,
the flop undermined his reputation. After 18 months, he says,
"I got out. It was the worst period of my life." It taught
him, he said, not to venture too far afield.
   Mr. Sussman's competitors certainly aren't convinced he's
got a magic formula, and they bristle at his boastfulness.
(He says he is "absolutely positive I'm the industry leader"
and has "dazzled" visitors from rival firms.) Gordon &amp; Thomas
President Thomas Litwin thinks steady growth -- "just
plugging along," as he calls it -- is a better guarantee of
long-term success than the Sussman approach.
   Instead of flair, Mr. Litwin says, "We offer better
service and better equipment, and we generate more revenue"
for apartment complexes, which often get a percentage of the
take.
   But criticism hasn't dented Mr. Sussman's ambition and
confidence. Indeed, he once said his goal was to stand atop
the Empire State Building and be able to say he owned all the
coin-operated washers and dryers in all the buildings in
sight.
   Mr. Sussman plans more expansion. Last October, he
engineered a leveraged buy-out at Coinmach. His family
retains a 30% stake and exerts control with a small group of
investment partners. The LBO raised $15 million for
acquisitions, and Mr. Sussman says he is "actively working on
three" possible purchases.
   Where the rush to expand Coinmach will lead remains to be
seen. Ben Russell, editor of American Coin-Op magazine in
Chicago, says he's intrigued by Mr. Sussman's strategy. "It
may be that other people will be forced to go into different
directions like that because the market is so oversaturated,"
Mr. Russell says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   St. Paul Bancorp Posts
   Loss of $20.8 Million
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   SPBC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- St. Paul Bancorp Inc. reported a loss of $20.8
million, or $1.72 a share, for the second quarter after the
federal Office of Thrift Supervision ordered its primary
subsidiary to increase loan-loss reserves.
   The thrift said the added reserves don't relate to any new
specific loan problems but instead reflect more stringent
standards. St. Paul said it disagrees with the regulators'
ruling and retains the right to seek arbitration of the
additional $26 million general reserve ordered for its St.
Paul Federal Bank for Savings unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier quarter, St. Paul posted net income of
$5.4 million, or 45 cents a share.
   The company also said it agreed with thrift regulators to
confine future multifamily lending to Illinois or within 100
miles of its Chicago home office, and to reduce the
concentration of such loans secured by property outside
Illinois. Previously, St. Paul had been a significant lender
in California as part of a nationwide business strategy.
   As a result, St. Paul said its bank's loan-origination
volumes are expected to decrease significantly. Separately,
St. Paul said it is re-evaluating its policies on possible
mergers and acquisitions. "We've become more cautious," a
spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pittston Co. Names
   Farrell as President
   And Operating Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PCO
</CO>
<IN>
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Pittston Co. named Joseph C. Farrell
to the new position of president and chief operating officer,
making him the odds -- on choice to succeed chief executive
Paul W. Douglas when he retires next year.
   The 63-year-old Mr. Douglas, who is scheduled to step down
in September 1991, said the promotions of Mr. Farrell, 54,
and David L. Marshall, 51, who was named to the new post of
vice chairman, would make for an "orderly process of
transition."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Messrs. Farrell and Marshall were previously executive
vice presidents.
   Mr. Douglas became chief executive of Pittston in 1984
with the charge of streamlining the then-troubled coal mining
and transport concern. He has largely succeeded, though not
without suffering a nine-month coal miners' strike that ended
in January. Mr. Farrell was the company's chief negotiator in
the contract talks with the United Mine Workers union.
   In addition to the promotions, Pittston said it formed a
new, four-man office of the chairman, consisting of Messrs.
Douglas, Farrell and Marshall and Robert D. Duke, senior vice
president and general counsel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, July 6, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.15% 30 to 44 days; 8.125% 45 to 59 days;
8.05% 60 to 89 days; 8% 90 to 119 days; 7.95% 120 to 149
days; 7.90% 150 to 179 days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.25%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.72% two
months; 7.74% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.32% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.04% 60 days; 7.99%
90 days; 7.97% 120 days; 7.93% 150 days; 7.88% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% three months;
8 5/16% - 8 3/16% four months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% five months;
8 3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 2, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73% 13 weeks; 7.60% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.04%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.98%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.75%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.79%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Carrington Labs May Have Overstated Case
   For Experimental AIDS and Cancer Drug
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   CARN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- How can investors appraise the merits of a
company whose future rides on developing an experimental and
technologically sophisticated product?
   Often, it's impossible to predict how the product will
fare. In such cases, investors should pay particular
attention to the quality of the company's disclosures.
Consider the case of tiny Carrington Laboratories.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Irving, Texas, company has $8 million in sales, $7
million in net worth, and no earnings. Yet its stock is
valued at $125 million -- largely because Carrington is
touting the potential of a drug it produces from an extract
of aloe vera.
   On a radio broadcast in February, a Carrington official
spoke of improvements by acquired-immune-deficiency-syndrome
and cancer patients who had received either the drug or juice
from the aloe plant itself. Carrington also says its drug
might be useful in treating scores of other ailments.
   And at a recent AIDS conference in San Francisco,
Carrington said its drug "significantly improved the
effectiveness of AZT in a six-month clinical trial of 47
patients infected with the AIDS virus." AZT, marketed by
British-based Wellcome, is the only drug approved for
treating AIDS.
   Carrington, in a news release, went on to say that based
on the results of the trial, conducted in Belgium,
"researchers" have recommended a larger study and that
Carrington "plans to market {its drug}, when approved, under
the trade name Carrisyn."
   This is news to quicken one's pulse. However, for some
years, Carrington has been saying that the Belgian trial
would test whether Carrisyn would, by itself, be effective in
treating AIDS, and whether it would enhance AZT's
performance.
   Nathan Clumeck, head of infectious diseases at St. Pierre
University Hospital in Brussels, performed the trial. He says
the trial -- by no means conclusive -- didn't show any
benefit from using Carrisyn alone, or that Carrisyn is an
anti-viral agent.
   Carrington's news release didn't refer to results of
testing Carrisyn on its own. Also, of the 47 patients
referred to in the release, the "significant" result is based
on only 18 patients. The others either dropped out during the
trials or were participating in the trial of Carrisyn on its
own. (This was disclosed by Dr. Clumeck in a technical
abstract in San Francisco.)
   Carrington denies that its new release is incomplete.
Clinton Howard, Carrington's president and largest
stockholder, says, "It doesn't matter" how many people
participate in the trial "as long as you achieve statistical
significance." But experts put great emphasis on the size of
such trials. Dr. Clumeck says, "This compound could act as an
immunal stimulant in patients who receive AZT. {But} this was
a small number of patients. It was a very preliminary study."
   Carrington says it didn't disclose the result of testing
Carrisyn on its own because the test was "inconclusive."
Nonetheless, William McAnalley, Carrington's chief of
research, says, "Its more significant {AIDS} use will be in
conjunction with AZT."
   If so, Carrisyn's uniqueness is far from clear. Joyce
Thomson, a spokeswoman for Wellcome in London, says that
according to company scientists, "there are tens and tens of
potential products, some of which are being tested with AZT
and some of which have shown some promising results."
Wellcome has contacted the makers of some of these other
drugs, though not, as far as she knows, of Carrisyn.
   Carrington also didn't disclose that, after a 30-minute
presentation by the company in May to the National Institute
for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the latter decided
against recommending federal funds for clinical trials of
Carrisyn. Carrington says not all its results from the
Belgian trial were available in May.
   "There is a real story here," Mr. Howard says. "For five
years a group of short-sellers have been saying that Carrisyn
was just a hoax. Now a world-class scientist has done a very
well-controlled study showing it is effective." Indeed,
though it has yet to seek approval from the Food and Drug
Administration, Mr. McAnalley says "There is no question in
my mind we will get approval to sell it." An FDA spokesman
says, "That's their opinion."
   In general, officials of Carrington, which relies on
periodic stock sales to fund operations, describe their drug
more or less as a front-runner in the AIDS battle. One says
that, compared with other drugs, Carrisyn is "overwhelmingly
significant."
   But the clear impression from scientists, drug industry
executives and the alternative AIDS research community is
that aloe vera -- long used for healing wounds -- is one of a
large number of "maybes" in the AIDS battle. John James,
editor of Aids Treatment News in San Francisco, says "I've
been aware of it for years. I knew several people using it,
but right now there is less interest in it."
   ---
   Carrington Laboratories
   (OTC; Symbol: CARN)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Pharmaceuticals
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Nov. 30, 1989:
   Sales: $8.1 million
   Net loss: $1.7 million; or 32 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 43,955 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 6.4 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CBL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CORROON &amp; BLACK Corp. (New York) -- David L. Pfisterer was
named vice president for tax compliance, a new post at this
insurance brokerage company. Mr. Pfisterer, 38 years old, was
previously tax manager at Price Waterhouse, a New York
accounting firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brunswick Corp. Plans
   To Close Eight Plants,
   Lay Off 610 Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   BC
</CO>
<LP>
   SKOKIE, Ill. -- Brunswick Corp. said it plans to close
eight plants and lay off 610 workers in response to "ongoing
softness in the demand for marine products."
   This maker of pleasure boats said the moves are a
continuation in its consolidation process, started last fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brunswick said the employee cutbacks will affect 8% of the
work force in two of its largest divisions, the U.S. Marine
and the Sea Ray. It expects to take action within the next
two months.
   The company said it plans to close four of its U.S. Marine
division's boatbuilding plants on Sept. 10. It will also
close a plant that produces component parts.
   As a result of those five plant closings, Brunswick said
350 workers will be laid off. The plants' current production
operations will be transferred to the U.S. Marine division's
remaining 15 plants.
   Also, Brunswick said its Sea Ray division is laying off
260 employees at three plants, but the plants' production
operations will continue.
   The company said that these actions will not hurt its 1990
financial results. Instead, it anticipates that "they will
improve efficiencies and cut costs."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, July 6, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                          Stock    N.A.     Stock     %
   Fund Name              Exch.   Value     Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express           NYSE   19.00    16 1/8   - 15.13
   Baker Fentress          NYSE   24.78    20 3/8   - 17.78
   Blue Chip Value         NYSE    7.80     6 3/4   - 13.46
   Clemente Global Gro     NYSE  b12.66    10 1/2   - 17.06
   Gemini II Capital       NYSE   16.12    13 1/4   - 17.80
   Gemini II Income        NYSE    9.67    12 7/8   + 33.14
   General Amer Invest     NYSE   25.20    20 7/8   - 17.16
   Growth Stock Outlook    NYSE   10.45     9 3/8   - 10.29
   Liberty All-Star Eqty   NYSE    9.80     8 1/2   - 13.27
   Niagara Share Corp.     NYSE   17.92    14 3/4   - 17.69
   Nicholas-Applegate      NYSE   11.97    11       -  8.10
   Quest For Value Cap     NYSE   18.28    13 5/8   - 25.46
   Quest For Value Inco    NYSE   11.74    13 1/2   + 14.99
   Royce Value Trust       NYSE   10.63     9 5/8   -  9.45
   Salomon Fd              NYSE   15.49    12 3/4   - 17.69
   Source Capital          NYSE   41.36    42 3/8   +  2.45
   Tri-Continental Corp.   NYSE   28.81    24 3/4   - 14.09
   Worldwide Value         NYSE   19.33    16 1/4   - 15.93
   Zweig Fund              NYSE  a10.94    11 3/8   +  3.98
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs     AMEX    6.79     6       - 11.63
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr    NYSE   b8.09     8 3/4   +  8.16
   Franklin Universal Tr   NYSE   b7.72     7 5/8   -  1.23
   Municipal High Inco     NYSE    9.40     9 3/8   -  0.27
   Zenix Income Fund       NYSE    6.40     6       -  6.25
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn     OTC     5.93     4 1/4   - 28.33
   Franklin M-M Inco       NYSE   b8.80     7 7/8   - 10.51
   Zweig Total Return Fd   NYSE   a9.22     9 1/4   +  0.33
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and eConvrtible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd  NYSE   14.29    13 1/2   -  5.53
   Alliance New Europe Fd  NYSE   12.00    10 3/8   - 13.54
   American Capital Conv   NYSE   22.41    19 1/4   - 14.10
   ASA Ltd                 NYSE bc58.51    45 5/8   - 22.02
   Asia Pacific            NYSE   16.63    14 7/8   - 10.55
   Austria Fund            NYSE   15.50    13 1/4   - 14.52
   Bancroft Convertible    AMEX   20.66    17 3/4   - 14.09
   Bergstrom Capital       AMEX   65.51    62 3/8   -  4.79
   Brazil                  NYSE   10.37    11 7/8   + 14.51
   CNV Holdings Capital    NYSE    9.89     5 1/8   - 48.18
   CNV Holdings Income     NYSE    9.69    11 1/8   + 14.81
   Castle Convertible      AMEX   21.65    18 3/4   - 13.39
   Central Fund Canada     AMEX   b4.81    41 3/16  +  0.05
   Central Securities      AMEX   11.44     9 1/2   - 16.96
   Couns Tandem Secs       NYSE   12.46    10 1/4   - 17.74
   Cypress Fund            AMEX  d10.24     9 5/8   -  6.01
   Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils   NYSE    8.18     8       -  2.20
   Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc       AMEX    8.42     7 1/4   - 13.90
   Emerging Ger Fd         NYSE   11.42    10 1/2   -  8.06
   Engex                   AMEX   12.20     9 3/8   - 23.16
   Europe Fund             NYSE   14.67    14       -  4.57
   1st Australia           AMEX   10.14     8 7/8   - 12.48
   First Financial Fund    NYSE    6.60     6 5/8   +  0.38
   First Iberian           AMEX   11.65    11 3/8   -  2.36
   First Philippine Fund   NYSE   10.95     9 1/8   - 16.67
   Future Germany Fund     NYSE   17.59    15 3/4   - 10.46
   Gabelli Equity Trust    NYSE   11.98    11 3/4   -  1.92
   Germany Fund            NYSE   13.69    16 1/8   + 17.79
   Global Utilities Fund   NYSE   11.06     9 5/8   - 12.97
   Growth Fund Spain       NYSE   12.84    10 7/8   - 15.30
   GT Greater Europe Fd    NYSE   14.59    14       -  4.04
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv      NYSE   13.00    11 1/8   - 14.42
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap    AMEX  b11.32     9 7/8   - 12.77
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref   AMEX  b48.83    47 3/4   -  2.21
   Indonesia Fund          NYSE   14.95    15 3/4   +  5.35
   Inefficient Market Fund AMEX   11.27    11 7/8   +  5.37
   Irish Investment Fd     NYSE   11.14     9 5/8   - 13.60
   Italy Fund              NYSE  b15.82    14 3/4   -  6.76
   Jakarta Growth Fd       NYSE   10.94    11 5/8   +  6.26
   Japan OTC Equity Fund   NYSE  b13.25    13 3/8   +  0.94
   Korea Fund              NYSE   14.54    22 3/8   + 53.89
   Malaysia Fund           NYSE   14.53    16 5/8   + 14.42
   Mexico Fund             NYSE  b15.02    15 1/4   +  1.53
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap     NYSE   11.81    11 3/8   -  3.68
   New Germany Fund        NYSE   15.28    14 3/4   -  3.47
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd   NYSE   11.43    11 5/8   +  1.71
   Patriot Prem Div Fd     NYSE    8.86    10 3/8   + 17.10
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II  NYSE   10.30    11 1/8   +  8.01
   Petrol &amp; Resources      NYSE   30.53    27 1/8   - 11.15
   Pilgrim Regional        NYSE    8.82     8 1/2   -  3.63

   Portugal Fund           NYSE   13.71    13 1/8   -  4.27
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd   AMEX    6.33     5 7/8   -  7.19
   ROC Taiwan Fund         NYSE    9.61    10 5/8   + 10.56
   Scudder New Asia        NYSE   19.47    16 3/8   - 15.90
   Scudder New Europe      NYSE   12.33    10 1/2   - 14.84
   SE Savings Inst Fd      OTC    b7.61     6 3/4   - 11.30
   Spain Fund              NYSE   15.52    17 5/8   + 13.56
   Swiss Helvetia Fd       NYSE   15.28    15       -  1.83
   Taiwan Fund             NYSE  b17.45    23 3/4   + 36.10
   TCW Convertible Secs    NYSE   b7.92     8 1/2   +  7.32
   Templeton Em Mkts       AMEX  b16.39    16       -  2.38
   Templeton Global Util   AMEX  b11.20    11 3/8   +  1.56
   Templeton Value Fund    NYSE  b10.31     9 5/8   -  6.64
   Thai Capital Fund       NYSE   11.16    11 1/2   +  3.05
   Thai Fund               NYSE   22.05    24 1/4   +  9.98
   Turkish Inv Fund        NYSE   15.51    12 3/8   - 20.21
   United Kingdom Fund     NYSE   11.67    10       - 14.31
   Z-Seven                 OTC    14.17    14 1/4   +  0.56
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. d-NAV 6-29-90, 9.75; stk price
9 1/8; % diff; -6.41. z-Not available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   As New York Merc's Guttman Ends Second Year
   In Top Post, Some Still Urge More Aggressiveness
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Next month, Z. Lou Guttman will celebrate his
second anniversary as chairman of the New York Mercantile
Exchange. While the exchange has posted impressive gains in
volume since he took office, some futures traders think Mr.
Guttman and the exchange could be more aggressive in building
trading.
   That's ironic because Mr. Guttman, a platinum trader, is
described as a street fighter by some exchange members. And
he hasn't been accused of a lack of aggressiveness in his
first steps to reorganize the Merc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In July 1989, he and the Merc board engaged in a bitter
fight with Rosemary McFadden, then the Merc's president. That
battle culminated in a 14-hour board meeting in which Ms.
McFadden was forced to resign. Ms. McFadden was replaced by
R. Patrick Thompson, one of the exchange's own executives.
   At age 40, Mr. Guttman is the elder statesman of the major
futures exchanges in New York. The Commodity Exchange's
chairman, Martin Greenberg, took office in March of this
year.
   The Merc is the largest commodity exchange in New York and
the third biggest in the U.S., and the largest market in the
world for futures and options on crude oil, heating oil and
gasoline.
   The total volume of futures and options traded on the Merc
in the first six months this year was up 31% from the similar
1988 period -- before Mr. Guttman took office. This reflects
a world-wide surge in oil trading. However, some traders
complain that the exchange has been losing more and more
crude oil trading business to off-exchange dealings.
   Some traders say the growth in these dealings could have
been slowed had the Merc gone more aggressively after the
business of large traders who typically work off the floor.
They see some discontent among major oil producers with the
way the exchange has catered to their needs. A long-time
crude oil trader at a sizable oil company says, "The power
base of the exchange is still one dominated by locals,"
independent floor traders who deal for their own accounts.
   Marianne Hughes, vice president of Coastal Corp. and the
only Merc board member from a major oil firm, said she
doesn't believe that the exchange is indifferent to the oil
industry. It would be useful to have more oil-industry people
on the Merc board, she said, but industry people are
reluctant to seek the positions: "Maybe they don't want to
commit the time, or their firms don't want them to put in the
time."
   Mr. Guttman came to the U.S. from Hungary when he was
eight years old and grew up in Brooklyn. He assumed the post
of Merc chairman in August 1988 when the previous chairman
resigned. He was elected to a two-year term in March 1989.
   Since that time, he has put in place his own
administrative team. "The last piece in the {reorganization}
package was put into place in May when we succeeded in hiring
Bob Davis as senior vice president for planning and
development," says Mr. Guttman. Mr. Davis had been a member
of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission since 1984. Mr.
Guttman now says, "For the first time in two years, it's
starting to become a pleasure to be chairman of the
exchange."
   Little of Mr. Guttman's time today is spent on the
goings-on in the platinum pit, where he started at the Merc,
though he still does some trading from his office. He is more
likely to be looking for another contract to follow the
natural gas contract introduced April 3.
   It was the first successful launch by any futures market
of a nonfinancial contract in many years. Since the beginning
of June, daily volume in natural gas has averaged more than
500 contracts a day, while open interest (the number of
contracts outstanding) has climbed to more than 5,000. The
contract had been in the works for 10 years, but as one
former Merc board member says, "Lou finally got {the
contract} out the door."
   The Merc is now working on a contract for so-called sour
crude, or high-sulfur oil. The exchange, however, has been
criticized for coming in third in the race to develop this
contract. The Singapore International Monetary Exchange
started trading a sour-crude contract within the past month,
and the London-based International Petroleum Exchange will
begin trading one late this month.
   Mr. Davis says the delay is due to the creation of a
contract that permits physical delivery of oil by ship on the
U.S. Gulf Coast. "Physical delivery is more complicated than
a cash-settled contract and requires detailed groundwork to
establish the delivery mechanism," he says. But he goes on to
point out that physical delivery provides a more reliable
convergence of futures prices to the cash market and seems to
be what the oil industry wants. The other two sour-crude
contracts are settled with cash payments.
   Several former Merc board members agree that the fact the
Merc probably won't be trading its contract before June 1991
won't necessarily be fatal. One says, "U.S. refiners will
definitely use it if it's well-written, because it will
reduce a lot of risk that the present futures contract
presents for sour crude."
   Meanwhile, Mr. Guttman continues to handle the on-again,
off-again discussions on merging New York futures exchanges.
The only serious negotiations taking place now are between
the Merc and New York's second-largest futures exchange, the
Comex. Such a move should reduce costs and give the two more
clout in dealing with the two Chicago exchanges, which do
about 75% of the futures and options business in the U.S.
   One former crude trader predicts that if the Merc "comes
out with a good sourcrude contract, then all the other
criticisms will be forgotten." The Merc still has what
amounts to a virtual monopoly on energy trading, and "It's
awfully difficult to lose a monopoly," he says.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil prices slipped as production in Norwegian
offshore oil fields continued to return to normal. Wildcat
strikers at some operations are still refusing to return to
work. But market participants have perceived that not enough
of the 1.6 million barrels of daily production from the
Norwegian sector of the North Sea will be halted to help
whittle down the largest overhang of inventories in eight
years. In addition, reports that Venezuelan officials are
considering among themselves whether to request a higher
quota from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
unnerved some traders. Such a request from the typically
conservative cartel member could unleash a number of similar
requests from other OPEC producers, causing further chaos in
the market. Kuwait, which has been pumping beyond its
assigned quota for months, has also said that it wants a
greater allotment. Despite lower crude oil prices, gasoline
prices rose. A deadly explosion at an Arco Chemical Co. plant
outside Houston was one of the reasons. The plant makes among
other things 27,500 barrels a day of methyl tertiary butyl
ether, an additive used in the production of no-lead
gasoline.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Consumer resistance to rising bacon prices and mounting
supplies of frozen pork bellies are likely to continue to
push pork belly futures prices lower, analysts said. Prices
for bacon, which is made from pork bellies, average $1.57 a
pound across the U.S. and are as much as 20% higher than that
in many urban areas, compared with an average of $1.42 a
pound a year ago, said Charles Levitt, a futures analyst with
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in Chicago. Prices for frozen
pork bellies have declined in recent days, mainly because of
sluggish retail demand, analysts said. On Friday, pork belly
futures for delivery this month fell the daily limit of two
cents a pound to close at 54.17 cents a pound on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Traders are expecting figures due out
after the close of trading tomorrow to show that frozen pork
belly supplies are mounting in warehouses around Chicago, on
the basis of lower-than-expected shipments to processors.
                                                                                                       

   Cotton
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices continued to decline at the end of the
week, with the October and December contracts falling two
cents a pound -- their daily limits -- to 78.74 cents and
73.62 cents, respectively. The July contract closed 1.36
cents lower at 91.44 cents a pound. This week will see the
expiration today of the July contract. Ed Whitten, cotton
specialist at Balfour Maclaine Futures in New York, said he
expects the contract to expire without any "fireworks." There
is one large Memphis, Tenn., cotton merchant holding most of
the previously purchased contracts, and it is widely believed
that this merchant sold a few contracts Thursday and Friday
to reduce pressure on the market. Cooler weather with some
precipitation was forecast for parts of the Texas coast, but
Mr. Whitten said it wouldn't be enough to help the crop. He
said support for the October contract should be initially
felt around 78 cents a pound, with stronger support between
75 and 76 cents. He expects significant support for December
cotton at about 71 cents. Resistance to higher prices can be
expected at recently set life-of-contract highs. "I would
look for a continued sell-off early in the week with a
recovery later in the week," Mr. Whitten said. "It all
depends on what the {commodity} funds do. They dominate the
market now."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Rally
   Now Seems
   Unlikely
   ---
   Economic News Ends
   Speculation of Easing
   By Federal Reserve
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CUE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond investors are giving up hope that the
long-predicted bond market rally will soon materialize.
   Friday's employment report, coming on top of stronger than
expected auto sales data on Thursday, has convinced investors
that interest rates won't fall significantly and that the
Federal Reserve will probably keep credit policy on hold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the bond market, that bodes an extended period of
trendless trading activity providing little room for
investors to profit.
   "It's going to be a dreadfully slow summer," said Charles
Lieberman, director of financial-markets research at
Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp. If bond-market players
"had any sense they'd all go away on long vacations." Mr.
Lieberman said the only excitement could come on days when
there is news out of Washington regarding congressional
efforts to reduce the size of the budget deficit.
   "If you want to make money in a hurry, the Treasury bond
market is not the place to be right now," said Sung Won Sohn,
senior vice president at Norwest Corp. "Rates aren't going
anywhere. This is what we call a hiatus and it might continue
through the summer."
   Call it the bond-market blahs, and note that Messrs.
Lieberman and Sohn aren't the only ones infected. Up and down
Wall Street, money managers, traders and economists alike are
grumbling about what they expect will be a slow summer in the
bond market.
   The Department of Labor's June employment report set the
mood. Although employment growth was sluggish in June, many
economists said the report overall wasn't weak enough to
prompt the Federal Reserve to ease monetary policy any time
soon.
   The government said the unemployment rate declined to 5.2%
from 5.3%, while only 40,000 new non-farm jobs were created.
But perhaps more stunning was the huge upward revisions of
the May data, which were revised to show employment growth of
355,000 instead of the previous estimate of 164,000.
   Shortly after the employment report was released, bond
prices plunged. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell 1
1/8 point, a loss of about $11.25 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, slid to 8.5%.
   Though he expects the market to settle into a trading
range now that Friday's rout is over, Mr. Lieberman said the
market could see a few exciting days later this month if
Congress "comes up with a budget deal" before the summer
recess. Although Congress will return in September,
politicians will be off hitting the campaign trail in
October, not leaving much time for budget negotiations.
   "That leaves a small window to achieve progress on the
budget package; during that small period of time the bond
market will be very vulnerable to information," said Mr.
Lieberman.
   Meanwhile, money managers are busy restructuring their
portfolios.
   Edward A. Treichel, investment strategist at Van Kampen
Merritt Inc., said that many institutional investors are
"shortening" their fixed-income portfolios in an effort to
match their holdings to the major bond-market indexes, such
as the Salomon Brothers Broad Investment Grade Index or the
Shearson Lehman Hutton T-Bond Index.
   Shortening, which simply means that money managers are
buying shorter-term bonds and possibly selling longer-term
bonds, is a sign that portfolio managers are bearish or
neutral on the market.
   Mr. Treichel said that prior to Friday, many money
managers had "lengthened" their fixed-income portfolios
relative to the indexes. Lengthening is a sign that investors
are bullish. Because long-term bonds are more volatile than
short-term bonds, lengthening a portfolio can boost
performance when the market is rising but it can also be a
drag on performance when the market is falling.
   An example of this took place during Friday's market
decline, when the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 1/8 points,
or $11.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. But two-year
notes fell only 1/4 point, or about $2.50 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount.
   When investment managers aren't sure about the direction
of rates, they often simply match their portfolios to the
major indexes, seeking to perform as well as the market. Some
of Friday's portfolio shuffling was meant to achieve this
end.
   Michael M. Spencer, vice president at One Federal Asset
Management, Boston, was among the managers who were busy
going shorter on Friday.
   "This is the third time this year that we thought the Fed
would ease and short-term rates would fall and it didn't
happen," said a disappointed Mr. Spencer, who manages only
high-grade bonds. He believes that to make money in the third
quarter will require investors to go for yield since he
doubts that the market will move strongly enough to provide
capital appreciation in the way of higher bond prices.
   On Friday, Mr. Spencer sold two-year Treasurys and bought
high-quality commercial paper of companies such as General
Motors Corp. Yields on commercial paper, short-term IOUs that
in many cases mature in 30 days, are about the same as yields
on short-term Treasurys. But because they are held for such a
short period, investors incur very little interestrate risk.
   "It's time to stop expecting short-term rates to fall and
just go back to collecting income" from interest payments,
said Mr. Spencer.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices plunged Friday after the latest employment
data dashed hopes for an immediate easing of interest rates.
   "It was a day of unfulfilled expectations," said F. Ward
McCarthy, a managing director at Stone &amp; McCarthy Research
Associates Inc.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond tumbled 1 1/8 point,
a decline of $11.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
bellwether bond was quoted late at a price of 102 18/32 to
yield 8.5% compared with 103 22/32 to yield 8.40% on
Thursday. Shortterm rates jumped. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills, for example, rose 0.10 percentage
point on Friday to 7.76% for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.0%.
   Most of the selling in the bond market occurred in the
first hour after the release of the jobs data. After that,
bond prices held steady.
   In the corporate bond market, negative comments by a
securities analyst hurt the junk bonds of Quantum Chemical
Corp. Avi Nash at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. was said to have cut
his second-quarter earnings estimate and recommended that
holders sell their Quantum stock, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report. Officials at Goldman wouldn't
confirm the reports.
   Quantum stock dived on the news, falling 8% or 1 1/4
points to 15 3/8 in volume more than triple the stock's daily
average.
   The junk bonds fell in sympathy with the stock. The 12.5%
senior subordinated notes ended the day 87 1/2, down 1/2
point, while the company's 13% senior subordinated debentures
also slipped 1/2 on the day to 86.
   Quantum's bonds have been under pressure in recent weeks
as a spate of analysts have reported gloomy earnings
forecasts for cyclical and recession-sensitive industries.
   Most other junk bonds, which are high-yield, high-risk
corporate securities that have low credit ratings or no
credit ratings at all, barely budged Friday.
   In the investment-grade market, bonds slipped 1/8 to 1/4
point in thin trading.
   Tax-exempt municipal bonds outperformed the Treasury
market on Friday as they did for most of the week, buoyed by
talk out of Washington that taxes may be about to rise. Some
long-term municipal bonds fell just 1/8 point on Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CMS Energy Corp.:
   Curbs Lifted on Firm's Use
   Of Debt, Equity in Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CMS Energy Corp. said a Michigan circuit court judge
removed restrictions on the company's use of its $1.5 billion
of debt and equity interests in the Midland Cogeneration
Venture.
   But the court said that CMS's Consumer's Power Co. utility
unit must maintain a $450 million corporate bond, as ordered
earlier by Michigan regulators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its ruling, the court removed all restrictions on the
use by Dearborn, Mich.-based CMS of the $1.2 billion in notes
and $300 million in equity it received in return for its
contribution to the cogeneration venture. The venture is a
1,380-megawatt power plant converted from CMS's failed effort
to build a nuclear plant in Midland.
   The court action also relieved CMS of having to file a
$100 million surety bond previously required by another
court.
   CMS said the decision will become effective Aug. 3, and
the company isn't planning an appeal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Peoples Bancorp of Worcester:
   Deposits of a Savings Bank
   To Be Bought From FDIC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7D
</SO>
<CO>
   PEBW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Peoples Bancorp of Worcester Inc., a bank holding company,
said it agreed to acquire about $300 million in insured
deposits of Milford, Mass.-based Milford Savings Bank from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
   Milford Savings was declared insolvent and closed by the
Massachusetts banking commissioner on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, Peoples Bancorp, based in Worcester,
Mass., will assume Milford Savings' total deposit liability
of about $300 million from the FDIC for a premium of
$100,000. Peoples Bancorp also will have the option, for 90
days, to buy certain loans after reviewing Milford's loan
portfolio. Peoples Bancorp said the five Milford Savings
offices will reopen as Peoples Bancorp branches today.
   The Milford acquisition is Peoples Bancorp's second
regulatory-assisted acquisition of a failed Massachusetts
bank. In April 1989, the company assumed certain assets and
the deposits of Leominster, Mass.-based First Service Bank
for Savings, which was closed by the state banking
commissioner in March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Investment Dartboard:
   SciMed Wins
   Contest; Fan
   Sticks With It
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SMLS VFC NIKE IOMG SNA CRCH MER
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   How's this for loyalty?
   Six months ago, John Tauer recommended SciMed Life Systems
Inc. in this column's stock-picking contest. The stock has
since gained more than 51%, beating out those issues selected
by three other investment professionals in January. And that
earns a return visit for Mr. Tauer, who is director of
research for Minneapolis brokerage firm Piper, Jaffray &amp;
Hopwood.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So what stock does Mr. Tauer pick for the next six months?
SciMed. The company, based in Minneapolis, makes balloon
angioplasty catheters -- tubes with a tiny expandable balloon
attached that can be inserted into arteries in the heart to
unblock clogged passageways.
   Mr. Tauer is the first Investment Dartboard winner under
new rules that make it strictly a six-month contest. The
change was made mainly to minimize the impact of short-term
jumps in the recommended stocks immediately after
publication.
   In the six months through June, the four investment pros
who picked in January outpaced a random "dartboard
portfolio," which was selected by Journal staff members
tossing darts at stock listings. The pros averaged a 12.7%
gain. The four dart picks were unchanged (on average) for the
period, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 2.5%.
   Mr. Tauer's decision to stick with SciMed flies in the
face of many investors' belief that chasing big gainers isn't
wise. But Mr. Tauer thinks SciMed still has a long way to go.
He'd buy it at anywhere near Friday's closing price of
$38.50, up 87.5 cents on the day, and says it "certainly
could go into the 50s by the end of the year."
   Sales and earnings are growing quickly. Sales were only
$27 million in the year ended in February 1989. Sales grew to
$67 million in fiscal 1990, and Mr. Tauer expects them to hit
$126 million in the current year. Meanwhile, per-share
earnings have shot up to $1.29 from 33 cents. Mr. Tauer looks
for $2.15 this year.
   He cautions that SciMed is an "aggressive" pick that
carries real risks. SciMed has only one major product. The
stock sells at a high multiple of earnings (18 times this
year's estimated earnings, 25 times the past 12 months'
earnings). And there are some patent-infringement suits
pending against the company.
   Still, he says, "They've got an extremely good product.
This is a pure play in . . . a fast-growing area of
medicine."
   Finishing second for the past six months, with an 8% gain
in Snap-On Tools Corp., was Randall Eley, president of Edgar
Lomax Co., a money management firm in Alexandria, Va. Mr.
Eley's new pick is V.F. Corp., a clothing maker in
Wyomissing, Pa., best-known for its Wrangler and Rustler
brand jeans and Jantzen sportswear.
   But its jeans are the part of the business that's been
struggling a bit, Mr. Eley says. V.F.'s three other lines --
sportswear, intimate apparel and occupational apparel -- are
all "experiencing steady growth."
   Steady earnings appeal keenly to Mr. Eley as the economy
sputters. He doesn't necessarily expect a recession this
year, but he is picking investments "on the basis that a
recession could occur -- or could be under way."
   In June, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors
Service Inc. both said they were considering downgrading
V.F.'s debt. S&amp;P cited "manufacturing, marketing and
distribution problems" in jeans and sportswear. Mr. Eley says
the announcement "is a concern" but that the bad news has
caused the stock to drop to a bargain level.
   As for those jeans, Mr. Eley says V.F. has lost some
market share to competitors but has taken steps to bolster
profitability by closing some plants and cutting costs. This
"ought to keep the line profitable," he says. "My team is
projecting earnings of $2.50 a share as the worst possible
case."
   V.F. closed at $26, up 75 cents Friday. Mr. Eley would pay
as much as $28 for it, with a target price of $38. He thinks
the target might be hit within six months "if everything
falls into place."
   The other two contestants this month, Alan Bond and
Jonathan Steinberg, would have been winners under the
previous rules.
   Mr. Bond, equity portfolio manager at W.R. Lazard &amp; Co. in
New York, likes Nike Inc. The Beaverton, Ore., athletic shoe
and apparel maker sold Friday for $80, up $2, but Mr. Bond
thinks a fair target is $95 within a year.
   He says Nike is doing very well with "cross training"
shoes (usable for more than one sport) and hiking shoes and
is increasing its percentage of revenue derived from clothing
other than footwear. Though the stock has performed well, it
isn't too high-priced, he says, selling for 14 times the past
12 months' per-share earnings.
   As a kicker, Mr. Bond says Nike's board is likely to
approve a stock split and listing on the New York Stock
Exchange, two steps that may help the stock attract a wider
group of buyers.
   Mr. Steinberg, publisher and editor of Individual Investor
magazine, recommends Iomega Corp., a South Roy, Utah, maker
of computer equipment, especially disk drives. The drives,
used in some IBM and Apple Macintosh computers, are "very
cheap, very reliable," Mr. Steinberg says.
   "This was a company founded in 1980. At one time it was a
high-flyer," Mr. Steinberg says. "It stumbled in 1986 and
1987 {overestimating demand and having to write off excess
inventories}. The stock was hammered. It has not received
much attention since then."
   Mr. Steinberg says Iomega quietly turned profitable in
1988 and 1989 and showed dramatic growth in the first
quarter, with earnings up 57% over the previous year's first
quarter as sales grew 17%. The balance sheet is strong, and
the stock -- which closed at $4.9375, up 6.25 cents Friday --
trades at only about six times earnings.
   "The average {price-earnings} multiple for companies like
this is 13," Mr. Steinberg says. If Iomega even comes close
to that, he says, "it's an $8 stock."
   Through the end of the year, the pros' picks will compete
against a dartboard portfolio consisting of Clark Equipment
Co., Great Western Financial Corp., Northrop Corp. and Wells
Fargo Co.
   ---
          The Contestants for the Coming Six Months
                                                                                                       

   John Tauer                        Jonathan Steinberg
   Piper, Jaffray &amp;                  Individual Investor
   Hopwood Inc.                      Magazine
   BUY: SCIMED                       BUY: IOMEGA CORP.
   LIFE SYSTEMS INC.
                                                                                                       

   Alan Bond                         Randall Eley
   W.R. Lazard &amp; Co.                 Edgar Lomax Co.
   BUY: NIKE INC.                    BUY: V.F. CORP.
                                                                                                       

            Experts vs. Darts the Past Six Months
                                                                                                       

                                               PERFORMANCE*
                                               JAN. 3-
 EXPERT         AFFILIATION    RECOMMENDATION  JUNE 29, 1990
                                                                                                       

 John Tauer     Piper,Jaffray  Buy: SciMed Life  + 51.6%
                &amp; Hopwood Inc. Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

 Randall Eley   Edgar Lomax    Buy: Snap-On      +  8.0
                Co.            Tools Corp.
                                                                                                       

 Greta Marshall Marshall Plan  Buy: Church &amp;     +  7.7
                               Dwight Co.
                                                                                                       

 Lois Burleigh  ASB Capital    Buy: Merrill      - 16.7
                Management     Lynch &amp; Co.
                Inc.
                                                                                                       

 Experts as a group                              + 12.7

 Dartboard Portfolio**                           +  0.0
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Industrial Average                    +  2.5
                                                                                                       

 *Capital gain or loss only
                                                                                                       

 **Four stocks picked by throw of darts: Floating Point
Systems Inc., up 53.8%; Communications Satellite Corp., down
10.2%; Montgomery Street Income Securities Inc., down 8.6%;
NL Industries Inc., down 35.0%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TCOMA TWRX FH CROP CCR CNNR CDIC
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18 billion in three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $8 billion in seven-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                       One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Cardinal Distribution Inc. -- $60 million of convertible
subordinated debentures, via Smith Barney, Harris &amp; Upham Co.
   Conner Peripherals Inc. -- 6.4 million common shares, via
Lehman Brothers.
   Countrywide Credit Industries Inc. -- 1.6 million shares
of $25 depository convertible perferred stock, via Salomon
Brothers Inc.
   Crop Genetics International Corp. -- two million of $10
convertible exchange perferred stock, via Lehman Brothers.
   Environmental Elements Corp. -- initial 2.3 million common
shares, via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
   Foundation Health Corp. -- initial 3.3 million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   In-store Advertising Inc. -- initial 1.6 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Orthopedic Services Inc. -- initial 2.25 million common
shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Projectavision Inc. -- initial 1.49 million units,
consisting of one share of common stock and one warrant, via
Keane Securities Co.
   Software Toolworks Inc. -- 3.85 million common shares, via
Montgomery Securities.
   Tele-Communications Inc. -- three million Class A common
shares, via Allen &amp; Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Wisconsin -- $200 million of notes, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                          Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Phoenix, Ariz. -- $137.63 million of bonds, including $65
million of street and highway user revenue bonds and $72.63
million of various-purposes bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Friday
                                                                                                       

   Texas -- $50 million of college student loan, full faith
and credit bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Broward County School Board, Fla. -- $68 million of
certificates of participation, MBIA-insured, via a Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   California Housing Finance Agency -- $243.69 million of
bonds (Alternative Minimum Tax) via a Merrill Lynch group.
   Dormitory Authority of New York (State) -- $530.27 million
of revenue bonds for the State University Educational
Facility, 1990 Series, via a PaineWebber Inc. group.
   Dormitory Authority of New York (State) -- $339,445,- 000
of special obligation bonds for the State University
Educational Facility, via a PaineWebber group.
   East Baton Rouge, La. -- $56 million of single-family
mortgage revenue bonds, with mortgages backed by GNMA, Series
A (AMT) and B (non-AMT), via a Howard, Weil, Labouisse,
Friedrichs Inc. group.
   Hawaii Housing &amp; Finance Development Corp. --
approximately $69 million of rental housing system revenue
bonds (adjustable weekly), via a Merrill Lynch group.
   Massachusetts Port Authority -- $90 million of bonds
(AMT), via a Merrill Lynch group.
   Merrillville Multi-School Building Corp., Ind. -- $62
million of first-mortgage revenue bonds, MBIA-insured, via a
John Nuveen &amp; Co. group.
   Misouri Housing Development Corp. -- $85 million of
single-family housing revenue bonds (AMT) via a George K.
Baum &amp; Co. group.
   Texas -- $50 million of zero-coupon college student loan
bonds, 1990 Series, (AMT) via a First Southwest Co. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Imminent Easing of Credit Is Unlikely
   But Dollar Not Expected to Get Much Lift
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch and Alison Woods
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar isn't expected to get much of a
lift from the dashing of expectations for an imminent Federal
Reserve easing of credit.
   Because U.S. economic growth still pales in comparison to
that of West Germany and Japan, and the Fed is still expected
to loosen credit at some point this summer, many currency
analysts and traders don't see the dollar strengthening much
soon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Traders would still like to sell" the dollar, says Simon
Fischer, a trader at Algemene Bank Nederland N.V., New York.
   When dealings ended here late Friday, the dollar was
quoted at 1.6520 marks and 151.70 yen, compared with 1.6517
marks and 150.60 yen at Thursday's close. On the week, the
dollar was down from 1.6610 marks and 152.20 yen.
   In Tokyo early Monday, the dollar was trading at 151.50
yen soon after the opening, up from Friday's Tokyo close of
150.95 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at
1.6535 marks, up slightly from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.6522
marks.
   The rickety dollar was boosted Friday by news about
unexpected strength in June U.S. employment data.
   The civilian jobless rate declined to 5.2% from 5.3% in
May, defying forecasts for an increase to a 5.4% rate. Also,
because of a Labor Department underestimation in the 1990
census worker count, the rise in May non-farm payrolls was
revised sharply to 355,000 from the original estimate of
164,000.
   Those dollar-supportive data overshadowed news about the
unexpectedly small 40,000 non-farm payrolls increase in June
and the 30,000 drop in manufacturing jobs last month.
   The dollar declined early last week on continued talk that
an accord to reduce the huge federal budget deficit would
prompt the Fed to loosen credit.
   But with signs of life in the employment report, analysts
now say any easing may be a ways off. The monthly employment
reports are seen as the best single measure of the economy's
health.
   Despite the Bush administration's squawking that high U.S.
interest rates are choking the economy, Federal Reserve
officials are apparently "pretty pleased with the balance
they have" between economic growth and inflation, says David
Stewart, an economist at Lloyds Bank.
   Mr. Stewart and other economists say the Fed probably will
continue to go through economic reports with a fine-toothed
comb before adjusting its policy, including the June producer
price index and retail sales data due Friday.
   The dollar strengthened against most major foreign
currencies Friday as the U.S. bond market was roiled by the
employment data. Treasury bonds fell more than a point, or
more than $10 for each $1,000 face amount.
   The Federal Reserve's execution of $2 billion customer
repurchase agreements Friday was viewed as a confirmation
that it didn't immediately alter its monetary policy because
of the employment data. Although that action added reserves
to the banking system, analysts say the move was a technical
one that had no policy implications.
   The Fed's intentions are expected to become clearer when
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan gives on July 18 his semiannual
testimony on monetary policy as required under the 1978
Humphrey-Hawkins law.
   Bearish traders say the Fed's steady stance isn't very
encouraging with U.S. economic growth lagging behind growth
in Japan and West Germany.
   The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecasts that the U.S. economy will grow at an
inflation-adjusted 2.3% this year, much slower than
anticipated rates of 4.7% in Japan and 4% in West Germany.
   Just because the Fed is leaving U.S. rates alone, traders
"can't rush to buy dollars on that basis," says Mr. Fischer
of Algemene Bank Nederland.
   Global interest rates suggest that odds are stacked
against the dollar because the Fed is still expected to ease
at some point down the road, while the Bank of Japan and the
Bundesbank may have leeway to tighten credit if inflation
becomes problematic in Japan and West Germany.
   Many currency analysts don't see the dollar rising far
above current levels in the short run. On the other hand, the
dollar isn't expected to fall very far unless important
support around 1.65 marks and 150 yen crumbles.
   "We've noticed customers interested in buying the dollar
at these low levels, say, below 1.65" marks, says Thomas
Benfer, a foreign exchange marketing representative at Bank
of Montreal, New York.
   While the dollar may remain firm against the mark and the
yen, it could sink more against the soaring British pound.
The pound has risen to its highest levels in more than a year
because of Britain's relatively high interest rates and
speculation that it will soon be subject to the discipline of
the European Monetary System.
   Late Friday in New York, the pound was quoted at $1.7860,
up 0.45 cent from late Thursday and nearly four cents from a
week earlier.
   If pound buying keeps going at the recent rate, resistance
at $1.80 will be easily surpassed this week, says Mr.
Fischer.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$359.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bond Corp.:
   Firm Modifies Plan to Sell
   Breweries to Bell Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON A.BEL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd. said it made further changes in
an agreement to sell its Australian breweries to associate
company Bell Resources Ltd.
   Australia-based Bond Corp. has extended a deadline for
completing the sale of the Australian breweries to July 31
from June 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond Corp. said in March that it intended to sell the
Australian breweries to 58%-owned Bell Resources for 1.85
billion Australian dollars (US$1.48 billion), as part of a
program to reduce debt by selling assets. Bond Corp. owes
Bell Resources about A$1 billion, which has been turned into
a deposit for the breweries.
   However, Bond Corp. said in a statement late Friday that
if the sale isn't completed by July 31 it will be required to
repay the deposit on Aug. 17.
   Terms of the purchase price also have been altered, Bond
Corp. said, to include certain brand names in Britain.
   Bond Corp. also said it has altered terms of a previously
announced agreement to sell some of its stake in Bond Media
Ltd. to Bell Resources.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   Monetary Meddling:
   Washington's Attempts to Prop Up the Yen Ignite a
   Debate Over the Value of Intervening in Currency Markets
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The urge to do something is understandable.
   After all, consider the problem. Although Japan continues
to rack up big trade surpluses with the U.S., the yen keeps
sagging against the dollar. That only makes Japanese goods
cheaper for voracious American consumers -- and U.S. products
costlier for the less-than-voracious Japanese consumers. And
that makes the deficit even more intractable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One obvious solution? Increase the value of the yen. The
U.S. and other nations have tried to do just that -- by
buying yen in foreign-exchange markets. The recent actions,
however, have been less than successful. More important,
though, they have ignited the debate about the value of such
government intervention. They have also pitted the
interventionist Treasury against the hands-off Federal
Reserve Board.
   Little wonder, then, that several economists expect
intervention to be discussed at the Houston summit. "The
second most important thing that the summiteers could do
{after the talks on trade} is stop the terrible amount of
foreign-exchange intervention," says Allan Meltzer, an
economist at Carnegie Mellon University, who leaves little
doubt where he stands on the debate.
   Opponents such as Mr. Meltzer contend that intervention is
a form of protectionism. Intervention can't have any lasting
effects, they argue, because the foreign-exchange markets are
so huge and because it is an artificial attempt by
governments to override the markets' decisions. Opponents
also note that the U.S. has frequently lost money as a result
of such moves.
   The advocates of intervention maintain that by acting
together, the world's most powerful central banks can tell --
and convince -- foreign-exchange markets that a currency is
trading at the wrong price. Central-bank actions, they
believe, can influence or at least smooth the markets.
   They point to the success of the accord struck at New
York's Plaza Hotel by the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France
and Britain in September 1985 to push down the value of the
U.S. dollar. But, as even many intervention advocates
concede, the governments through their intervention were
reinforcing what the markets had already begun to believe:
that the dollar was substantially overvalued.
   "Our view is that intervention can be effective if it's
done decisively and jointly," says John Williamson, a senior
fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a
liberal Washington think tank.
   Even such advocates, however, have their complaints. In
this year's attempt to prop up the yen, major central banks
"weren't doing it jointly," Mr. Williamson says. "For a
while," he maintains, "the Americans appeared to have lost
interest." The Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board
couldn't agree on what the appropriate action should be, and
this sent confusing signals to the market, Mr. Williamson
argues.
   Since the Western world's largest economies moved to
floating exchange rates in 1973, there have been many
instances of concerted intervention -- with varying degrees
of success. Of course, those who favor a return to fixed
exchange rates point out that one of the advantages of such a
system is that it removes the need to intervene to influence
the value of currencies.
   One of the more controversial pieces of coordinated
intervention occurred after the Louvre Accord of February
1987. As a result of that accord, the Group of Seven,
comprising the world's major economies, agreed to try to stem
the decline of the dollar, and even set specific secret
currency ranges. That accord is generally regarded as having
been less successful than the Plaza agreement.
   It was the Treasury's desire earlier this year to push the
dollar down -- particularly against the yen -- that led to
confrontation with the Fed in March and April. In April the
dollar was worth close to 160 yen, up sharply from 144 yen in
June of last year.
   The Fed saw intervention, which involved the selling of
dollars by many countries, as dangerous "dollar-bashing" that
might damage the central bank's campaign to hold down
inflation. (A cheaper dollar means that imported goods cost
Americans more.) The Fed wanted yen-boosting intervention
only if the participating countries each sold their own
currencies -- not the dollar -- against the yen. But other
nations, especially Germany, declined, fearing inflationary
pressures in their own economies.
   "I've never objected to intervention to support the yen,
but that {intervention} has been translated into general
dollar sales," Fed Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said in an
interview earlier this year.
   At the March 27 meeting of the Fed's Open Market
Committee, the record says that "many expressed strong
skepticism that intervention operations can by themselves
have a lasting effect on the value of the dollar in
foreign-currency markets, given that the effects of these
operations are routinely sterilized."
   Such operations are sterilized when the Fed withdraws from
circulation a similar number of dollars to those put into
circulation by intervening. Thus, if the Fed spent $10
million on intervening, it might sell $10 million of
short-term Treasury securities, siphoning those dollars out
of the marketplace. The purpose is to damp down inflation.
Advocates of intervention would argue that the two operations
are separate: that the intervention depresses the dollar in
the foreign-exchange markets while the later sale of
securities absorbs excess dollars from the general economy.
Opponents, such as those on the Fed, would argue that the two
operations largely cancel each other out.
   Among those most opposed to intervention is the president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, W. Lee Hoskins. In
an article in the Cleveland Fed's Economic Commentary
newsletter, Mr. Hoskins and Owen Humpage, an economic adviser
to the Cleveland Fed, disparage government attempts to
influence exchange rates as "monetary protectionism."
"Interventionist policies may be politically appealing," they
say, because a lower dollar helps American businessmen sell
goods abroad. The two argue, however, that such policies are
"economically myopic," because they merely put off the need
for businessmen to improve productivity and performance.
   But central bankers in this country can quarrel all they
want about U.S. intervention policy. It's the Treasury -- not
the bankers -- that sets the policy, albeit "in consultation"
with the Fed. Thus, at the March 27 meeting, the Open Market
Committee, despite the Fed's general reluctance toward
intervention, raised to $25 billion the total value of
foreign currencies it can hold at any one time. That was an
increase of only $4 billion in the limit on the committee's
holdings of foreign currencies. But since May 1989 the limit
has risen 108%, according to a record of the meeting.
   The Fed's "warehousing" of foreign currencies for the
Treasury also has jumped. At that same March meeting, the 12
Fed governors voted 9-3 to raise warehousing limits to $15
billion from $10 billion. It was only last September that the
committee had doubled that limit to $10 billion.
("Warehousing" -- which increases the Treasury's ability to
intervene -- refers to a complex series of transactions in
which the Fed, in effect, holds foreign currencies for the
Treasury for a certain period.)
   Advocates of intervention say that despite the increase,
the overall amount of foreign currency held by the U.S.
remains relatively lower than that of other nations. "One
really shouldn't get over-agitated about the size of
foreign-currency holdings," says Mr. Williamson. "U.S.
holdings are really quite modest compared to those of other
countries."
   The Fed concedes that point but takes a different
approach. It says in its Open Market Committee record that
holdings of foreign currencies are at "historically high
levels" for the U.S. and warns that this carries "the risk of
sizable losses if the dollar strengthens."
   The Fed, however, has a short memory. Not so many years
ago, in the early 1980s, it was arguing the other side of the
intervention case. Under Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, it
was Fed Chairman Paul Volcker who was pleading with the
Treasury to intervene more to hold down the surging value of
the dollar. Mr. Regan, a hands-off free marketeer, didn't
follow Mr. Volcker's advice.
   Previous policy in the Reagan administration was "nothing
like what's happened" in this administration, complains Prof.
Meltzer, the avid anti-interventionist. Current policymakers,
he says, have "just gone berserk."
   ---
   Mr. Truell is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Homicides, Suicides Found to Account
   For 20% of Fatal Injuries Among Youth
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- The first comprehensive study of injuries among
children shows that more than 22,000 youths die each year
from injuries, with homicides and suicides accounting for
one-fifth of the fatalities.
   The report, produced for Congress by the Centers for
Disease Control, estimates that the direct and indirect cost
of those injuries -- the leading cause of death among
children -- exceeds $8 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both the number of fatalities and the cost to society
could be significantly reduced, the study suggests, if
schools, local governments and families placed added emphasis
on injury prevention.
   "Many people think of accidents as random and
unpredictable and, therefore, as unpreventable," said Juan G.
Rodriguez, a physician and specialist on injuries at the CDC.
"But they can be controlled; they can be prevented."
   Researchers found that in 1986, the most recent year for
which figures are available, 22,411 children age 19 and
younger died from the five leading causes of injuries:
motor-vehicle accidents, homicide, suicide, drowning and
burns.
   The rate of deaths (the number per 100,000 population)
linked to injuries actually fell 22% between 1968 and 1986,
the study shows, partly because of improvements in auto
safety and other preventive measures. Over the same period,
however, the death rate due to disease dropped more than 50%.
   "The efforts, the money and the research have gone into
diseases, but injuries haven't received that kind of
attention," Dr. Rodriguez said. "With the same type of
effort, we could decrease the impact of injuries on
children."
   Almost half of the injury-related fatalities in 1986
stemmed from auto accidents. Of those 10,500 deaths, between
15% and 30%, according to the CDC, were linked to alcohol
use.
   Homicide, the second-largest category among fatal
injuries, accounted for nearly 13% of the childhood deaths.
While the majority of these fatalities occurred among youths
age 15 to 19, almost one-quarter -- 660 homicides -- involved
children under the age of five.
   The third-leading cause of fatal injuries was suicide,
accounting for 2,151 deaths in 1986. Among children age 10 to
19, males accounted for 80% of the suicides. Of those, an
estimated 60% involved firearms. Drowning, burns and other
miscellaneous categories accounted for almost 7,000 deaths.
   About 20% of all hospitalizations among U.S. children stem
from injuries, including nearly 16 million emergency-room
visits. In all, more than 30,000 children each year are
permanently disabled because of their injuries.
   That toll, the report suggests, could be cut by, among
other actions, increased use of air bags in autos, reduced
access to firearms, and improved identification and referrals
of individuals at high risk for suicide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   A Helping Hand
   For U.S. Exports
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD TOY C MOT GDC EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a recent telex to all U.S. ambassadors,
Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger urged the
embassies to become more involved in promoting U.S. exports.
Times have changed, he wrote, and "it's no exaggeration to
say that our economic health and our ability to trade
competitively on the world market may be the single most
important component of our national security as we move into
the next century."
   Welcome to the new age. As traditional cold-war diplomacy
subsides, "commercial diplomacy" appears to be on the rise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher, for one, has been
eagerly intervening with foreign governments to try to
advance the cause of U.S. business. The secretary's staff
hands out summaries maintaining that Mr. Mosbacher's personal
interventions with Japanese Minister for International Trade
and Industry Kabun Muto and other Japanese officials have
helped win business for General Datacom Industries, Motorola
Inc., Chrysler Corp., Allied Signal and Toys "R" Us. The
summary also contends Mr. Mosbacher successfully went to bat
against the French for Guardian Industries.
                                                                                                       

   "We've got examples of all -- the president, vice
president, the secretary of state -- making calls to help the
U.S. be competitive," says Mr. Mosbacher, acknowledging that
this is a change in approach from the Reagan years. "The
private sector has got to do the majority, but we in
government can be helpful in a lot of ways." The
administration has also set up a new trade promotion
coordinating committee, an interagency group to help U.S.
business abroad.
                                                                                                       

   Even more significant is the administration's new
willingness, albeit reluctant, to help exporters with
"tied-aid" credits -- a combination of government export
financing and foreign aid. In an unprecedented move, the
Export-Import Bank and the Agency for International
Development recently joined to set up a $500 million pool of
tied-aid funds for projects in Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan
and the Philippines. The money will be used to provide
cut-rate financing for transportation, power,
telecommunications and construction-equipment projects in
those countries, provided U.S. contractors and equipment are
used. These are already "spoiled markets," explains Ex-Im
Bank President John Macomber, referring to other countries'
liberal use of tied-aid credits in Southeast Asia.
   To be sure, the U.S. is a laggard in the tied-aid game.
Japan and France in particular have provided their exporters
with generous assistance. From 1984 to 1987, those two
countries offered $14.5 billion in tied-aid credits --
accounting for 41% of all such aid from Western nations. The
U.S., on the other hand, accounted for just over $1 billion.
   Some recent studies suggest U.S. businesses have paid
dearly for that imbalance in tied aid. An Ex-Im Bank report
to Congress on tied-aid credits estimated that the U.S. loses
$400 million to $800 million annually in sales because other
countries are more aggressive in using such credits. And
Ernest Preeg of the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a Washington think tank, puts the lost sales even
higher, at $2.4 billion to $4.8 billion a year.
                                                                                                       

   "In recent years, official export finance is a dimension
of overall U.S. trade competitiveness that has received
low-to-zero priority," Mr. Preeg complains. American economic
aid has rather concentrated on "direct help to the poorest
people and balance of payments support to strategically
important governments rather than on projects that utilize
U.S. exports."
                                                                                                       

   Officially, the Bush administration's position is to curb
such export-related aid, arguing it distorts the free flow of
global trade. In May, the administration initiated a new
round of negotiations at the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development aimed at reducing tied
aid. And Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady told reporters
last week that tied aid is "something that the summiteers
could easily spend some time on" at this week's economic
summit in Houston, Texas. U.S. officials hope the talks will
result in recommendations for reducing government trade aid
by next summer, in time for next year's summit meeting of the
seven leading industrial nations.
   "There's no way the tied-aid credit issue is going to be
solved at the trade level," said Mr. Macomber in a recent
interview. "It's got to be at the cabinet or heads of
government level."
                                                                                                       

   In the meantime, as the recent South-east Asian deal
illustrates, the U.S. itself is getting more aggressive about
tied-aid credits. "We've given up trying to set the pace
purely by example," says James Sharpe, the Ex-Im Bank's
executive vice president and U.S. negotiator at the OECD
discussions.
                                                                                                       

   In recent years, the Ex-Im Bank has maintained a "war
chest" -- $110 million in fiscal year 1990 -- designated for
countering the tied-aid credit practices of other
governments. And many in Congress would like the
administration to adopt a much larger tied-aid program, on a
European or Japanese scale. Democratic Senators David Boren
of Oklahoma and Lloyd Bentsen of Texas have even proposed
legislation -- the Aid for Trade Act of 1990 -- that would
tie American foreign assistance to exports. Dubbing the
administration's current program "reactive, piecemeal and
generally ineffective," the senators said "it's time to
adjust to what our economic competitors are doing."
   As the push for commercial diplomacy increases, such calls
for tied aid are certain to grow louder. "Trade aid is just
like dope," says Mr. Sharpe. "You get on it and you can't get
off."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Volkswagen AG:
   U.S. Sales Arm Increases
   Five '91 Models' Base Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Volkswagen AG's U.S. sales arm in Troy, Mich., said it
increased base prices of five 1991 models an average of 2%.
   The West German auto maker increased by $200 each the base
prices of its Golf GL two-door, to $8,895, and its GTI and
Jetta GL two-door, both to $10,195, and boosted by $220 the
price of its Passat GL Sedan to $14,990. The VW Vanagon base
price rose $280 to $14,360. VW said it will announce prices
of its two remaining cars, the Cabriolet and Corrado, when
these 1991 models arrive in showrooms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volkswagen has been holding down its prices to counter
slumping U.S. sales in recent years. "This minimal pricing
move will have little impact, because in October of 1989,
retail prices were reduced by 6.7% to 16.6% on these same
models, with exception of the Passat, which was introduced in
March at an extremely competitive price," a company spokesman
said.
   Volkswagen's move follows a rare mid-year price increases
by the U.S. Big Three auto makers, which were seeking to
mitigate "sticker shock" when they announce prices on this
fall's 1991 models.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   UAL'S UNIONS said five major banks agreed to lead the
labor group's effort to get financing for a proposed $4.38
billion acquisition of United Airlines. The buy-out group,
which faces an Aug. 9 deadline, said the banks insist that
part of the financing come from non-banking sources, such as
aircraft suppliers.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The jobless rate fell to 5.2% in June although only 40,000
new jobs were created during the month. Many economists
believe unemployment can't go any lower without rekindling
inflation. The June figures aren't likely to prompt the Fed
to ease credit.
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices gained despite a rise in interest rates
following the employment report. The Dow industrials advanced
25.74 points to 2904.95.
   ---
   RJR Nabisco has been deluged with $7 billion of loan
commitments from banks for its debt refinancing plan, more
than triple what it needs. The influx suggests that big money
is once again becoming available for leveraged-company
transactions.
   ---
   The S&amp;L fraud investigation will concentrate initially on
100 thrifts, following Democratic charges that the
administration wasn't pursuing the investigation vigorously
enough.
   ---
   British Airways ordered 21 Boeing 747-400 jets valued at
$3.8 billion and took options on 12 others, which could bring
the deal's value to $6.4 billion.
   ---
   Renault plans to begin a $99 million tender offer this
week for the 55% of Mack Trucks it doesn't already own.
   ---
   A tax increase passed by the Massachusetts Legislature
will put a 5% levy on fees charged by lawyers, accountants,
engineers and architects. Business leaders said it would
further cripple the state's sluggish economy.
   ---
   E.M. Warburg isn't considering selling any of the
Ingersoll newspapers it acquired last week, although it may
face drawn-out negotiations over debt payments to
bondholders.
   ---
   Lead and zinc prices are expected to jump as union workers
at Cominco Ltd., Canada's biggest producer of the metals,
prepared to strike today.
   ---
   Shearson was fined a record $500,000 by the Big Board for
its trading in E.F. Hutton stock when it was discussing
taking over Hutton in 1986.
   ---
   A chemical plant explosion in Texas that left 17 dead is
being investigated to determine whether contract workers were
a factor. The Arco plant had 430 full-time employees, 80 of
them lower-paid contract workers.
   ---
   Digital Equipment is expected to unveil today a new
generation of its strong-selling MicroVAX computer line,
marking a fresh challenge to IBM in the minicomputer market.
   ---
   Lord Geller will merge into another WPP Group ad agency,
marking the end of the once-hot shop that never fully
recovered from the defection of six top executives in 1988.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 111,730,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2904.95, up 25.74; transportation 1140.69, up 9.67; utilities
206.11, off 0.06.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3423.07, off
33.34.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.97, off 0.91;
spot index 133.45, off 0.92.
   Dollar: 151.70 yen, up 1.10; 1.6520 marks, up 0.0003.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Jobless Rate Declines
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's unemployment rate declined to 7.5% of
the work force in June from 7.6% in May, as a result of a
marginal increase in employment, Statistics Canada, a federal
agency, said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By Bill Paul
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WLM PEP SWTX
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Poring Over Recycling
   Of Soda-Bottle Plastic
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   UNCLE SAM may open up plastic beverage bottles for
recycling.
   Kenneth Falci, a consumer safety officer and recycling
expert with the Food and Drug Administration, says the agency
is leaning toward permitting soft drink bottles and water
jugs to be made from recycled polyethylene terephthalate
(PET) and high-density polyethylene (HDPE), respectively.
Each currently is made from the virgin material.
   A ruling is still several months away, says Mr. Falci, and
will depend in part on whether the agency is convinced there
is a consistent supply of uncontaminated recycled plastic
available. "It can probably be done successfully," he says.
   Others aren't so sure. Dennis Sabourin, vice president of
Wellman Inc., the largest U.S. plastics recycler, says
there's an acute lack of plastic collection and sorting
facilities. Wellman, he says, could use twice as many bottles
as it can buy for the fiber products it makes. Moreover, he
says, recycled bottles could cost much more to make than
virgin bottles because it's necessary to break the bottle
down into its base chemicals, then go through a costly
repolymerization.
   Still, a spokesman for PepsiCo Inc. says the company is
working with its packaging suppliers on a recycled-PET pop
bottle, and hopes to have one ready within 12 to 24 months.
Coca-Cola Co. didn't return repeated phone calls.
                                                                                                       

   Power-Line Radiation

                                                                                                       

   DOES POWER-LINE radiation cause cancer? The debate spreads
to the Environmental Protection Agency.
   The controversy over powerline radiation has been building
for a couple of years, spurred by a spate of inconclusive but
suggestive new epidemiological and animal studies. Unwilling
to wait for definitive proof, some communities and
individuals have sued their local electric utilities to stop
construction of overhead lines.
   Earlier this year, EPA analysts recommended that the
agency classify power-line radiation a "probable" human
carcinogen. They were overruled, however, by the EPA's
director of Health and Environmental Assessment, William
Farland, who decided there isn't yet enough evidence to
justify such a warning. The analysts' recommendation was then
leaked to Microwave News, a New York newsletter.
   An EPA spokeswoman calls the disagreement "an interoffice
squabble." She says Mr. Farland "chose very wisely," adding
that, "it can serve no purpose . . . to jump out there {with
a warning} right now."
   In their written recommendation, the analysts acknowledged
there is only limited evidence linking power-line radiation
to cancer. They also acknowledged that nobody yet understands
the interaction between power-line radiation and human cells.
   The deleted recommendation was part of an EPA report that
reviewed the scientific literature on low-level radiation's
health effects. That report, minus the recommendation, is to
undergo scientific peer review, the spokeswoman says, adding
that the reviewers could decide that there's enough evidence
to warrant reinstating the analysts' warning.
                                                                                                       

   Landfill in New York
   Dumps Its Higher Prices
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK CITY wants its garbage back.
   In December 1988 the Big Apple more than doubled the fee
at its huge Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island. Haulers
balked, diverting 25% to 30% of the landfill's intake -- a
monstrous 10,000 tons of trash a day -- to less expensive
landfills in Ohio, Pennsylvania and other states.
   The diversion inflamed a border war originally touched off
by New Jersey's policy to ship vast amounts of its garbage to
other states. Last month, Indiana Sen. Dan Coats tried to
attach an amendment to a chemical-weapons bill that would
have let states ban or otherwise impede the flow of
out-of-state garbage. (It was killed by a cloture vote.)
   With New York buried under a fiscal crisis, a spokesman
for the city's sanitation department says the department has
proposed rolling back the Fresh Kills dumping fee, to $25 a
cubic yard from $40 for garbage from which recyclables have
been removed. Though that's still higher than the $18.50
haulers were paying before the fee increase, sanitation
officials hope they can woo back 3,500 tons, enough coffee
grinds and chicken bones to raise an extra $20 million a year
in revenue.
   Whether or not the plan works, however, it isn't going to
douse the border war. An aide to Sen. Coats says, "States
should have the ability to control their overall destiny."
Will the amendment be reintroduced? "We live to fight another
day," says the aide.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SOUTHWALL Technologies Inc. of Palo Alto, Calif., claims
its "Superglass" window glass insulates as well as wooden
walls. The glass consists of two panes, lined with two
polyester films pulled tight. Each film has a metallic
coating that reflects the heat in or out, depending on the
time of year. The pockets between the panes and the films are
filled with argon and other insulating gases. . . . Next
summer's mulch could come from this winter's Christmas trees.
Residents of Kingsport, Tenn., with an assist from Waste
Management Inc., collect Christmas trees and grind them into
mulch, which is then spread on city property. The program won
an award last year from Keep America Beautiful, a nonprofit
group, which says other communities have copied the idea. . .
. Midnight Oil, an Australian rock group whose songs loudly
voice social consciousness, uses recycled-paper packaging for
its latest album.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Federal Bancorp Inc.:
   Lawsuit Seeks to Rescind
   Acquisition of Failed Thrift
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7B
</SO>
<CO>
   FFS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   First Federal Bancorp Inc. said it filed suit to rescind
its federally assisted acquisition of a failed thrift, naming
the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
   The suit seeks the rescission of the acquisition of
Citizens Federal Savings Bank in Jacksonville, Fla., by a
First Federal Bancorp subsidiary, alleging that actions taken
by the regulatory agencies have frustrated the purpose of the
acquisition and that, therefore, the acquisition is void and
unenforceable. First Federal Bancorp, Pontiac, Mich., took
over Citizens Federal Savings Bank in September 1988 for
$500,000 plus an agreement to inject $4 million in capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit further alleges that any action taken by the
federal government toward the appointment of a conservator or
receiver of the subsidiary, First Federal Savings Bank &amp;
Trust, is unwarranted.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. had no comment on the
suit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ingersoll-Rand Co.:
   Schlage Electronics Unit
   May Be Put Up for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   IR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ingersoll-Rand Co., Woodcliff Lake, N.J., is considering
the possible sale of its Schlage Electronics Inc. unit, a
maker of security systems.
   A spokesman for Ingersoll-Rand, which also makes products
including equipment for road construction and well and rock
drilling, was unable to provide annual sales for Schlage,
Santa Clara, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company retained Merrill Lynch Capital Markets to
evaluate alternatives for Schlage. Ingersoll-Rand's spokesman
couldn't say why Ingersoll-Rand took that step for the
security-systems unit, which is profitable. But he did say
the business is a smaller part of the locks unit of the
parent's bearings, locks and tools segment. Schlage has 300
employees. The parent had 31,600 employees at the end of
1989.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Ingersoll-Rand shares closed at $58.125, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Xicor Inc.:
   Loss of $4.8 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   XICO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xicor Inc., Milpitas, Calif., reported a loss of $4.8
million, or 26 cents a share, for the second quarter ending
June 17. The company had net income of $2.2 million, or 12
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
   Citing failure to meet some of its orders, the company
said net sales were down to $20.4 million from $22 million a
year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first half of fiscal 1990, the manufacturer of
semiconductors and related devices reported a loss of $11.8
million, or 65 cents a share. In the year-earlier first half,
the company had net income of $5.2 million, or 28 cents a
share.
   Company President Raphael Klein said the concern was
unable to meet orders because of manufacturing difficulties
that have plagued it for several quarters. The company has
recently completed a $50 million factory renovation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Arms Sale to Saudis
   Draws Little Protest
   From Israeli Lobby
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A $4 billion U.S. arms sale to Saudi Arabia
has moved through Congress with barely a protest from
Israel's allies -- the latest symptom of erosion of support
on Capitol Hill for the Jewish state.
   Until recently, pro-Israel forces routinely opposed most
arms sales to Arab governments, or at least sought to have
them scaled back. But pro-Israel activists now say they must
choose more selectively which battles to fight. They say the
refusal by Israel's right-wing government to pursue its own
Mideast peace plan, and increasing resentment among lawmakers
about strong-arm tactics by pro-Israel lobbyists, have
poisoned the atmosphere.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This new hesitancy sometimes produces confusion. Indeed,
during the past few weeks, the vaunted pro-Israel political
machine has seemed to be in disarray.
   The Israeli Embassy, for instance, waited several weeks
after the Saudi sale was announced before even stating
forcefully that the arms package would threaten Israel's
security. The major pro-Israel lobbying group, Aipac, taking
its cue from the embassy's initial reticence, decided it
wouldn't fight the sale.
   One congressman who opposed the arms package was told by
more than 30 congressional offices there was no reason to
join the fight if Aipac was silent. In the end, the proposed
House resolution to block the sale had only 10 sponsors.
   Aipac says it didn't put up a fight because the arms
wouldn't jeopardize Israel's security. It took a similar
approach last fall, when the administration proposed a tank
sale to Saudi Arabia. An official says the group is "keeping
its powder dry" to wage a big battle against an expected
attempt by the Saudis to make a major purchase of fighter
aircraft. "You can't ask Congress to go to the mat for every
weapon {sale}," the official says. "You've got to have a
strategy."
   But an Israeli official offers a different view: "A lot of
people realize that we now have a limited amount of political
capital in this town."
   The pending Saudi arms package includes about 1,100
light-armored vehicles, improvements for Awacs electronic
surveillance aircraft and 2,000 TOW anti-tank missiles.
Israeli officials say the first two items, which make up the
bulk of the sale, wouldn't pose a military threat to Israel.
But the TOW missiles are designed to penetrate a type of
armor used on Israeli tanks.
   At the behest of pro-Israel legislators, House Foreign
Affairs Chairman Rep. Dante Fascell (D., Fla.), and Rep. Lee
Hamilton (D., Ind.), chairman of the panel's Mideast
subcommittee, spoke to Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence
Eagleburger about removing the TOWs from the package. But the
effort failed, as the pro-Israel forces had little leverage.
   That's especially surprising in view of the fact that the
administration's reasons for arms sales to the Saudis have
been very disjointed recently. Last year, the administration
told Congress that Saudi Arabia needed tanks because of a
threat from Iraq. In a hearing last month, the administration
said Saudi Arabia needed the latest arms package because it
faces "a significant threat from Iran." But during
questioning at the hearing, an administration official said
"Iran has taken a beating in the {Iran-Iraq} war and is not
at this point an overwhelming military threat."
   Congressional resentment has been growing against
pro-Israel forces for some time. The Israel lobby engendered
considerable congressional ire earlier this year by pushing a
purely symbolic, nonbinding resolution declaring that
Jerusalem is Israel's capital. Lawmakers adopted it
overwhelmingly, but, concedes an Israeli official, "Probably
a lot of good will for Israel was wasted in the process."
   Congress also resented a secret effort by Israel's
government earlier this year to help finance the takeover of
a building by Jewish hard-liners in the Old Christian quarter
of East Jerusalem. As a slap on the wrist, the House added
$1.8 million -- the amount secretly provided for the takeover
-- to a fee charged Israel for a U.S. loan guarantee. When
the fee was added, even pro-Israel House members didn't
object.
   "We're all learning there's a bottom to the well," says an
Israeli official. "People won't be pressed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Looking Back
   ---
   Reflections of a Summit-Watcher
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R25
</SO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- My career as a summit-watcher reached a climax on
a sunny June day in Venice three years ago.
   The industrial world's leaders were huddled in solemn
conclave in the library of a beautiful old monastery on an
island in Venice's lagoon. The world's press was shoehorned
into a hot building on another island, and the White House
press corps kept to itself on yet a third island. All of us
summit-watchers dutifully shuffled from stuffy room to stuffy
room, listening to the British prime minister's press
secretary tell us nothing had happened yet, carefully
checking this against the words of the French president's
spokesman, and making sure that the Germans weren't leaking
anything for the moment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The upshot of all this non-activity was going to be the
release of a banal communique that no one would read,
followed by televised press conferences at which each leader
would explain that he or she won a lot and gave nothing away,
for the benefit of the voters back home. But before this
would happen, there were two more days in which to rush from
briefing to briefing, two more days of joining knots of other
reporters as the Italian deputy finance minister would
periodically enter the press center to declare that he had
nothing to say.
   In a moment of lucidity I decided to chuck all this and go
see some of Tiepolo's paintings in a nearby church. For once,
enlightened irresponsibility was rewarded: Also playing hooky
from the formal summit proceedings was a top aide to French
Prime Minister Jacques Chirac. And in a delightful 30-minute
stroll he told me everything that had happened and was likely
to happen at the summit.
   Moments like that are unfortunately rare. For as the
annual meeting of the seven most powerful people in the world
developed from an informal chat into an institution, another
institution inevitably grew up alongside: that of the
summit-watcher. Summit-watching, a sort of Westernized
version of the now-passe Kremlin-watching, involves many of
the same skills. The summit-watcher must be able to endure
long periods of utter boredom, run himself or herself ragged
chasing down nonexistent scoops, draw sweeping conclusions
from droplets of usually insignificant information, and at
the end of it all recycle a mountain of platitudes into a
plausible rendition of what the leaders talked about, what
they decided, and what it all means. Most important of all,
after doing all this, the summit-watcher must be prepared to
do the whole thing again a year later.
   For those who think they've got what it takes, here are a
few tips:
   Know your jargon. Summits are places where participants
and their spokespeople talk in code, both to save time and to
sow confusion. If you know what words like "automaticity,"
"subsidiarity," and "conditionality" mean, and what acronyms
like IMF, BIS, OECD, and EBRD stand for, you can probably
skip all the briefings and go to a rodeo in Houston.
   Beware interim distractions. Given that very little
actually happens at these summits, any hint of action usually
starts the summit-watcher's juices flowing. Sometimes
prematurely.
   In past years, and especially at the contentious European
Community summits of the early 1980s, the French Walkout Ploy
was always good for excitement. This involved a rumor,
usually started by an Englishman, that a long line of
limousines bearing French flags and with running engines had
been sighted outside the summit hall. The French delegation,
it was said, was so disgusted that it was leaving early. This
actually never happened, but never mind.
   The ploy enjoyed a brief revival earlier this year at a
European community summit in Dublin. An Irish reporter
thought he had a big scoop when he noticed that the final
press conference was moved up a couple of hours so that
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl could get back to Bonn. The
chancellor patiently explained that he wasn't walking out in
anger, but rather had an important speech to deliver that
night to a gathering of German Boy Scouts.
   Find a comfortable chair and stay there. This is the most
important tip of all. The key to summit-watching is to stay
awake all the way until the end. At the Venice summit three
years ago, the final communique, a particularly long one, was
read aloud, as is customary, by the host country's
representative. This meant listening to the prime minister of
Italy drone on in Italian for 40 minutes. Up on the platform
President Reagan had help to keep awake: Each time he seemed
to be dropping off to sleep, Secretary of State George Shultz
or Treasury Secretary Jim Baker would lean over and say
something into his ear. Summit-watchers in the audience had
no such service, and many of those who had spent two days
rushing around after scoops slept through the summit's
conclusion.
   ---
   Mr. Revzin, chief of The Wall Street Journal's Paris
bureau, has watched eight of the past 15 summits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   To Have and Have Not:
   Freedom in Eastern Europe Propels a New Group of Poor
   Nations Into the Scramble for a Limited Amount of Aid
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   A SHADOW WILL HANG over Houston as it has over all the
previous summits -- the shadow of the have-nots who haven't
been invited to debate with the haves.
   But this year's shadow will throw matters into a relief
starker than usual. Since last year's summit, walls have
tumbled, dictators have fallen, and the hopes and demands of
the underdeveloped have soared. The opening of Eastern Europe
has propelled a new batch of poorer countries into the aid
scramble, competing for limited assistance with the
traditional lineup of African, Latin American and Asian
countries. And there's a new twist: With everybody rushing to
help the new kids on the block, the long-poorer sections of
richer countries -- such as big chunks of rural Spain -- fear
they will lose aid and investment to the East.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Western aid to the Soviet Union as a way to shore up
Mikhail Gorbachev's reform program will be hotly debated in
Houston. The French and Germans are pushing hard for a big,
rapid injection of cash -- $20 billion has been suggested --
while the U.S. so far is being more cautious but may
ultimately go along.
   Every political "victory" brings with it new demands for
rebuilding -- not just Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union,
but also Panama, Nicaragua, Vietnam, and on and on. The
unprecedented prosperity of the summit countries has led to
unprecedented demands to help an unprecedented number of
countries, as well as to eradicate poverty and unemployment
at home.
   Who's going to pay for it all?
   Carlo De Benedetti, the canny chairman of Ing. C. Olivetti
&amp; Co. has no doubt who's going to pay for Eastern Europe.
"Communism has gone, but the problems remain," he says. "The
only answer is the infusion of the market economy into the
East. Who will pay the bill? We will pay the bill. We will
print more money and raise interest rates to finance those
countries. The long-term, but only very long-term, effects
will be positive. But first we have to pay, then maybe we'll
see results."
   Not surprisingly, the prospect of paying doesn't appeal to
most Western Europeans. According to surveys done for the
European Community, 57% of West Germans say they don't want
to sacrifice any part of their living standards to raise
those of East Germans; only 25% said they would be willing to
give up 5% of their income to help East Germany. (When the
source of funds is more general, Europeans are more generous.
Another EC survey found that 59% of West Europeans favored
the EC's increasing its budget to aid the East, although only
30% wanted funds diverted from EC aid programs for Southern
Europe.)
   "I fear that regarding the Third World, and especially
Africa, the West is going to close up more and more," says
Piero Bassetti, chairman of the Federation of Italian
Chambers of Commerce. "There will be 100 million new workers
along the southern rim of the Mediterranean in the next five
years. The problem is too expensive to solve by aid."
   Some aid, of course, will be available. It's just that
even big numbers pale before the costs of bringing everybody
up to Western living standards. The summit countries recently
agreed to increase the International Monetary Fund's capital
by 50%, to $180 billion, making more money available for
Third World countries. The EC itself recently raised its aid
package to sub-Saharan Africa to $14 billion over five years,
and then more than doubled its aid to North Africa, to more
than $1.5 billion for the five years ending in 1996.
   Meanwhile, the EC's haves are pledged to give its
have-nots -- mainly Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland --
more than $15 billion a year in aid for roads, sewers and
factories. That's part of the deal that got the smaller
countries to agree to the EC's program to abolish most
intra-EC trade barriers by the end of 1992.
   But it's clearly Eastern Europe that has become the focus
of the industrialized world's attentions. That's partly for
political reasons -- to cement the victory of the free market
over the planned economy. But it's also for commercial
reasons -- it is a potential big new market and source of
cheap labor. The recently approved European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development will channel more than $11
billion in aid mainly to private industry in Eastern
countries, including the Soviet Union.
   The Houston summit will give another chance for those most
involved to talk over how best to help. At last year's
summit, the EC's Executive Commission (whose president,
Jacques Delors, attends the summits along with four EC member
states, Germany, France, Britain and Italy) was given the
task of coordinating about $12 billion of aid to Poland and
Hungary if those countries moved toward democracy. This
year's summit is expected to increase that aid and add
Czechoslovakia and perhaps Bulgaria to the program.
   All of this aid is supposed to help do something that's
never been done before -- that is, turn stultified Communist
economies into vibrant free-market ones -- by building new
roads, training managers and buying new equipment. But it
won't even begin to tackle an even more ominous and costly
legacy of the past 50 years: the horrifying environmental
mess in most of these countries. German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl will press his summit colleagues to set up a special
fund to pay for the cleanup. But the costs will be
staggering. The EC estimates that just reducing by one-half
the level of pollution in the river Elbe in East Germany
would cost more than $17 billion. The total cost of cleaning
up all of Eastern Europe has so far defied a reliable
estimate.
   But although the precise costs remain unclear, the East's
expectations aren't. Poland's Solidarity leader, Lech Walesa,
has said that if Poland's experiment with democracy fails, it
will be at least in part because the West didn't give enough
economic aid. Laszlo Lang, deputy director of the Hungarian
Institute for International Affairs, says that after 45 years
of fruitless Soviet domination, Eastern Europe now actively
wants to be dominated by the EC. "Our best chance for
economic survival is to come under the hegemony of a united
EC that includes Germany." He adds: "We don't want Western
Europe or America to throw loans at us -- we've already got
too much debt -- but rather to invest in industrial projects
and to help us make our currencies convertible."
   Hungary's new prime minister, Jozsef Antall, says his
country wants to join the EC, thus making Western Europe
directly responsible for raising Hungarians' living standards
to those of the other EC members. (Technically, all European
countries, East or West, can apply to join the EC.) The EC --
already faced with applications from Turkey and Austria --
says it can't take any new members before 1992, and probably
not before 2000. Instead, it is busily signing association
and aid agreements aimed at stalling formal membership
demands.
   But this tactic has the poorer EC members worried. Spain,
Portugal and Greece were all admitted to EC membership in the
early 1980s, largely to shore up their fragile democracies.
They've all benefited from joining but haven't received all
they've been promised. Says Mario Antao, a Portuguese
economist: "I fear the needs of the Eastern countries will be
far, far higher than publicly announced, and the only way to
meet these needs will be to cut into the structural funds
earmarked for countries like Portugal and Greece." He adds:
"There's no doubt that aiding the East is correct and that in
the long run all of Europe will benefit. But in the medium
term there will be nasty disputes over sharing out this aid.
When the present EC aid program expires in 1993, Portugal
will ask for more money. Will we get it?"
   But not everyone sees a problem. Some economists say the
West should concentrate on how much money the East could
sensibly use without horribly distorting its economies or
overheating the world system, rather than worry about how
much the East is asking for. Ernst-Moritz Lipp, chief
economist for West Germany's Dresdner Bank, has calculated
that all of Eastern Europe (excluding the Soviet Union) could
absorb a maximum of $65 billion a year in aid and investment,
a number he calls "trivial" when compared with the U.S.
budget deficit of more than $100 billion or the big West
German annual trade surplus. With the European capital
markets able to raise more than $300 billion a year for
companies and countries, "$65 billion a year won't crowd out
Spain or Portugal or anybody else," Mr. Lipp says.
   In addition, he says, rapid economic growth in East
Germany and the other Eastern countries, fueled by one-time
productivity gains on the order of 15% when factories are
reorganized and new machines brought in, will quickly
generate money that can be reinvested, so the dependence on
Western help will fall off.
   Eberhard von Kuenheim, chairman of auto maker BMW, says
West Germany wouldn't have problems paying for East Germany's
refurbishment, even if nobody else helped. Citing the fact
that West German companies invested the equivalent of about
$60 billion outside the country last year alone, he says
confidently: "We can afford it. It's not a question of money.
It's a problem of speed -- to switch from one system to
another." The West German government has proposed a $70
billion fund to help East Germany through 1994.
   But according to East German officials, they're going to
need every pfennig and more. Juergen Klose, an East German
economist, says every day new astronomical estimates are
coming in for rebuilding the devastated economy. His current
estimates: $20 billion to rebuild the phone system, $250
billion for new roads, and $30 billion to create an
agricultural market economy.
   As a start, Mr. Klose says, the united Germany should ask
that what used to be East Germany be classified as an
underdeveloped region of the EC, and ask for $5 billion a
year from the EC. That request would be more than a third of
all EC aid money now earmarked for Spain, Portugal, Greece
and Ireland.
   ---
   Mr. Revzin is chief of The Wall Street Journal's Paris
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Switzerland's Inflation Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's cost-of-living index in June inched
up 0.1% from May and rose 5% from a year earlier, the
government said, noting that more favorable oil and energy
prices helped slow the pace of inflation.
   The increases represented a slowdown from May's rises of
0.5% from the preceding month and 5.1% from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Kemp Became His Own Doppelganger
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thanks to Congressman Jack Kemp's legislative program of
tax cuts for millionaires, the U.S. hasn't the fiscal
wherewithal to follow HUD Secretary Jack Kemp's new plans to
help the poor out of poverty ("Liberate America's Other
Economy," editorial page, June 12).
   Urban homesteading, housing vouchers, an expanded
earned-income tax credit and magnet schools all cost money.
Yet with his unrelenting call for a capital-gains tax cut,
Secretary Kemp would ask for even less support for his
program than those with the greatest ability to pay currently
provide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In real dollars, the median U.S. family income has been
stagnant for more than a decade. The poorest fifth have lost
14% of their buying power since 1978. Meanwhile, the average
real-dollar, after-tax incomes of those in the top 1% have
more than doubled. Would that Secretary Kemp's 1990s advocacy
for the poor also includes a plan to end the debt binge and
the upward wealth transfer that Rep. Jack Kemp loosed upon
the country in the 1980s.
   Bruce L. Fisher
   Research Director
   Citizens for Tax Justice
   Washington
   ---
   Mr. Kemp's thoughtful, evocative article should be must
reading for all members of Congress and their staffs. It
makes such good sense; it might cause some to stop and think.
Implementation of his suggestions for a national agenda
could, over time, so truly and dramatically improve the lot
of countless millions that even those most responsible for
leading the nation into this sorrowful dilemma will stand and
cheer.
   Hugh B. Lee Jr.
   Terre Haute, Ind.
   ---
   The highlighted text from Mr. Kemp's article referred to a
mother and two children. Among other topics, Mario Cuomo's
solutions, apparently, included redistribution of wealth.
   How about a better form of redistribution? How about a
redistribution of the children? Fathers typically make more
than mothers, so why not routinely grant the custody of their
own children to them? We live in a society of strange values,
in my opinion, when we automatically grant custody to the
parent earning less income (or none at all), and then bleat
that our nation's children are living in poverty.
   Trevor N.F. Crick
   Associate Professor of Finance
   University of Detroit
   Detroit
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Warburg Pincus Says It Won't Shed
   Any Ingersoll Papers Despite Problems
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   X.CNS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   E.M. Warburg Pincus &amp; Co., the new owner of the newspaper
empire that belonged to Ralph Ingersoll II, isn't considering
the sale of any papers, though it faces potentially drawn-out
negotiations over debt payments to bondholders.
   Warburg severed its seven-year partnership with Ingersoll
Publications Co. last Monday, agreeing to acquire all of Mr.
Ingersoll's stock in his three U.S. newspaper companies,
while handing over control of British and Irish properties to
Mr. Ingersoll.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert Jelenic, who had been No. 2 as Ingersoll
Publications' president, was quickly made chief executive
officer and is already planning changes. Mr. Jelenic said he
will rename the company as early as this week and will move
the company headquarters as of Nov. 1 from Princeton, N.J.,
to Trenton, N.J., where Ingersoll publishes the Trentonian.
   Warburg, a New York-based investment banking firm, will
control companies whose daily newspapers are concentrated in
Northeastern states, where an economic slowdown has battered
newspaper profit margins. The companies include Ingersoll
Newspapers Inc., which also publishes the weekly Suburban
Journals in St. Louis; New Haven Acquisition Co., publisher
of the New Haven Register; and Community Newspapers Inc.,
which publishes papers in Ohio and New York and faces a
possible default on interest payments to bondholders.
   The new owners said they will work out any problems with
bondholders and seek to bolster the companies with new cash
investments. Lionel Pincus, chairman of Warburg, said they
would "improve and expand the operations of Ingersoll
Newspapers Inc. and New Haven" and that Warburg has equity
capital of more than $3 billion to work with.
   "Since the acquisition, I've had plenty of calls from
people wanting to buy our papers," said Mr. Jelenic. "That's
natural in this situation, but nothing's for sale. Warburg
wants to grow the properties."
   Warburg has a thorny financial problem with the payment of
debt on Community Newspapers. CNI didn't make the semiannual
interest payment due July 1 on the $125 million of 13% senior
subordinated reset notes, and didn't meet the July 7 deadline
to reset interest rates on those bonds.
   CNI is working under a 30-day grace period in which to
work out payment arrangements, or otherwise be considered in
default. After that, CNI could be pushed into bankruptcy law
proceedings by bondholders.
   Bondholders aren't expected to go that far. One
bondholder, who asked not to be identified, said: "Bankruptcy
is the ultimate threat, but we would like to avoid it.
Bankruptcy is expensive and very slow."
   A steering committee representing CNI bondholders has
worked with financial adviser, Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp;
Co. and legal adviser, Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, to place sale
values on Ingersoll properties in the case of liquidation.
While it's not clear what alternatives the bondholders group
has offered CNI's management, two possibilities include
lowering the interest on the bonds in exchange for equity, or
increasing the dollar value of a tender offer to holders of
CNI's junk bonds.
   Warburg Pincus's decision to miss the interest payment
rankled some bondholders, but other believe it gives them
even more leverage to force a solution. "I am not happy they
didn't meet my interest payment but it gives us leverage to
pick it apart if it comes down to it," said a bondholder.
   But bond analysts doubt Warburg will ever let CNI fall
into bankruptcy. Analysts expect Warburg to make the interest
payment, estimated to be $8.1 million, just before the 30-day
period runs out in an attempt to keep negotiations alive.
Should CNI fall into bankruptcy proceedings, analysts said,
it would largely wipe out the value of Warburg's equity in
the company.
   In general, bondholders are happy the newspapers have new
ownership. "We are generally happy that Ralph {Ingersoll} is
out of the picture," said one bondholder. "There is no given
that Warburg will do better by us than Ralph did, but Warburg
has deeper pockets and Ralph has zip."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   A Star Is Born:
   Germany Is About to Play a Leading Role
   On the Global Economic Stage, and the World
   Anxiously Awaits Its Performance
   ----
   By Terence Roth and Mark M. Nelson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- After two decades of grooming, Germany is
ready to take a leading role on the world economic stage.
   The question now is how Bonn will play this role. Will it
act as Germania Rex, the haughty leading man who hogs the
spotlight and steals the scenes? Or will it become more of an
ensemble player, a willing partner of and respected spokesman
for a more unified European Community?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The answer appears to be that Germany will focus on German
problems. At least for a time, the risky merger between the
East and West German economies, put into effect last week,
will dominate Bonn's fiscal and monetary priorities.
   Chancellor Helmut Kohl is issuing assurances that Germany
can deal with the jolting union between a thriving
free-market economy and a socialist economy. But Mr. Kohl
also has his heart set on political reunification in
December. With West Germany's own treasury sapped by East
German support programs, Mr. Kohl is turning to his Western
allies to fashion a huge Soviet aid package to help win
concessions from Moscow on German unity. Just for starters,
Bonn arranged a $3 billion credit for the Soviet Union last
month.
   Bonn believes it's in a good position to ask for help.
   For 20 years, Germany has been bolstering its status in
world financial markets. In May, it got a big boost -- one
that carries more prestige than West German officials may
care to admit. A major world body, the International Monetary
Fund, designated West Germany and Japan to share second-place
voting power in the organization, putting them behind only
the United States. Britain dropped to a share of third place,
with France. The IMF ranking, which is based on a complex
measure of a country's overall economic size in the world
economy, is the barometer used to determine the pecking order
in the Group of Seven, the informal banding together of the
world's leading economic powers.
   The new rankings could end up creating, in effect, a Group
of Three within the G-7. Bonn's finance minister, Theo
Waigel, likens this development to winning at the Olympic
Games. West Germany and Japan shared the silver medal, he
says, while Britain and France split the bronze.
   Mr. Waigel may be betraying more than Bavarian humor. By
the end of the 1990s, a united Germany -- an economic
juggernaut in the center of Europe -- will undoubtedly tilt
the global economic scales further toward the Continent. And
many senior financial officials in Europe say they expect
Germany to flex its muscles in its new and more powerful
role.
   At the same time, that emerging role reawakens old fears
in Europe and even within Germany itself that an unchecked
German growth machine could -- as in the past -- become a
threat to European economic and political stability. For this
reason, West German political leaders are trying to make
their country's resurgence coincide with moves to enhance the
power and cohesiveness of the 12-nation European Community.
   The time will come, most senior European officials say,
when the U.S. and Japan must choose between coordinating
policy with the individual European states or with the EC as
a unit. Most small countries in Europe hope that the EC, and
not Germany alone, will be the choice.
   "You can't have it both ways," says Onno Ruding, former
finance minister of the Netherlands. He says the small EC
nations already are highly dissatisfied with the exclusive
G-7 club, which excludes the smaller European countries. The
EC Commission president attends the summits along with the
seven national leaders. Nevertheless, the smaller countries
fear, now more than ever, that Germany, Japan and the U.S.
will end up calling most of the shots.
   Publicly, West Germany is effusive in its commitment to
European economic and monetary union, including the eventual
creation of a common currency issued by a pan-community
system of central banks. This system is scheduled to start
operating by the late 1990s. Yet some West Germans,
particularly the Bundesbank, the country's central bank,
retain deep reservations about ceding national monetary
control to a new European entity.
   "It's not without misgivings that we view the
possibilities of attaining a cohesive monetary policy" in the
EC, says one monetary official, referring to divergent
policies within the community on spending and inflation.
   Moreover, after 45 years of playing a secondary political
role in Europe, many Germans say unification will let them
show the face of a new Germany. Proud of their country's
economic and political achievements, they see no reason why
they shouldn't exercise power as other states do.
   Thanks to strict fiscal policies and controls on inflation
in Germany, the strong mark ranks as the world's
second-largest reserve currency, trailing only the U.S.
dollar. Some 800 billion marks were circulating abroad at the
end of 1989 -- funds that the Bundesbank claims "anchor" the
EC's European Monetary System.
   The Bundesbank's key role is further strengthened by the
exchange-rate mechanism of the monetary system, which
requires members to keep their currency fluctuations within a
narrow range. In practice, because of the mark's stability,
this means the Bundesbank already acts somewhat as a central
bank for other EC states.
   But can that monetary stability survive the union of East
and West German currencies? That's a point on which Messrs.
Waigel and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl need to
reassure both their fellow Germans and other EC members
before a united Germany can assume a stronger G-7 role.
   Other European and G-7 nations already are concerned by
speculation that the Bundesbank will raise West Germany's
official interest rates by a full percentage point this year
to stem the expected inflationary impact of German monetary
union, which took effect last week. U.S. officials, in
particular, fear a world-wide rate spiral if Germany acts in
1990.
   The inflation would result, many economists fear, from
West Germany's replacement of the unconvertible East German
currency with highly spendable West German marks. The surge
in the supply of marks could cause prices to rise. And by
1991, the costs of unification could drive the combined
German budget deficit to as much as 100 billion marks (the
equivalent of nearly $60 billion), increasing the country's
borrowing and possibly also fueling the inflationary spiral.
   Economists observe that countries with widening deficits
usually hold weakened positions inside the IMF.
   "At first, Germany's position in the G-7 could actually be
weaker, because Waigel and Poehl still face a lot of
uncertainties at home," says Heine Flassbeck, a monetary
analyst at the German Institute for Economic Research in West
Berlin. It is one of five think tanks regularly advising the
Bonn government on policy.
   But Bonn officials argue that absorbing East Germany's
economy and work force could swell Bonn's gross national
product by 15% and add one percentage point of real GNP
growth annually as East Germany modernizes. The extra output
would increase tax revenues without increasing tax rates,
thus holding down the deficit, they say.
   "The transition period could take two to three years
before East Germany begins recovering and German companies
begin penetrating Eastern Europe. Then one might see a much
stronger Germany in international policy," says Mr.
Flassbeck. He adds, however, that Germany will act carefully.
"Everybody in Bonn is sensitive to the fact that many of its
trading partners worry about the concept of a Greater
Germany."
   Still, any changes in the G-7 won't be easy -- even if the
EC, and not Germany, steers policy for Europe. Membership in
the G-7 is coveted by European nations. "It's one of the
stages on which Britain and France can still play roles as
world leaders," says an EC official. "The reality may be
different, but as a symbol it is very, very important."
   For this reason, former French President Valery Giscard
d'Estaing says he doesn't expect the G-7 structure to change
for at least five years, even as Germany plays an
increasingly important role. But by then, the EC should have
moved considerably closer to its goals of economic, monetary
and political union.
   "There will always be a role for the individual member
states in the Europe we are building," he says. "The
important thing is that we share the same goals and
aspirations."
   ---
   Mr. Roth, based in Frankfurt, and Mr. Nelson, based in
Brussels, are staff reporters for The Wall Street Journal
Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ireland's Unemployment Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Ireland's unemployment rate rose to a seasonally
adjusted 17.3% in June from 17% in May, the Central
Statistics Office said.
   Without seasonal adjustment, Ireland's unemployment rate
rose to 17.1% in June from 16.6% in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Getting Ready
   ---
   The Natural
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R21
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPAN'S REPRESENTATIVE at the Houston summit, Toshiki
Kaifu, is a boyishly telegenic 59-year-old who honed his
considerable skills in public speaking as a college
oratory-society star. For a media event like a seven-nation
economic summit meeting where imagery is everything, Central
Casting couldn't have picked a better man to play the role of
Japanese prime minister.
   "He is the type who will do well at a summit," says
Shinsaku Kohei, a Kyorin University political scientist.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But if they gave an award in Houston for "World Leader
Most Fortunate to Be Here," Mr. Kaifu would win hands down.
As his recent political history attests, the relationship
between a Japanese prime minister's summit skills and his
domestic power base can range from indirect to inverse.
   Only a few months ago, Mr. Kaifu's days as Japan's prime
minister seemed numbered. A member of a small faction in the
ruling party, he had never been a power hitter in Japanese
politics. The ruling party's faction bosses, who normally
select a prime minister from among their own ranks, had
chosen him last August only because it temporarily suited
their convenience. Unlike all of them, he was untainted by
scandal, and scandal was the hot political issue of the
moment. But by early this year some of them were already
scheming to replace him. Pundits were speculating that
someone else might be representing Japan in Houston.
   Today that's all ancient history. Not only is Mr. Kaifu
still prime minister but he has for much of the spring been
scoring high popularity ratings in public-opinion polls. His
enemies among the faction bosses have stopped sniping at him.
And the pundits are now saying he could easily rule through
the end of next year, perhaps longer.
   Mr. Kaifu saved himself with a foreign-policy triumph. He
defanged a nasty spat with the U.S. over "structural
impediments" to trade that could have undone even a stronger
prime minister. At the risk of domestic criticism for
appearing to kowtow, he flew to California on short notice
for talks with President Bush. Returning to Japan, he dodged
further attacks over his handling of the meeting and pleaded
personally with recalcitrant bureaucrats and politicians for
concessions, stressing that the measures the U.S. was
demanding were in Japan's own interests.
   The risk paid off: The face-to-face session with the
president made it easier for him to overcome domestic
opposition, and made the U.S. more inclined to give the
benefit of the doubt to the concessions he eventually
produced. The "structural-impediments" issue flared again in
June, but by then Mr. Kaifu's public popularity was secure.
When his performance won acclaim both in Washington and at
home, one of his critics in the party, Toshio Yamaguchi, paid
him a wry compliment. "Kaifusan has gone from the smallest
and weakest faction to the largest and strongest -- the Bush
faction," Mr. Yamaguchi told a Japanese magazine.
   Mr. Yamaguchi's one-liner encapsulates some of the central
verities of Japanese politics: The public doesn't elect a
prime minister; party faction bosses do. But a prime minister
who is weak with the faction bosses can hang on to his job if
the public likes him. And one way to win public support is to
handle foreign policy well.
   Because his factional power base is so weak, Mr. Kaifu is
an especially stark example of how to do well with diplomacy.
Former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone also bolstered his
popularity by his handling of foreign policy, but Mr.
Nakasone was a faction boss in his own right. Mr. Kaifu, on
the other hand, "knows that his only way to survive is to be
liked by the Japanese people," says Kenichi Takemura, an
author and television commentator. "The party can't dump him
when President Bush seems to be backing him up and when the
majority of the Japanese think he has done well for us."
   The party also can't dump Mr. Kaifu as long as he has the
support of former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita, whose
strong faction of Liberal Democratic Party Diet members makes
him perhaps the single most powerful figure in Japanese
politics. Earlier this year, when Mr. Kaifu was under fire,
Mr. Takeshita's attitude toward him was at best unclear. More
recently, Mr. Takeshita has expressed strong support.
   Mr. Kaifu, the son of a photo-studio owner, was first
elected to the Diet at age 29 from his home prefecture of
Aichi in central Japan. He is an avid swimmer and is often
shown on Japanese television doing laps in hotel pools. His
strong-minded wife, Sachiyo, at first refused to move into
the cramped residence for prime ministers, but later
relented.
   Although Mr. Kaifu has never held the cabinet portfolios
associated with diplomacy -- foreign affairs, finance, or
trade and industry -- he wasn't totally unprepared to play
the foreign-policy card. He has been active in
parliamentary-exchange associations between Japan and a
number of countries, including West Germany. And in 1975 he
attended the first economic summit as an aide to his mentor,
the reformist Prime Minister Takeo Miki.
   The problem with the foreign-policy card is that, like
most cards, it's two-edged. The LDP faction leaders dumped
Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki in 1982 because they thought he
was causing relations with the U.S. to deteriorate. The
bosses moved against Mr. Suzuki although he was an LDP
faction leader himself. Even a less serious foreign-policy
slip could undermine a prime minister whose main basis of
support is foreign-policy acumen.
   The already-shaky government of Mr. Kaifu, for example,
would have been pushed even closer to the brink by a critical
U.S. response to his report on structural impediments. "Had
the U.S. government expressed strong displeasure with the
report and doubt about Mr. Kaifu's leadership, his
administration could have been placed in a position of being
on the verge of collapse," Toru Hayano, associate political
editor of the newspaper Asahi, wrote. That may sound extreme
to foreigners, who may find it hard to imagine their own
government being so vulnerable to foreign criticism, but many
Japanese would not find it extreme at all. Despite the
enormous economic strides their country has made, many
Japanese still fear being isolated in the world, and despite
growing resentment of U.S. bullying over trade, most Japanese
still see their country's relationship with the U.S. as
critical.
   So Mr. Kaifu will be on his toes in Houston. He'll try to
keep his tie out of his soup and to avoid incautious remarks
on domestically sensitive topics, like Japan's ban on rice
imports. He'll be well briefed on issues ranging from Eastern
Europe to the environment, and unlike some previous Japanese
summiteers, he may even actively participate in the debate.
   If Mr. Kaifu takes his cues from Japan's past master of
summitry, Mr. Nakasone, his first priority will be
maneuvering himself to the center of the group photographs.
When Mr. Nakasone first did that, at the Williamsburg, Va.,
summit in 1983, Japan collectively tingled with pride. Mr.
Nakasone's popularity ratings soared seven percentage points
in one month.
   In 1988, when Prime Minister Takeshita got jostled to the
edge of the photo at the Toronto summit, a Japanese wire
service wrote a story about the important event, noting in
the lead that it was "the first time for Japan to miss out on
an inside spot" since 1982.
   "As the cameras clicked," the story concluded, "Takeshita
found himself standing almost stiffly at the extreme end, the
same position where Takeo Miki, Japan's first prime minister
to join the annual event, started 14 years ago."
   ---
   Mr. Lehner is chief of The Wall Street Journal's Tokyo
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   A Full Plate:
   The Summiteers Face a Host of Complex Problems,
   Including German Reunification, a Cash-Starved
   Eastern Bloc and the Increased Importance of Trade
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   FIRST, A LITTLE back-patting all around seems in order.
   As they gather today in Houston for the 16th annual
economic summit, the seven leaders of the capitalist world
can be forgiven for feeling smug. With the astonishing
collapse of communism in Eastern Europe, their former foes
have practically overnight become converts to free markets --
devouring tracts by Adam Smith and clamoring for membership
in major capitalist economic clubs like the World Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And why not? While Communist economies have simply fallen
apart, the free-world economy dominated by the Seven -- the
U.S., Japan, Britain, France, Italy, Canada and West Germany
-- has shown both durability and flexibility. It has
continued to chug along, posting reasonable growth, averting
inflation for the most part, and overcoming nasty
stock-market nose dives in the U.S. and Japan. So break out
the champagne.
   But now comes the hard part.
   The very victory of free-market forces has made this
economic-summit agenda one of the most challenging and
complex ones ever. Once the Seven needed to tend mainly to
their own knitting. Now they must find ways to finance
reconstruction of the failed "command economies" of the old
East Bloc.
   They also must discuss the massive changes in East-West
relations that are taking place, and when -- and on what
terms -- they will help the ailing Soviet Union. West Germany
and France are more eager to support the $20 billion Western
lifeline that Moscow is seeking. But the U.S.-backed by
Japan, Britain and Canada -- wants to wait for more political
and economic reform in the Soviet Union.
   The Seven also must nurture the birth of the new unified
Germany without unleashing inflation. The U.S. and Japan also
will want to show their summit partners that they have
successfully negotiated differences over their economic
relationship in their yearlong dialogue -- the so-called
Structural Impediments Initiative. And, perhaps above all,
the Seven must ready their nations for a new world in which
trade will define relationships between nations more than
adversarial superpower politics will.
   Specifically and immediately, this means agreeing on the
importance of current GATT talks and ensuring that they
succeed, at least to the extent that the seven most powerful
economies in the free world can make that happen. GATT (the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world's most
comprehensive trade organization) could use a kick in the
pants.
   Its current talks, the so-called Uruguay Round, are
supposed to be completed in December but are proceeding at a
stately pace -- too stately, according to many. "The
potential gains from a good {GATT} agreement are extremely
high, but the sense we get is that this is an agreement that
is behind schedule," says David Germany, an economist at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   In previous rounds of talks, GATT has dealt generally with
tariffs on manufactured goods. In the current round, the
negotiators of 97 nations are attempting a vast expansion of
the treaty to cover the one-third of world trade, about $1
trillion, that is outside the agreement now.
   This round is expected to cover no fewer than 15 different
trade segments, including completely new ones such as
intellectual property (software, for example), services,
finance and investments, textiles, and agricultural products.
At the same time, the negotiators will be trying to toughen
disciplinary measures so that violating the rules will be far
costlier. This, advocates say, is needed to reverse a
continuing backward drift toward protectionism and to end the
need for unilateral trade legislation.
   The wide scope of the current talks and the touchy nature
of some of the issues only compound another chronic problem
-- the tendency of negotiators at meetings such as GATT to go
on talking in circles until their political masters tell them
it's time to fish or cut bait. The Houston summiteers won't
be dealing in details of the treaty, but the U.S., for one,
is expected to demand that the summit participants commit
themselves as a body to giving their minions at GATT that
needed kick in the pants.
   "We'll insist very strongly that the importance of this
trade negotiation be recognized and it be given impetus from
the highest levels, " says David Mulford, the U.S. Treasury
undersecretary for international affairs. That's as it should
be, says Allan Meltzer, an economist at Pittsburgh's Carnegie
Mellon University. "The biggest stimulus to world growth of
the past 40 years has been trade," he says, noting that
prosperity from commerce also tends to consolidate democratic
movements.
   So the desired goal is to get from the summit an
unequivocal commitment to the success of the GATT talks
(meaning an agreement that covers the maximum amount of
trade) and to their completion on time, come hell or high
water.
   Getting such firm backing will be harder than it might
seem, for everyone at the summit table will have constituents
to protect. European nations and the U.S., for example, still
shield their textile industries against developing nations,
which are pressing to have trade barriers lowered so that
their advantages in labor costs can come into play.
   Agriculture is even more sensitive. The Houston summit may
be the last chance for Europe and the U.S. to resolve their
considerable differences over farm commodities. These
agricultural commodities are still heavily subsidized by
Western European powers and the U.S. But the Europeans have
so far been reluctant to cut or abandon export subsidies in
particular and thus expose their farmers to greater
free-market pressures.
   If the Europeans don't endorse a GATT agreement that would
include freer trade in commodities and many other products,
the fortunes of the East Bloc countries will be hurt. Their
struggling new governments desperately need open markets if
they are to earn the hard currency required to climb out of
the hole they've dug themselves into over the past 45 years,
and agricultural exports in particular would help a lot.
   The entire spectrum of East Bloc problems will consume a
lot of discussion time at the summit. How to clean up a
degraded environment -- and how to pay for it -- is one of
the biggest individual issues.
   Under a Communist rule that emphasized production above
all, much of the region has become an environmental sinkhole.
Lacking control devices, its power plants and factories belch
poisonous fumes and particulates into the atmosphere, and its
water supplies are degraded. Poland is a mess, and East
Germany, with 17 million people, produces more acid rain than
West Germany, which has 60 million. In the Soviet Union, the
population is just starting to learn of and respond to the
enormous consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster of
four years ago.
   Initiatives addressing a reeling Soviet economy will
certainly be raised, and not just for the sake of the Soviets
themselves. Because of Eastern European dependence on Soviet
energy and markets, "Soviet economic collapse presents the
greatest threat to the new democracies of Eastern Europe and
could even derail their progress toward democratic
market-based economies," says Robert Hormats, vice chairman
of Goldman Sachs International and a member of the U.S.
delegation at eight consecutive economic summits during the
Carter and Reagan administrations.
   In another initiative, the U.S. is certain to press for a
wider and deeper level of cooperation in battling the drug
scourge. It will probably want greater commitment to
international campaigns against drug traffic, particularly
efforts to hunt down money-launderers.
   On top of all this, the Seven will have the usual -- and
vitally important -- task of ensuring that their own economic
machinery, which dominates the world economy, continues to
run smoothly. The current economic expansion, mature and
somewhat sluggish after eight years, shows no sign of ending
imminently. But it has slowed down; growth is expected to be
only 2% to 3% this year.
   As always, the summit participants will have to steer
between the twin threats of inflation and recession. The
former has been a greater concern lately; a combination of
stronger inflationary pressures and greater competition for
capital has led the major central banks to tighten their
monetary policies in recent months. The ensuing higher
interest rates have crimped growth projections, causing some
economists to shave their estimates for expansion this year.
   But the summiteers will probably be reluctant to loosen
the reins; continuing vigilance will be needed because the
economic integration of the two Germanys has the potential
for increasing inflation. So interest rates are expected to
remain fairly high.
   Instead, the participants may seek to revitalize the world
economy by calling for higher rates of savings and
investment. And Japan and the European allies will probably
pressure the U.S. to reduce its budget deficit.
   They'll be preaching to the converted. "A budget deal is
essential for continued strong growth," says economist John
Taylor, a member of President Bush's Council of Economic
Advisers. To get the nation's long-term savings rate up, he
adds, reduction of the deficit is essential.
   The Seven will probably not need to take any sweeping,
sudden steps to reduce trade imbalances, though fine-tuning
will probably be discussed. These imbalances, though
persistent, have remained under control, and there is no
strong evidence that they will suddenly and significantly
worsen.
   So far, the surge of the dollar against the yen hasn't
aggravated the trade imbalance between Japan and the U.S.,
and the two nations have recently agreed on steps to whittle
it down. The projected revival of Eastern Europe and the
economic integration of Western Europe in 1992 are expected
not only to increase growth but also to slim down Germany's
big trade surplus.
   The economic integration of the two Germanys will
certainly be discussed, including the likely effects of its
currency union, which officially took effect last week.
Germany (shedding the "West") has a lot on its plate. "Much
of our capacities will be devoted to developments east of the
Elbe," says Stefan Auwaerter, international economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. He says that his country's
primary goal will be to ensure that "the transformation to a
market economy proceeds without too much shake-up" in the
form of unemployment or excessive emigration from the East.
   Don't expect, however, any summit agreement on another
much-touted step toward economic integration -- a single
European currency. "It's something of a pipe dream," says Tim
Congdon, economist at the London bond firm of Gerrard &amp;
National PLC. Unifying German currencies is one thing. Trying
to convert the long-term debt markets of several major
currencies into a new Euromoney is another thing entirely, he
believes.
   "The United States of Europe will be a long time coming,"
he adds, "and certainly in the British case we don't want to
be a member of the United States of Europe."
   ---
   Mr. Truell is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   Clearing the Air:
   If the U.S. Has Its Way, Environmental
   Issues Won't Be on the Front Burner
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- To the disappointment of many
environmentalists, Mother Earth is likely to take a back seat
to narcotics, terrorism and changes in Eastern Europe if the
U.S. has its way at this year's economic summit.
   The environment took center stage at last year's summit
meeting in Paris, which produced a communique calling for
"decisive action" to protect the Earth's environment. But
this year, the U.S. is pushing hard to de-emphasize
environmental issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The environment "is a much tougher area" for the U.S. to
discuss at the summit this year, says a U.S. official
involved in planning the Houston meeting. "There's a distinct
difference in perspective in feelings of urgency between the
U.S. and some of the other summit nations," particularly on
the issue of global climate change.
   The European summit nations have been pushing hard to get
agreement on a schedule for reducing the level of "greenhouse
gases" in the atmosphere. These gases, such as carbon
dioxide, are blamed by many scientists and environmentalists
for a gradual increase in the Earth's temperature. But the
U.S. and, to some extent, the Japanese have steadfastly
refused to make such a commitment, arguing more scientific
study is needed.
   U.S. officials hope to shift the summit participants'
attention this week to issues like coordinating assistance to
the emerging democracies in Eastern Europe and improving
international responses to fighting terrorism and illegal
drugs.
   Environmentalists are already condemning the expected
shift, saying whatever progress resulted from last year's
intense focus on environmental issues is in danger of being
lost. "Paris far and away broke new ground," says James T.B.
Tripp, general counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund, a
lobbying group on environmental issues. "Statements about
population and tropical forests had been in previous
communiques, but in Paris more than a third of the final
communique was devoted to domestic and global environmental
issues."
   "It was an important and major breakthrough," he says. "It
showed that the leaders of the world recognized that the
environment, putting investment in energy efficiency,
conservation, forestry and pollution control were central to
the long-term economic benefit of not only the industrialized
world but the entire world."
   Still, Mr. Tripp believes that although "the communique
was very strong in terms of policy statements, it was weak in
terms of setting forth programs for action and schedules for
action." His group, in coalition with a number of other U.S.
and international environmental organizations, is developing
a "scorecard" of the seven summit nations. Issues on which
they are being rated include population control and ocean
dumping; preserving the global environment by reducing carbon
dioxide emissions and improving energy efficiency; protecting
diverse ecosystems such as reefs, wetlands and tropical
forests; and aiding Eastern Europe in correcting some of its
serious environmental problems.
   An early draft version of the environmental portion of the
summit communique drawn up by the U.S., and subject to
revision by the summit partners, demonstrates the cautious
approach favored by the Bush administration and stands in
sharp contrast to the sense of urgency the summit partners
projected in 1989.
   Last year's final communique said that the seven summit
nations "strongly advocate common efforts to limit emissions
of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which threaten
to induce climate change, endangering the environment and
ultimately the economy."
   U.S. summit writers this year propose saying they agree
that "increased greenhouse gas emissions are capable of
altering the global environment, albeit in a not yet
predictable manner." And while they urge steps to adjust to
global climate change, such steps, they say, must be
"justified on independent grounds" and not subject to
"scientific and economic uncertainties." They say, too, they
believe it is "premature to set specific targets or
timetables to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions."
   The draft communique also proposes additional steps to
support scientific research, to preserve wetlands and
tropical forests, to prevent ocean pollution, and to promote
environmental awareness in the developing world by supporting
environmentally sound development projects.
   Despite environmentalists' fears about a lack of progress
on their issues, other analysts say that such meetings are
worthwhile for their public-relations value, and that real
progress has to be made in other venues and through each
country's own domestic policies.
   "There aren't many substantive things that summits like
this can accomplish," says Daniel Mitchell, a fellow in
political economy at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, a
conservative think tank. In the end, he says, "domestic
political things drive these issues."
   ---
   Ms. McQueen is a staff reporter in The Wall Street
Journal's Washington bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan's New Finance Chief Pushes
   To Open Stock Market to Foreigners
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- Taiwan's new finance minister says he would like
to open the country's stock market to foreign institutional
investors "as soon as possible," but the move could be
delayed a year or more while Taipei considers major political
reforms and revamps market regulations.
   Wang Chien-shien, who took the finance post last month,
said in an interview that because of the government's current
state of flux and the need to draft regulations for the
market opening, the best he can predict is that it will come
"within one or two years."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is my personal goal," Mr. Wang said. "But our market
is so small that we have to be careful about limiting them
{foreign institutional investors} when they first come in."
   In the past week, officials of Taiwan's Securities and
Exchange Commission told foreign brokers that a limited
number of foreign institutional investors may be allowed to
invest in the stock market within a year, and perhaps as soon
as six months from now.
   Mr. Wang said another reason it was difficult to specify
when the opening would take place was because the country is
on the verge of major political changes. At a National
Affairs Conference in Taipei that began June 28 and ended
Wednesday, political and business leaders drew up a blueprint
for revamping the government. Their suggestions have included
direct presidential elections and holding new elections for
all members of the three-chamber Parliament as soon as next
year.
   "So many things are unpredictable at this time," Mr. Wang
said. "We don't even know what kind of political system we
will have in the future."
   The stock exchange's weighted price index has plummeted
62.6% since the market peaked in mid-February. Because of the
market's overall bearish nature and Mr. Wang's pledge to rein
in local market speculators, a consensus has been building
both within and outside the government that it is time to let
in foreign institutional investors.
   Government officials believe that foreign investors will
be long-term holders of stocks and so bring more stability to
the market. The government also expects that foreign
institutions will help modify the violent swings the Taiwan
index has experienced in the past few years by acting as
contrary investors: selling as the market reaches new highs
and buying during downturns. Taiwan investors tend to do some
of their heaviest buying near market peaks, and then try to
bail out as the index falls.
   Institutional investors account for less than 10% of the
market volume, which averages between 800 million and one
billion shares a day. The individual investors -- who
constitute one of every five people on this island -- are for
the most part speculators who trade solely on rumors. Often
these rumors are spread by about two dozen big investors who
"ramp" the market, buying large blocks of shares and then
selling out to unsophisticated local investors who jump in as
the prices rise.
   Mr. Wang said he is determined to eliminate the influence
of these big investors. He also has announced a crackdown on
insider trading that is aimed at Taiwan company directors who
ramp their own shares. Mr. Wang concedes that the crackdown
won't be easy to accomplish because more than a dozen Taiwan
legislators serve as executives at brokerage houses, and many
of the big investors are politically influential.
   Because of joint ventures and foreign investments in
Taiwan companies, foreigners currently own almost 10% of
Taiwan's shares outstanding. But trading these blocks of
shares is a cumbersome process that requires approval by the
Ministry of Economic Affairs.
   The SEC is currently studying how other countries have
opened their markets. One of several methods under
consideration would be to split off separate blocks of shares
for foreign investors so that they couldn't buy a majority of
a company's shares. Another would involve allowing foreigners
to buy only nonvoting stock.
   Mr. Wang said that whatever system is adopted, the market
at first is likely to open to selected institutional
investors who meet standards set by the SEC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Unions
   Say 5 Big Banks
   To Aid Buy-Out
   ---
   Lead Lenders Said to Insist
   Some Financing Come
   From Non-Bank Sources
   ----
   By Judith Valente and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR BA GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   UAL Corp.'s unions said five major banks have agreed to
lead the labor group's effort to obtain financing for the
proposed $4.38 billion acquisition of United Airlines.
   Enlistment of the five banks marks an important step in
the buy-out effort, but it still leaves labor several steps
short of completing financing by an Aug. 9 deadline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a recorded message to its members, the United pilots
union disclosed Saturday night that the five banks are
Citicorp, Chase Manhattan Corp., Bankers Trust New York
Corp., Manufacturers Hanover Corp. and Chemical Banking Corp.
These New York-based banks "will be both participating in and
leading the syndication of the financing," the message said.
   None of the five banks identified by the unions could be
reached to confirm their participation. There was also some
indication that at least some of those banks hadn't yet
signed formal agreements with the buy-out group.
   The unions need about $4.5 billion to cover the cash
portion of the offer as well as to refinance existing debt
and provide working capital for the airline.
   None of the five banks has made a firm commitment to
provide any portion of the financing. The banks told the
unions that they will decide whether to commit their own
funds only after further study of the acquisition proposal,
union advisers said.
   Furthermore, the banks are insisting that the unions
obtain at least $300 million of the financing from
non-banking sources, such as airline suppliers. The banks
want this financing to be subordinate to their own
contribution to protect them in the event of a default,
people familiar with the situation said.
   The unions are talking with a variety of suppliers about
possibly investing in the buy-out in return for a note or
nonvoting preferred stock in UAL. Most recently, the
negotiations have centered on Boeing Corp., the Seattle-based
aircraft manufacturer, and General Electric Co., the
Fairfield, Conn., maker of jet engines.
   Even if the unions meet the banks' conditions, the
financing effort would be far from complete. The five lead
banks are expected to offer about $500 million each, or a
total of $2.5 billion. They would then have to find other
sources willing to finance the additional $2 billion needed.
   The complexity of the financing negotiations and the
amount of work remaining to be done raises the possibility
that the unions might have to ask for an extension of the
Aug. 9 financing deadline. Union advisers declined to comment
on such a possibility. The company's directors might agree to
such an extension if it appeared that the unions could
complete the financing work in an additional month or so.
   Indeed, the unions disclosed their talks with the five
banks after the board pressed them last week to show some
evidence of progress. The board made its request after the
unions asked the company to postpone selecting the suppliers
for a major aircraft and engine order.
   Last week, UAL Chairman Stephen M. Wolf appeared ready to
make a decision on the order. The unions feared that such a
move would hamper their financing talks with suppliers. The
labor groups sought and won a commitment from the
Chicago-based company's board to postpone placing an order.
The labor group is using the order as a carrot to convince
suppliers to help them with the buy-out financing.
   Union advisers said over the weekend that "three to four"
other major banks are considering participating in the deal.
"This is evidence that this is a sound transaction," said
John Peterpaul, vice president of the International
Association of Machinists, one of the three UAL unions
spearheading the buy-out. Union advisers said these other
banks must be willing to commit at least $500 million each.
   Two of the banks said to be involved in the current
effort, Citicorp and Chase Manhattan, also acted as the
co-lead banks for an earlier, failed labor-management bid.
Those banks had agreed to contribute $3 billion toward the
earlier $6.75 billion bid and said they were "highly
confident" of raising an additional $4 billion for the deal.
Both banks were widely criticized when they failed to
complete the financing.
   This time, the unions decided to enlist a larger number of
banks from the outset in what's known as a "club" financing.
The advantage of club financing is that it spreads the
responsibility for arranging the loan among a larger number
of banks. It also reduces the loan amount that each lead bank
has to redistribute among smaller banks in the syndication
process.
   One of the obvious benefits for the banks is that they are
likely to realize fees as high as 4% to 5% for backing the
buy-out because the market for financing is far more
expensive than it was last year.
   After a nearly 10-month lull following the collapse of the
earlier labor-management bid for UAL, banks appear ready
again to finance what they consider well-structured leveraged
transactions.
   Separately, if the buy-out succeeds, the labor group said
it planned to name as directors Robert Lanigan, chairman of
Owens-Illinois Inc.; J. Richard Munro, chairman of the
executive committee of Time Warner Inc., and Donald Perkins,
former chairman of Jewel Food Stores, a unit of American
Superstores Inc.
   The group said the three executives were recommended by an
executive recruiting firm. If the labor buy-out succeeds,
UAL's board will consist of three management directors, four
labor representatives and eight outside directors. Union
leaders would have veto power over the appointment of any
outside directors. The independent directors would also have
to be approved by Gerald Greenwald, the unions' designee for
UAL chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   End of Soviet Trade Pact Worries Finland
   ---
   Accord's Demise May
   Shake Country's Economy
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4E
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Finnish economists and trade officials are scrambling to
sort out consequences of a threatened end to the country's
unique system of trade with the Soviet Union.
   As recently as last October, the Soviet Union and Finland
signed a pact extending their 40-year-old bilateral trade
system to 1995. Under the trade plan, Finland pays for oil
and gas purchased from the Soviet Union with exports of
industrial goods and ships, plus certain consumer and food
products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Frequent snags have tarnished the system in recent years.
Finnish exports have plunged along with world crude-oil
prices. And with economic turmoil sweeping the Soviet Union,
many analysts warned the latest extension of the trade pact
might be the last.
   Still, it came as a surprise last month when the Soviets
told Finnish Premier Harri Holkeri they wanted to scrap the
bilateral trade system prematurely -- possibly by the end of
this year. Flustered Finnish politicians conceded that
abolishing the sheltered barter trade likely would be a
healthy step for both sides -- at least in the long run.
   But in the short term, the possible loss of the trade
agreement looms as an untimely blow to Finland's shaky
economy, some economists warn. The Soviet Union still
accounts for about 17% of Finnish exports. And because orders
received under the bilateral trade accord aren't subject to
competitive bidding, they normally carry hefty profit margins
for Finnish companies, these economists add.
   "It's impossible to say much of Finland's Soviet trade
would disappear along with the bilateral system," says Veijo
Manninen, an economist for Union Bank of Finland in Helsinki.
"But there definitely will be problems if the transition
period is only a few months," he cautions.
   Jerry Raybould, chief equity trader for Kansallis Osake
Pankki, another big Helsinki bank, cites potential erosion of
Finland's trade with the Soviet Union as a prime reason for
the Helsinki stock market's lackluster performance so far
this year.
   The announcement by the Soviets confirms fears that
Finland will "lose ground because it doesn't have the kind of
money to throw at the Soviet Union that bigger European and
North American nations do," Mr. Raybould said.
   It still isn't clear how much of the bilateral trade
system is likely to be dismantled. "The Soviets have proposed
leaving the bilateral trade and payments system and instead
going over to a multilateral system using convertible
currencies," says Kari Holopainen, head of the bilateral
trade office at Finland's central bank.
   Such a move would be in line with proposed economic
reforms in the Soviet Union -- in particular, "changes they
plan in decision-making procedures for foreign trade," Mr.
Holopainen says.
   The effects of a trade pact collapse could be severe in
industries ranging from apparel and shipbuilding, which rely
heavily on exports to the East bloc, to energy.
   Soviet purchases of Finnish clothing, shoes and textiles
have plunged in recent years as overall volume of bilateral
trade dwindled. But Eastern bloc markets still account for
almost 25% of the Finnish textile industry's output. "If the
(trade) system is abandoned, textiles will be hit hard --
they have practically no price competitiveness compared to
manufacturers in Southern Europe or the Far East," said
Markku Lammi, a foreign trade specialist for the Research
Institute of the Finnish Economy, a Helsinki think tank.
   The demise of Soviet barter trade could open Finland's
tightly controlled petroleum market, industry analysts say.
Finland imports virtually all its supplies of crude oil and
natural gas from the Soviet Union. For years, Western oil
companies have struggled against a host of curbs -- from
price controls to a ban on importing their own crude or
refined oil products for sale in Finland. The Finnish
government forced most foreign companies (except
state-controlled Soviet oil concern Teboil Oy) to buy refined
products from Finland's state oil concern Neste Oy.
   Finland long claimed the closed market policy was
necessary to prevent disturbances in the politically
sensitive bilateral trade program.
   As the volume of bilateral trade with the Soviet Union
declined steadily in recent years, some Finnish companies
moved outside the system and stepped up export sales settled
through payment in convertible currencies. Last year, exports
paid in convertible currencies accounted for about 14% of
Finland's 14.5 billion markka ($3.7 billion) exports to the
Soviet Union.
   Finland's big forestry-products industry has aggressively
expanded the share of exports settled in convertible
currencies. Industry officials estimate that roughly
one-third of last year's three billion markka shipments to
the Soviets were outside the barter trade system.
   But convertible-currency transactions also expose
companies to increased financial risks. Under the barter
trade system, Finnish exporters receive payment directly from
Finland's central bank, which thus assumes credit risks
toward Soviet customers.
   Last week Finnpap, the Finnish forest-products industry's
national marketing organization, threatened to halt further
deliveries of paper products to the Soviet Union until
overdue bills are paid. A senior Finnpap official said nearly
100 million markka in bills remains unpaid. On Thursday, the
Soviets began paying the paper exporters and Finnpap said it
wouldn't halt deliveries.
   But citing such payment difficulties, Mr. Lammi, the
Helsinki economist, has trimmed his earlier estimate that
increasingly frequent hard-currency transactions would lead
to a rise in total Finnish exports this year. "We're much
more pessimistic now because Finnish firms have to worry so
much about when -- or if -- they'll get paid," Mr. Lammi
says.
   But greater uncertainty is something Finnish companies are
going to have to learn to live with, according to Mr.
Holopainen, the central bank official. "The traditional
five-year bilateral trade agreements gave an indication about
what the Soviet market would be years in advance -- a sort of
guarantee in practice," he adds.
   "In the future, Finnish companies will obviously try to
export as much as they can," Mr. Holopainen says. "But it's
difficult to foresee what will happen."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lead and Zinc Prices Expected to Jump
   With Pending Strike at Cominco Complex
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR CLT
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Lead and zinc prices are
expected to jump this week as unionized workers at Cominco
Ltd., Canada's biggest producer of the metals, prepared to
strike today at 7 a.m. PDT.
   The expected walkout would shut down Cominco's big
lead-zinc smelter complex at Trail, British Columbia, which
at full capacity produces about 5.8% of the western world's
refined zinc, and about 2.6% of its refined lead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The potential is for quite dramatic increases" of perhaps
several cents a pound for both lead and zinc, if there is a
lengthy walkout at the Trail complex, said Victor Lazarovici,
analyst with Toronto's BBN James Capel Inc. In London Metal
Exchange spot dealings Friday, lead closed at about 41 cents
(U.S.) per pound; zinc closed at 79 cents.
   "Physical supplies of the metals are still very tight,"
Mr. Lazarovici said, partly reflecting a continuing strike at
Brunswick Mining &amp; Smelting Corp.'s big lead-zinc mine at
Bathurst, New Brunswick, where about 1,100 unionized workers
have been off the job since July 1. Brunswick Mining is a
unit of Noranda Inc.
   At Cominco, contract talks broke off Saturday between
company bargainers and negotiators for the United
Steelworkers of America, which represents 2,900 workers at
Trail and 700 more at Cominco's currently dormant lead-zinc
mine at Kimberley, British Columbia. The previous pact
expired June 30.
   Union bargainers angrily dismissed Cominco's latest offer,
which called for annual wage increases of 7.3% and 3.6%,
respectively, over the life of a new two-year pact, as
inadequate. The proposed pay gains reflect an average hourly
wage of 16.82 Canadian dollars (US$14.47), under the previous
accord.
   Union officials, citing higher wage rates for British
Columbia's forestry workers, and for unionized workers at
Cominco's 50%-owned Highland Valley copper mine, said they
want to close the gap with an immediate pay boost of at least
14%. Union bargainers said they also want cost-of-living
allowance (COLA) payments to continue. Cominco, which made
such payments under the old pact, hasn't offered to restore
them.
   Cominco's spokeswoman said the union's contract demands
would add about C$120 million, or an average C$9.50 an hour,
to existing operating costs at Trail. "It's a level that
would shut us down. We just couldn't operate economically at
those levels," she said.
   Cominco's spokeswoman said the company began a three-day
shutdown of the Trail refinery complex Friday. "We have no
idea when talks will resume," she said.
   Union officials said the stage appears set for what could
be a bitter and protracted strike. If so, it wouldn't be the
first labor confrontation for Cominco, which has had a stormy
relationship with its unionized workers in recent years.
   Indeed, Cominco endured a four-month strike at Trail
during the last round of contract talks, in 1987, and its
contract with workers at Highland Valley was reached last
fall, after workers struck for three and a half months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.EMA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PUBLISHING: Britain's EMAP PLC is taking part in the #17.2
million ($30.7 million) acquisition of Le Chasseur Francais,
a French life-style magazine. The monthly will be purchased
jointly by EMAP and French publishing group Bayard Presse
from rival French publisher Dido Bottin. Both will contribute
#2.7 million, with the rest financed through French bank
loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): Getting Ready
   ---
   For Houston, a Chance to Prove It's Hot
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R20
</SO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- This city has been preparing, too -- but not
just for a cadre of world leaders and their erudite aides.
   Still smarting from the collapse of its oil and
real-estate industries in the mid-1980s, America's
fourth-largest city is determined to prove it is alive and
well. So, in the belief that as many as 4,000 media
representatives will flock to this week's summit, Houston has
prepared a public-relations extravaganza.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Months ago, a host committee of 270 top civic, business
and cultural leaders marshaled time, services and products
donated by 10,000 volunteers and prepared to scrub the city's
image. An extraordinary 10-week cleanup drive removed two
million pounds of trash from targeted streets and
neighborhoods. Trees were planted, and special red-and-white
flowers were added along some routes leading to the summit
site, Rice University. (Those colors look best on TV, experts
decided.)
   A "Media Fest" party has been organized, and the night
before sessions begin, favorite son President Bush will play
host to summit luminaries -- and, of course, the press -- at
a barbecue and rodeo.
   The Houston Friendly Committee even devised a special
summit slogan "as a way of encouraging Houstonians to be
friendly to . . . the news media and other dignitaries." The
phrase? "Houston's Hot."
   Which it is. World leaders and reporters willing to
venture outdoors may encounter daytime temperatures well
above 90 degrees and morning humidity around 90%. But civic
boosters insist that's dandy, providing the opening for
well-coached citizens to assure reporters and other visitors
they encounter that Houston is also "hot" when it comes to
its business climate, port facility, energy industry, and
aerospace, medical and convention facilities. (Houstonians
got a pre-summit version of the campaign.)
   "We will convert that negative {the climate} to not only a
positive but to a focused sales opportunity," promised oil
man George Strake, co-chairman of the host committee, who
announced the slogan on a June day when temperature had
already hit 95 degrees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economic Summit (A Special Report): On the Agenda
   ---
   The G7: Past Its Prime?
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Is it possible to suffer from hardening of
the arteries at the age of five? Not likely, maybe, but that
is precisely what some financiers think is happening to the
Group of Seven.
   The G-7, as it's commonly known, is not to be confused
with the the summit group meeting this week, which is led by
heads of state and which frequently is called the Seven. The
G-7, by contrast, has 15 members -- the finance ministers and
central-bank chieftains of those same seven countries, plus
the head of the International Monetary Fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Formally established in 1986, the G-7 is the world's most
exclusive and powerful economic club. It will play an
important part in translating into action some of the
initiatives that the heads of state decide upon at this
summit, but its writ runs well beyond that into regulation of
a huge hunk of the global economy, and its pronouncements
frequently move world markets.
   In its first years of life, G-7 used its clout effectively
in dealing with major economic problems. It did much to
stabilize an unruly U.S. dollar, it coordinated interest-rate
moves on an unprecedented global scale, and it intervened
speedily to help ensure that the world-wide stock-market dive
in 1987 didn't drag the planet into recession.
   But it hasn't done an awful lot lately, and people are
beginning to wonder whether the club members aren't napping
in their wing chairs, victims of early senescence. G-7's
statements, critics point out, have grown more and more
predictable, constantly calling for lower inflation and
higher savings without spelling out concrete steps to achieve
either. Over the past couple of years, its meetings have
produced no major initiatives beyond some relatively modest
fiddling with the industrialized nations' strategy for
handling Third World debt.
   "Has the G-7 become irrelevant?" asks Thomas Berger, a
former U.S. Treasury Department official and now director of
a unit of Swiss bank Lombard Odier &amp; Cie. Increasingly, yes,
he and others believe. In a recent essay, he concluded that
"the essential elements of the current G-7 strategy were
formulated in 1985. Like an automobile of this vintage, it is
time for an overhaul."
   Balderdash, say the club members. If something isn't
broken, they ask, why fix it? If G-7 is quiet now, they
maintain, that's because its policies have worked so well.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady says the U.S. and its
partners have been "successful in maintaining growth,
reducing trade and current account imbalances, containing
inflation and promoting exchange-rate stability." He contends
that G-7 strengthened and lengthened the economic expansion,
now into its eighth consecutive year, and increased its
resiliency in the face of periodic financial market
instability.
   There is a great deal of truth in this, and even the
critics do not contest it. But there is also a growing
feeling the G-7 is not being vigorous enough now in managing
currency-exchange rates and other undramatic financial chores
-- work that, if left undone, could lead to bigger problems
later. "The wolf isn't at the door," says Robert Solomon of
Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. "It's just
that we've got termites in the woodwork."
   The G-7 may not agree, but it knows that in the world of
international finance perception can be as important as fact.
So, at its next meeting -- a fall conclave is probable -- a
new item is likely to be on the agenda: a discussion of
charges that the group has been resting on its laurels. For
now, the critics can only hope that the response will mean
closer management of the world economy by the members of the
club.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Safety Training
   Under Scrutiny
   In Arco Blast
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   RCM ARC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHANNELVIEW, Texas -- Investigators of a fiery Arco
Chemical Co. plant explosion that killed 17 workers here late
last week are trying to determine whether contract workers
were a factor, but the cause of the blast isn't yet known.
   The explosion is the latest in a recent rash of
petrochemical and oil refinery blasts that has prompted
closer scrutiny of plant operations by government, industry
and union officials and tougher enforcement of safety rules.
A Phillips Petroleum Co. explosion killed 23 workers in
October at a chemical plant about a dozen miles from here.
Hundreds of other workers have been injured or killed in the
past two years as such accidents seem to be on the rise
around the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are concerned about what is happening in the
petrochemical industry," said Gerard Scannell, head of the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, in an
interview. Mr. Scannell and OSHA investigators were on the
scene at Channelview within hours of the explosion.
   Industry officials are searching for answers and many have
reviewed their safety practices. "We can't explain this
bunching {of accidents}," said Lodwrick Cook, chairman of
both the chemical company and Atlantic Richfield Co., the oil
giant that owns 83% of the chemical company. "It's
troubling."
   "This situation is accelerating," said Joseph Misbrener,
president of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union in
Denver. "It is definitely a crisis." The union has been
distributing a videotape narrated by Ralph Nader called "Out
of Control" on the industry's problems.
   The Arco blast occurred at a waste-water treatment tank
where maintenance workers were about to fix a compressor,
said Arco officials, who wouldn't speculate on the cause of
the accident until the company and federal authorities
complete their separate investigations.
   The eruption and ensuing blaze that began around 11:30
Thursday night destroyed an area about the size of a city
block at the plant. Tremors from the blast were felt for
miles. It took firefighters four hours to put out the fire at
the facility here, about 20 miles east of Houston.
   OSHA and industry critics have been focusing on the
increased reliance of contract workers in chemical plants and
refineries who, they say, often don't get the same training
as company workers. Mr. Scannell said OSHA commissioned a
study, due by the end of summer, to see if there's a
correlation between the use of contract workers and safety
problems.
   Of the 17 who died here, five were Arco employees, 11 were
contract employees working for Austin Industrial Inc. and one
was a truck driver, Arco said. The plant employs about 350
Arco workers and 80 contract workers full time.
   Arco officials said the contract workers they use receive
the same training as Arco employees. "We treat the contract
employees, who are routinely part of our work force and part
of our plant, as we do our own employees," said Jack Johnson,
senior vice president. Austin Industrial officials couldn't
be reached for comment.
   Union officials maintain that companies use contract
workers because they receive lower wages and benefits than
full-time company employees. While acknowledging that
contract workers are less expensive, Arco officials insisted
the plant uses them to maintain flexibility, not to cut
costs.
   Past accident investigations have also focused on a lack
of preventive maintenance, excessive overtime, inadequate
safety practices and the running of equipment at or above
capacity.
   OSHA has stepped up penalties against companies it
believes made willful and flagrant violations. The agency
levied a $5.7 million fine against Phillips, which the
company is contesting. In the past, OSHA penalties involving
worker deaths often totaled in the hundreds of dollars.
   Arco officials said it could take several months for the
entire plant to restart but that some portions could be
brought on line much sooner. The plant makes a much-in-demand
gasoline additive, methyl tertiary butyl ether, which has
received a big environmental push because it reduces gasoline
evaporation. Arco officials said production could resume
within a few weeks, which analysts said shouldn't affect the
market.
   The plant also makes propylene oxide, used to make foam in
seat cushions and mattresses, and styrene monomer, used as a
food-packaging material. An extended shutdown could boost
prices of these chemicals, analysts said.
   ---
   Alex London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Exploration Co. of Louisiana:
   Purchase of Further Interest
   In Cox Field Area Is Slated
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   XCOL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Exploration Co. of Louisiana Inc., Lafayette, La., said it
agreed to buy additional working interest in the Berry R. Cox
Field area in south Texas for $40 million, a purchase that
will make it the field's operator.
   The company said the area, still in the early development
stage, has nine producing wells and proven reserves of
approximately 200 billion cubic feet of gas. The working
interests in the producing wells vary from 28% to 49% and
include proven reserves of about 60 billion cubic feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To pay for the acquisition, Exploration said it would
begin a rights issue of 600,000 units, each comprising one
share of preferred stock and 10 warrants. The rights issue is
expected to raise about $50 million, the balance of which
will be used to reduce bank debt and provide additional
working capital.
   Exploration Co. is an oil and gas exploration and
production company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   E-Systems Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ESY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   E-SYSTEMS Inc. (Dallas) -- Paul Arnone, founder and
president of Engineering Research Associates, an E-Systems
subsidiary in Vienna, Va., was named to the newly created
position of vice president for advanced technology marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   They're All Thankful the Client
   Isn't the Liver Marketers Council
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PRR
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If they can't deliver the public, at least
they can deliver their employees.
   The public relations gurus at Burson-Marsteller, trying to
restore some of the fizz Perrier lost in the benzene
contamination crisis, haven't met with unqualified success
since the brand's re-entry into the U.S. market two months
ago. A number of restaurants, which accounted for a big chunk
of the brand's sales, have refused to put Perrier back on
their menus, and their patrons aren't complaining.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, Burson-Marsteller officials are taking matters into
their employees' hands. In an internal memo distributed late
last week, Tom Mosser, president of Burson's U.S. operations,
directed the firm's 1,500 staffers to "help Perrier regain
its prominence" by "expressing disappointment" when
patronizing watering holes that shun the brand. Employees
have been instructed to grill restaurateurs who don't offer
the once-chichi import and to forward their explanations to a
Burson executive in New York.
   Some rival PR honchos swear they would never resort to
such a technique. "Usually you try to reach out to the public
to create the demand," says Howard J. Rubenstein, president
of Howard J. Rubenstein Associates in New York. "You don't go
out and ask your employees to create it."
   Richard Edelman, president of Edelman Public Relations
Worldwide, says Burson is resorting to "desperation tactics."
He adds: "That's not conducive to employee morale, nor
frankly is it going to be useful in raising sales. . . .
People resent this kind of thing."
   Burson officials counter that the appeal is nothing out of
the ordinary. "To characterize this as desperate is totally
nonsense," says James E. Murphy, vice chairman at Burson, a
unit of Young &amp; Rubicam Inc. "We customarily endorse all of
our clients' products. It's not unusual for us to encourage
our employees to use them."
   Perrier, meanwhile, insists that the brand is going
gangbusters and that retail sales are strong. And despite
reports that some Perrier executives are unhappy with the
price of Burson's PR balm, the watermen publicly gush with
gratitude.
   Kim Jeffery, Perrier's senior vice president of marketing,
characterizes Burson's hands-on approach as "very nice." His
verdict: "I think they're very, very good."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Break Away Bases
   Get the Call: Safe]
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   I was very pleased to see that someone outside the medical
profession has recognized Roger Hall for his accomplishments
in the fields of baseball and softball (page-one article on
Rogers Break Away Bases, May 25).
   The article characterizes Mr. Hall and his idea as a
curiosity, a human-interest anomaly, with little credibility
or backing. Mr. Hall's product is supported by substantial
medical studies that have scientifically documented the
effectiveness of his Break Away Base, and the impact this
base could have on professional and recreational athletes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Rogers Break Away Base was a breakthrough in sports
safety equipment and should have been welcomed as a needed
progressive improvement. For 13 years, Mr. Hall, far from
receiving encouragement for making our national pastime a
safer sport for all, met with resistance from the sports and
business sectors.
   In 1986 we initiated a study at the University of Michigan
in which we found that 71% of all recreational-softball
injuries were due to sliding. We then instituted a four-year
study and found that 96% of all softball-related injuries due
to sliding could be prevented, and that 99% of the
health-care costs could be prevented. It was then that the
Centers for Disease Control became involved to perform an
actuarial analysis on our data, based upon use of Mr. Hall's
product, and found that the implementation of these bases
across the U.S. could prevent approximately 1.7 million
injuries a year, with a saving of $2 billion in acute
health-care costs a year.
   The medical community, in particular the
orthopedic-surgery community, has embraced Mr. Hall's product
with open arms.
   David H. Janda, M.D.
   Orthopedic Surgery Associates
   St. Joseph Mercy Hospital
   Ypsilanti, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Says Satellites
   May Be Launched
   By Soviet Rockets
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush will permit, for the first
time, U.S. commercial satellites to be launched by Soviet
rockets, Secretary of State James Baker said.
   Speaking on ABC-News' "This Week" program yesterday, Mr.
Baker said he didn't know when the first American satellite
would be carried by a Soviet rocket, which would be launched
from Australia, but that the president had decided "an
initial launch can go forward." The president's decision was
first reported by the New York Times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American rocket companies have opposed the competition
that allowing U.S. satellites on Soviet rockets would bring.
But the Soviets offer services to U.S. satellite companies at
prices the companies feel they should take advantage of to
stay competitive.
   Meanwhile, USBI Co., a unit of United Technologies Corp.,
reportedly is in line to receive an export license from the
State Department to operate the Australian space port. Andrea
Shea-King, a USBI spokeswoman, confirmed yesterday that
United Technologies has been involved in studying and
planning the initiative for about three years. But she added
that United Technologies has yet to be notified about the
license approval.
   USBI, with operations in Cape Canaveral, Fla., and
Huntsville, Ala., is a major contractor to NASA for the Space
Shuttle program. Mrs. Shea-King said United Technologies was
one of three aerospace giants invited by the Australians to
submit proposals, although she added that she didn't know the
identity of the rivals. "To my knowledge, we are the only
entity in the running now," she said.
   While declining to provide details, the spokeswoman said
any forthcoming contract to serve as the program manager in
Australia would "have a significant financial" impact for the
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Captive Customers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The currency union in Germany worked well last week, but
was marred when some stores charged East Germans exorbitant
prices for food and other basics. Some reports attributed the
price-gouging to capitalist greed, but the East German
government discovered the real problem. The two state-run
grocery chains set up by the communists had suddenly become
unregulated state monopolies and could charge what they
wanted. Last Friday, the East Germans began allowing local
governments to sell the stores to private buyers. By selling
the stores to different investors this instant privatization
should drive prices down quickly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Lehman
   Is Fined $500,000
   By the Big Board
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange censured American
Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. unit and fined it a
record $500,000 for Shearson's trading of E.F. Hutton &amp; Co.
stock during 1986 takeover talks.
   Shearson, without admitting or denying the allegations,
consented to the exchange's findings that it violated Big
Board rules in its purchases and sales of Hutton stock
between August and October 1986, while Shearson was making an
unsuccessful effort to acquire Hutton. About a year after
that aborted effort to acquire Hutton, Shearson succeeded in
buying the firm for nearly $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A separate Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation of the matter has been dropped, people familiar
with the case said. The SEC declined to comment.
   The Big Board's investigation involved Shearson's purchase
of Hutton stock before the two firms began exploratory talks
on a merger in late September and October 1986. By Sept. 19,
according to the Big Board, Shearson had bought about 1.5
million shares, or 4.9%, of Hutton's common, just under the
5% level that requires public disclosure.
   Shearson sold about a third of its Hutton holdings Oct.
15; the next day, Hutton announced the talks were off, and
its stock price plunged.
   The Big Board found that Shearson had engaged in "conduct
inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade" in
connection with the Hutton stock sale. Separately, the Big
Board said Shearson had broken rules in its acquisition of
the Hutton stake by failing to mark certain Hutton purchases
as trades for the firm's own account, rather than for
customers.
   Besides the record fine, the Big Board ordered Shearson to
appoint a lawyer who for at least three years will advise it
on rules involving securities transactions for its own
account.
   Shearson, in a statement, said: "We did not violate any
law or existing interpretation of the exchange rules. We
determined to settle rather than going through a protracted
process over actions that took place years ago."
   As for the alleged violations involving the marking of
trades for its own account, Shearson said: "We took steps
before there was any indication of a disciplinary proceeding
to help prevent similar processing errors from occurring
again."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Inflation Is in the Spotlight as Reports
   On Prices, Credit, Retail Sales Are Due
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Trickle-down from June's so-so jobs report
should damp industrial-output data and focus attention on the
next economic bugaboo: inflation.
   Economists surveyed after Friday's employment-report
release said they expect June industrial production, due out
next week,to fall far short of May's 0.6% gain. Meanwhile,
attention turns toward the June producer price index, which
is expected to show a slight increase. The PPI is due out
Friday along with June retail sales. This week's other major
indicator is May's consumer credit, due out today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much attention lately has focused on whether the Federal
Reserve will ease credit, giving the flagging 7 1/2-year-old
economic expansion a shot in the arm. Economists generally
viewed the June jobs data as inconclusive: soft, but not weak
enough to prod the Fed to lower interest rates.
   Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.,
New York, said the next checkpoint for possible Fed action
may come with the June inflation figures.
   "That's where the rubber could meet the road," he said.
Mr. Kudlow expects only a 0.1% increase in the June PPI after
May's 0.3% advance. And he envisions another tame inflation
reading from next week's June consumer price index. He holds
that lower inflation, against the backdrop of a slower
economy, could encourage the Fed to ease credit and help
stimulate the economy. "I think this economy is really on the
cusp of recession," he said.
   Of course, not everyone agrees with Mr. Kudlow about
recession. David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc., New York, said that the "best read on the
{jobs} number" is simply that it confirms "that the economy
isn't growing very much." The slowdown in manufacturing jobs
has been discernible for some time, he said. And the recent
slackening of job growth in the important services area
"doesn't seem to be causing widespread weakness in the
service sector as yet -- with the emphasis on yet," noted Mr.
Resler.
   He expects industrial production to show a rise of 0.4%
for June, with half the gain coming from stronger mining and
utility production. The consensus view calls for only a 0.2%
increase in June output, according to MMS International, a
unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., New York. In May, industrial
production rose 0.6%. Capacity utilization is expected to
remain unchanged at 83.6%, according to the MMS survey.
   The consensus view on the June PPI calls for a rise of
0.2%, down slightly from May's 0.3% advance. Consumer prices
are expected to show a rise of 0.3% for June, up slightly
from May's 0.2% increase.
   Economists said producer prices should benefit from
another drop in energy prices, helping to offset upward
pressure from capital-goods prices. Higher tobacco prices are
expected to tug upward on the index.
   Donald Fine, economist at Chase Manhattan Bank, New York,
believes "the threat of a recession right now is fairly
small," although he noted there aren't any great signs of
vigor, either. "The economy is sort of bopping along at a
1.5% growth rate and that, in the long run, will help
moderate inflation," Mr. Fine said. He expects both the June
PPI and CPI to increase 0.3%.
   A rebound in auto sales in June is thought to have helped
retail sales move into the plus column after two months of
fairly steep declines. The consensus view calls for a 0.6%
gain in retail sales, according to MMS. Excluding auto sales,
that gain narrows to 0.3%, it said.
   In May, sluggish auto sales, along with subdued
general-merchandise buying, are thought to have contributed
to another sluggish consumer-credit report. In April,
consumer credit expanded $600 million.
   ---
                      CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

  Statistics to be released in the Week Ended July 6
                                                                                                       

                                                   CHANGE
                                                (from Prior
                                  TOTAL           period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

   M1 Week ended
   June 25 (in billions)         $808.8           +$1.3
                                                                                                       

   M2 Week ended
   June 25 (in Billions)         $3,270.5         +$1.0
                                                                                                       

   M3 Week Ended
   June 25 (in billions)         $4,053.9         -$4.1
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate
   June, change in
   percentage points             5.2%             -0.1
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers' orders
   May (in billions)             $240.98          +2.1%

   Auto sales
   Late June, total
   vs. year ago                  268,953          +11.5%
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing managers' index
   June, change in
   percentage points             51.1%            +0.4%
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers' shipments
   May (in billions)             $238.90          +2.0%
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending
   May, annual rate
   (in billions)                 $445.6           -0.4%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended June 23            365,000          +1.7%
                                                                                                       

             Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Consumer credit (Mon.)
   May
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Producer price index (Fri.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Retail sales (Fri.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Fri.)
   Early July
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Low Volume, Not a Major-Crisis Sign,
   Is Still a Worrisome Indicator to Many
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If the stock market had a dashboard full of
indicator lights, the one marked "Low Volume" would have been
glowing red for months.
   Shrinking volume on the New York Stock Exchange no longer
signals a four-alarm crisis, as many analysts once thought,
but nobody proclaims it a positive development either. Many
investors cite lackluster trading activity as one reason that
though they keep a hand in the market, the other is on the
emergency-exit panic bar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week was far from typical, there being a holiday
smack in the middle, but daily average Big Board volume
evaporated to a mere 125 million shares. Yet prices snapped
up and down like a flag in a stiff breeze, with the Dow Jones
Industrial Average falling 32 points Thursday and jumping
back 25 points Friday -- on the snooziest trading day of the
year, at 111,730,000 shares.
   Actually, trading activity has been slowing since last
August, while the Dow industrials have risen about 150 points
to new records. So far this year, daily Big Board volume has
averaged 155,800,000 shares, down 18% from the peak of
188,900,000 in 1987, and 9% below last August's average of
171,700,000.
   The old-fashioned view is that volume explains price. For
example, rising volume as prices move significantly either up
or down suggests that trend will accelerate. Surging volume
at the end of a long decline indicates the slide will soon
end, while declining volume in a rising market means the
advance may be about over.
   Small wonder there was little joy on Wall Street during a
five-day rally ended last Tuesday, in which the Dow climbed
70 points but average daily volume sank to 137,700,000 shares
-- more than 11% below this year's slackened pace.
   "We're participating" in the stock market, says Timothy
Clark, associate director of research at Avatar Associates, a
New York money-management concern. But because of declining
volume, he says, "we've got our eyes on the exits here a
little more than we usually do."
   Analysts offer plenty of explanations why -- this time,
anyway -- nothing terrible is about to happen because volume
is waning. A sampler:
   -- Volume in the 1980s was bloated by corporate takeover
activity and all the speculation that went along with it.
Thus, volume may simply be returning to more sustainable
levels while prices do their own thing.
   -- Institutional investors can get more than 8.40% on
10-year Treasury notes, so they trade less stock. "Most money
managers would kill to report 8% growth without risk," says
Alfred Goldman, director of technical market analysis at St.
Louis-based A.G. Edwards.
   -- With all the stock that has been taken out of
investors' hands by corporate buy-backs, takeovers and
restructurings, prices of the remaining shares could climb on
fewer trades. "Plus," adds money manager Robert Stovall of
Stovall/Twenty First Advisers, "there's a very low level of
{competing} opportunity in such investments as real estate
and precious metals."
   -- Program trading, which can whip prices abruptly higher
or lower in the blink of an eye, has scared away many
investors. "Declining volume is a function of disinterest in
the market," says Mark Liebovit, the Sedona, Ariz., publisher
of the Volume Reversal Survey. "The average Joe just doesn't
give a damn." Since the October 1987 crash, individual
investors have fled the market in favor of mutual funds,
which can do battle on more equal footing with big
institutional investors and those who use sophisticated
computer-driven trading strategies.
   Despite such reassurances, some traditional technical
analysts see the volume slump as bad news, indeed. Walter
Stone of Kanon Bloch Carre &amp; Co., a Boston-based mutual fund
research firm, believes declining volume means that buying
interest is waning. "You have to have daily volume of over
200 million shares to confirm that we're in a continuation of
the bull market," Mr. Stone contends.
   Failing that, he foresees a two-year bear market in which
the Dow industrials could retreat 65% to 1000. Mr. Stone
currently recommends a portfolio mix of 35% cash, 25%
government bonds, 15% quality international bonds, 15%
quality corporate bonds, and 10% gold. No stocks.
   While Mr. Stone stands practically alone in his
willingness to stick his neck out with a two-year forecast,
his peers don't dismiss him as a quack. "Walter Stone is not
a hollow guy," says Robert Farrell, Merrill Lynch's chief
market analyst, who agrees that "volume is not bullish right
now." He notes that immediately after the October 1987 crash,
Mr. Stone correctly predicted the market would head higher.
   Some other analysts are inclining toward Mr. Stone's view
but aren't willing to leap to his conclusions. Richard Arms,
a technical analyst at Albuquerque, N.M.-based Eppler, Guerin
&amp; Turner, tracks relative volume movements in advancing and
declining issues. Since last August, he says, each of the
market's significant advances has been accompanied by waning
investor interest, as evidenced by declining volume.
   "The next likely {major} move is down," Mr. Arms says,
"but I want the market to tell me that."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose despite a big rise in interest rates
that followed strong employment data. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average closed up 25.74 to 2904.95.
   On the last day of a holiday-shortened week, trading
slowed on the New York Stock Exchange to 111,730,000 shares,
a low for the year, down from 114,800,000 on the previous
slowest day, March 12, and down from 128,320,000 shares
Thursday.
   For the week, the Dow industrials gained 24.26 points, or
0.8%. Broader market measures didn't keep pace: Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
rose just 0.1% for the week, while the New York Stock
Exchange composite index added 0.2%.
   Investors saw signs of economic strength in the June
employment report, and a hint that second-quarter earnings
may be strong.
   Nonfarm payrolls rose 40,000 in June, and the unemployment
rate unexpectedly fell to 5.2%. More important, the increase
in May payrolls was revised upward sharply to 356,000 jobs
from 164,000.
   Long-term Treasury issues fell about 1 1/8 points, or
$11.25 for each $1,000 face amount, pushing yields up to
8.50%.
   Several rounds of buy programs tied to stock-index
arbitrage helped stocks avoid a similar sell-off, as did
bargain-hunting after the market's setback Thursday, traders
said.
   Investors continued to focus on consumer stocks, which are
seen as safe bets for better earnings. Both Philip Morris,
which rose 1 3/4 to 49 1/4 on 2.8 million shares, and
PepsiCo, which advanced 2 1/8 to 79 7/8, hit new 52-week
highs; Procter &amp; Gamble went up 1 3/8 to 89, tying its
52-week high.
   Boeing climbed 1 1/4 to 60 5/8 on 1.2 million shares.
British Airways placed orders for 21 of the company's 747-400
aircraft, and took options on 12 others, for a deal valued at
nearly $7 billion.
   Panhandle Eastern tumbled 1 to 19 3/8 and was the Big
Board's most active issue at 2.9 million shares. For the
week, the stock plummeted 20.9% amid increasingly heavy
selling. Speculation about a possible reduction in its
dividend sparked the sell-off; the latest decline occurred
after the company acknowledged that its board is expected to
review its payout policy at a meeting July 25.
   Gannett fell 5/8 to 36 1/2. The company expects to report
that second-quarter earnings were lower than a year earlier,
which would be the first year-over-year decline in quarterly
earnings since it went public 22 years ago.
   Quantum Chemical declined 1 1/4 to 15 3/8. Goldman Sachs
issued a sell recommendation on the stock and lowered its
earnings estimates, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report. Analyst Avi Nash, who follows the company
for Goldman, wasn't available for comment.
   Arco Chemical fell 3/4 to 39 in the wake of an explosion
Thursday night at its Channelview, Texas, plant. At least 17
people died in the blast, the Associated Press reported.
   H.J. Heinz added 3/8 to 34 1/2 after its board decided to
exclude the company from all provisions of Pennsylvania's new
anti-takeover law.
   Comstock Partners Strategy Fund dipped 1/8 to 9 1/4 on 1.3
million shares. A block of one million shares of the
closed-end bond fund was traded just after the opening,
accounting for most of the volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV: How's `Today' Today?
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Over the past year, the best soap opera at NBC has been in
Studio 3B. They call it the "Today" show. I call it "Blood on
the Sofa." First came the Bryant Gumbel memo, then the Jane
Pauley/Deborah Norville imbroglio. All along, the ratings of
"Today" plummeted.
   As viewers fled to "Good Morning America," NBC management
and executive producer Tom Capra (director Frank Capra's son)
designed a series of quick-fix solutions, which have been put
in place over the past few weeks. So now the question is, how
is "Today" (weekdays, 7-9 a.m.) today?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The answer: Not so good. Trying to revive the family
feeling that early-morning programs strive for, NBC brought
back baseballer Joe Garagiola (last seen on "Today" in the
early 1970s) as everyone's favorite Uncle Joe. He looks a
little old these days -- glasses, wrinkles, a balder head --
but there's no denying his joviality. "I tell ya]" he'll
enthuse. "That's really special]"
   It seems that "Today" is casting Mr. Garagiola as the poor
man's Charles Kuralt. He does stories on whimsical happenings
in Wheezer, Idaho, like the oldtime fiddlers' contest.
"There's no better day on which to honor American tradition
than the Fourth of July," Joe will say, "and few things evoke
the sense of who we are and where we came from more than the
sound of a fiddle. . . ."
   Mr. Garagiola does best with subjects he can relate to --
like baseball, baseball and baseball. As a collector of
diamond memorabilia, he got pretty riled up about the new
business of players charging kids for autographs, and frankly
it was good to see him get a little steamed. But there are
whole vast realms of stories that he just can't handle. One
anecdote circulating around NBC describes Mr. Garagiola's
first assignment -- to cover the Holocaust Memorial in
Washington. Just imagine.
   Joe has another problem: He has to concentrate real hard
when he reads the teleprompter. His delivery is often stilted
at best. It's clear why folks at NBC are referring to Mr.
Garagiola as a "Band-Aid for their problems, not a long-term
solution."
   But whatever pokes you can take at Mr. Garagiola --
especially at his habit of saying things like "that really
makes you feel good, doesn't it?]" -- there's no denying that
he comes across as a warm, genuine human being, not plastic
at all.
   That's more than you can say for Ms. Norville. From 7 a.m.
to 9 a.m., she's got this huge fake smile plastered all over
her face. And she comes out with sentiments like, "I get so
angry at the ballparks when people aren't paying attention
{to the national anthem}."
   Now admittedly, Ms. Norville never got a break during the
"Jane vs. Deborah" controversy, but the real problem lies
much deeper: She is fundamentally miscast as a "Today" host,
which even NBC executives will admit privately. Ms. Norville
is talented and overwhelmingly pretty and would be fine as a
reporter or a newsmagazine anchor. But it's hard to take that
plastic grin in the morning.
   A show like "Today" is a strange blend of news and
entertainment, of facts and features and ads for "2,000
Flushes." All of the morning programs on all three major
networks have come a long way in the past few decades;
they've evolved way beyond trained monkeys like J. Fred
Muggs. But now these shows are held to a higher standard.
They require a delicate balance of charm and intelligence
from their hosts, an ability to chat with George Hamilton and
interview George Bush. Bryant Gumbel and Jane Pauley can
deftly handle both ends of the equation, the easygoing
livingroom banter and the hard-edged news coverage. But Ms.
Norville falls short on the first front, Mr. Garagiola on the
second.
   "Today" has also added former CBS newsreader Faith Daniels
to its mix, and she's not terrible, even if her eyebrows do
tend to fly out of control. But "Today" is holding a real
trump card it ought to try playing soon -- national
correspondent Katie Couric. While lacking the Miss Peach
Blossom looks of Ms. Norville, Ms. Couric is a solid reporter
with charm, intelligence and the good sense to be embarrassed
by the silly "throw lines," the awkward transitions from news
to entertainment that are plaguing this version of "Today" in
its quest for happy talk. (One especially stupid item went on
at length about how 30 of 700 officers on the Sydney,
Australia, police force flunked their shooting test.)
   Last Monday, when Ms. Couric and Ms. Norville were
interviewing the chef of the 21 Club, it was revealing to see
Ms. Norville uneasily making conversation, while Ms. Couric
just poked curiously at the corn chowder. As the chef rambled
on about a new health cheese called Alpine Lace, Ms. Couric
looked up quizzically and asked, "Is that stuff any better
than Velveeta?" She's a real person, just what the "Today"
show needs.
   Right now, NBC has thrown every stopgap solution it can
think of to plug the leak at "Today." It's got a large and
unwieldy cast, with a confusing setup of part-time hosts (Mr.
Garagiola, for example, is just on Tuesdays to Thursdays) and
none of them are what the show really needs. There's Deborah
Norville, with Bryant Gumbel, Willard Scott, Joe Garagiola
and medical man Art Ulene. I think of them as Snow White and
her dwarfs: Grumpy, Happy, Dopey and Doc. (Of course, no one
is Bashful.)
   In the meantime, the question remains: With the three
major networks all putting on the same format show during the
same a.m. hours, isn't it time to rethink the whole notion of
the morning program?
   ---
   A brief, unhappy note: Paul Wynne, the San Francisco
television reporter who chronicled his life with AIDS in the
weekly installments of KGO-TV's landmark "Paul Wynne's
Journal," died late last week. His courageous program made
many important human points, the most poignant of which was
its end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/09/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH IS FOCUSING on agricultural issues at the economic
summit in Houston.
   The president will urge leaders of the major Western
nations -- especially the European Community -- to commit
themselves to certain changes in agriculture in order to
guarantee success in the current round of global
trade-liberalization talks, U.S. officials said. Bush's
comments will ensure a contentious opening day at the
three-day summit. The U.S., a major agricultural exporter,
favors sharp cuts and the eventual elimination of farm
subsidies, while the EC has argued that it can't do away with
the subsidies without damaging its social fabric.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group isn't likely to agree on economic aid for the
Soviets. The U.S. believes the aid would be wasted without
certain preconditions -- such as a commitment to free-market
principles.
   ---
   GORBACHEV TOLD farmers and workers to back him or find a
new leader.
   The Soviet president, addressing a gathering of workers on
the eve of nominations for Communist Party leader, asked the
group, "Am I needed by you? You will decide." Delegates at a
party congress will vote on the nominations later this week,
and both hard-liners and moderates say Gorbachev appears
certain to weather the sharp criticism of his policies and be
re-elected general-secretary of the party. But the rest of
the ruling Politburo, which the congress also will elect,
could be completely overhauled, with a new generation of
conservatives rising to power.
   A Soviet spokesman said Moscow's assistance to Cuba will
"fade away, but not tomorrow." The U.S. has said aid to the
Kremlin depends on such a move.
   ---
   Louisiana's Legislature passed a bill that would send
doctors to prison for up to 10 years for doing abortions. The
bill, which also sets a $100,000 fine, would allow abortions,
however, in cases of rape or incest. The Senate earlier
yesterday had failed to override Gov. Roemer's veto of a
similar bill that didn't include the exceptions.
   ---
   The U.S. and Canada agreed to begin negotiations on a
treaty to cut acid-rain emissions. Canadian leader Mulroney
and President Bush, both in Houston for the economic summit,
said the talks would start next week. Bush said he decided to
proceed with talks even though Congress has yet to pass a
Clean Air Act.
   ---
   The U.N. secretary-general sent an envoy to Albania to try
to help solve the crisis in Tirana, the capital, where up to
6,000 dissidents have taken refuge in foreign embassies.
Perez de Cuellar, who is acting as an intermediary, said he
was hopeful some people would be allowed to leave Albania but
that "most should stay in their country."
   ---
   Bulgarian student leaders demanded that more of the
country's ruling Socialist Party leaders step down after
public protests forced President Mladenov to resign. The
53-year-old leader, who ousted Communist hard-liner Zhivkov
in November, quit Friday because of charges that he requested
tanks to crush a December demonstration.
   ---
   Greek and U.S. officials signed a defense treaty allowing
two major U.S. military bases to remain in Greece for at
least eight years. Washington sweetened the pact by providing
Athens with 62 warplanes and four naval destroyers. The U.S.
agreed to sharply reduce American military personnel in
Greece and to close two other bases.
   ---
   Bush will permit U.S. commercial satellites to be launched
by Soviet rockets, according to Baker. But the secretary of
state said he didn't know when the first American satellite
would be carried by a Soviet rocket. Plans call for the
rocket to be launched from a base in northern Australia.
   ---
   More than 22,000 youths die each year from injuries, with
homicides and suicides accounting for one-fifth of the
fatalities, according to a report produced for Congress by
the Centers for Disease Control. The study calls for schools,
local governments and families to put an increased emphasis
on injury prevention.
   ---
   Nine white extremists were detained in connection with a
series of recent bombings aimed at anti-apartheid targets,
South Africa's minister of law and order said. He stated that
they hadn't yet been charged.
   ---
   Two Kenyan lawyers were given refuge in the U.S. Embassy
in Nairobi, according to a newspaper owned by the ruling
party. The lawyers were described as leading opponents of the
country's one-party rule.
   ---
   Stefan Edberg of Sweden won the Wimbledon men's singles
tennis title for the second time, defeating defending champ
Boris Becker of West Germany, three sets to two. On Saturday,
Martina Navratilova of the U.S. captured a record ninth
women's Wimbledon title by winning her match against American
Zina Garrison in straight sets.
   ---
   West Germany won the World Cup soccer title for the third
time by beating Argentina, 1-0, in Rome. The West Germans had
lost to the Argentines in the 1986 final in Mexico.
   ---
   Died: Bill Cullen, 70, television personality and game
show host whose broadcast career spanned more than 40 years,
Saturday, in Los Angeles, of lung cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900709-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900709-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Japan Cars
   Score Sales
   Coup in U.S.
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM C.HYU G.VOW
VOLVY J.SUZ G.BMW S.SAA G.AUD J.DHM F.PEU I.ALR G.POR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Japanese auto makers grabbed a record share of
U.S. car sales in the first half, which ended with a late
June sales surge.
   Sales of North American-made cars and trucks in late June
rose 11.9% to the most robust sales pace in six months,
bringing some relief to a struggling industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the big winners for the first half of the year were
the Japanese, who took 28% of total car sales -- domestic and
imported -- compared with just 24% in the year-earlier
period. Detroit's share dropped to 65% from 69%.
   Never before has Japanese market share been so high for a
six-month period, says John Casesa, auto analyst with
Wertheim Schroeder &amp; Co. in New York. "Japanese market share
will continue to increase," he predicts.
   Among the first half's highlights:
   -- Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. were the big winners. Their car sales surged
31.5%, 13.5% and 88%, respectively, thanks to big increases
in production from their U.S. factories.
   -- The Japanese had some losers as well, however. Nissan
Motor Co.'s first-half car sales dropped 13.6%, and Subaru of
America Inc.'s sales plunged 31.1%. Neither company has
strong products in the major segments of the market.
   -- General Motors Corp., a big loser in recent years, held
its own in the first half, with a 35.7% car-market share,
about equal with a year earlier. But Ford Motor Co.'s market
share dipped nearly two percentage points, to 20.8%, while
Chrysler Corp.'s share nose-dived to 8.9% from 10.6% a year
earlier.
   Detroit's Big Three did better in the light truck market
because of their strength in pickups, minivans and Jeep-like
vehicles. Japanese auto makers are just beginning to make
serious stabs at this growing part of the overall vehicle
market.
   Domestically produced cars hit a seasonally adjusted
annual selling rate of 8.1 million vehicles in late June, far
higher than forecast and the strongest selling pace since
early January. It compares with a 7.1 million rate a year ago
and a 6.8 million rate in mid-June of this year.
   "I feel there's some momentum with us now," says Fred
Ricart, a Columbus, Ohio, Ford dealer, who had strong sales
in late June. If so, that bodes well for the U.S. economy,
because it would portend a pickup in consumer spending.
Analysts and auto makers caution, however, that one 10-day
sales period alone isn't enough to warrant strong
conclusions.
   But throughout the first half, Japanese auto makers as a
group turned in a strong performance. Their unprecedented
market share stems directly from their rapidly growing U.S.
manufacturing operations. Ironically, only a few years ago,
Big Three executives were calling for the Japanese to build
factories in the U.S. to create a "level playing field" of
competition.
   Some Japanese companies, notably Toyota and Mitsubishi,
are aggressively pursuing fleet sales, once the exclusive
domain of Detroit's Big Three. And while Detroit's quality
has improved greatly in recent years, the Japanese still
lead, especially in the minds of many consumers. "The
perception that the Japanese cars are better is still out
there," said analyst David Healey of Barclays de Zoette Wedd
in New York City.
   Honda Motor Co. sold 86,872 cars for all of June, a 58.2%
increase from a year earlier. A company spokesman said
year-ago sales were pulled down in the wake of a dealer
incentive program that ended in May 1989.
   GM posted an especially strong 18.2% gain in total vehicle
sales for the last 10 days of June. The No. 1 car maker's
Chevrolet and Pontiac divisions each had big increases. "As
we begin the final months of the 1990 model year and enter
into the second half of the calendar year, we are optimistic
that General Motors will continue to improve its market
share," said James B. Fitzpatrick, GM's vice president of
marketing and product planning.
   Ford, meanwhile, saw its overall sales rise 2% in late
June from a year ago, well below the rest of the market.
Ford's domestic truck sales rose 14.1%, but its domestic car
sales dropped 4.7%.
   Chrysler's total vehicle sales fell 12.6% in late June,
continuing a pattern of badly lagging its competitors that
has continued since February. Chrysler has some big holes in
its car lineup, and its new line of luxury cars haven't
caught on with consumers.
   ---
        RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                             1990        1989        x-%
                             Jun 21-30   Jun 21-30   Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles .......   190,130      160,798    +18.2
  Domestic car ...........   124,649      110,404    +12.9

   Total car .............   131,856      115,710    +14.0
 Domestic truck ..........    58,262       44,863    +29.9
 Imported truck ..........        12          225    -94.7
   Total truck ...........    58,274       45,088    +29.2
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles .....   119,159      116,774    + 2.0
  Domestic car ...........    66,471       69,719    - 4.7
  Imported car ...........     1,484        2,179    -31.9
   Total car .............    67,955       71,898    - 5.5
  Domestic truck .........    51,204       44,876    +14.1
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh ......    59,415       67,948    -12.6
  Domestic car ...........    25,838       29,129    -11.3
  Imported car ...........     2,254        2,785    -19.1
   Total car .............    28,092       31,914    -12.0
  Domestic truck .........    31,019       34,766    -10.8
  Imported truck .........       304        1,268    -76.0
   Total truck ...........    31,323       36,034    -13.1
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car ......    26,841       11,768   +128.1
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA domestic car .....    14,788       11,467    +29.0
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles        10,123       12,418    -18.5
  Domestic car ...........     4,708        5,874    -19.9
  Domestic truck .........     5,415        6,544    -17.3
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car ......     2,565        1,833    +39.9
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ............     2,055        1,101    +86.6
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car .....     1,038            0    .....
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ....     1,781            0    .....
   Total cars ............   279,898      251,565    +11.3
  Domestic ...............   268,953      241,295    +11.5
  Imported ...............    10,945       10,270    + 6.6
   Total trucks ..........   147,997      132,542    +11.7
  Domestic ...............   147,681      131,049    +12.7
  Imported ...............       316        1,493    -78.8
 Total domestic veh ......   416,634      372,344    +11.9
   Total vehicles ........   427,895      384,107    +11.4
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 9 selling days in the most recent period and
9 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
      RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                 1990    1989    %Chg.   1990     1989
                 Jun.     Jun.    Month   To Date  To Date
                                                                                                       

 General Motors 461,937   464,859  - 0.6 2,608,897 2,671,675

   Import car    17,401    16,298  + 6.8    99,386    84,337
 Total car      315,441   325,471  - 3.1 1,753,996 1,836,909
  Domestc trk   146,446   138,618  + 5.6   854,237   830,295
  Import trk         50       770  -93.5       664     4,471
   Total trk    146,496   139,388  + 5.1   854,901   834,766
                                                                                                       

 Ford           304,675   316,011  - 3.6 1,747,477 1,888,438
  Domestc car   170,073   188,804  - 9.9   989,888 1,116,872
  Import car      3,799     5,509  -31.0    32,172    40,920
   Total car    173,872   194,313  -10.5 1,022,060 1,157,792
  Domestc trk   130,803   121,698  + 7.5   725,417   730,646
                                                                                                       

 Chrysler       154,524   183,294  -15.7   901,952 1,060,877
  Domestc car    69,892    82,093  -14.9   403,078   485,739
  Import car      5,731     7,706  -25.6    32,456    56,984
   Total car     75,623    89,799  -15.8   435,534   542,723
  Domestc trk    77,866    89,910  -13.4   458,563   498,624
  Import trk      1,035     3,585  -71.1     7,855    19,530
   Total trk     78,901    93,495  -15.6   466,418   518,154
                                                                                                       

 Toyota          83,562    88,550  - 5.6   524,801   438,667
  Domestc car    26,566    18,988  +39.9   175,305    88,487
  Import car     42,952    49,233  -12.8   257,624   238,656
   Total car     69,518    68,221  + 1.9   432,929   327,143
  Import trk     14,044    20,329  -30.9    91,872   111,524
                                                                                                       

 Honda           86,872    54,924  +58.2   434,257   379,984
  Domestc car    47,175    25,756  +83.2   238,241   193,144
  Import car     39,697    29,168  +36.1   196,016   186,840
                                                                                                       

 Nissan          52,812    64,164  -17.7   313,202   342,662
  Domestc car     9,387     9,534  - 1.5    48,560    50,606
  Import car     29,828    41,583  -28.3   180,621   212,841
   Total car     39,215    51,117  -23.3   229,181   263,447
  Domestc trk    10,805    11,525  - 6.2    67,853    66,272
  Import trk      2,792     1,522  +83.4    16,168    12,943
   Total trk     13,597    13,047  + 4.2    84,021    79,215
                                                                                                       

 Mazda           32,376    30,166  + 7.3   182,673   172,381
  Domestc car     4,855     3,515  +38.1    35,653    22,185
  Import car     16,978    20,503  -17.2   101,442   108,291
   Total car     21,833    24,018  - 9.1   137,095   130,476
  Import trk     10,543     6,148  +71.5    45,578    41,905
                                                                                                       

 Hyundai-b       11,729    15,537  -24.5    69,873    98,290
                                                                                                       

 Mitsubishi      22,171    11,668  +90.0   114,751    66,949
  Domestc car     4,727     2,810  +68.2    27,291    11,230
  Import car     14,351     6,652 +115.7    70,591    40,516
   Total car     19,078     9,462 +101.6    97,882    51,746
  Import trk      3,093     2,206  +40.2    16,869    15,203
                                                                                                       

 Subaru          10,031    13,235  -24.2    51,143    73,724
  Domestc car     1,505         0  .....     2,946         0
  Import car      8,526    13,235  -35.6    48,197    73,724
                                                                                                       


  Import car     14,526    14,919  - 2.6    67,896    70,024
  Import trk        728       673  + 8.2     3,657     2,739
                                                                                                       

 Isuzu           11,753     8,466  +38.8    58,500    54,157
  Import car        345     1,549  -77.7     1,810     9,593
  Domestic trk    2,653         0  .....     7,121         0
  Import trk      8,755     6,917  +26.6    49,569    44,564
   Total trk     11,408     6,917  +64.9    56,690    44,564
                                                                                                       

 Volvo-b          8,755     9,613  - 8.9    48,711    52,761
                                                                                                       

 Mercedes-b       6,517     6,957  - 6.3    36,627    35,877
                                                                                                       

 BMW-b            5,302     5,740  - 7.6    31,184    34,561
                                                                                                       

 Suzuki           1,843     1,982  - 7.0    11,418    15,961
  Import car        589       349  +68.8     3,157     2,809
  Import trk      1,254     1,633  -23.2     8,261    13,152
                                                                                                       

 Saab-b           2,781     2,312  +20.3    13,171    16,025
                                                                                                       

 Audi-b           2,559     1,893  +35.2    11,060     9,286
                                                                                                       

 Jaguar-b         1,532     1,888  -18.9     9,450     9,365
                                                                                                       

 Daihatsu-b       1,261     1,205  + 4.6     8,278     6,827
  Import car        715     1,205  -40.7     5,895     6,827
  Import trk        546         0  .....     2,383         0
                                                                                                       

 Yugo-b             533     1,038  -48.7     3,725     5,305
                                                                                                       

 Porsche-b          844       956  -11.7     5,131     4,554
                                                                                                       

 Sterling-b         311       563  -44.8     2,336     3,351
                                                                                                       

 Peugeot-b          354       501  -29.3     2,364     3,010
                                                                                                       

 Range Rover-c      350       404  -13.4     2,074     2,394
                                                                                                       

 Alfa Romeo-b       484       241 +100.8     1,388     1,636
                                                                                                       

 Total cars     869,359   895,821  - 3.0 4,907,855 5,127,218
   Domestic     632,220   640,673  - 1.3 3,575,572 3,720,835
   Import       237,139   255,148  - 7.1 1,332,283 1,406,383
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks   411,763   405,938  + 1.4 2,358,141 2,394,262
   Domestic     368,573   361,751  + 1.9 2,113,191 2,125,837
   Import        43,190    44,187  - 2.3   244,950   268,425
                                                                                                       

 Total
   vehicles   1,281,122 1,301,759  - 1.6 7,265,996 7,521,480
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include all vehicle sales reported in the period
except tourist-delivery sales of imported models.
   b-Imported cars only. c-Imported trucks only.
   e-Estimated.
   Note: There were 26 selling days in the most recent month
and 26 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
             Percentage of Total U.S. Car Market
                                                                                                       

                         Jun     Jun     6 mos   6 mos
      Make               1990    1989    1990    1989
                                                                                                       

 General Motors-a ...    36.3    36.3    35.7    35.8
 Ford-a .............    20.0    21.7    20.8    22.6
 Chrysler-a .........     8.7    10.0     8.9    10.6
 Toyota-a ...........     8.0     7.6     8.8     6.4
 Honda-a ............    10.0     6.1     8.8     7.4
 Nissan-a ...........     4.5     5.7     4.7     5.1
 Mazda-a ............     2.5     2.7     2.8     2.5
 Hyundai ............     1.3     1.7     1.4     1.9
 Mitsubishi-a .......     2.2     1.1     2.0     1.0
 Subaru-a ...........     1.2     1.5     1.0     1.4
 Other Imports ......     5.3     5.4     4.9     5.0
 Total Domestic .....    72.7    71.5    72.9    72.6
 Total Imported .....    27.3    28.5    27.1    27.4
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes imported and domestically made models.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN ISUZU MOTORS sold 9,405 imported trucks in June,
and a total 12,403 vehicles during the month. The numbers
were reported incorrectly in the auto-sales table in Friday's
edition because of an error by the company.
   (WSJ July 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
