<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Science:
   Wistar Institute
   Plans Outdoor Test
   Of Rabies Vaccine
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Wistar Institute said its researchers plan
to start a field test of a genetically engineered rabies
vaccine Aug. 20. The test will be the first outdoor use in
the U.S. of a recombinant animal virus.
   Wistar, a biomedical research center, plans to distribute
vaccine-laden baits over part of Parramore Island, off the
eastern shore of Virginia. The goal is to protect raccoons
against rabies. If the trial succeeds, the bait might be used
elsewhere, since raccoons are common carriers of the rabies
virus. Wistar is especially interested in using the vaccine
to control current rabies outbreaks in the mid-Atlantic
states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wistar received federal approval for the trial more than a
year ago. But the trial was delayed as the institute sought
clearances from state authorities who had questions about
safety and liability. A proposal to do a trial on an island
off South Carolina was blocked by state health authorities,
at least temporarily. Virginia regulators granted approval
just last month.
   Parramore Island, which is owned by the Nature
Conservancy, has a large raccoon population but is
uninhabited by people and lies some four miles from the
mainland. The choice of a remote island for the trial
reflects Wistar's efforts to allay public concerns, though
the institute maintains the vaccine poses no hazard. Similar
tests in the wild have already been carried out in Europe.
   Wistar made the vaccine by inserting a small piece of
genetic material from the rabies virus into vaccinia virus,
which serves as a carrier for vaccine delivery. The institute
says the genetic material from the rabies virus isn't
infectious but can produce a protective immune response. It
adds that it has tested the vaccine in some 35 species in
captivity without ill effects.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CAE Industries' Order
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAE P.SAL
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- CAE Industries Ltd. said its CAE Electronics
Ltd. unit has been awarded a 39 million Canadian dollar ($34
million) contract by Singapore Airlines to design and
manufacture flight simulators for the Airbus A-310 and Boeing
747-400 aircraft.
   The simulators will be delivered in the summer of 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CompuServe Inc. Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- CompuServe Inc. said it acquired
MicroSolutions Inc., a Dallas-based reseller of local area
network and connectivity products. Terms weren't disclosed.
   CompuServe is a computer communications and software
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NOTICE TO READERS
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Because of a power failure in New York, many of The
Journal's features were incomplete or unavailable for this
edition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ciao, Mon Amigo]
   Class Tries to Lick
   8 Tongues at Once
   ---
   Using Nonsense and Theatrics,
   Inventor of `Octalingual'
   Teaches a Modern Babel
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Back straight and belly bulging, Lee
Riethmiller does a "plie" as his hand chop-chop-chops at the
air above his hairy head. I ape his every move and join my
classmates in a chorus of Portuguese:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Nos? Nos falamos, nos falamos, ate a Mulher Maravilha
fala e falou. Os cogumelos falam, falam, falam, e ontem
falaram, falaram, como animais, como frangos selvagens]"
                                                                                                       

   Which means:
   "Us? We speak, we spoke, even Wonder Woman speaks and
spoke. The mushrooms speak, speak, speak, and yesterday they
spoke, they spoke, like animals, like wild chickens]"
   In German, the mushrooms find, find, find, like
"Jakobsmuscheln," or scallops. In Italian, President
Cespuglio (Bush) hops a train with "innumerevoli cavoli," or
countless cabbages.
   "Wow, that's great," Mr. Riethmiller says. Nonsense it may
be, yet he assures us we've got the beat. But I am baffled
and vaguely crave a seafood stew. Is this any way to learn a
foreign language?
   Not on your "dolce vita, amigo." This is a way to learn
eight of them -- in one class called Octalingual. Not just
Portuguese, German and Italian, but Arabic, French, Japanese,
Russian and Spanish, too. No one except Mr. Riethmiller has
taught it.
   Octalingual is just for openers. On Tuesdays, Mr.
Riethmiller teaches a seven-language class, confusingly
called Quintalingual (quinta, signifying "quintessential," he
says, not five). In December, he will pull out all the
glottal stops and unveil Decalingual, as in 10.
   The limber-lobed Mr. Riethmiller -- Fulbright scholar,
Harvard Divinity School graduate and leader of a blues band
called Street Lips -- owns and runs the Intercontinental
Foreign Language Program, a private school here. With antic
style and the 11 foreign languages he speaks, he vows to hurl
the lingually lax U.S. into the international age.
   Given "the tide of history" -- Europe 1992, unwalled
Berlin, a global economy and all that -- Mr. Riethmiller
figures everyone will need to speak a bunch of languages
pretty soon. But present teaching methods, he says, aren't up
to the task. Besides, most aspiring U.S. polylinguists are
pressed for time. So Mr. Riethmiller ignores what went down
at Babel and sells languages by the bushel.
   "I don't consider myself a visionary, but this is the way
language will be taught in the 21st century," he says. "I am
the future mainstream."
   For people still living in the 20th century, his school
teaches standard one-language classes -- French I, Yoruba II,
Advanced Urdu and more. But about 60 of the 350 students in
the school pay up to $340 per eight-week term for the
multilingual courses. In addition to Octalingual's eight, Mr.
Riethmiller also speaks Amharic, Greek and Turkish. The
seven-language Quintalingual course is Octalingual minus the
Russian.
   Does it work? "Absolutely," says Natasha Yakovlev, a
former French teacher enrolled in Octalingual. "I love it. I
look forward to it, and I'm picking up all sorts of stuff."
Despite "all the crap I'm taking from my friends," adds
Boston real estate developer Paul Varadian, another
octa-pupil, "I think I'm learning something."
   Mr. Riethmiller says it takes about three years to attain
fluency in the eight languages, but no one has gone that far
yet, since Octalingual only began in May. Foreign language
specialists, although impressed by Mr. Riethmiller's talents,
are somewhat skeptical.
   "Let's face it: The human nervous system rejects
conflict," says Harry Rosser, chairman of the Romance
Languages department at Boston College. "I don't see how he
can control the chaos." Adds Judith E. Liskin-Gasparo, a
specialist in language teaching methods at Middlebury College
in Vermont: "The guy is probably a genius . . . but I suspect
he's teaching a lot of memorized vocabulary and phrases, and
that's no substitution for language proficiency."
   Mr. Riethmiller's retort: "Here's what's really happening.
I'm out there first. No one has even imagined this. I'm
creating it, producing it, directing it, performing it. Of
course it will be a total change in the society. There's no
one out there in the universities who could possibly judge it
or say whether it works. I know it works. It works for me. It
works for others. The alternative isn't working, that's for
sure."
   Mr. Riethmiller's foreign speech is full of nonsense --
grammatically correct phrases that are fantastically
illogical. Blackboards hug tadpoles. Death itself cannot cure
cinnamon. These expressions, their vocabulary and
conjugations, are meant to be unforgettable. And they often
are. "Things like that really stick," says David Butz, a
medical products designer and Octaligual student. Barely
prompted, he rattles off "toothpaste-face, the bull" in
Portuguese, Russian and Italian.
   Even a lingual "dummkopf" like me stands a chance in
Octalingual and Quintalingual, Mr. Riethmiller insists. So in
a couple of visits to his evening classes, held in a
clapboard church near Harvard Yard, I go for it.
   The roundish Mr. Riethmiller, clad all in black, with
shoulder-length hair, mustache and beard of the same hue,
walks briskly into a 6:30 class at 7:03, looking like a
late-comer to a Hell's Angel's wake. The blackboard says
"thanks, mushroom" and "hello, ice" in seven different
languages. By 7:10, the word wizard gets his first laugh, and
soon we are his, 15 mouths on a tour of some very odd places:
   "Grazie, ciglia," says Mr. Riethmiller in Italian. We
repeat.
   "In Inglesi?" he asks.
   "Thanks, eyelash." And on:
   "Ciglia di lumaca." Snail's eyelash. "Ciglia di lumaca,
io?" Snail's eyelash, me? "Si, si, tu." Yes, yes, you. "Si,
si, tu. Tu e tuo Stazione Nord." Yes yes, you. You and your
North Station.
   A quick change to French and we board "le train". The
class repeats train-train-train-train in heavily accented
French for nearly a minute while Mr. Riethmiller goes
"woowoo" in the background. The train goes to where they
speak "Deutsch," where snail is "Schnecke," face is "Gesicht"
and each of us is called a "Schnecke-Gesicht."
   There's more to this method than tangled tongues. All the
things you hated about foreign language -- conjugation,
textbooks, tests and grades -- are gone. Verb tenses are all
mixed up at once, without progression, just the way people
speak.
   Mr. Riethmiller woos both ear and eye. His word-and-phrase
lists, copyrighted as "Lipscripts," employ assonance,
alliteration and onomatopoeia, as in the Italian word
"sussurare," for whispering. Moods shift as languages change.
Arabic and German are asserted. French sounds cute.
Portuguese, rendered in a Brazilian accent, sways like a
song.
   When Mr. Riethmiller wants to emphasize, which is nearly
always, he moves -- reaching high for squeaky words, pulling
phantom taffy for lengthy ones. Periodically, students must
rise and mimic his moves in what he calls the "Verbdance."
   The Octalingual students are highly complimentary of Mr.
Riethmiller, although they say he has danced lightly so far
in Russian and Japan. He also interrupts classes for what he
calls "brief four-second commercials" -- plugs for trips he
leads to teach Greek, Turkish and other languages on their
native soil.
   Even if we never get abroad, Mr. Riethmiller assures us
after an exhausting 90-minute class, what he teaches can be
used in nearby Harvard Square, home to many ethnic eateries.
He recommends Biscotti, an Italian cookie shop "which has
been bought by Hindi speakers who employ all Arabs, and you
can buy a little whatever, say "shukran" -- "thanks" in
Arabic -- and have a conversation.
   Head full of harems and hookahs, I hurry over to the shop
and order a cookie. The man behind the counter hands me
change and makes eye contact. Now]
   "Shukran," I say.
   "You're welcome," says the cookie man.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baldor Electric Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   BEZ
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT SMITH, Ark. -- Baldor Electric Co. said it plans to
purchase as many as 300,000 of its common shares on the open
market and in negotiated transactions for its stock option
plan and other employee benefit plans.
   The stock will be purchased between now and June 30, 1991.
The maker of electric motors has about 9,656,000 shares
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philippine Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- The Philippine trade deficit
widened 63% to $1.87 billion in the first half from $1.15
billion a year earlier, the National Statistics Office said.
   Exports rose 3.7% to $3.9 billion from $3.76 billion in
the first six months of 1989, while imports grew a hefty 18%
to $5.77 billion from $4.91 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The S&amp;L Bailout: Looting the North for Texas' Benefit
   ----
   By Howard Wolpe and Frank Horton
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The savings and loan debacle is causing one of the largest
regional transfers of wealth in American history. Taxpayers
across the country are being stuck with the tab for a
speculative construction boom in the sunbelt. Southwesterners
trying to distract attention from this aspect of the scandal
have been looking northward in search of a scapegoat. Their
gaze has focused upon Wall Street brokers and their clients.
   It is claimed that the major beneficiaries of the scandal
are wealthy investors from across the nation who sought high
interest rates from high-flying southwestern thrifts with the
assistance of Wall Street brokers. Unfortunately, this notion
seems to have become the conventional wisdom without serious
examination.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While there is anecdotal evidence of thrifts that have
relied heavily on brokered deposits, the importance of such
deposits has been greatly exaggerated. In December 1989,
brokered deposits comprised only 7% of thrift deposits
nationwide, and only 9% of deposits in Texas, where the vast
majority of thrift failures have been concentrated. There is
no evidence to support the claim that a majority of deposits
in insolvent southwestern thrifts came from other regions.
   But the location of the depositors is actually beside the
point. The important question in determining whether a
transfer of wealth is occurring is not where the depositors
live, but where their money was invested. The deregulation of
the nation's thrift industry started out as an effort to
reduce the role of government in the market place. It ended
up as the largest regional economic development program in
U.S. history.
   The 1980s were a period of hostility to traditional
federal economic development programs. It was claimed that
such programs "distorted the marketplace" and should be the
responsibility of the private sector and state and local
government. Many programs important to the northeast and
midwest were severely reduced or eliminated. These included
Urban Development Action Grants, Community Development Block
Grants, EPA wastewater treatment grants and Urban Mass
Transit Administration programs.
   This disdain for federal involvement in the market place
curtailed federal economic development activities in the
northeast and midwest at the same time as disdain for
government actually spurred economic activity in the
southwest. When the federal government loosened regulations
on federally chartered thrifts, the state of Texas went even
further.
   Few people realize that we have a "dual banking system"
based upon a federal state partnership with states regulating
state chartered thrifts, while the federal government
provides deposit insurance. Unfortunately, in recent years
this federal state partnership was badly abused by state
regulators in Texas (and other states) who gave owners of
state regulated thrifts free rein to engage in highly risky
activities with funds backed by federal deposit insurance.
Many state chartered thrifts were acquired by developers who
used them as private banks to finance the development of
office buildings, shopping centers and apartment complexes.
   These thrifts attracted deposits like a magnet by offering
the highest interest rates in the nation. From 1980 to 1985,
federally insured deposits in state-chartered Texas thrifts
grew by a staggering 186 percent. But these thrift
owner/developers did not worry about the risk associated with
their ventures. When the bottom fell out of the Texas economy
in 1986, taxpayers across the country were left holding the
bag. And Texas was left with the property.
   The magnitude of this regional economic development
program can be illustrated by looking at the inventory of
property held by the Resolution Trust Corporation. In March
1990, the RTC held $15 billion worth of repossessed property.
Of that, $10.2 billion, or 68%, was located in the state of
Texas.
   What does this mean for the future? A recent Commerce
Department report concluded that the southwest will be the
fastest growing region in the nation in the 1990s. While this
glut of property is currently dampening real estate values,
it will stimulate growth in the years ahead. During the
recent economic summit in Houston, the city pulled out all
stops to convince the international press that Houston was an
excellent place for investment. One of their major selling
points: low-cost office space.
   The costs to date to clean up state chartered thrifts in
Texas are staggering. Since the bail-out began in 1988, $29
billion in costs have resulted from insolvent state chartered
thrifts across the nation. The 18 states of the
Northeast-Midwest region caused only $1.3 billion, or 5%, of
that $29 billion. Some $21 billion, or 72%, is due to
insolvent state-chartered thrifts in Texas.
   The northeast and midwest regions are being hit with a
triple whammy. First, although the northern states have
rigorously regulated their state-chartered thrifts, they are
being stuck with billions of dollars in costs from a state
that did not. Second, the enormous cost of this scandal will
reduce the federal government's flexibility to make much
needed investments in economic development in the northeast
and midwest. Third, northern taxpayers have financed billions
of dollars worth of development in an area with which their
states will compete for private investment for years to come.
   Some people may not want to call it a transfer of wealth,
but it comes down to this: through state policy, Texas
encouraged a massive construction boom and -- by abusing the
federal deposit insurance system -- has levied a tax on our
citizens to pay for it. If that isn't a transfer of wealth,
we don't know what is. To point the finger at Wall Street is
a feeble attempt to obscure this fact.
   ---
   Rep. Wolpe (D., Mich.) and Rep. Horton (R., N.Y.) are
co-chairs of the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Polly Peck's Chairman, Nadir, Considers
   Taking the British Conglomerate Private
   ----
   By Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Entrepreneur Asil Nadir, a faded star of the
London stock market, looks set to make his most flamboyant
move yet as he prepares to take his Polly Peck International
PLC private.
   Polly Peck said Mr. Nadir, chairman of the food and
electronics group, is considering a bid for the 74% of the
company he doesn't already control. Based on Polly Peck's
closing price yesterday, such an offer would be worth roughly
#1.3 billion ($2.43 billion). Mr. Nadir couldn't be reached
for comment yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move surprised London investors. Polly Peck shares
soared an initial 15% yesterday to 450 pence ($8.42) on
London's stock exchange. The shares later fell back to trade
at 417 pence apiece, up 24 pence from Friday against a
generally declining market. Except for a short statement
confirming Mr. Nadir's approach, Polly Peck declined to
comment.
   Mr. Nadir's suggested buy-out would cap a decade of hectic
growth for Polly Peck -- and simultaneously remove from the
public spotlight one of Britain's more-colorful companies.
Born in Turkish Cyprus and educated in Istanbul, Mr. Nadir
bought a majority stake in what was then a tiny British
textiles concern to give his Turkish food businesses a
foothold in London's financial markets. Eventually, he built
Polly Peck into a miniconglomerate of food and electronics
interests. Last year, pretax profit rose 44% to #161 million
on sales of #1.16 billion.
   Mr. Nadir's two most-spectacular purchases occurred just
last fall. In September, Polly Peck agreed to pay #557
million for the tropical-fruit business of RJR Nabisco Inc.'s
Del Monte foods unit. A month later, the company paid 15.6
billion yen ($103.7 million) for 51% of Japan's Sansui
Electric Co., a rare instance of a foreigner buying control
of a Japanese electronics company. Polly Peck subsequently
raised its Sansui stake to 71%.
   But Polly Peck's shares have suffered recently, with
investors raising eyebrows over the quirkiness of the group's
range of businesses. This month's political upheaval in the
Middle East, where Polly Peck still has business interests,
also hit the company's shares. Before yesterday's
announcement and subsequent stock-price jump, Polly Peck
shares traded at roughly eight times analysts' estimates for
1990 earnings.
   But analysts generally accept Mr. Nadir's contention that
Polly Peck is worth more. "The market underestimates the
quality of the {company}, especially since the Del Monte
acquisition," says Bill Myers, a food analyst at Henderson
Crosthwaite in London. "There are good, solid, American guys
running the food division."
   Any announcement from Mr. Nadir isn't likely before Sept.
6, when Polly Peck is due to report its half-year earnings. A
bidding contest for Polly Peck appears unlikely, as Mr.
Nadir's stake in the company would be a formidable obstacle
for any rival.
   It wasn't clear how Mr. Nadir would finance a buy-out. The
political instability in the Middle East might hamper efforts
to raise cash there. But Mr. Nadir might well undertake a
partial breakup of the group to pay off debt arising from a
buy-out. He previously has expressed interest in floating the
company's fresh-produce interests. And earlier this year,
Polly Peck floated a 15% stake in its Turkish electronics
unit, Vestel Electronik Sanayaii ve Ticaret AS, on the
Istanbul Stock Exchange.
   The announcement that Mr. Nadir is considering an offer
for Polly Peck followed weekend British news reports
suggesting that U.K. tax officials are investigating trading
in Polly Peck stock before the announcement of the Del Monte
purchase. The reports didn't allege any wrongdoing by Polly
Peck or Mr. Nadir. Officials of Britain's Inland Revenue
couldn't be reached for comment. A Polly Peck spokesman said
the company hadn't been approached by any government
officials concerning any probe.
   If Mr. Nadir takes Polly Peck private, he will follow in
the footsteps of another well-known U.K. entrepreneur.
Voicing disenchantment with the U.K. stock market, Richard
Branson and management of his Virgin Group PLC spent #99
million taking the company private in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Contracts Awarded
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSC
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Computer Sciences Corp. was given a $31.9
million Air Force contract for upgrading the Military Airlift
Command's information-processing system.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rome Research Corp. won a $21.2 million Air Force contract
for system integration and engineering support.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                            Week Ended:
                                       Aug. 10,     Aug. 3,
                                         1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a .... 7.77        7.78
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) .. 7.87        7.89
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ......... 8.07        8.03
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b .............. 7.89        7.88
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ......... 7.70        7.67
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ....... 8.15        8.01
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ........ 8.36        8.12
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ......... 8.72        8.37
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c .......... 8.82        8.44
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, August 8, 1990
and Wednesday August 1, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, August 13, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/8% high, 8% low, 8% near closing bid, 8
1/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.85% 30 to 44 days; 7.80% 45 to 59 days;
7.70% 60 to 89 days; 7.60% 90 to 119 days; 7.55% 120 to 149
days; 7.50% 150 to 179 days; 7.375% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.95%
30 days; 7.87% 60 days; 7.80% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.66% two
months; 7.70% three months; 7.92% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.84% 30 days; 7.76% 60 days; 7.67%
90 days; 7.62% 120 days; 7.58% 150 days; 7.53% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8
1/16% - 7 15/16% two months; 8% - 7 7/8% three months; 8% - 7
7/8% four months; 8% - 7 7/8% five months; 8% - 7 7/8% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8% three months; 8% six months; 8 1/8% one year. The average
of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the London
market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 13, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.41%, 13 weeks; 7.31%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.05%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.99%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.35%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.68%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   TWA and Eastern
   Cut Many Fares
   For Fall, Winter
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA CTA LABOR U
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   Two of the country's weakest airlines, bucking the
industry trend, pared many of their fares for travel during
the slow fall and winter seasons. It's unclear whether rivals
will follow suit.
   The pricing moves by Trans World Airlines and Eastern
Airlines were viewed by industry analysts as marketing ploys
to drum up business. But TWA said it was "responding to
President Bush's call" last week for companies to restrain
prices amid a run-up in the cost of fuel. TWA said it was
cutting some fares by 20% to 30%. And Eastern said the new
fares, which it said are discounted 15% to 40%, represent a
"beat-the-increase" program before higher fares go into
effect tomorrow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "What generous guys," said Robert Cross, president of
Aeronomics Inc., an airline pricing consulting firm. "It
seems like a real magnanimous thing to do. But airlines
respond to the demands of the traffic place, not necessarily
the chief executive of the country."
   Eastern has been vigorously attempting to regain
passengers lost after a bitter strike crippled its operations
last year. TWA, meanwhile, faces problems that have prompted
owner Carl Icahn to sell planes, reduce the number of flights
and demand wage concessions from pilots.
   The airline industry has come under increasing criticism
for raising prices since Iraq invaded Kuwait, sending oil
prices skyward. Initially, the industry averted criticism,
citing increases of as much as 35% in fuel prices.
   But after several oil companies responded to President
Bush's jaw-boning by cutting or freezing gasoline prices,
most airlines plowed ahead with fare boosts.
   Rep. Bob Carr (D., Mich.), a member of the House aviation
subcommittee, said the fuel increases "smacked of
profiteering" and suggested that airlines "avoid the
temptation to exploit the situation." Transportation
Secretary Samuel Skinner plans to meet starting tomorrow with
chief executive officers of several airlines in one-on-one
sessions to discuss, among other things, the impact of the
fuel increases on the flying public.
   Not all Eastern passengers will receive lower fares.
Indeed, the airline will join other carriers and boost most
fares by 5.3% tomorrow. The lower fares announced yesterday
are a separate short-term promotion that will include several
restrictions.
   For qualified fliers, Miami-based Eastern is cutting
round-trip fares to between $138 and $278. For instance, the
cheapest fare available from New York to Florida cities will
be $158 round-trip, down from $198 currently.
   TWA, Mount Kisco, N.Y., said it reserves the right to
raise its fares in the future if fuel costs don't fall. Its
reluctance might not matter because its competitors can
institute their fare increases in all markets except where
TWA flies. Illustrating its fare reductions, TWA said the
cheapest round-trip fare between St. Louis and New York is
dropping to $158 from $280.
   "We're trying to catch the mood in the country," said
Robert Cozzi, TWA's senior vice president, marketing. "People
are really upset" at higher fares.
   The two airlines' competitors may follow the cuts for
several reasons. One, the lower fares are only available for
a short time, until Aug. 29. The cuts also don't affect all
tickets. They, for instance, exclude business fares that
generate the most revenue for airlines. The fare cuts affect
tickets that are mostly used by vacation travelers because
they can comply with the tight restrictions, which require
advance purchase, round-trip travel and Saturday night
stayovers.
   Also, the discounted fares are only good for travel during
the slow Sept. 5 to Dec. 16 period, when vacationing
virtually comes to a standstill. Cutting those fares won't
hurt the airlines too badly.
   Most important, the industry is in the midst of a
difficult time and can't afford to scare too many passengers
away. "We thought we'd go out and stimulate some business and
allay some fears people have," said George Brennan, Eastern's
senior vice president, marketing.
   In a move underscoring the industry's current financial
troubles, the pilots' union at USAir Group Inc. said the
airline plans to lay off 211 pilots. Arlington, Va.-based
USAir denied that any such action has been announced but
acknowledged business is slow and that it is mulling the
move.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Retail Sales Volume Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Retail sales volume in Britain rose a
provisional 1.0% in July from June and was up 2.3% from July
1989, the U.K. Central Statistical Office said.
   Market forecasts for July were for a rise of 0.4% on the
month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Retail sales volume was up 0.1% in the three months ended
in July, compared with the previous three months but was up
1.6% from a year earlier, the statistical office said.
   The value of retail sales was up about 9% in July from
July 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thomson-CSF Radar Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TCSFY EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French defense and electronics group Thomson-CSF
announced that it has received an order to supply an
unspecified number of radar systems to the French navy.
   The state-controlled group said in a communique that the
medium-range air surveillance radar systems will be designed
for use in limited-risk areas. Delivery will start toward the
middle of 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial details of the contract weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kaman Wins GE Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   KAMNA GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BLOOMFIELD, Conn. -- Kaman Corp. said its Kaman Aerospace
Corp. unit received a multiyear contract from GE Aircraft
Engines, a unit of General Electric Co., to manufacture fan
reverser fixed structures for GE's new CF6-80E commercial jet
engines.
   The contract, with an initial value of $85 million, covers
production through the late 1990s, with options for
additional output.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The total value of the contract with options could exceed
$150 million, the defense contractor said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bethlehem's Freight Car Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHNSTOWN, Pa. -- Bethlehem Steel Corp. said it intends to
offer to sell its Johnstown Freight Car Division. The steel
company said its decision was in keeping with its previously
stated policy of divesting assets not directly related to its
core steel business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Societe Generale de Belgique
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.SGL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SOCIETE GENERALE DE BELGIQUE (Brussels) -- Baron Jean
Godeaux, honorary president of the Belgian National Bank, was
elected to the board of this holding company and was named to
the company's executive committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Cray Research Exxon Order
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR XON
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Cray Research Inc. said Exxon Corp. ordered
a Cray Y-MP8 computer system valued at about $15 million.
   The system, to replace two existing Cray supercomputers,
is to be installed in the fourth quarter at the New
York-based oil company's technical computing center in
Houston. It will be the first Cray Y-MP8 supercomputer used
in the petroleum industry, said Cray, which makes
large-scale, high-speed computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ecogen Gets Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EECN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANGHORN, Pa. -- Ecogen Inc. said it closed an $8.5
million investment by David Blech, a private investor who
controls about 40% of the company's common stock. Ecogen has
received $7.6 million of the proceeds and the balance is
anticipated following stockholder approval of the issuance of
450,000 shares of common stock next month.
   The company said the investment will allow Ecogen to
continue operating as an independent company and to promote
its three new biopesticides.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lawson Mardon Group
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LMG LMP.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Lawson Mardon Group Ltd. said it plans to
acquire certain paper-label manufacturing assets of closely
held H.S. Crocker Inc. of San Francisco.
   Lawson Mardon, a packaging and printing concern based in
Toronto, said the assets to be acquired include two
facilities producing labels for the food and beverage
industry. The plants, with 245 employees, are located in
Sparks, Nev., and Baltimore.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawson Mardon also will acquire 10 of Crocker's sales
offices in the U.S.
   Terms weren't disclosed. The deal is expected to close
next month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Housing and Taxes Are Problems,
   But We've Got Bigger Fish to Fry
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Yorkers are mad as hell and they aren't going to take
it anymore.
   Takeout menus, that is.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It comes with living in New York: Chinese restaurants
relentlessly shove takeout menus under doors in apartments
and brownstones. Of course, many urban dwellers take full
advantage and order by telephone. But how many menus does one
household need?
   To combat the growing paper assault, "No Menus" posters
are popping up in lobbies all over Manhattan. Sometimes the
posters have a Chinese menu with the international "no"
symbol -- a circle with slash mark -- superimposed on it.
   The signs can be quite elaborate: some are written in
Chinese. Others threaten a full-scale boycott of the
offending establishment if the menus don't stop coming.
   "I call these restaurants myself and say, `You've got to
stop doing this, it's annoying the tenants,'" says Rick
Delacruz, the building manager of Checkers, a rental
apartment house on Manhattan's Upper West Side. "They say
they're sorry and a week later, they're back."
   What infuriates some New Yorkers is how delivery persons,
after dropping off food at one apartment, can then wander the
building, leaving menus upon menus in their wake.
   In a random check, a dozen Chinese restaurants around town
deny that they are the culprits. "We even have a list of
apartment buildings where we're not welcome," says James
Shau, manager of the Empire Szechuan Columbus on Columbus
Avenue. "I notice the signs. We instruct our employees not to
do it. But every day we have a change in personnel and so
it's done sporadically."
   "If people have signs, we don't put them in the building,"
says the manager of another restaurant. "But we still put
them in where there are no signs."
   Apartment managers compare the menus to another big city
annoyance: roaches. They may disappear for a while, but it's
only a matter of time before they return. Mr. Delacruz says
it is embarrassing, when showing a vacant apartment to a
prospective tenant, to find a slew of menus under the door.
"It shows our security is in question," he says.
   Tom Goodman, a spokesman for CBS News, says his Upper East
Side apartment building has a partial solution. "The doormen
tell offending restaurants they won't be allowed to deliver
to the building anymore," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ren Corp.-USA
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   RENL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REN Corp.-USA (Nashville, Tenn.) -- D. Barry Reardon has
been elected a director of this provider of dialysis
services, expanding the board to 11 members. Mr. Reardon is
president of Warner Brothers Distributing Corp., a unit of
Time Warner Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Recovery Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   INT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL RECOVERY Corp. (Miami Springs, Fla.) --
Phillip S. Bradley, 52 years old, was elected to the board of
this waste management company. Mr. Bradley is chairman and
president of Advance Petroleum Inc., a unit of International
Recovery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Foreign Advertisers Face Hurdles
   Getting Air Time on Korean TV
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- The South Korean government is
keeping its promise to open up Korea's advertising market to
foreign ad agencies, but it's still difficult to get an ad on
television here.
   It's not that foreign advertisers face discrimination.
Korean advertisers are having as much trouble as foreign
companies trying to get television time because demand so
exceeds supply.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If more time was available, every client I talked to
would add a third to his {advertising} budget," says David
Healy, who recently set up an office for McCann-Erickson Inc.
Some advertising executives in Seoul think there is $25
million in business each day waiting for air time.
   The root of the problem is the way the South Korean
government regulates television. There are only two
television companies in South Korea and both are
government-owned. Commercials are limited to 8% of broadcast
time and are shown in clusters at the beginning and end of
programs.
   To make matters worse, Korean stations only broadcast a
few hours a day. They don't broadcast from midnight to 6 a.m.
And they usually can't broadcast between 10 a.m. and 5:30
p.m. on weekdays, which doesn't allow advertisers to reach
the all-important housewife. "We are forced to buy what we
don't want to buy just to get on," says Martin H. Cohan,
president of a local advertising agency that J. Walter
Thompson plans to buy.
   (Print advertising doesn't suffer from these problems.
Newspapers and magazines have proliferated in Korea without
direct interference from the government since 1987.)
   Korea's ad market is small, about $1.8 billion a year
compared with $130 billion in the U.S. this year, but it is
the second largest in Asia after Japan, and it is growing at
about 25% to 30% a year. The Korean government estimates that
the average urban wage-earner's household income is about
$15,000 a year and rising.
   A growing number of companies, including Citicorp's
Citibank, candy maker Mars and Procter &amp; Gamble, have
recognized that Koreans are getting richer and more eager to
buy their goods and services. Nestle is the biggest foreign
advertiser, ranking 15th among all Korea's advertisers with
expenditures of 4.6 billion won, or about $6.5 million, in
the first half of 1990.
   Under pressure from foreign and domestic advertisers
alike, the Korean government is slowly addressing the TV
advertising problem. The government recently authorized the
creation of a new "independent" network. It won't be owned by
the government, but the government will strongly influence
what is aired. When it begins broadcasting next year, ad
supply should increase by about a third. Government officials
say they probably won't increase the percentage of ad time on
television, but would "view positively" increasing the number
of broadcast hours.
   TV-ad time in Korea isn't cheap, but it isn't
unreasonable. A nationwide 30-second ad costs about 5.7
million won, or about $8,000. An ad for Seoul only costs
about 3.2 million won, or about $4,500.
   The use of foreign models, except in the background of
ads, isn't allowed, and apparently won't change. In support
of this policy, the government released a poll that shows
66.4% of Koreans are offended by the appearance of foreign
models in ads.
   Oh Choong Su of the Ministry of Information says the
government may consider allowing foreign-made commercials to
air on Korean TV. But the ads would have to be approved by
government censors before they could be broadcast. He says
Japanese commercials will be prohibited because Korea bans
Japanese cultural influences, such as movies and music.
   And all television advertising has to be placed by the
government agency, Korea Broadcasting Advertising Corp., or
Kobaco. Kobaco pays an ad agency a 10% commission and keeps a
10% commission from the network for itself. Ad executives in
Seoul say they would rather deal directly with the television
networks so they could make deals. But Mr. Cohan, who was the
instigator of market-opening measures in the mid-1980s, says
"Kobaco has gotten much nicer to work with."
   Mr. Healy says that advertisers have to be innovative and
look beyond television advertising, into areas such as events
sponsorship. "You have to think outside the square," he says.
"That's how foreign agencies can influence the market."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Continental Airlines Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Continental Airlines, a unit of Continental
Airlines Holdings Corp., said July traffic rose 1.4% to 3.92
billion revenue passenger miles from 3.86 billion a year
earlier. A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger
flown one mile. Load factor, or the percentage of available
seats occupied, fell to 66.9% from 68%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chambers Development Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDVA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Chambers Development Co. said it agreed to
buy a 256-acre parcel in Scott County, Miss., from Betco Inc.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   Chambers, an environmental services firm, said it has a
permit to build a 19-acre sanitary landfill on the land.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Teradata Names Officials
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TDAT
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Teradata Corp. named Donald C. Cantor, 45
years old, to the newly created post of chief operating
officer. He remains executive vice president.
   The computer systems concern also named Michael F.G.
Ashby, 41, formerly vice president, finance and
administration, to the new post of senior vice president,
finance and administration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Credit Card
   Now Ranks Eighth
   In the Country
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   T SNV CCI CMB
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. said its
new credit card ranks eighth in the country, with revenue of
$750 million after 140 days in operation.
   In addition, the company and its partner, Universal Bank,
a unit of Columbus, Ga.-based Synovus Financial Corp., said
they have begun offering a gold MasterCard version of the
AT&amp;T Universal card, which is available as either a Visa card
or MasterCard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since its introduction on March 26, the Universal card has
garnered 2.7 million accounts and 4.6 million cardholders,
according to AT&amp;T Universal Card Services Corp., the AT&amp;T
unit that issues the card.
   Moreover, AT&amp;T said more than 11 million long-distance
calls and purchases have been made using the card, for a
total of $750 million in transactions.
   AT&amp;T announced its millionth account on June 12, 78 days
after launching the card. Since then it has signed another
1.7 million accounts.
   That comes to about 27,000 cards per day. If this rate
holds, AT&amp;T by this time next year could have more than 12
million accounts, making it the second-largest credit card
issuer in the country. Moreover, annual revenue could top $3
billion. An AT&amp;T spokesman declined to make a prediction
about the card's future prospects.
   "Our continuing success in the marketplace is a sign that
consumers are delighted with the advantages offered by the
AT&amp;T Universal Card," said Paul G. Kahn, president of AT&amp;T
Universal, in a statement.
   His competitors aren't delighted, however. Several major
banks, including Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., have
filed lawsuits, challenging the legality of AT&amp;T's card.
   AT&amp;T is offering the Universal card free for life to
consumers who sign up in 1990 and use it at least once a
year. It is also offering discounts on long-distance calls
made with the card and assorted warranties and service
guarantees.
   AT&amp;T said it derived its ranking from figures provided by
Credit Card News, a Chicago-based newsletter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Quantum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS QNTM
</CO>
<LP>
   QUANTUM Corp. (New York) -- Dennis J. Spina, former vice
president, Eastern region, of Federal Express Corp., was
named president of the Suburban Propane division and
corporate vice president, effective Sept. 1. Mr. Spina, 46
years old, succeeds Mark J. Anton, 64, who continues as vice
chairman of the division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mutual Life Insurance Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE Co. (New York) -- Tom H. Barrett and
Claude N. Ballard, Jr., were named trustees, expanding the
board to a total of 18 at this insurance, pension and
investment management firm. Mr. Barrett, 59 years old, is
chairman, president and chief executive officer of Goodyear
Tire &amp; Rubber Co., in Akron, Ohio. Mr. Ballard, 60, is a
partner at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Jurymandering
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congressional arrogance finds new meaning in the pending
legislative appropriations bill for Congress. Roll Call, the
Capitol Hill newspaper, has discovered a last-minute
committee addition that would exempt Members from serving on
juries in their home districts. Members are now routinely
excused from jury duty on account of their business in
Washington, but that's not enough for Democratic Rep. Vic
Fazio, the chief defender of Congressional perks. He says
several Members asked him to draft the law, because, "it's a
hassle in the sense that you have to go through that work" of
getting excused from service. GOP Rep. Jerry Lewis promises a
fight on the House floor next month, and even Democratic Rep.
Jack Brooks, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, says the
law "hardly seems necessary." Rep. Fazio and his friends
apparently feel so invulnerable to defeat that they are
willing to try to enact laws disconnecting them from the
dreary responsibilities of their own districts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Science:
   Lilly's New Supercomputer Spurs a Race
   For Hardware to Quicken Drug Research
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY CYR
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- In Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s rabbit warren of
research laboratories, scientists wield mostly medieval tools
-- from test tubes and flasks to beakers and diagrams -- in
their quest for new drugs.
   But purring away at the center of it all is a late 20th
century anomaly: a $12 million supercomputer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a gamble that startled its conservative industry, the
No. 4 U.S. drug maker recently became the first
pharmaceutical company to install its own supercomputer -- a
Cray-2, one of the most powerful machines made by Cray
Research Inc., the leading supercomputer maker.
   The machine can't discover drugs, nor does it guarantee
that Lilly's R&amp;D record will improve. But it does add to
Lilly scientists' bag of tricks a three-ton tool of
unprecedented power, amplifying their ability to experiment
with molecular images and sift through endless new-drug
candidates.
   Lilly's purchase has also helped touch off an industrywide
new-hardware race. Industry leader Merck &amp; Co. is tapping
supercomputer-like IBM equipment in a pact with International
Business Machines Corp. Monsanto Co. leased a supercomputer,
and Abbott Laboratories, Schering-Plough Corp. and others
have upgraded their computer capabilities as well.
   The wave of investment has raised hopes of streamlining
the riskiest and most expensive research process in U.S.
industry: the search for breakthrough drugs. Scientists have
been studying images of molecules on computer screens for
more than a decade, but the latest trend in computer
equipment is carrying them far beyond the tinkering of the
past. For the first time, computers and workstations are
powerful and sophisticated enough to grapple with models of
the large, complex human proteins and enzymes involved in
today's cutting-edge drug research.
   Instead of just presenting fixed visual models, the new
technology enables scientists to manipulate images of big
molecules and watch them interact with other substances in
human-like environments. It allows researchers to replace
slow, near-random laboratory testing of hundreds of
substances with more rapid theoretical screening.
   "Three years ago, there wasn't enough computational power
or enough knowledge to make this {new technology} useful,"
says Charles T. Casale, president of Aberdeen Group, a
Boston-based computer consulting and research group. Now "the
question is, `Who is going to get there first with a
significant breakthrough?'"
   The new technology also holds out the hope of streamlining
human tests of experimental compounds. By helping researchers
analyze test data for a wider range of doses on more patient
groups, for example, computers could help identify safer,
potentially less toxic doses.
   For the first time, some companies are even giving
computers partial credit for discoveries. Schering-Plough
cites computer techniques in the development of a
schizophrenia drug now being tested on humans. Novo Nordisk
A/S says computers helped speed up discovery of an insulin
product, also in human trials.
   Some believe computer-assisted design will have as big an
impact on pharmaceutical research as it did on the auto, oil
and aerospace industries in the 1970s. "Over the next
decade," says Larry L. Smarr, director of the National Center
for Supercomputing Applications at the University of
Illinois, "supercomputer simulation will become one of the
pillars of research in pharmaceuticals."
   Applying computers to the arcane art of drug research is a
gamble. Unlike car fenders and aerospace parts, new drugs
can't be engineered based on existing knowledge. Scientific
theory is lacking, and the molecules involved are too
complex. Many have as many as 5,000 atoms and look like fuzzy
balls when reproduced on screen. Designing a drug from
scratch by computer would require more mathematical knowledge
and computational power than exists today.
   Instead, scientists must apply a combination of skill,
experience, intuition and sheer luck to identify a potential
drug for a particular disease. The industry screens an
estimated 10,000 compounds for every one that reaches the
market, a process that typically takes 10 to 12 years and
costs more than $100 million. The odds of success are so low
that oil wildcatters have a "sure thing" by comparison, Mr.
Casale says.
   That hasn't stopped some computer vendors from making
outrageous claims for their offerings. One European software
vendor even promised its product could design drugs from
start to finish.
   For their part, drug makers are desperate to speed up the
discovery process. Although R&amp;D spending is soaring, generic
products are slashing the profitable life of brand-name
drugs. Rising international competition is holding down drug
prices and eroding U.S. companies' share of the world market.
To sustain their current profitability, drug makers must
improve R&amp;D returns.
   No one is betting bigger on new computer technology to win
that race than Lilly. With its R&amp;D spending rising at a rate
of 16% to 18% a year, Lilly has scored some major successes,
fielding the fast-selling new antidepressant Prozac and
diversifying its product line away from antibiotics.
Nevertheless, "they don't have the best lineup of products
over the next one or two years," says Mary Ellen McCarthy, an
analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   With no way to project the bottom-line impact of new
computer technology, the Cray purchase "boils down to a leap
of faith -- a gamble," admits Mel Perelman, a Lilly vice
president and president of Lilly Research Laboratories.
   Whatever the outcome, there are no signs of doubt in
Lilly's laboratories. Scientists are already using the
supercomputer to study insulin compounds and potential cures
for AIDS and Alzheimer's disease, among other things.
Voluntary use of the new machine in the first few weeks after
its late-May installation rose far faster than expected. "It
has surprised us continually," says John S. Wold, executive
director of Lilly Research Laboratories.
   Desktop terminals all over Lilly's sprawling headquarters
are hooked up to the Cray. More than 40 Lilly scientists have
taken supercomputer training at the University of Illinois's
National Center for Supercomputer Applications. Lilly has
even turned the machine -- a red-and-black cylinder about the
size of an airline ticket counter -- into a tourist
attraction, ensconcing it behind a panel of smoked glass in a
video-equipped visitors' gallery.
   For researchers like James Wikel, a senior chemist, the
machine is a powerful aid to the imagination. Once restricted
to clumsy ball-and-stick models of molecules of the kind
common in chemistry classrooms, he is beginning to be able to
construct a big enzyme on his screen, study the relevant
"receptor" site, and test its reaction to various drug
candidates.
   On a computer screen in one of Lilly's modeling labs, he
shows a visitor a rotating, multi-hued image of a complex
human enzyme. Buried within its honeycomb-like maze of atoms
are clues to the enzyme's biological activity that could
yield insights into ways to block the AIDS virus.
   Whether he is jogging, relaxing at home or commuting to
work, the chemist carries such molecular images with him. All
the while, consciously or unconsciously, his mind seeks the
new scientific insights of which breakthrough drugs are born.
   Without the computer, "I would have to start with
something like this," Mr. Wikel says, blackening the screen
by switching off his terminal. Now, he says, "I can
essentially walk all the way around {the molecule} as if it
were a table in the middle of the room, to get a view from
all angles."
   The images "will spring forth . . . when you're not
thinking about it consciously," Mr. Wikel says. "Suddenly,
something will click and you'll say, `Aha] That's what I was
looking for.'" That "aha factor" -- the "eureka principle,"
as Roger G. Harrison, Lilly's director of organic and
physical chemistry research, calls it -- is the key to
breakthroughs.
   Lilly executives aren't making any promises about the new
technology. Indeed, the science of new-drug research is
widely seen as a mature field, "with the `easy' discoveries
well in the past and the easy-to-cure diseases already
cured," Mr. Casale wrote in a report on the new technology.
"New discoveries cost more, take longer and typically are
accompanied by side effects often undiscovered for years."
   Nevertheless, Lilly scientists are confident that "we're
closer and closer to dealing with these uncertainties than we
ever have been," says Riaz Abdulla, Lilly's head of
supercomputer applications.
   The supercomputer "puts us in a better competitive
position to really come up with the compounds of the future,"
Mr. Harrison adds. "Our great discoveries are yet to come."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Oil Industry's
   Cradle Stirred
   By Price Rise
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OIL CITY, Pa. -- Jim Preston, a graying 70-year-old with
thick glasses and hands as black as coal, whispers about his
secret stash buried in the green foothills of Allegheny
mountains.
   "Eighty gallons," he says. And he's not talking moonshine.
His barrels are filled with some of the world's finest crude
oil, though there is precious little of it. Following Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait, the lukewarm commodity has turned red
hot, with local refineries paying $23 for a 42-gallon barrel,
compared with $16.50 in June. Although no one expects a gush
of new drilling, already locals talk of bringing back wells
idled since the last oil crisis of the late 1970s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If it gets up to $25 a barrel, then I guess I'll let it
go," says the fourth-generation driller of his 80 gallons on
hand. "This is the first time I've ever been able to control
my destiny."
   Nearby, another driller, Thomas Breene, is sitting on
1,500 gallons. "I'm not in any hurry to sell it."
   Mr. Breene is just one of dozens of Pennsylvanians trying
to make a living drilling oil. In an industry dominated by
Exxons and Mobils, the midget oil producers here are
struggling anachronisms. They are often one-person operations
that own a handful of wells and sell to local refineries.
Their owners frequently supplement their incomes with
construction jobs, contracting oil-field work for out-of-town
investors or even raising capons. For them, the rise in oil
prices means the difference between a tiny profit and a loss,
or between operating and abandoning a well.
   It's only fitting that a global oil crisis should be so
profoundly felt by independent oil men in northwestern
Pennsylvania. For it was in this valley that the oil industry
was born in 1859.
   That year, Col. Edwin Drake drilled the world's first
commercial well just outside of Oil City and down the Oil
Creek in a town called Titusville. Within five years, 900
wells dotted the Oil Creek valley. Boom towns with names like
Petroleum Centre and Red Hot sprung up and lasted until the
well ran dry -- which in the case of Pit Hole, population
15,000, was 500 days. Oil City became the transportation and
industry hub.
   Many aspects of the modern oil industry, from pipelines to
diamond drills, have their roots here. Local petroleum
geologist Samuel T. Pees argues that a well drilled in the
middle of rocky Oil Creek qualifies as the first offshore
drilling. He points to the "precursor to the ocean-going
tanker": four-foot-square boats that carried 400 barrels up
Oil Creek to the Allegheny River and onto Pittsburgh. The Oil
Creek &amp; Titusville Railroad beckons tourists to take a trip
through the "Valley that Changed the World."
   But residents lament that most Americans now associate oil
with Texas and J.R. Ewing and northwest Pennsylvania with
deer. Even Oil City natives like Pennzoil Co. moved
headquarters to Texas, where the wells are deeper and the oil
can be sucked up with a straw. The population here is half
its peak of 30,000. A local realtor's "Buy Me" signs are as
plentiful as mailboxes, and City Manager Thomas Rockovich is
searching for some non-oil related industry to fill an empty
steel plant that made oil pipelines.
   The problem with Oil City wells is that they're shallow
and old. They don't gush, they dribble, pumping just enough
to fill a Texan's 10-gallon hat. So-called peach-can wells
produce a tin can's worth -- enough for a lawnmower. There
was so little money to make that Quaker State Oil Co., which
has its headquarters here, sold its shallow oil-well business
in 1988.
   Local drillers figure they need eight wells to produce a
barrel a day, and unless crude oil prices exceed $20, they're
pumping red ink -- not black gold. Only when refiners pay $30
a barrel does septuagenarian Mr. Preston figure he can build
a nest egg and possibly hang up his oil-stained blue work
clothes.
   So while the rest of the world is cursing the rising
crude-oil price and its impact at the gasoline pump, the
industry's little squirts are quietly counting their
blessings.
   "We've had a long dry spell for four years," says Charles
Baker, sitting outside the Log Cabin restaurant on the hood
of a Buick Riviera and chewing a toothpick. "I hope I'm
wrong, but I don't think it will go over $28. I hope it goes
to $50. Hell, I hope it goes to $100."
   Although it's not clear exactly what impact rising oil
prices will have on the area, few believe Oil City will
return to its boomtown size. There are new environmental
expenses on top of production costs that are already among
the highest in the world because of the shallow, low-yield
wells. Moreover, it costs $25,000 to $30,000 to drill a new
well, and banks are reluctant to loan money in such a
boom-bust business, local drillers say.
   "The cream is gone. It's so much easier to get it
elsewhere," says Mr. Preston. A tough man who cleans his
hands by wiping them on the nearest tree, Mr. Preston still
squeezes about half a barrel of oil a day out of a
900-foot-deep well drilled in the late 1800s. The well runs
on a 1905 mechanical pump with locomotive-size wheels that he
has to crank to get moving. It's one of only 40 of his 100
wells that are operating; he can't afford a crew for the rest
and budgets based on what he has in his wallet that
afternoon. "People would say we're insane, if you look at the
economics of it," he says.
   Rising oil prices could make him appear less crazy.
Geologist Mr. Pees says the area is still oil-rich and that
each dollar-a-barrel boost may make it feasible to put
another abandoned oil field back into production.
   "At $20 a barrel some fields can begin to produce to make
a slight profit, and at $23 another field may come on line,
and at $25 still more," he says. City Manager Mr. Rockovich
says that during the last oil crisis, Oil City's Venago
County was second in the U.S. in terms of new wells being
drilled.
   That, however, was before strict state environmental
legislation was passed. Driller Mike Perrett thinks the days
of new wells are over, because drillers can't afford the
$25,000 bond to drill wells under a state law enacted in the
mid-1980s. He has a new name for the state's Department of
Environmental Regulation: Department of Employment Reduction.
   Driller Don Taylor, who raises cattle and capons to make
ends meet, says that at the very least, rising prices should
help him repair broken wells that have been too costly to
fix. Indeed, Mr. Breene says replacing a stretch of broken
pipe costs $1,000, which could take several years to recoup.
"At $12 a barrel, it's not feasible to repair wells. At $25 a
barrel, it's something you look at," he says.
   More than anything else, these drillers are looking for
stability. Many long-timers have already ridden
roller-coaster crude oil prices and fear such a
crisis-generated price boost won't last.
   "It can go up as fast as go down," says Wilma Weaver, who
along with her husband has been in the business for 30 years.
"This little bit helps, but who knows how long it will last."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Avnet Board Clears Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AVT
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREAT NECK, N.Y. -- Avnet Inc. directors authorized
repurchase of as many as one million of its common shares.
   Avnet, a distributor of computer products and electronic
parts, has 36 million common shares outstanding. It last
repurchased shares in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avnet said, effective immediately, it will buy shares in
the open market or in directly negotiated purchases. In
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Avnet
shares closed at $23.50 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Identity Crisis:
   To Repair Bad Credit,
   Advisers Give Clients
   Someone Else's Data
   ---
   All It Takes Is a Similar Name
   And a Knack for Accessing
   Files of Ratings Bureaus
   ---
   A Nightmare for the Victims
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TRW EFX
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Margaret Holt, a silver-haired art dealer,
thought she had good credit. After all, she had always paid
her bills on time. But when she applied for an oil-company
credit card not long ago, she was told she had too many
delinquent debts outstanding.
   Her surprise turned to panic when she got a copy of her
credit report from a credit bureau. It showed nearly $40,000
in charges made in her name for items she had never ordered,
including a fur coat from Neiman Marcus and a leased
Mercedes-Benz.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Holt hired a private investigator. He traced the
spending spree to an unemployed woman with a name similar to
Mrs. Holt's, but 20 years younger and of a different race.
The impostor told Mrs. Holt she had gotten her Social
Security number and other credit data from a man who
counseled poor people on repairing their credit.
   Now Mrs. Holt is finding it nearly impossible to convince
some creditors that she isn't a cheat. "Somebody's got to
help me," she says, her eyes filling with tears. "I can't
stand for people to think those things about me, that I'm a
deadbeat."
   Notch up another victim of Houston's infamous "credit
doctors." Using laptop computers and stolen access codes,
these practitioners tap into credit-bureau data bases to
extract information -- names, loan histories, Social Security
numbers -- on people with good credit records. Then they sell
the information to clients with poor records to use when
applying for credit.
   The scam works. Since late 1987, when police began
investigating it here, purchases totaling nearly $20 million
have been traced to phony credit data. The loot includes
jewelry, television sets and vacation cruises. A Ford dealer
sold 90 new cars to buyers with doctored credit, including
eight members of a single family. An unemployed woman was
caught driving a Lincoln Continental outfitted with a
cellular telephone, and living in a $230,000 house. Another
woman bought at least five houses.
   Versions of the scam have begun to spread to other parts
of the country. In Chicago, the Treasury Department's Secret
Service has opened investigations of crimes involving the
abuse of credit bureau computers. In Los Angeles, a man
recently pleaded guilty to federal charges of mail fraud and
assuming a false identity in a scheme to get bank loans using
information he obtained on individuals from credit bureaus
and land deeds.
   Some see a dire threat. "Credit doctoring is an epidemic.
It's spreading like a virus," says Joseph LaBranche, a
Houston expert in credit-card fraud. "This is the crime of
the future."
   Warns Ralph Freeman, a security executive at First USA
Inc., a large Dallas credit-card issuer: "They're crashing
the credit system. There's so much bad information in the
credit bureaus now that if we pull something, we don't know
if it's true or not."
   Credit bureaus deny the problem is critical. "There is not
rampant illegal access into our system," says Susan Murdy, a
spokeswoman for TRW Inc.'s Credit Data Division in Los
Angeles. The three largest credit reporters -- TRW,
headquartered in Cleveland; Equifax Inc., Atlanta; and Trans
Union Corp., Chicago -- have invested heavily in security
systems that flag unauthorized intrusions. They also claim to
have made it more difficult for even legitimate subscribers
to browse through files without authorization.
   Houston's scams, however, show that technological
safeguards aren't foolproof. In some of the schemes,
otherwise-legitimate business people greedy for sales -- real
estate brokers, auto salesmen, bankers and salesclerks --
wittingly or not collaborated. They overlooked obvious frauds
and even referred customers to credit doctors.
   The buy now, pay later ethic, say fraud specialists, has
helped create a favorable climate. "Obviously the problem is
associated in an overall sense with the way we market in this
country," says Casey O'Brien, an assistant district attorney
here who has prosecuted several of the cases. "We appeal in
our advertising to everyone, even though everyone isn't
affluent. We make people want things they don't necessarily
need and then make {the goods} easy to get by extending
credit."
   In Houston, nobody knew how to get credit better than
Walter B. "Waldo" Hilton, a 70-year-old entrepreneur and
sometime Baptist preacher. Authorities regard him as the
pioneer of credit doctoring.
   A furniture and appliance salesman in the 1950s, Mr.
Hilton gained local fame in radio spots as "The Man with the
Plan" to help poor folks buy refrigerators on credit. The
plan? Each appliance came equipped with a coin-operated meter
that cut the electricity if the buyer failed to make a daily
installment payment of a quarter.
   After wig retailing and other ventures, Mr. Hilton
eventually took up one of the healing arts -- credit
doctoring. Often using the alias of "Rev. Jackson," he mostly
confined himself to helping people figure out how to pay off
their debts and get their names removed from deadbeat lists,
according to court records and people familiar with his
operation.
   But in 1984, he helped a young woman embellish a
department-store charge card application with fake
information showing her to be a $2,300-a-month accountant at
his Creditor and Consumer Service Corp. The woman's real
occupation was undercover detective for the store, and Mr.
Hilton was soon persuaded to plead guilty in Harris County
court here to lying on a loan application, a misdemeanor. He
was assessed a small fine.
   In partnership with a fellow Baptist preacher, James
Lawson, Mr. Hilton opened an office in a fancy, atrium-style
building. With a $600 Tandy computer, access codes allegedly
purchased from a credit bureau employee, and an angelic new
name -- Christian Financial Services Inc. -- the two
proceeded to do unto others.
   Through word of mouth, they brought in hundreds of clients
who had lost their credit and were desperate to regain it.
For fees that police say ranged between a few dollars and
$1,500, the doctors repaired their credit -- sort of. They
used the codes to access the files of the Credit Bureau of
Greater Houston, now known as CSC Credit Services Inc., and
retrieve those on people with names similar to their clients'
names. Then they simply chose one with a good credit history
and turned over to their client the information needed to
complete an acceptable credit application.
   A CSC official says the company has since tightened
security: Now a user with an access code must also enter
other factual information -- a real consumer's name and
address, at a minimum -- to call up a file. But police and
other security consultants say the doctors can easily jump
that hurdle by getting the needed information from a phone
book.
   A client, Leslie Bianchi, of Humble, Texas, says he found
out about Mr. Lawson from his real estate agent. Mr. Bianchi,
who had a shaky credit record, was trying to get a mortgage
loan. For $800, he says, Mr. Lawson "assigned" him a new
Social Security number, gave him two credit-card references,
and told him to use the information when applying for loans.
For another $200, Mr. Bianchi says, Mr. Lawson promised to
tell any inquisitive lenders that he employed Mr. Bianchi at
$48,000 a year. Mr. Bianchi was actually earning $27,000, as
production manager for a maker of oil-field gear.
   Mr. Bianchi says he had no idea at first that what he was
doing was illegal, but later had misgivings and dropped the
application. He wasn't charged with any crime. He says police
later told him his "new" Social Security number actually
belonged to another Bianchi living in the Midwest.
   In 1989, in another case, Mr. Lawson pleaded guilty in
state district court here to a single count of theft -- he
had used doctored credit to buy a van from a local car dealer
-- and was sentenced to five years in prison. Since released,
he couldn't be reached for comment.
   By the time Mr. Lawson was convicted, imitators already
had sprung up around the city.
   Forty-year-old George Gillum advertised his GCS Credit
Repair Service on radio and in newspapers around the country.
Police say that Mr. Gillum, among other things, bombarded
credit bureaus with letters contesting clients' records.
Because federal law requires the bureaus to refrain from
disclosing contested data while they investigate it, a
"window" opened for clients to borrow freely. When Mr. Gillum
was arrested, his office contained more than 1,000 files of
clients, among them a Houston policeman who, police say,
bought a new car while his credit record was being contested.
   Contesting a credit record isn't illegal, and Mr. Gillum
denies he ever broke the law to fix anyone's credit. But he
pleaded guilty in state court this year to six counts of
forging Social Security cards and received a $60,000 fine and
a three-year prison sentence. Mr. Gillum is appealing the
conviction, arguing that police used a faulty search warrant
to seize certain evidence.
   Real estate broker Joszef S. Walker, police say, doctored
credit histories to help clients obtain 13 houses from the
Veterans Administration and the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. He didn't have to hack into the credit
bureau's files: His real estate company, headquartered in a
weather-beaten yellow house, was a credit bureau member. Mr.
Walker, whose state court trial on multiple counts of theft
in connection with the house purchases is scheduled to start
here in October, has denied any wrongdoing.
   Some of the doctors spent as much time curing their own
credit ills as that of others. Credit doctor Terry Lynn
Jackson, who received two 10-year prison terms after pleading
guilty to theft in state court here, set up housekeeping in a
newly renovated home in the middle of one of Houston's
poorest neighborhoods and bought 26 cars for himself,
including a Mercedes-Benz. Police say he obtained all the
cards on credit of other Terry Jacksons around the country.
   Mr. Hilton, the pioneering doctor, had forgone the
trappings of wealth. For years, he served as associate pastor
of the Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church, a tiny,
weather-beaten church in Northwest Houston. The peeling sign
out front says: "MOTTO: IF YOU WANT TO DO YOU CAN. IF YOU
DONT WANT TO DO YOU WONT."
   According to David Hefner, the Houston police detective
who caught him, Mr. Hilton said he wanted to undermine the
credit-granting process, viewing it as a form of slavery
imposed on blacks by whites. "I'm going to destroy the whole
credit system as we know it today," Mr. Hefner says Mr.
Hilton said.
   Mr. Hilton, interviewed at the door of his ramshackle home
in South Houston, disputes that version of the conversation
and denies being a credit doctor. Nonetheless, he pleaded
guilty in federal court this year to charges of possessing 15
or more unauthorized computer access codes with intent to
defraud. Shortly after the interview he began serving an
eight-month prison term.
   Whether or not Mr. Hilton intended it, his doctoring did
hit the credit system in these parts like an explosion. Every
client became a walking time bomb, set to detonate as soon as
he or she stopped making payments. Banks, car dealerships and
retailers suddenly began racking up huge fraud losses.
Innocents whose histories were filched still live in terror
of the dunning notices that keep coming for things they
didn't buy.
   "When it first happened to me, I felt raped -- there's no
other word for it," says Linda Brown Davis, a real estate
broker in Corpus Christi, Texas. Another woman had gotten
credit cards in Mrs. Davis's name, bought a new Cadillac and
was about to get a $35,000 home-improvement loan when she was
caught. Mrs. Davis says her credit file now has a notice to
lenders that she has been victimized by fraud. Still, two
credit-card companies recently rejected her applications.
   Herman West, a 58-year-old school-bus driver, says he was
"ruined" by somebody who used his name and credit record to
get a piano, a bunch of credit cards and a Dodge pickup. "I'm
telling you, man, I owed people I never heard of," he says.
"I'm scared to buy anything now."
   Perhaps the biggest jolt hit Jean Wright, who, as a
college student living alone in a one-bedroom apartment in
1987, received a past-due notice for a $500 electric bill. A
little checking revealed that somebody hadn't only stiffed
the electric company in Ms. Wright's name; that person had
filed a personal bankruptcy petition using Ms. Wright's name
and Social Security number. The petition, still on file in
U.S. bankruptcy court here, lists nearly $100,000 in bills,
including a $64,000 mortgage on a Humble, Texas, house.
   Investigators for CSC traced the bankruptcy petition and
other alleged frauds to Wilma Wright Sturges, a member of Mr.
Hilton's Fellowship Missionary congregation. She has pleaded
no-contest to a charge of theft of a house and been sentenced
to 10 years' probation. She is expected to testify in the
trial of Mr. Walker, the real estate broker and alleged
credit doctor for whom she worked.
   But, she says, "I am not a criminal]" And, pointing with a
dramatic sweep at the sky: "My security is not down here. My
security is up there]"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Jones Index Changes
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   SIX GRL HON
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Several changes are being made in the industry
groups of the Dow Jones Equity Market index, all effective
today.
   General Instrument Corp. is being removed from the
communication technology group because it is being acquired,
and is being replaced by Scientific-Atlanta Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Honeywell Inc. is being moved to the electronic components
industry group from the diversified technology group, and
Acuson Corp. is being moved to the medical and biotechnology
industry group from the medical supplies group. Both changes
were made to better reflect the two companies' businesses.
   Motel 6 L.P. is being removed from the lodging industry
group because it is being acquired.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   W. Bell Expects to Get Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   BLLW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKVILLE, Md. -- W. Bell &amp; Co. said it received a
potential offer valued at $8.6 million to $10.5 million from
Hong Kong-based Venture Link Co. Ltd. The company said
Venture Link expects to submit a bid for all of W. Bell's 3.8
million shares outstanding based on the estimated book value
at closing. W. Bell said Venture Link estimates book value
will range from $2.25 to $2.75 a share by the Oct. 31 closing
date. The catalog showroom retailer said the offer is subject
to due diligence by Venture Link, acceptance by W. Bell
shareholders and financing. W. Bell said its board expects to
respond shortly to the potential offer.
   W. Bell also said it expects to report a "significant"
operating loss for the second quarter ended Aug. 4, following
a first-quarter loss of $1.1 million, or 30 cents a share. In
the 1989 second quarter, W. Bell posted a loss of $946,000,
or 31 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Producer Output Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- U.K. producer output prices, or prices of
manufactured goods, rose 0.3% in July from June, while
producer input prices, or prices of raw materials and fuels
purchased by manufacturing industry, fell an unadjusted 0.4%
in July from June, the U.K. Central Statistical Office said.
   An average of market forecasts, showed that input prices
were expected to have fallen 0.6% in July while output prices
were expected to have risen by 0.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After seasonal adjustment, input prices rose 0.6% in July
from June and were down 1.1% from July 1989. This compares
with June's 1.4% monthly fall and 2.4% yearly fall. The
statistical office said it provided a seasonally adjusted
index for input prices as they are more subject to seasonal
fluctuations than output prices.
   After seasonal adjustment, the index of input prices was
at 102.9 in July, up from 102.3 in June and down from 104.0
in July 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   New York Power Outage Shortens Session
   That Found Investors Selling Dollar, Yen
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A power outage in lower Manhattan all but
ended foreign-exchange dealings by 2 p.m. EDT, truncating a
session investors had been using to sell dollars and yen for
European currencies.
   The electrical shutdown, caused by a transformer fire near
the Brooklyn Bridge, left many New York trading rooms without
computers or telephones. Many offices able to switch to
emergency power were left without the services of electronic
dealing and quoting systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Electricity hadn't been restored to lower Manhattan by the
end of the working day.
   Ian Foakes, foreign-exchange manager for PaineWebber
International in New York, said the only parallel for Monday
that he remembers occurred in 1985 when New York currency
trading was halted by an approaching tornado.
   New York trading rooms that were unaffected technically by
the outage, and those elsewhere in North America, were
generally unable to continue working without their
counterparts or the services of the New York broker network.
   "When they remove the other team from the field, you have
no one to bat against," Mr. Foakes said. He said that even
though the PaineWebber offices in midtown Manhattan never
lost their dealing capabilities, his traders generally
refrained from entering the extremely thin late-afternoon
market.
   "If you have no counterparties, you have no way to get
out" if, for example, fighting started in the smoldering
Middle East, Mr. Foakes said.
   Even before the strange end to the North American trading
session, a lack of noise from the armies facing each other on
the Kuwait-Saudi Arabia frontier had sapped foreign-exchange
activity. U.S. dealers outside of New York quipped that
dealings had been so sparse they didn't notice the difference
at first when New York went black.
   In fact, most signs from the Mideast suggested the
military showdown is cooling down or is at least not
worsening.
   Dollar dealers were greeted in the morning by a picture on
the front page of the Financial Times in which President Bush
was directing the crisis from the seat of his golf cart at
his Maine vacation home.
   The weekend offer by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein to pull
out of Kuwait if Israel leaves its occupied territories,
though rejected by the U.S. and other nations, was seen as an
indication that the leader would like a peaceful, face-saving
solution to the standoff.
   As a result, after a 1 1/2 weeks of trading the dollar to
exhaustion, currency dealers were free to concentrate on
non-dollar cross-trading strategies. "Traders have gotten
burned out trying to follow the dollar," said Judy
Rubenstein, a Los Angeles vice president with Bank of
America.
   The day's most interesting activity involved selling
Japanese yen for European currencies led by the Swiss franc,
she said.
   The cross-dealings were a natural outgrowth of a market
determined to stay square, neither oversold nor overbought,
on the dollar until the Persian Gulf crisis is resolved,
added Martin L. McNulty, a vice president in New York for
Lloyds Bank.
   The dollar was hurt severely by the interest in its
European counterparts and even failed to benefit from the
yen's weakness. About the time trading was forced to stop in
New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.5765 marks, down from
1.5905 marks late Friday in New York. Sterling was trading at
$1.8830, up from $1.8740 late Friday.
   The U.S. currency was also changing hands at 150.40 yen,
down from 150.45 yen in New York late Friday.
   Before trading shut down, the dollar was trading at 1.3165
Swiss francs, down from 1.3375 francs late Friday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was quoted
at 149.95 yen, down from Monday's Tokyo close of 150.65 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5775
marks; in Tokyo Monday, it closed at 1.5781 marks.
   Traders said that while the dollar may still be a safe
haven during times of extreme global disruption, the nervous
buying caused by the present extended period of tension is
flowing to gold and the Swiss franc, both age-old harbors.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, in late trading
before the power outage gold for current delivery was $405.20
an ounce, up $8.20.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at
$402.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   An AIDS Bulge in a Biomed Belt
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY AGPH CTUS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Peter Johnson is an AIDS activist in the
sense that his Agouron Pharmaceuticals Inc. is racing to find
a drug for the dread disease. The medical effort "to swarm
over a problem in almost Manhattan Project-style intensity"
is okay with him -- he sees progress in each incremental
dollar.
   But the president/CEO of the biomedical start-up admits to
ambivalence about fixating on one illness, even as this has
led to "unbelievable" gains in knowledge about the human
immunodeficiency virus carried by an estimated eight million
or more world-wide. An Agouron-led consortium is getting $4.6
million over five years from the National Institutes of
Health for its AIDS work, but the company has felt a drought
just beyond the downpour.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "By contrast, we're very interested in malaria," Mr.
Johnson notes. This is a malady that, according to the World
Health Organization, afflicts 270 million people, killing up
to two million of them a year. Most of the dead are children
under age five. "However, it's not a disease we know in
America, and there's virtually no funding available in the
United States for the investigation of malaria," he says.
   Agouron did get a $500,000 federal grant for such work.
Mr. Johnson says he doesn't see commercial potential in the
market-poor countries where malaria is epidemic, but the work
"is a relatively minor detour from some other things that
we're doing" to find treatments for vaginal and
post-operative infections.
   The bulk of the company's budget actually is still devoted
to Agouron's original mission, cancer. The enterprise is on
the frontier of "rational drug design," a putative
breakthrough in therapeutics that uses engineering to attempt
molecular remedies rather than go through the traditional,
one-by-one screening of known substances for possible
curatives.
   This revolution is in an early stage, and Agouron hasn't
made money since going public in 1987. But it has some
proprietary technology, and its scientists expect to publish
significant findings on protein enzymes and cancer this
month. The company is attracting the interest of major drug
marketers -- including the rather insular Japanese
pharmaceutical industry -- for which Agouron's applied
research can bridge basic science to commercial application.
Eli Lilly &amp; Co. has two projects and a 12% stake in the
company.
   Agouron is one of about 80 biotechnology concerns to have
sprung up around this city's University of California campus,
forming one of the largest such knowledge hubs in the nation.
The La Jolla neighborhood includes the Scripps Clinic and the
Salk Institute. Local development officials credit higher
education as a drawing card, in addition to the dream
climate. (Agouron is across the road from the famed Torrey
Pines golf course, though as it nears 100 employees it must
find bigger quarters nearby.)
   Mr. Johnson, 45, did graduate work here in the philosophy
of science, followed by five years as a chemistry researcher.
The son of a real-estate executive at Security Pacific Bank,
he left the labs in the late 1970s to make hay of the
development of local agricultural land. That harvest having
been reaped, his business skills fit the needs of the
scientists forming Agouron.
   The group, from both UCSD and CalTech, had been working
since the mid-1970s on plotting the "architecture" of the
enzymes associated with malignancies. Today, through X-ray
diffraction of the problem proteins on a pair of
million-dollar units on site, Agouron is trying to design
inhibitors for the cancer agents.
   As it happens, that work not only has led Agouron to
research on psoriasis, a skin disease also characterized by
excessive cell growth, but is connected as well to the fight
against the malarial protozoa and infectious bacteria and
fungi, which relate to the same protein enzyme. Mr. Johnson
says the method of designing an AIDS drug is similar, though
in that case the target enzymes are different.
   The big federal AIDS grant to Agouron hedges the risk that
standard therapeutic screening will yield nothing in the end.
"The whole field of viral diseases has perhaps two safe and
effective drugs today despite 30 years of work and 14 or 15
major diseases in this category," he says. "The hope was that
(Agouron's approach) simply represented another strategy with
a higher probability of success."
   Although emphasis on AIDS has been defended as opening a
window on the vastness of virology, Mr. Johnson says, "If we
had to select, independent of disease considerations, one
from which we could learn the most about the whole family of
viruses, I'm not sure HIV would have been the one selected."
Herpes could fill that bill better, he suggests.
   AIDS has proven a politically volatile arena for
pharmaceuticals, compounding the inherent complexity in
science. Agouron is too early in its work to have been
affected directly by pressure groups, but any commercial
entity must be mindful of the attacks on Burroughs-Wellcome
for the pricing of its innovative AZT drug. "We're counting
on there being an acute need, and we're making the assumption
that where there is an acute need we will certainly be able
to cover our costs and a reasonable return on our
investment," says Mr. Johnson. Looking a decade or so out,
however, as AIDS becomes primarily an affliction of the
world's poor, the marketing horizon darkens considerably.
   Looming shorter term, and this time with the AIDS lobby
sometimes a corporate ally, are the peculiar priorities of
the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA, with its (pick
one: careful, cumbersome, cranky) ways of approving drugs, is
the bane of several pharmaceutical firms' existence.
Particularly aggrieved are smaller outfits and those trying
to sell hope for the terminally ill. Cetus Corp., for
instance, is currently being put through hoops by one of the
FDA's scientific advisory panels with its interleukin-2 drug
for advanced kidney cancer.
   Mr. Johnson assesses the situation charitably. Biotech
firms, he says, encounter problems taking a new kind of
science into regulation, "kinds of therapies for which there
isn't any precedent, and anytime that's true you have to
fight your way through certain ambiguities."
   Nonetheless, delay is a big risk for companies like
Agouron, he acknowledges. It's not the FDA's actual
standards, but the length of clinical trials and, most
annoying, the lag in simply processing applications. Three
years can pass between the completion of a file and a drug's
approval, Mr. Johnson says. "I know of no business formations
which didn't happen or no projects which are cancelled
because the time line is too imponderable. It just drives you
crazy and keeps you awake at night, and I think in the case
of companies like Cetus wreaks havoc on stock prices and
investor expectations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weyerhaeuser Stock Halted
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   WY
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tacoma, Wash. -- Weyerhaeuser Co. said trading in its
stock was halted after it notified shareholders and stock
exchanges of its program to swap $2.625 convertible
exchangeable preference shares for a new issue of $200
million principal amount of 5 1/4% convertible debentures due
2017.
   Effective Sept. 15, preference shareholders of record Aug.
10 are to receive $1,000 pricipal amount of the debentures in
exchange for 20 preference shares held. Shareholders will
receive an amount equal to the dividend of 65.625 cents a
share accruing to Sept. 15, 1990, the company added.
Alternatively, the preference shares may be converted into
common at a rate of 1.0416 common shares a preference share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mobil Will Buy
   Australian Assets
   From Exxon Corp.
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB XON
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mobil Corp. said it agreed to purchase the
stake it doesn't already own in two refineries and a network
of gasoline stations in Australia from Exxon Corp.
   Neither Exxon nor Mobil would disclose the transaction's
value, but industry officials put it at about $400 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchase includes about 300 gasoline stations and 90
fuel truck depots. Mobil already owns 700 gasoline stations
there.
   In addition, the acquisition includes Exxon's 35% share of
a joint-venture company currently operated by both companies.
The company, Petroleum Refineries Proprietary Ltd., runs two
refineries. One, located in Altona, processes 120,000 barrels
a day of crude oil. The other refinery, in Adelaide, handles
65,000 barrels of oil daily.
   Mobil has been attempting to increase its presence in
Australia and Asia, where the use of oil has increased
sharply in recent years. "The acquisition of these assets
will advance our strategy of increasing strength in the
world's fastest-growing market for petroleum products," said
Allen Murray, Mobil chairman.
   The acquisition, expected to be completed by year end,
will boost Mobil to a tie with British Petroleum Co. as the
second-largest marketer of gasoline in Australia. It will be
providing service to 20% of Australia's motorists. Mobil is
currently ranked fourth, serving 14% of the populace.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Triton Energy Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OIL ORX
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Triton Energy Corp. said an oil discovery in the
Boyne lease in Santa Barbara County, Calif., tested at a rate
of 250 barrels of oil a day. Triton, an independent
exploration and production company, said a second well tested
at a rate of 398 barrels of oil a day. Triton holds a 40%
interest in the wells, and Oryx Energy Co. is the operator
with a 60% interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Advances in Sluggish Session;
   Impact of Power Outage Is Minimal
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   A partial blackout of New York's financial district barely
disrupted a quiet day of trading in the over-the-counter
market, traders said.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 0.27 to 408.30, a 0.1%
gain, buoyed by a late-afternoon rally in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. OTC volume of 87.6 million shares fell
from Friday's 112 million shares and decliners led gainers,
1,143 to 799. Shearson Lehman's New York trading operations,
which typically handle about 17% of OTC volume, were among
those idled by the downtown power loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   More than one-third of the workstations serving
over-the-counter traders in New York initially were downed by
the power outage, according to the National Association of
Securities Dealers, which operates the over-the-counter
market.
   However, traders in New York and at regional firms across
the country said investors remained wary of developments in
the Middle East and largely stayed away from the OTC market.
   "Because the market was so quiet, I don't think the
blackout had much effect," said Lance Zipper, head of OTC
trading at Kidder Peabody. Kidder was one of the few New York
firms where OTC trading wasn't halted when a fire at a
Consolidated Edison Co. substation in lower Manhattan
interrupted power to much of New York's financial district.
   Mr. Zipper said he didn't see any marked increase in
business because of the misfortunes of some of his
competitors.
   "It was quiet before the fire and it was quiet after the
fire," said Mr. Zipper. "There wasn't any business to pick
up," he added. "The market was dead anyway," agreed E.E.
"Buzzy" Geduld, president of Herzog, Heine &amp; Geduld, whose
firm also traded throughout the day uninterrupted.
   Nearly 600 terminals serving OTC traders in the New York
area were initially shut down when the substation fire
interrupted service to one of three central NASD computers in
the New York area, according to John T. Wall, NASD executive
vice president of marketing operations. By the end of the
day, power had been restored to half of those terminals
through a backup system based in Trumbull, Conn. NASD has
1,457 terminals serving the New York area.
   Many firms such as Shearson relayed business to their
offices outside of New York. Others transferred their
operations to regional offices of other brokerage firms that
weren't affected, Mr. Wall said. He added that NASD is making
its own trading operations at its offices in Trumbull, New
York and Rockville, Md., available to market makers whose
buildings remain without power today.
   The OTC market's biggest stocks led the day's activity.
The Nasdaq 100 Index, which tracks the OTC's 100 largest
shares, rose 2.38 to 414.84. Among other strong sectors, the
Nasdaq Utilities Index gained 2.89 to 557.14.
   Insurance stocks were among the day's biggest losers. The
Nasdaq Insurance Index fell 2.02 to 470.97.
   Sun Microsystems, the day's most active stock, fell 1 1/2
to 29 1/2 on 3.2 million shares. The Mountain View, Calif.,
maker of computer workstations filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for a proposed combination offering of
seven million shares. More than 5.9 million of those shares
will be newly issued; the rest will be sold by shareholders.
   Among other active stocks, MCI Communications gained 7/8
to 35 3/8, Apple Computer added 1 1/8 to 39 7/8; Seagate
Technology rose 3/4 to 11; Conner Peripherals jumped 1 1/4 to
24 7/8, and Nike sprinted 1 1/4 to 75 1/2.
   Amgen jumped 2 1/2 to 46 1/2 after shares of the Thousand
Oaks, Calif., biotechnology company split two-for-one
yesterday.
   William A. Rothe, head of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons, Baltimore, was among several regional market makers who
said they didn't see a marked increase in business because of
the breakdown in operations at a number of New York firms. He
attributed the day's relatively smooth and light trading to
the nature of the OTC market, which uses multiple dealers
across the country, and to caution among investors in smaller
issues.
   "People are relatively content to see what happens in the
world without making any big commitments one way or the
other," Mr. Rothe said. "At the moment, cash is king."
   With about six weeks remaining in the fiscal quarter, Mr.
Rothe isn't seeing much inclination among money managers to
commit capital to OTC stocks. He attributed yesterday's
rebound in larger OTC issues to the late-afternoon rally in
bigger stocks, a "technical" bounce in shares that have been
pressured recently and to some short-covering by traders.
When traders "cover their shorts," they buy shares to replace
stocks that they previously borrowed and sold. A short-seller
hopes to profit by replacing borrowed shares later at a lower
price.
   Among other large OTC stocks, Intel was unchanged at 38
1/4. The Santa Clara, Calif., maker of semiconductors
announced jointly with Picturetel a five-year agreement for
joint development of interactive digital video processing
technology. Picturetel gained 1 1/4 to 12 7/8.
   Riggs National surged 1 3/4 to 14 3/4. Late Friday, the
Washington, D.C., bank said it will pay $33 million for the
assets and deposits of National Bank of Washington, a failed
bank in the nation's capital. Riggs added 1/2 on Friday.
   Applebee's International fell 1 1/4 to 13 1/4, even though
the operator of franchised restaurants reported earnings of
10 cents a share for the second quarter, compared with a
year-earlier loss of 11 cents a share.
   Chemical Fabrics tumbled 3 to 20 1/2 after the maker of
high-performance coated fabrics reported that its fiscal
fourth-quarter net income fell to one cent a share from 23
cents a share a year ago. The latest quarter's $26,000 profit
was after a pretax charge of $2.9 million related to damages
assessed against the company in a dispute over construction
of a roof for Minneapolis' Metrodome stadium.
   CPC-Rexcel rose 1/2 to 2 1/4 after the maker of plastic
containers reported net income rose to two cents a share in
the second quarter from break-even a year earlier.
   The American Depositary Receipts of LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton fell 4 1/4 to 143 3/4. The luxury-goods maker
reported that sales rose only 2% in the first half of 1990,
largely due to the effect of the dollar and yen's decline
against the French franc. The company said sales would have
been up 13% on a constant exchange-rate basis.
   ---
   Craig S. Smith contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tucson Electric
   Had $72.6 Million
   Loss in 2nd Period
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TEP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tucson Electric Power Co., the Arizona utility battered by
a stream of misdirected investments, said it posted a
second-quarter loss of $72.6 million, or $2.94 a share.
   The loss includes a $5.4 million loss from discontinued
operations and a $52.6 million provision for a loss on the
disposal of discontinued operations. In the year-earlier
quarter, the company reported net income of $20.9 million, or
76 cents a share, after a loss from discontinued operations
of $905,000. Revenue declined 7.3% to $124.1 million from
last year's $133.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tucson Electric, Arizona's second-largest electric
utility, has been hurt by its investments in real estate and
financial services, and has grappled with an apparent excess
construction of generating capacity. The company said it
recently adopted a formal plan to liquidate its investment
subsidiaries by 1994. It also said it expected the debt of
the investment operations to be repaid by Dec. 31, 1990.
"This is an important step in the process of becoming a pure
utility again," said Charles E. Bayless, president and chief
executive officer.
   But Tucson Electric also said that its utility operations
continue to operate at a net loss.
   "The real question is: Can they lift income from utility
operations? This is problematic," said Donaldson Lufkin
Jenrette utility bond analyst Daniel Scotto. Because of the
utility's excess capacity, and past efforts to cut costs, the
company's future viability hinges heavily on rate relief from
Arizona public utility authorities. "The prospects of that
are questionable," Mr. Scotto said.
   Last January, Tucson Electric voted to eliminate its
quarterly dividend on common stock, based on the board's
evaluation of the company's then lack of earnings and
inadequate cash flow. It was the first quarter since the
Arizona company became publicly traded in 1946 that a
dividend hasn't been paid. In February, the company announced
that a previously negotiated $760 million sale-lease-back of
a power plant had collapsed, and analysts said that put
substantial new pressures on Tucson Electric.
   Three months ago, Tucson Electric raised the possibility
that it might be forced to seek bankruptcy-law protection
from its creditors if various financing plans aren't
successful; it has since announced the placement of $96
million of first-mortgage bonds in a major step toward its
financial restructuring.
   For the six months ended June 30, the company reported a
net loss of $87.4 million, or $3.62 a share, which included a
loss from discontinued operations of $7.4 million and a
provision for a loss on disposal of discontinued operations
of $52.6 million. In the year-ago period, the company
reported net income of $41.4 million, or $1.51 a share, after
a loss from discontinued operations of $9.6 million. Revenue
for the six months was $233.1 million, a 10% drop from the
$259.7 million it reported a year ago.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Tucson Electric stock closed unchanged at $11.375 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   Night Shift
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are times in my life
   When there's need for a change,
   Positions I've taken
   That I must rearange;
   Some attitudes assumed
   That I cannot abide,
   And that's when, with effort,
   I turn onto my side.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Kitchen Kvetcher
                                                                                                       

   Some mount a soapbox to orate;
   I'm no unruly agitator.
   My views, for all to love or hate,
   Are taped to my refrigerator.
   -- Mary Mobilia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NOTICE TO READERS
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   Because of a power failure in New York, the Journal was
unable to compile its index to business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Clouds Over Pakistan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The news from Pakistan in the wake of Benazir Bhutto's
ousting is disturbing. Citing "corruption and nepotism in the
federal government," military-backed President Ghulam Ishaq
Khan dissolved Ms. Bhutto's government last week, appointed
an interim prime minister and set new elections for October
24.
   Though the claims of "corruption" and "nepotism" on Ms.
Bhutto's watch are certainly well-founded, the recent
activities undertaken by the Pakistani security forces have
themselves advanced beyond legitimacy, or so it would appear.
The result is harassment of not only those associated with
Ms. Bhutto, but a crackdown on any dissent in the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The police have started to round up many of Ms. Bhutto's
key associates and supporters. Ms. Bhutto's mother was
harassed by security forces when she tried to leave the
country on a plane to London. A newspaper executive and four
senior journalists were arrested last Saturday. By some
lights, the country is in a virtual state of martial law.
   Interim Prime Minister Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi has denied
that the arrests are political. But one can't help feeling
unease about the current weeding out of "corruption" and the
imposition of "order" in Pakistan. The Pakistani military,
despite its denials of involvement, seems to be the invisible
force behind Ms. Bhutto's ouster and the subsequent crackdown
on her supporters.
   Under the rubric of ridding the government of corruption,
the military had taken over Pakistan's government five times
before the dissolution of the Bhutto government. Ms. Bhutto
said right after the announcement of this recent dissolution,
"They have done it again."
   The military is miffed over Ms. Bhutto's meddling in its
"internal affairs," her handling of the ethnic strife in
Sind, and her search for a political solution in Afghanistan.
But while there can be legitimate complaints about her
policies and her management of government, Pakistan's voters
are entitled to decide for themselves whether she continues
or, if not, who her replacement will be. It is going to be
hard for anyone to regard the coming election as a fair one
if the contenders continue to be subject to arrest and
intimidation by the security forces. Indeed, the arrests and
proposed trials of prominent Bhutto backers will themselves
be suspect if they come to be regarded as political arrests
rather than actions based on genuine evidence of corruption.
That will hardly serve either the cause of democracy or
justice.
   This ouster seems to have been done "by the book," or
pursuant to the Pakistani constitution, though there might be
grounds for challenging President Ghulam Ishaq Khan's actions
in court -- a course of action Ms. Bhutto reportedly will
take. The Pakistani courts and the political arena -- when
new elections are finally held -- are the forums in which
Pakistan's problems should be worked out. The laws of the
land and the voice of the Pakistani people -- not the
imposition of the military's will -- are the only legitimate
means to the ultimate end, which is the salvation of
Pakistan's fragile democracy.
   Pakistan's problems are many, to be sure, involving not
only bad government management but dangers of serious
conflicts pitting Islamic fundamentalists in rural areas
against more sophisticated urban dwellers. But those problems
can only be solved through democratic processes, not by
strong-arm actions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Montreal Cuts Prime
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE V18
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BMO CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Bank of Montreal, one of Canada's major
commercial banks, cut its prime lending rate to 14.25% from
14.75% effective today.
   It was the first cut in the bank's prime rate since
October 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The prime rate cut followed a drop in the Bank of Canada's
bank rate last week to 13.34% from 13.42%. The central bank's
key bank rate has declined a total of 56 basis points in the
past seven weeks mainly because of an upswing in the Canadian
dollar. The bank rate is the levy which the central bank
charges on its loans to financial institutions.
   Canadian commercial banks last adjusted their prime rates
in April when the rate rose half a percentage point to
14.75%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Artificial Intelligence
   Has Real Potential
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   Your July 5 article "Bright Outlook for Artificial
Intelligence Yields to Slow Growth and Big Cutbacks"
presented a myopic view of artificial-intelligence (AI)
technology and its commercial potential.
   You presented the opinions of self-appointed high-tech
industry analysts who focused on American companies and some
of AI's earliest technologies in the U.S. domestic market.
You did not consider the rapid growth of a new generation of
companies and products during the past two to three years in
the AI field. The commercial market impact of these new
companies and their products had not yet been fully realized.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The article also failed to mention the active investments
that foreign venture capitalists and major corporations,
especially Japanese-based, have made in U.S.
artificial-intelligence companies.
   Tai Sugimoto
   President and CEO
   International Chip Corp.
   Columbia, S.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MinVen's Canadian Mines
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MVG
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER -- MinVen Gold Corp. said it will stop its gold and
silver mining operations at the Blackdome Mine in British
Columbia, Canada, late in the fourth quarter.
   The mining company wrote off its investment in Blackdome
in the first quarter due to a significant decline in the
grade of ore at the mine. An additional vein of higher grade
ore was discovered since then, but that will also be mined
out by November 1990, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MinVen has interests in four other operating mines in the
U.S. and Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq Slashes Its Oil Production to Meet
   Domestic Needs Plus Trickle of Exports
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Iraq, in response to the tightening world embargo, has
slashed oil output to its own consumption needs plus a
trickle of exports.
   Leading monitors of production by the 13 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries estimated Iraqi
output has dropped as low as 600,000 barrels a day. That's
barely one-sixth of the 3.5 million barrels the country was
pushing out during a brief surge just before the last OPEC
meeting in late July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Current output is covering Iraq's domestic needs, with a
little margin to support the tiny flow of exports "leaking"
through the near-blockade of the country. The refusal of
major oil-buying nations to trade with Iraq means oil tankers
aren't showing up at the usual Middle East ports to pick up
oil as they normally would. Storage facilities have become
choked, leaving Iraq no choice but to cut the flow from its
wells.
   Only a small amount of oil now is leaving Iraq, mainly in
trucks crossing into Jordan. The final destination isn't
known.
   For a while, world oil supplies are expected to remain
plentiful because of indicated production increases elsewhere
and high inventories, including a large number of cargoes of
Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude still at sea. But the reduction in
Iraq production suggests an eventual tightening of world oil
supplies unless the lost Iraqi oil is replaced by others in
OPEC.
   Oil prices rose again yesterday on reports that Iraq's
pipeline across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea has now been
closed and that an Iraqi tanker was turned away from the
Saudi terminal of Al-Muajjiz, even though those events had
been expected. These developments followed last week's
closings of two Iraqi pipelines across Turkey to the
Mediterranean.
   On European spot markets, North Sea crudes were priced 35
cents to 55 cents a barrel higher. In the U.S. futures
market, September crude also was up 54 cents, to $26.77 a
barrel, when trading was suspended because of a power outage
in lower Manhattan.
   In Kuwait, occupied by Iraqi troops since Aug. 2,
production is said to be near zero. This means that the
losses to world oil markets from the combined reductions in
Iraqi and Kuwaiti output now total some 4.3 million barrels a
day.
   Total OPEC production is down even more -- some 4.4
million barrels a day -- from the July average. That's
because some countries such as the United Arab Emirates
reduced their output for August in line with the terms of the
late-July OPEC agreement.
   But there are signs that overall OPEC production is
beginning to recover some from the lows of recent days,
according to Petro-Logistics Ltd., which monitors OPEC output
on a weekly basis. Conrad Gerber, president of the
Geneva-based firm, predicted that output in the third week of
August will expand to around 21.5 million barrels a day.
Total production has dropped to 19 million barrels a day in
the second week of August, after averaging 21 million barrels
a day in the first week of the month. As a result, he said,
"I would expect the August average to be about 21 million
barrels a day."
   That isn't enough to meet anticipated demand of 23 million
barrels a day for OPEC oil for the remainder of the year. "It
looks like we are not able to replace the {embargoed} crude
in full unless there is more export leakage out of Kuwait and
Iraq than we had assumed," said William Edwards, a Houston
energy consultant.
   The gap could be filled for a while from "surge" capacity,
estimated at some 4.2 million to 5.3 million barrels a day by
Petroleum Intelligence Weekly. The publication defines such
capacity as extra output available around the world from
existing fields for as long as 30 days.
   There isn't much spare capacity outside OPEC that could
sustain additional production over several months. Within
OPEC, some countries, such as Venezuela, already are
producing more. Beyond that, an estimated additional 3.5
million barrels a day of spare capacity remains that could be
utilized on a sustained basis. Most of it is in Saudi Arabia.
The Saudis have indicated a willingness to increase
production if necessary to maintain stability in oil markets.
   Overall, with Iraq and occupied Kuwait excluded, OPEC
could produce close to its second-half production ceiling of
22.5 million barrels a day if the 11 other members went all
out.
   Yesterday, the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., Prince Bandar
Bin Sultan, told a Washington news conference that OPEC will
hold a meeting soon to discuss ways of stabilizing the oil
market. "In that meeting, I hope we can come up with good
news," Prince Bandar said, adding: "But my country is
championing stabilizing the situation in the oil market."
   A senior member of an OPEC delegation from another
oil-exporting country said yesterday that consultations are
continuing among the oil ministers regarding a possible
emergency meeting. But he said it is uncertain for the time
being because of difficulty in determining Kuwait's
representatives.
   Separately, in the U.S., retail gasoline prices fell
nearly 3.5 cents a gallon over the weekend, to a national
average of $1.216 a gallon, the American Automobile
Association said. After a run-up of 15 cents to 20 cents
across the country, pump prices nationally began to edge
lower last Friday. Changes are regional, however, and some
prices rose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Firm on Cutting Iraq's Food Supply
   Despite Foreign Concerns, Farm Impact
   ----
   By Alan Murray and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is taking a hard
line on prohibiting food shipments to Iraq, despite
"humanitarian" concerns being raised overseas and the
potential economic harm to U.S. farmers.
   Administration officials believe cutting Iraq's food
supply may be the most effective weapon against Iraqi
strongman Saddam Hussein. They continue to insist on
preventing all food imports into the country. State
Department spokesman Margaret Tutwiler said yesterday food
shortages already have begun to occur in Baghdad. And
estimates by the Agriculture Department suggest Iraq will run
out of basic foodstuffs as early as October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But private analysts doubt the Bush administration will be
able to block food shipments to Iraq for long. They cite
three reasons. First, Turkey and Jordan may allow overland
food shipments into Iraq. Second, world public opinion is
likely to condemn any U.S. effort to starve the Iraqis. And
third, Saddam Hussein could respond by cutting off food
supplies first to the 2,500 Americans caught in Iraq and
Kuwait, a move that could cause public opinion in the U.S. to
turn against using the food weapon against Baghdad.
   "I'm very skeptical of our ability to control the flow of
food" into Iraq, says Patrick Clawson, an economist with the
Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia.
   Meanwhile, the ban on exports to Iraq is beginning to
pinch U.S. farmers, who count the Middle East nation as their
12th-largest export market. American rice growers were the
first to feel the loss. In recent years, Iraq has been the
largest single export market for U.S. rice, accounting for
about 10% of total U.S. production, or about $170 million
annually. The price had fallen about 10% in July, and it
dropped 5% more in the past two weeks.
   So far, rice farmers have been stoic-at least publicly.
"We certainly are not condemning the government for this,"
says Jack Wendt, a Richmond, Texas, rice grower. "I would
have done the same thing, but agriculture ends up on the
short end."
   The United Nations resolution banning all trade with Iraq
included an exception for food and medicine needed for
"humanitarian" purposes. Bush administration officials
insisted yesterday that the U.S. ban on trade applies to all
products except medical supplies. "At this point in the
situation, we think it's clearly far too early to consider
any foodstuffs as being in a humanitarian need category,"
said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater.
   Turkey, on the other hand, has indicated it might continue
to allow food shipments into Iraq, and many experts believe
Jordan will do the same. "The road in from Jordan was capable
of carrying 439,000 tons a month in December 1988," said Mr.
Clauson. "If the Jordanian government permits things in, they
{the Iraqis} won't have difficulty."
   Attempts to prohibit food exports have been rare in the
past, since they often affect civilians more than the
government and military. But Jeffrey Schott of the Institute
for International Economics, who wrote a book on the use of
economic sanctions, pointed out, "We very seldom have had
such a comprehensive set of sanctions. In the past, even if
one country wanted that tight an embargo, others wouldn't go
along."
   Even if Iraq pulls out of Kuwait and the Middle East
returns to normal, U.S. rice growers may never recover their
Iraqi market completely. The grain embargo the U.S. imposed
on the Soviet Union after that country's invasion of
Afghanistan gave Argentina and other wheat producers a chance
to grab market share they have held ever since.
   Thailand moved in to sell rice to Iraq when U.S. rice
sales to Iraq essentially were cut off this past spring after
the U.S. refused to provide loan guarantees as a result of a
controversy unrelated to the Kuwaiti invasion. "The Iraqi
market had already been lost to the U.S. rice farmer and
industry for this year," said Thomas Slayton, director of
market analysis at the Rice Millers Assocation, a U.S. trade
group.
   "Now you're pretty well guaranteed that you're not going
to sell them any rice as long as Saddam Hussein is in power,"
said Fred Tanner, a Bernie, Mo., rice grower. "Or at least
until he converts to Christianity."
   Rice prices were under pressure before the latest
developments in Iraq. Because of favorable weather, rice
growers all over the world have been harvesting bumper crops.
Prices also were depressed by the return of Vietnam to the
export business.
   Rice for September delivery was quoted yesterday on the
Chicago Rice and Cotton Exchange at $6.65 a hundred pounds,
down about 40 cents from the beginning of August, said Scott
Minton, a trader at Rodman &amp; Renshaw in Chicago.
   Taxpayers may end up sharing the pain with rice growers.
Under government farm programs, rice growers essentially can
sell their crop to the U.S. at $6.50 a hundredweight even if
market prices drop below that level.
   Last year, Iraq imported about 570,000 tons of rice,
392,000 tons from the U.S. and most of the rest from
Thailand, the U.S. Agriculture Department says. Arkansas and
Texas growers of the long-grain rice the Iraqis favor haven't
much choice but to sit and watch prices for their crop sink.
The industry says it can't immediately find another customer
for so much rice -- particularly one that pays in cash as the
Iraqi government did.
   Continued tension in the Middle East can only make the
market worse; after Iraq, the next largest customer for U.S.
rice is Saudi Arabia. In all, the Middle East accounts for
about one-third of U.S. rice exports. The populace there
likes rice, but they can't grow very much because water is so
scarce. "It's a ready-made market," said Jim Willis, a vice
president of USA Rice Council, the industry's promotion arm.
"Water's worth more than oil."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Paper Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   IP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL PAPER Corp. (Purchase, N.Y.) -- Kenneth
Defren was named staff vice president and director of
corporate communications and state corporate affairs at this
maker of paper and forest products. Mr. Defren, 43 years old,
succeeds William Greener III, now vice president for public
affairs of Wheelabrator Technologies Inc., in Hampton, N.H.
Mr. Defren was previously executive vice president for New
York-based Porter/Novelli, a public relations agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Family Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AFL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN FAMILY Corp. (Columbus, Ga.) -- Daniel P. Amos,
39 years old, has been named vice chairman and chief
executive officer of this insurance and broadcasting concern,
following the death of his uncle, John B. Amos, 66, the
company's founder, chairman and chief executive. Daniel Amos
was also named chief executive of the company's principal
subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance Corp., again
succeeding John Amos. Daniel Amos had been deputy chief
executive officer of the company and its unit. Paul Amos, 64,
a co-founder and former vice chairman of American Family
Corp., has been named the company's chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Steel Output Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French companies produced 1,683,000 metric tons
of crude steel in July, up 8.9% from a year earlier,
according to industry data.
   The National Steel Manufacturers' Association said the
July production brings French output for the first seven
months of the year to 11,629,000 tons, down 2% from the like
1989 period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Milacron Wolfpack Goes in for the Kill
   ---
   Firm Seeks to Regain
   Leadership in Factory Machinery
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   CMZ
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Daniel J. Meyer, the new chief executive
officer of Cincinnati Milacron Inc., wants to lead a
wolfpack.
   He holds up the logo for his strategy -- a circle of
wolves, flanked on each side by a fierce wolf's head. "It's
not a joke to us," he said. "Wolves are survivors. They work
in teams, and they go out to kill."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Milacron clearly needs to act more like a wolfpack if it
is to regain its position as a world leader in factory
machinery. Japanese producers now dominate the U.S. machine
tool industry, which Milacron once led. Foreign concerns
supply more than half of the nation's plastics machinery. And
Milacron hasn't earned an acceptable profit since 1981.
   Determined to reverse that slide, Milacron executives aim
to rebuild the company's ability to manufacture quality
products more cheaply than competitors. It's a return to
basics after a decade when Milacron, like some other U.S.
manufacturers, tried to rely on old customer loyalties, high
technology and marketing gimmicks, only to find itself beaten
out of traditional markets by foreign competitors.
   Operation Wolfpack includes a crash redesign of Milacron's
machines over the next five years to make them cheaper to
manufacture and more reliable. Minimum goal: a 30% cost
reduction on each machine.
   Already, Milacron is achieving some early successes. A
redesigned line of plastic injection molding machinery is
reclaiming market share from foreign competitors. Toyota
Motor Corp. will install three of the new machines in its
Georgetown, Ky., auto plant next year. And a new machining
center that costs $74,999 but has more features than the
$112,000 machine it replaces is meeting the Japanese head on.
   A second part of the strategy, creating "focus factories"
that engineer, manufacture and service one product line, has
proved to be harder than expected. So far, the change has
cost more in disrupted production than it has contributed in
savings, but it appears that it is about to start paying off.
   However, it won't be easy to turn Milacron managers into
wolves. While the 106-year-old machinery producer is loaded
with competent professionals with a great depth of
manufacturing expertise, they've operated in a bureaucratic
and paternalistic environment for decades. And Milacron's
toughest foes, the Japanese and Germans, are acknowledged
world masters of manufacturing.
   "Operation Wolfpack can produce a terrific company if it's
well-executed, but the results won't be evident until the
mid-90s," predicted Eli S. Lustgarten, machinery analyst with
PaineWebber Inc. Shareholders will see some disappointments
while it's being implemented, as Caterpillar Inc.
shareholders have with that company's "Plant With a Future"
program, he said. The Peoria, Ill., construction-equipment
producer has had erratic earnings during a major upgrade of
factories.
   Erratic earnings wouldn't be anything new for Milacron.
The company had losses in three of the last eight years, and
profits in the other five averaged an anemic 2.5% of sales.
Management in June had to make a public stock offering to
rebuild the balance sheet in preparation for the $250 million
it intends to invest over the next five years to implement
the Wolfpack program.
   Mr. Meyer isn't promising a quick turnaround, but he does
expect the 1990 second half to be better than the dismal
first six months, when profits plummetted 63% to $5.6
million, or 22 cents a share. Nonetheless, analysts expect
1990 net to drop below 1989's weak $17.5 million, or 72 cents
a share, on sales of $850.6 million.
   Ironically, Milacron's problems arose in part because
management took too long a viewpoint, unlike many other U.S.
companies that worried too much about quarter-to-quarter
profits. A decade ago, the company plunged into robotics and
computeraided manufacturing when those new technologies
seemed poised to revolutionize manufacturing. Milacron
started producing computers, wafers for computer chips, and
huge unmanned manufacturing systems.
   Milacron's big, beige computer-controlled machines
attended by bright yellow robots were the hit of many
industry trade shows. Unfortunately, few factory owners could
afford to shell out $10 million to $20 million to buy the
systems, while those who could were reluctant to gamble on
the new technology. The result: Milacron lost millions of
dollars, while the Japanese seized the lion's share of the
U.S. market for standard machine tools.
   "We abdicated the standard machine tool market that used
to be Milacron's strength," admitted the 53-year-old Mr.
Meyer, who is the first outsider to head Milacron since the
Geier family bought a controlling interest in 1887.
   In the process, the company also lost the respect of some
customers. One Midwest manufacturer said the Milacron
machining center he bought several years ago "operated in the
range of 30% of the time." Despite repeated visits from
Milacron repairmen, "the hydraulic system wouldn't work, the
tool changer wouldn't change tools, or it would change to the
wrong tool. Eventually we sold it to a used machinery
dealer," he said.
   Unwilling to risk that "tragic experience" again, the
manufacturer earlier this year selected a new lathe made by
Okuma Machinery Works Ltd., Oguchi, Japan, without even
evaluating a competing Milacron machine.
   To be sure, Milacron's problems weren't all of its own
making. A doubling of machine tool demand in 1978 and 1979,
when U.S. car makers were downsizing in response to soaring
gasoline prices, forced some U.S. manufacturers to try
foreignmade machines for the first time. Then the soaring
value of the dollar in the first half of the 1980s made it
easy for overseas competitors to expand their beachhead by
underpricing U.S. producers.
   In just 10 years from 1976 to 1986, machine tool imports
soared sevenfold, seizing half the U.S. market. Japanese
producers, pricing at whatever level it took to make a sale,
bought their way into factories that previously wouldn't even
look at their machines. The quality of those machines brought
repeat orders.
   Their next step was U.S. production. The Mazak plant in
Florence, Ky., owned by Yamazaki Mazak Corp. of Oguchi,
Japan, is more automated than any owned by Milacron. Adding
insult to injury, Mazak and Okuma, which has a new plant in
Charlotte, N.C., each regards the other as their primary
competitor in the U.S. market.
   Milacron's new back-to-basics approach emphasizes quality,
cost reduction and return on capital. "Profitability is a new
religion around here," said Raymond E. Ross, senior vice
president, industrial systems. Indeed, even the company's
cafeteria has become a profit center, catering weddings and
banquets. And Milacron's research and development program now
"has a small r and a capital D," said Mr. Ross. Milacron will
no longer carry out research simply "because it is a good
thing to do technologically."
   Milacron also has altered its old approach of building
machines to a potential customer's wish list. "Ask a customer
what he wants, and you'll build a Rolls-Royce," said
Christopher C. Cole, Milacron's group vice president, machine
tool products. "But when he looks at the price tag, he may
decide to buy a Chevrolet."
   The product redesign effort was pioneered by Milacron's
plastic injection molding machine division. A team that
included people from production, purchasing and sales, as
well as engineering, "looked at every competitor in the
world, from design concepts they used to the materials
employed," said Harold Faig, vice president and general
manager of the unit. "We got away from the not-invented-here
syndrome," borrowing the best concepts found anywhere in the
world. Soliciting assistance from suppliers turned them into
partners.
   The effort slashed manufacturing costs 40%, partly by
halving the number of parts required. Now the division is
going after the production process, trying to take out an
additional 15% of the cost by automating parts-making and
streamlining assembly.
   Customers have noticed a real difference. "They've become
very price-competitive, the machines perform well and the
service is great," said John Halula, group vice president of
the plastics unit of Worthington Industries Inc., Columbus,
Ohio. "And the machines are U.S.-made, which we like."
   Milacron's focus factory concept attempts to capture the
entrepreneurial spirit more common in smaller companies. John
E. Lower said he runs the 400-person turning machine plant
outside Wilmington, Ohio, "as an autonomous company." He does
his own purchasing and controls machine design and pricing.
He's also responsible for installing the metal-cutting lathes
the factory produces and for subsequent repair service. Most
of those functions previously were controlled from
Cincinnati.
   Out in the factory, he has moved 120 machines in 10 months
to create production cells. Each does all the machining on a
family of parts, which greatly improves efficiency. Nowadays,
the facility delivers 90% of its machines on time, double the
percentage of a year ago. And Mr. Lower expects the plant to
turn a profit this year, after a lengthy string of losses
that almost prompted Milacron to close it.
   Looking ahead, Mr. Lower plans to broaden the product line
to include smaller, simpler turning machines used by small
factories, a market Milacron had abandoned.
   "That's a wolfpack project," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Europe at Risk
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FORGN MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   News yesterday that the Dutch are dispatching two frigates
to the Persian Gulf offered some further encouragement that
continental Europe is not going to duck its responsibilities
for dealing with the Kuwait crisis. But the response so far
has been slow and it remains to be seen how much real help
the U.S., the United Kingdom and Turkey will get from their
NATO allies.
   Failure to participate more vigorously by sending ground
forces and ground-based aircraft will be a far less safe
course than continental Europeans might imagine. If a
shooting war breaks out and U.S. soldiers are forced to carry
the main burden of the fighting, there could easily be a
violent reaction against Europe in the United States.
Americans know that Europeans are far more dependent on
Persian Gulf oil than Americans. They will be asking,
legitimately, why it is that American soldiers, sailors and
airmen are always being asked to pull Europe's chestnuts out
of the fire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such a reaction will, in turn, fuel demands in the U.S.
that American forces be withdrawn from Europe. Such demands
had been aired in the U.S. press, by some writers from both
the right and left, well before the latest crisis. The left
wants the troops out because it wants disarmament and the
"peace dividend." The right wants them out because it sees no
justification in requiring American taxpayers to help protect
the security of a wealthy Europe.
   While it would be technically possible for the U.S. to
withdraw from Europe and still preserve the NATO alliance, it
is doubtful that NATO would last long under such
circumstances. NATO has a certain symmetry now, with a
European secretary general and an American as Supreme Allied
Commander Europe (SACEUR). With a U.S. withdrawal, it could
soon lose that symmetry, raising questions about which
country is to lead Europe's defense, or even whether a
Europe-wide security system is possible. France already
operates outside the NATO command structure.
   That, in turn, could result in political fragmentation,
not only splitting Europe and North America into separate
power blocks, but possibly even splitting Europe itself into
blocks and alliances reminiscent of the bad old days before
NATO when power politics dominated the continent. Intelligent
people on the continent, the more perceptive Germans in
particular, do not want America to leave Europe for precisely
that reason. But given the political dynamics of the moment,
wishing will not necessarily prevent it.
   It does not help when continental politicians, such as
German Social Democrat Karsten Voight, say the Persian Gulf
is none of their business. There is a certain arrogance in
such comments, suggesting that messy things like wars are
beneath the dignity of Europeans. That dignity, if you want
to call it that, is preserved only by someone else's courage.
Even with U.S. backing, Europe's security is by no means
guaranteed. It is widely asserted that a Soviet threat no
longer exists, but Soviet military power did not collapse
with the Berlin wall. The political and economic chaos that
is wracking the Soviet Union could easily yield up a new
Stalin capable of intimidating a future disarmed and
disorganized western Europe.
   For that matter, no one can foretell what will transpire
in the Middle East over the next few days. The U.S. welcomed
the support of Egyptian and Syrian forces in defending Saudi
Arabia because it wanted to block Saddam Hussein's attempts
to incite Arabs against the West. But as Saddam has amply
demonstrated, Arab relationships are mercurial. A leader of
Western military forces cannot be entirely comfortable having
Arab forces both in front of him and to his rear even if the
ones to the rear are supposedly on his side. More European
soldiers would reduce the level of discomfort.
   Moreover, if war breaks out, there will be less bloodshed
if the allies can immediately apply overwhelming force. If
Saddam's air and missile forces are knocked out quickly, he
will be less able to take some desperate gamble, such as
launching a poison gas attack on the allies or Israel. That
too argues for broader participation.
   Perhaps the slow reaction on the continent merely is a
function of the time required to organize joint operations.
We hope so. If it is yet another attempt to duck
responsibility, Europe's future security will be subject to
serious doubts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Greyhound Lines Inc.:
   Bus Line Raises Fares 2%
   To Meet Higher Fuel Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Greyhound Lines Inc. implemented a 2% across-the-board
fare increase to compensate for higher fuel costs.
   Greyhound spokesman George Gravley said the cost of fuel
to the Dallas-based passenger line rose almost 35% over the
first nine days of August, from 59 cents a gallon (pre-tax)
to 79 cents. Since then, the price has gone down a percentage
point or two, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fuel accounts for 4.6% of costs at Greyhound. "That's a
lot less than at American Airlines," Mr. Gravley said. The
airline increased its fares 10% last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   Arabs Who Back Iraq's Saddam Hussein
   Have Been Denied the Truth About Him
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Three years ago, Kurdish poet Sami Shoresh could trek all
day through the rough mountains of Iraqi Kurdistan. Now, at
age 38, "a walk up a few steps leaves me exhausted," he says.
   In 1987, Mr. Shoresh survived an attempt by an agent of
Saddam Hussein to kill him with thalium -- a slow acting
blood toxin best known as rat-bait. His is one of the
best-documented of numerous cases in which the Iraqi regime
has used thalium. The British toxicologists who treated Mr.
Shoresh call thalium "Iraqi poison" because they have seen it
used on so many of Saddam Hussein's enemies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the Iraqi strongman is reaching over the heads of Arab
leaders to whip up support in the streets, the governments
that now oppose him should blame themselves for censoring
their nations' media to keep their people in the dark. Where
the local Arab population knew about Saddam Hussein's
activities, they have supported their governments' sanctions
against him.
   Ordinary Arabs applauding the Iraqi president in Jordan,
Yemen, Algeria and Tunis have never heard of Mr. Shoresh, nor
read Amnesty International reports on Iraqi torture of
children, nor seen the gruesome pictures of Iraq's Halabja
poison gas attack.
   In Jordan's press -- one of the region's most analytical
since reforms after last year's riots -- King Hussein's
growing closeness to the Iraqi president was one of the few
remaining taboo subjects. Yemen's state-run media barraged
the people with heroic images of their president linking
hands with the Iraqi strongman.
   Iraq didn't rely only on this official image-building.
Arab journalists relate countless examples of Iraqi gifts and
bribes to burnish coverage. One common ploy was to offer
poorly paid Arab journalists a good deal of money to write
columns in Iraqi-funded journals. Such deals swiftly
disappeared if the writers' domestic reports drifted from a
pro-Iraqi line.
   And if bribery failed, threats emerged. Sami Farag Ali, a
British-based dissident Iraqi journalist, got a call one day
from Iraq: "Don't think you are safe just because you are in
London," said the caller, a senior aide to Saddam Hussein.
"With one word I can have your head brought to Baghdad."
   If Egyptians now are of one mind with their government's
opposition to Iraq, it is because so many of them have
first-hand experience of its brutal regime. More than a
million Egyptians work in Iraq, so a million Egyptian
families have been treated to tales of Saddam Hussein's rule
of repression and fear. For free-wheeling Egyptians, whose
favorite pastime is devising wickedly funny political jokes,
life in Baghdad's silent society was grim indeed.
   Even in trivial ways, Iraqi officials made Egyptians'
lives miserable. At the airport, poor Egyptian laborers often
were forced to queue for days to get home to Cairo. Lines
stretched out of the terminal onto the baking sidewalk, where
exhausted men slept on their rumpled bundles of belongings
because nobody bothered to organize confirmed reservations.
   Now, those same Egyptians are cheering their president's
tough stand against Iraq. For governments that aren't
enjoying the same support, the current crisis might contain
useful lessons on the benefits of arming their people with
that most potent of all weapons -- the truth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
AIRLINES (AIR)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPAN'S IMPORT OMBUDSMAN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan's Office of Trade and Investment Ombudsman will
broaden its work to process claims concerning market openness
and smooth entry of imports, an agency official said. The
office also decided to add up to three non-Japanese to its
now eight-member advisory council.
   In the Structural Impediment Initiative bilateral trade
talks that ended in June, Tokyo promised the U.S. it would
broaden the function of the agency. The talks were aimed at
breaking down Japanese barriers to imports and correcting
U.S. investment imbalances.
   Members of the council decided to expand its scope to
handle "concrete" complaints by foreign companies concerning
the smooth entry of imports, the official said. This will
allow the agency, among other things, to process claims
concerning direct investment in Japan, according to the
official.
   The agency was established in 1982 to receive and process
claims regarding Japan's import standards and certification
system. Yesterday's decision will probably be presented at a
follow-up meeting of the bilateral talks to be held this
fall.
                                                                                                       

   EAST GERMAN CHEMICALS
                                                                                                       

   Western chemical companies have so far invested only
modestly in East Germany companies, according to a report by
the Center for Information and Documentation in East Berlin.
Western reticence is due to the large number of plants with
high pollution emissions and the enormous costs associated
with cleaning up already polluted land and rivers in East
Germany. The West German Chemical Industry Association has
said East German chemical firms should cover the costs of
environmental cleanup themselves.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN TV SATELLITE
                                                                                                       

   Societe Europeennee des Satellites, operator of Europe's
first privately owned satellite network, said a number of
international aerospace companies are bidding to supply the
company with a third satellite. The Luxembourg-based
company's first satellite, Astra 1a, was launched by the
European Ariane rocket in December 1988. It began
transmitting to television stations across Europe in February
1989. Among the users of Astra 1a are Sky Channel, the
pop-music channel MTV and Eurosport. A second satellite,
Astra 1b, is due to be launched at the end of this year.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE EXPORT QUALITY
                                                                                                       

   Chinese authorities are waging a sometimes losing battle
in their effort to improve the quality of goods made for
export. While some improvements have been recorded since new
quality-control and inspection laws were enacted in August
1989, the track record of many Chinese exporters is still
dismal, official reports show. In one case, nearly 75% of the
cloth produced by Taiyuan Cotton Textile Mill, in northern
Shanxi province, was found to be of poor quality.
                                                                                                       

   TURKISH POWER PLANT
                                                                                                       

   Eight Japanese companies will set up a joint venture with
the Turkish government to build and run an electric power
plant in Turkey. Under the arrangement, the Turkish
government will be able to build the plant, learn how to run
and maintain the system and eventually take full ownership
without having to pay more than 30% of the costs of
construction, according to a spokesman for Electric Power
Development, one of the Japanese companies involved in the
project. Under the arrangement, the eight companies will
provide 70% of the capital for the 18 billion-yen ($119.6
million) joint venture; staterun TEK, a Turkish power
company, will contribute the rest.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS AS USUAL
                                                                                                       

   Saddam Hussein hasn't yet scared tourists from Egypt,
Turkey and Jordan.
   Despite ominous headlines, a military buildup in Saudi
Arabia and Iraq's threats of a holy war against the U.S.,
hotels, airlines and travel agencies serving the Eastern
Mediterranean have reported few cancellations from Western
travelers.
   "Up until now, business is better than we expected, said
Rico de Schepper, general manager of the Nile Hilton in
Cairo. "So far, we haven't received any cancellations." Pan
Am and TWA said flights to Cairo, Istanbul and Ankara are
running normally.
   A U.S. travel agent said Egyptair flights out of the U.S.
are wait-listed for the rest of the summer. The London office
of Royal Jordanian Airlines said it just received bookings
for a 14-person group to travel to Amman next month, and a
90-person group next May.
   European charter carriers said it's more or less business
as usual.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The hottest fad on Taiwanese television is a crop of talk
shows that let studio audiences thrash out their marital
problems on national broadcasts. In Taiwan, one in five
marriages ends in divorce, according to government
statistics. . . . New Turkish carrier Greenair offers several
promotions on its domestic flights. The most unusual is a 50%
discount for women who have green eyes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Moves Forward With Plans
   For Class-Action Asbestos Lawsuit
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL EPI TOPPC
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge pushed forward with plans for a
class-action lawsuit likely to benefit former asbestos makers
who say they are running out of money.
   In federal court in Brooklyn, New York, U.S. District
Judge Jack B. Weinstein also said he expects that funds from
those companies will be combined with the Manville trust to
settle the asbestos personal-injury claims. And he indicated
that he will take a hard line on plaintiffs' attorney fees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move was the first step in carrying out a joint effort
announced by 10 federal judges Friday to come up with a
nationwide resolution of the asbestos suits. The backlog of
asbestos personal-injury cases across the country now totals
about 90,000, and tens of thousands more are expected in the
years ahead. Most of the victims are former construction and
shipyard workers who developed cancer or respiratory
illnesses years after their exposure to the insulation
material.
   The motion asking Judge Weinstein to approve a class
action was made by Eagle-Picher Industries Inc. of
Cincinnati, which claims that it and some other defendants
don't have enough money to continue fighting asbestos cases
individually.
   "We believe there is a general risk that the assets of
Eagle-Picher and other defendants may be insufficient to meet
the claims," said Arvin Maskin, an attorney for the
Eagle-Picher.
   Under Friday's agreement, the class action before Judge
Weinstein can include as many as six asbestos defendants, if
it is shown that as a group they indeed lack enough assets to
pay future claims. Judge Weinstein set a hearing for tomorrow
to begin examining the financial condition of Eagle-Picher
and the other defendants. He said the analysis would be
completed within three weeks. He also appointed former
federal judge Marvin E. Frankel to determine whether
defendants' funds are inadequate.
   Although several companies have been mentioned as possible
co-defendants along with Eagle-Picher, none has asked to be
included in the case. Judge Weinstein has authority over the
Manville trust, which he has ordered to come up with new
financing to overcome its cash shortfall. The trust was
formed by Manville Corp. as part of its bankruptcy-court
reorganization in 1986 to pay asbestos claims.
   Gene Locks, an asbestos plaintiffs' attorney in
Philadelphia, asked Judge Weinstein to reject Eagle-Picher's
motion, questioning whether the company actually lacks funds.
He said the class action will reduce the amount of money
available to asbestos victims, and instead suggested that the
companies should turn to Chapter 11 protection under the
federal Bankruptcy Code.
   Judge Weinstein, however, said he doesn't favor "pushing
into bankruptcy major segments of our industrial base. . . .
We want to avoid forcing companies into bankruptcy if we
can." The judge also said that even though a company may
qualify for the class action, it doesn't mean the company is
insolvent.
   To reduce costs, the judge said plaintiffs' attorneys
would have to accept cuts in their fees. "It is intolerable,
given the limited funds, for two-thirds of the available
assets to go to transaction costs," mainly legal fees, the
judge said.
   ---
   IMMIGRATION ACT section is declared unconstitutional.
   The amendment, aimed at curbing drug trafficking, allows
legal aliens who have served prison sentences for certain
felonies to be jailed again -- indefinitely and without a
chance for bail -- while deportation proceedings are under
way.
   But in federal court in Manhattan, Judge Gerard Goettel
ruled that the requirement violates the U.S. Constitution by
not granting defendants the right to possible release on
bail. Although the government's intentions may have been
legitimate in fighting drug sales, the means used to enforce
the law "are excessive and violate {the defendant's}
substantive dueprocess rights," the judge ruled.
   "A bail hearing wouldn't pose significant fiscal or
administrative burdens on the government and would greatly
minimize the risk of erroneous deprivation of a liberty
interest," Judge Goettel wrote in his opinion. The case is
one of the first to challenge the regulation's
constitutionality.
   Arthur Helton, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, which deals with immigration issues, said the
decision "is a judicial warning that neither Congress nor the
{Immigration and Naturalization Service} will be able to take
shortcuts in immigration law enforcement that fly in the face
of constitutional entitlements."
   Carolyn Goldfarb, an attorney for the prisoner who filed
the case, said she will seek a bail hearing soon. If not
released on bail, her client is expected to spend more time
in jail during the deportation process than the eight months
he served on his criminal conviction, she said.
   Timothy Macfall, an assistant U.S. attorney who handled
the case, said the government hasn't decided whether to
appeal.
   ---
   DEATH PENALTY case challenged on grounds of racial
discrimination.
   With aid from the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, a black murder defendant in Georgia is trying to block
the use of the death penalty in his case, arguing that the
prosecutor has systematically discriminated against blacks.
   The fund asserts the case of William Anthony Brooks, who
is charged with killing a white female, is of national
significance because it is "a model of new defense strategies
that seek to prove purposeful discrimination in an entire
criminal justice jurisdiction" to meet the tougher standard
of proof now required by the U.S. Supreme Court under a 1987
case, McCleskey vs. Kemp.
   But attorneys with the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People were chagrined at a ruling
yesterday by Superior Court Judge Hugh Lawson, which said the
defense, in asserting racial discrimination, could present
evidence only of discrimination by the current prosecutor --
Muscogee County District Attorney Douglas Pullen -- and not
of alleged discrimination by two previous district attorneys
who had been in office during the 17 years that Mr. Brooks'
case has dragged on. His earlier conviction was overturned on
a technicality by the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
Judge Lawson "gave a very narrow reading" of the McCleskey
ruling, said Daniel Fleshler, a spokesman for the fund.
   In its 1987 ruling, the Supreme Court, rejecting a major
challenge to the death penalty, refused to accept historical,
statistical evidence of possible racial bias in death
sentences as proof that an individual defendant's rights were
violated. The Supreme Court ruling means that death-penalty
defendants must prove on a case by case basis that they
suffered discrimination at the hands of a "decision maker,"
such as a judge, jury or prosecutor, in order to prove that
the use of the death penalty in their case is racially
motivated.
   At a hearing in Columbus, Ga., today, defense attorneys
plan to present evidence that the prosecution, among other
things, systematically weeds out potential black jurors from
jury panels that already include few blacks.
   The defense will also argue that the prosecutor focuses
his energies on prosecuting crimes against white victims,
giving short shrift to black victims who suffer a
disproportionate number of the area's crimes.
   Mr. Pullen, the prosecutor, said the charge of
discrimination was an attempt to divert attention from the
crime committed.
   Asked whether race entered into the state's decision to
seek the death penalty, Mr. Pullen said: "There might have
been a time when that would have been a significant factor,
but no more. This crime offended the whole community."
   ---
   JUDGE BARS U.S. from enforcing restrictions on "phone sex"
companies.
   Under a law that takes effect this week, companies that
charge a fee for sexually explicit telephone conversations
are required to take additional steps to make unauthorized
use of the phone sex services more difficult. But a federal
judge in Manhattan ruled that the restrictions, known as the
Helms Amendment for the law's sponsor, Sen. Jesse Helms, are
unconstitutionally vague and too severe.
   "The enforcement of the Helms Amendment presents a threat
of imminent, irreparable harm to First Amendment freedoms,"
said U.S. Judge Robert P. Patterson Jr. in his order.
   The law requires phone companies to block access to adult
phone services unless a customer specifically requests the
ability to make such calls from his or herphone. The law also
requires that extra measures be taken to deter children from
calling the services, such as having the caller use a
password or pay with a credit card.
   Civil liberties lawyers have argued that the law infringed
on constitutionally protected speech between consenting
adults. The judge said Congress could come up with a less
restrictive way to keep children from using the services. He
also said the law is illegally vague because it doesn't
specify what constitutes the "indecent" speech it is meant to
restrict.
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan said it is
reviewing the case to determine whether to appeal.
   ---
   FOOTBALL CARD DISPUTE is settled by the NFL and Topps.
   In a joint announcement, Topps Co. and National Football
League Properties Inc., the league's licensing arm, stated
that there was an amicable settlement of the suit Topps
brought against the National Football League on June 28.
   The suit by Brooklyn-based Topps accused the NFL and
National Football League Properties of an "unlawful attempt
to block Topps" from selling its 1990 series of professional
football player cards.
   The suit alleged that by refusing to renew Topp's
licensing contract, the league and NFL Properties sought "to
eliminate Topps as a competitor to Pro Set Inc." Pro Set,
which is also licensed by the NFL, introduced its first cards
under the trademarks "NFL Pro Set" and "The Official NFL
Card" prior to the 1989 season. They were, according to
Topps, the top-selling football cards in 1989.
   Under terms of the settlement, a three-year license
agreement has been signed which calls for Topps to continue
to market its football player cards as an official licensee.
Topps football player cards will be on sale this month.
   ---
   Mark Robichaux contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   After Drexel,
   Leon Black
   Bounces Back
   ----
   By George Anders and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CLC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For investment banker Leon Black, there is
life after Drexel.
   During the 1980's heyday of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.,
Mr. Black helped such takeover artists as Carl Icahn, Henry
Kravis and William Farley buy companies. He earned an
estimated $10 million to $20 million a year for his trouble.
But on Feb. 13, that career came to an end when Drexel
collapsed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now Mr. Black and several ex-Drexel colleagues have
resurfaced as managers of a $400 million fund that will
invest in high-yield, high-risk junk bonds.
   Mr. Black says that is just the start of his comeback
plan. In an interview, the 39-year-old investment banker
confirmed market talk that he is partway through raising
another big fund that "can go into anything." The new fund
could run the gamut from taking big equity stakes in
companies at management's request to making equity or debt
investments in financially troubled companies that need
restructuring. Mr. Black said he might even consider
leveraged buy-outs if that market ever revives.
   One profitable area for Mr. Black may be in working with
former Drexel clients that have fallen into financial
distress in the past 18 months. Some of those executives
mightn't ever want to see a Drexel deal-maker again. But Mr.
Black isn't deterred. "A lot of companies need to be sold or
refinanced," he said.
   Mr. Black's recent success at raising money is all the
more remarkable because of Drexel's tarnished image. Both
Drexel and Michael Milken, the firm's former junk-bond chief,
pleaded guilty to felony counts involving securities-law
violations. In addition, many clients that Drexel financed
and hailed as success stories, from Mr. Farley to airline
executive Frank Lorenzo, have tripped over the heavy debt
loads that Drexel created for them.
   In his salad days at Drexel, Mr. Black was co-head of
Drexel's mergers and acquisitions department in New York,
designing deals powered by Mr. Milken's junk-bond juggernaut
in Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Now Mr. Black said he believes his $400 million fund can
earn 15% to 20% annually as a passive investor in junk bonds.
"There was a time when you could get 25%," he said. But the
junk-bond market's partial rebound, coupled with the
refinancing of RJR Nabisco Inc., has removed many of the
biggest bargains, Mr. Black argues.
   In his new incarnation as a junk-bond manager, Mr. Black
is collecting his biggest backing from European institutions.
They include Credit Lyonnais, the French bank, and Thomson
S.A., the French electrical concern, people familiar with the
fund said. Executives of Credit Lyonnais didn't return phone
calls. A Thomson spokesman didn't have any immediate comment.
   Wall Street and corporate executives who know Mr. Black
are divided about his chances of success on his own.
Especially in the early stages of his Drexel career, Mr.
Black was an eccentric figure amidst Wall Street's dandies,
known for his untucked shirt-tails and his tardiness in
arriving at client meetings.
   But Abe Claude, an executive recruiter at Russell-Reynolds
Associates, said Mr. Black "has the kind of visibility that
not many others at Drexel had. He wasn't overshadowed by Mike
Milken. People know who he is."
   Leon Kalvaria, a managing director of First Boston Corp.,
said, "Given the depressed levels in the high-yield market,
this is an ideal time for smart money to look for
opportunities."
   Douglas LeBon, a pension consultant at Wilshire Associates
in Santa Monica, Calif., added that big institutions are
eager to invest in privately placed financings with
specialists like Mr. Black, given that most mainstream stock
and bond managers fail to consistently match the market
averages. "If you are going to get extraordinary returns, you
must go to private placements," Mr. LeBon said.
   Mr. Black conceded that he doesn't have a track record as
a junk-bond portfolio manager, but said he is familiar with
many of the companies in which he might invest because Drexel
underwrote many of their bonds.
   Mr. Black said he hasn't chosen a name for his new firm,
but is leaning toward something like Apollo Investments,
named after the Greek god of healing. Mr. Black also said
that several Drexel alumni will become partners in his new
business, including John Hannon, Drexel's former head of
international mergers and acquisitions, and investment banker
Arthur Bilger.
   Mr. Black currently is renting midtown Manhattan office
space from Bennett LeBow, a former Drexel client. Mr. Black
said that later this year, he plans to open his own offices
in New York and California -- though not in Beverly Hills,
where Mr. Milken plied his trade.
   Although the U.S. mergers business has slowed considerably
because of the junk-bond market's woes, Mr. Black said he
sees lots of potential business abroad. "Foreign companies
are the most logical buyers" of U.S. corporations, he
asserted. Mr. Black said he has a particular interest in
French deals; he said he speaks passable French and can do
business in that language.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Are Porn Prosecutions a Raw Deal?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   I find myself compelled to express my considerable
dissatisfaction and concern regarding your July 27 page-one
article on pornography defendants. You imply that
pornographers are being treated unfairly by the judicial
system by being subject to multiple prosecutions. You suggest
that merely because Philip Harvey's local community has not
found his pornographic materials objectionable, that Mr.
Harvey should be allowed to distribute these materials
anywhere he pleases without regard to community values. I
submit to you that Mr. Harvey in choosing to peddle his
materials throughout the country should be responsible to the
values of communities in which he expects to do business.
   You further suggest that the Justice Department and
Attorney General Richard Thornburgh have, as a result of
implied political ambitions, begun prosecuting pornographers
to gain conservative political advantage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I believe rather that his putting child pornographers
behind bars should bring little protest inasmuch as Mr.
Thornburgh and the Justice Department are enforcing the laws
established by the judicial systems within this country.
Furthermore, enforcement of current obscenity and pornography
laws should not be weakened by past inaction to enforce such
laws. I expect the Justice Department to enforce these laws
and commend Mr. Thornburgh and former Attorney General Edwin
Meese for their courageous actions to uphold the law and
defend the child victims of such pornographic materials.
   Glen Berryhill
   Long Beach, Calif.
   ---
   The questions you raised illustrate the problem with
trying to squelch free expression, for whatever motive, in a
free society.
   Even if one can find a standard to prove which material
"appeals to prurient interests, depicts sexual conduct in a
patently offensive way and lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value" (a task that is daunting
enough), one question still remains: Should that material be
illegal? If obscenity can be made illegal, why not blasphemy,
atheism, communism or any number of things that most people
find offensive?
   The bottom line is this: Either we believe in free speech
or we don't. The Constitution doesn't simply say that "the
majority rules." On the contrary, it is an anti-majoritarian
document that in many cases is there to protect the minority
from the majority. In my opinion, that should include the
minority that gets its jollies from watching "Prisoner of
Paradise."
   So long as pornographers don't engage in child or animal
abuse, and so long as everyone involved, including the
viewer, is a consenting adult, then I think the Justice
Department has bigger fish to fry.
   James Melton
   Arlington, Mass.
   ---
   Your article on obscenity prosecutions and the perils of
double jeopardy lacked a certain historical perspective.
Venue shopping on the part of overzealous prosecutors is
nothing new: I was the victim of one such case of judicial
fraud when a federal indictment was handed down against me in
1974, in Wichita, Kan.
   My newspaper specializes in sexual satire, and we found we
had sold four subscriptions to the whole of Kansas -- all
four to U.S. postal inspectors. Even though the bulk of my
sales were to New York City and environs, I had to undergo
the egregious expense of defending myself in a courtroom a
thousand miles distant from my home base.
   In general, the current hysteria over censorship of art
and music holds a savage amusement for those of us who've
been on the front lines of First Amendment battles. The
censorship of pornography creates a climate in which the
guardians of social purity can go on to bigger bonfires.
   The First Amendment must be inclusive, plenary and immune
for it to have any meaning at all. I have long decried the
media's silence on the suppression of adult entertainment. To
paraphrase that old quote about the Holocaust, no one in the
media objected when they came for the pornographers, because
no one in the media published porn. No one objected when they
came for the rappers, because they weren't rappers. No one
objected to the silencing of the performance artists,
because, after all, they didn't do performance art. By the
time the censors come for The Wall Street Journal, the New
York Times, Time or Newsweek, there just may be no one left
to object.
   Al Goldstein
   Publisher
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Reining In Journalists
   Who Ruin Reputations
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael Gartner ("We Wuz Robbed] (That's Only My Opinion,
Of Course"), Viewpoint, July 19) is exactly right. It is only
his opinion.
   And I disagree with him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What the Supreme Court seems to be saying in its latest
ruling on the First Amendment is not that free speech should
be shackled but rather that published opinions rendered on
another ought to be based at least on some semblance of fact,
regardless of who is doing the rendering -- journalist,
lawyer, securities analyst, banker, whoever. In layman's
language this means there's now some litigable limit on how
loosely one's good name and reputation may be trashed in
public. Somehow that strikes me as a fair attempt to rein in
First Amendment abuses.
   In other words, I would contend that most of us "wuz
helped]" not robbed by the court's decision.
   Fraser P. Sietel
   Senior Vice President
   Director, Public Affairs
   Chase Manhattan Bank
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kaifu's Postponed Visit Speaks
   Volumes of Japan in Mideast Crisis
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu's decision to
postpone a Middle East trip underscores Japan's difficulties
in defining a role it can play in the current crisis.
   The trip was put off so Mr. Kaifu's government can devise
"concrete measures for the Japanese contribution" to
resolving the crisis, said Chief Cabinet Secretary Misoji
Sakamoto. Mr. Kaifu was scheduled to leave Wednesday on a
long-scheduled goodwill mission to Turkey, Saudi Arabia,
Oman, Jordan and Egypt. The government now hopes to
reschedule the trip for early October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kaifu's advisers felt it would be a mistake to proceed
with the visit if all Mr. Kaifu could take with him were
words of support for the international effort to contain
Iraq. "We feel it would be better for Mr. Kaifu to visit
these countries with the substantial means to contribute
peace and stability to the region," said Makoto Watanabe, the
Foreign Ministry's director general in charge of the Middle
East.
   Government officials declined to comment on specific
possible measures Japan might take, but Japanese academics
and other private citizens had no shortage of ideas, from
dispatching mine sweepers to increasing financial support for
U.S. forces in Japan to sending teams of medics.
   Few nations have more at stake in the Middle East crisis
than Japan, with its heavy dependence on imported oil. But
few nations have more deeply rooted inhibitions against
projecting military power abroad than Japan, with its
post-World War II "peace constitution." As countries like
Canada and Australia dispatch ships to the area, many
Japanese say Japan must sit on the sidelines.
   "This is a war situation," said Tetsuya Kataoka, a
Japanese political scientist at the Hoover Institution in
Palo Alto, Calif. "I don't see what the Japanese government
can do in a war situation."
   Japan has mine sweepers, and Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone considered sending them to the Persian Gulf during a
previous crisis there in the 1980s. Seizaburo Sato, a
Nakasone advisor, doesn't think Japan should send ships or
aircraft with attacking capabilities to the Middle East, but
he does think it should be prepared, if developments in the
region seem to warrant it, to make "some military
contribution." And a mine sweeper, he notes, is "not an
attacking vessel."
   But sending mine sweepers would be tremendously
controversial in Japan. It might be better, Mr. Sato mused,
for Japan to contribute by increasing host-nation support for
U.S. forces stationed in Japan, thus freeing up more U.S.
resources for the Middle East effort. Mr. Sato also thinks
Japan should give more foreign aid to countries in the region
that support the anti-Iraq effort, such as Egypt and Turkey.
   But even increased host-nation support and aid to the
Middle East would not appeal to some Japanese. Mr. Kataoka,
for example, said he would be "offended" if the U.S. in
effect said, "All right, we'll play the policeman for you and
apportion what amount to taxes." That, said Mr. Kataoka,
would spark "a major controversy in Japan." As for increased
foreign aid, he says: "I don't see what money can buy in the
Middle East."
   No government official has voiced public support for
measures like those Mr. Sato advocates. Asked what role Japan
should play in the crisis, a Foreign Ministry official said
one of the most important things Japan can do is not waver on
the steps it has already taken, which include criticizing
Iraq and imposing economic sanctions. It goes without saying
that the government would be extremely embarrassed if
Japanese companies were discovered sneaking in oil from Iraq
or shipping it vital supplies.
   Although Japan lagged behind both the U.S. and Western
Europe in adopting sanctions, it moved relatively quickly by
its own cautious standards. It announced its decision a day
before the United Nations Security Council voted to impose
international sanctions. A Western diplomat argues that "the
fact that they came out so strongly helped get support for
the Security Council resolution. Instead of following the
consensus, they helped to shape it."
   But that was nine days ago and since then Japan's
government has seemed increasingly cautious. It dithered for
days over whether to go ahead with Mr. Kaifu's trip to the
Middle East, scheduled to begin Wednesday. Meanwhile, a
Foreign Ministry spokeman managed, probably unintentionally,
to put a grudging cast on Japan's sanctions by stressing to
foreign reporters what a "sacrifice" they amounted to -- even
as private economists and other government agencies boasted
that the country's strong economy wouldn't suffer much from
them.
   Impatient with this caution, some Japanese have stopped
feeling satisfied with what their country has done and have
started to ask, as one Diet member's aide puts it, "Is this
enough?" Kazuo Aichi, a Liberal Democrat Party Diet member
and director general of the party's international bureau,
urged the government to send non-combatant personnel, such as
medical teams, to the Mideast. "Japan must refrain from
simply sending money every time a crisis occurs," Mr. Aichi
said.
   The Diet member called the present crisis a "perfect
opportunity" for Japan to take a more active role in the
kinds of conflicts that will characterize the "post-Cold War
period." And he warned that "Kaifu's decision not to go could
send the wrong signal." He expressed the hope that Foreign
Minister Taro Nakayama, who will be visiting the five
countries this week in Mr. Kaifu's place, will be prepared to
demonstrate Japan's willingness to contribute beyond simply
giving money."
   Mr. Aichi said that "at the least, we should take action
without being pressured by the initiatives of others. If this
isn't done, it could turn into another incident when Japan is
perceived as only grudgingly taking on its responsibilities."
   But others say the caution is natural as long as 335
Japanese citizens remain in Iraq. The fate of these Japanese
was one factor in the government's internal debates over
whether Mr. Kaifu should go ahead with his trip. If he went,
he would have to make a clear statement to his Arab hosts
criticizing Iraq and affirming Japan's sanctions -- or risk a
backlash from the U.S. and Europe. But, said a noted
professor who refuses to be identified, "Some of the Japanese
residents in Iraq might be executed if the government makes a
very clear statement against Iraq.
   And caution is a natural instinct for a prime minister in
Mr. Kaifu's political circumstances. Lacking a power base
among the political pros of his own Liberal Democratic Power,
the 59-year-old prime minister was expected to last no more
than a few months in office. But last week he passed the
one-year mark with public-support ratings of around 60%, the
highest of any recent prime minister.
   Many commentators think Mr. Kaifu could keep his job for
some time, assuming he doesn't blunder: And a trip to a
suddenly tense Middle East without a well-thought out
Japanese role would have given him ample opportunities for
blundering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martin Marietta Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ML GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Martin Marietta Corp. said it received a
$185 million contract to produce an additional 400 thrust
reversers for jet engines made by General Electric Corp. The
order increases to 1,200 the number of thrust reversers that
the company is under contract to produce for GE through 1996.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Cloudy Economic Outlook Turns
   Gloomier After Invasion of Kuwait
   ---
   More Forecasters in Survey,
   In a Quick Shift of Mood,
   Expect Recession in U.S.
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The guns of August suddenly have darkened the
economic skies.
   Even before Saddam Hussein's takeover of Kuwait, storm
clouds threatened many sectors of the U.S. economy. But now,
with the Middle East in turmoil and oil prices sharply
higher, the U.S. appears headed for significantly higher
unemployment and little or no economic growth in the next
year, according to a survey of economists by The Wall Street
Journal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This view represents a startlingly swift mood swing from
the consensus forecast in a similar survey less than two
months ago. At midyear, 35 out of 40 economists surveyed by
the Journal predicted the economy would continue expanding
for at least another year. Now, only 19 out of 34 who updated
their midyear forecasts in response to a new Journal survey
predict another year without recession. And most of these
economists agree that hard times lie ahead.
   "I don't think we will have a recession in the technical
sense, but that's a distinction without a difference," says
Neal Soss, a managing director at First Boston Corp. "You
will have to be a professional economist to tell the
difference. To businesses, households and people in the
financial markets, it certainly feels like a recession
already has arrived."
   Joseph A. Wahed, senior vice president at Wells Fargo Bank
in San Francisco, agrees. "The argument of whether or not we
are in a recession is silly," he says. "The fact of the
matter is, business conditions are poor in most parts of the
country and will continue to be poor for at least the next
six months."
   Add the threat of higher taxes, and the economy could be
headed for even stormier days. "You've got Bush and a bunch
of misguided people in Congress talking about raising taxes
just as the economy is tipping into the Hussein recession,"
says Lawrence Kudlow, a senior managing director at Bear
Stearns &amp; Co. "It's bizarre. It's Hooveresque]"
   Most forecasters who expect an economic slump predict it
will be "mild and short-lived," as Norman Robertson, senior
vice president of Mellon Bank, puts it. They predict that the
Federal Reserve will ease credit, reducing short-term
interest rates, as soon as clearer signs of recession appear.
Most also predict that interest rates will be lower by
mid-1991 than today, and many now are urging investors to buy
long-term U.S. Treasury bonds.
   But some analysts warn that any Fed action will be too
little and too late, and that an economic storm already has
begun.
   "It is probably already too late for Fed easing to do more
than ameliorate the severity of the recession and its
inevitable pronounced economic and financial shakeout," says
Philip Braverman, senior vice president at DKB Securities.
"This could readily be the worst recession since the
Depression of the 1930s, considering the financial and
economic vulnerabilities imposed by massive debt burdens and
wideranging economic excesses."
   Nearly everyone agrees that Saddam Hussein's march into
Kuwait altered their midyear economic forecasts considerably.
"It changed my views significantly, causing me to anticipate
more of a downturn than I had earlier expected, and more
inflation than I had earlier expected," says Irwin Kellner,
chief economist at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.
   Says Richard B. Hoey, chief economist in the U.S. for
Barclays de Zoete Wedd: "There are now increased odds that
the recession may not be mild."
   A. Gary Shilling, head of a consulting firm bearing his
name, says that the slump began late last year and that it
will be anything but mild. He also repeats his midyear
forecast that the civilian unemployment rate, which stood at
5.5% in July, will soar to 8.9% by mid-1991. Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait "has made my earlier forecast more likely," Mr.
Shilling says.
   Before Iraq's invasion, several sections of the nation
were mired in regional recession. The Northeast has been hit
especially hard, and the recent surge in oil prices appears
to be making the situation even worse.
   "People really aren't spending money. They're scared,"
says Kathy Braddock, owner of Intrepid New Yorker, a
personalshopping and home services company in New York City.
"Everything really is dead -- the stores, the real estate
market, the home-refurbishing business. I have some clients
who wouldn't blink at spending $6,000 for very expensive
fabric in their bedrooms, but this year, they're asking me if
I can find them discount fabrics on Grand Street. So instead
of spending $6,000, maybe they're spending $800."
   A few economists, such as Robert Barbera of Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc., declined to participate in the latest
survey. They said economic forecasting is tough enough
without trying to make sense out of the swirl of events in
the Middle East.
   But that didn't stop most of the panel from trying -- even
if many said their forecasts could change in a flash
depending on Saddam Hussein's latest whim. "Until the Mideast
sand stops blowing, forecasts will be made to be changed,"
says Robert Dederick, executive vice president at Northern
Trust Co. in Chicago.
   "I'll give you my forecast, but I may have a new one
tomorrow," says Edward Yardeni, chief economist at
PrudentialBache Securities Inc. "I'm calling my latest one my
forecast de jour."
   Here are details of the Journal's latest survey:
   -- A Slower Economy.
   The average forecast calls only a 0.3% rise in the gross
national product, adjusted for inflation, in this year's
second half, followed by a 1% increase in next year's first
half. These forecasts are down sharply from midyear, when the
consensus called for 1.6% growth in this year's second half
followed by 1.8% in next year's first half.
   -- High Inflation.
   The average forecast calls for consumer prices to rise at
a 5.4% annual rate in this year's second half. That is up
sharply from a midyear average forecast of only 4%. In next
year's first half, inflation is likely to run at a 4.3% pace.
   -- Higher Unemployment.
   The civilian unemployment rate, which was 5.5% in July, is
expected to rise to 5.8% in November and 6.1% next May.
   -- Lower Interest Rates.
   Yields on three-month Treasury bills, now about 7.65%,
will drop to 7.2% at year end and around 7% by mid-1991. The
yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, now about 8.75%, will
decline to about 8.25% by year end and just under 8% by the
middle of next year.
   --Steady Dollar against the Japanese yen. The dollar,
which now is worth about 150 Japanese yen, will buy 147 yen
at year end and 145 yen by mid-1991.
   ---
            Economic Forecasts, Old and Revised
                                                                                                       

        (In percent except for the dollar vs. yen)
                                                                                                       

   New forecasts are shown on top line adjacent to each
economist's name; midyear forecasts published July 5 are
shown on second line.
                                                                                                       

              FORECASTS FOR 1990-91
                                                                                                       

                                      INFLATION
  3-MONTH      30-YEAR      GNP**      RATE***     DOLLAR
  TREASURY     TREASURY   2nd  1st    2nd  1st     vs.YEN
  BILLS*       BONDS      HALF HALF   HALF HALF   DEC.  JUNE
 12/31 6/30   12/31 6/30  1990 1991   1990 1991   1990  1991
                                                                                                       


 7.30  7.20   8.40  8.00  0.4  0.8    6.5  4.6    145   140
 7.75  7.55   8.30  8.20  1.7  1.9    4.9  4.5    152   146
                                                                                                       

 Paul Boltz, T. Rowe Price
 7.25  7.75   8.50  8.50  0.2  2.0    6.8  5.5    150   150
 8.25  8.50   8.75  9.00  2.3  2.2    4.5  5.0    150   145
                                                                                                       

 Philip Braverman, DKB Securities
 7.00  6.25   8.10  7.25  0.0 -0.5    4.5  3.5    145   140
 7.00  6.25   7.75  7.00  0.5  0.0    3.5  3.5    140   135
                                                                                                       

 Robert Dederick, Northern Trust
 7.00  7.25   8.20  8.40  0.5  1.5    5.5  4.5    145   140
 8.00  8.40   8.50  8.90  2.2  2.6    4.0  4.5    145   143
                                                                                                       

 Maury Harris, PaineWebber Inc.
 7.50  7.75   8.25  8.25  1.8  1.8    3.9  4.2    150   150
 7.50  7.75   8.25  8.50  2.0  2.0    3.9  4.2    150   150
                                                                                                       

 Richard Hoey, Barclays de Zoete
 7.40  7.25   8.35  8.25 -1.9  1.0    6.1  5.2    143   137
 7.50  7.50   8.25  8.50 -1.5  2.0    4.4  4.2    148   140
                                                                                                       

 Stuart G. Hoffman, PNC Fin'l Corp.
 7.37  7.63   8.65  8.45  0.6  1.4    5.6  4.7    153   158
 7.63  8.15   8.25  8.45  1.4  2.3    4.1  4.3    153   160
                                                                                                       

 Ed Hyman, C.J. Lawrence
 7.20  6.40   8.00  7.30  0.0  0.0    4.5  3.0    155   160
 7.25  6.75   8.00  7.50  1.0  1.0    3.0  3.0    158   165
                                                                                                       

 Saul Hymans, Univ. of Michigan
 7.53  7.18   8.41  8.31  0.5  2.7    5.1  5.0    147   143
 8.13  8.18   8.76  8.89  3.4  2.6    4.3  4.7    152   150
                                                                                                       

 David Jones, Aubrey G. Lanston
 7.50  7.00   8.65  8.35  0.8 -0.5    5.0  5.5    148   145
 7.75  7.50   8.25  8.00  1.2  0.5    4.5  4.0    152   150
                                                                                                       

 Jerry Jordan, First Interstate
 7.00  7.00   8.00  8.10  0.6  2.5    5.1  4.3    143   145
 7.25  7.55   8.00  8.10  2.5  2.7    3.7  4.0    145   147
                                                                                                       

 Samuel Kahan, Fuji Securities
 7.10  7.10   8.00  8.00  0.5  2.5    5.7  4.0    145   145
 7.50  7.25   8.00  7.75  1.7  2.0    3.8  3.8    145   150
                                                                                                       

 Irwin Kellner, Mfrs. Hanover
 7.20  7.25   8.50  8.50 -2.0  1.0    5.5  3.2    145   135
 7.50  7.65   8.25  8.50  0.9  2.3    3.5  3.0    140   140
                                                                                                       

 Lawrence Kudlow, Bear Stearns
 7.70  6.80   8.20  7.40 -1.0  1.5    4.7  2.7    155   159
 7.10  7.10   7.30  7.30  1.3  2.7    3.0  3.0    160   165
                                                                                                       

 Carol Leisenring, CoreStates Fin'l

 7.30  7.50   8.10  8.20  1.9  2.1    4.2  4.2    145   150
                                                                                                       

 Alan Lerner, Bankers Trust Co.
 7.25  7.75   8.15  8.35  1.3  2.0    4.8  4.2    140   130
 7.50  8.00   7.85  8.15  1.5  2.3    4.5  4.0    145   135
                                                                                                       

 Mickey Levy, First Fidelity Bancorp
 7.50  6.70   8.60  7.80  0.3  1.1    7.0  3.2    148   154
 7.45  7.10   8.00  7.60  0.8  0.5    3.8  3.1    160   165
                                                                                                       

 William Melton, IDS
 7.20  7.60   8.30  8.60  0.8  2.0    4.6  5.1    145   140
 7.65  7.75   8.60  8.75  1.0  2.2    3.9  4.3    149   146
                                                                                                       

 Lynn Michaelis, Weyerhaeuser Co.
 6.80  7.20   8.40  8.20  0.3  1.2    4.9  4.6    145   135
 7.80  7.60   8.40  8.30  1.5  2.2    4.6  4.8    145   135
                                                                                                       

 Donald Ratajczak, Georgia State Univ.
 7.22  6.68   8.61  8.23  0.1 -1.0    6.5  4.9    140   133
 7.83  8.09   8.55  8.63  2.1  2.3    3.9  4.4    148   140
                                                                                                       

 David Resler, Nomura Securities
 7.00  6.80   8.20  7.50  0.2 -0.3    6.0  4.0    150   152
 7.25  6.75   7.75  8.00  1.8  2.1    3.6  3.8    155   160
                                                                                                       

 Alan Reynolds, Hudson Institute
 7.00  6.80   7.90  7.80  1.0  2.7    3.9  3.4    145   150
 7.50  7.20   7.80  7.60  2.7  3.2    3.6  3.3    149   144
                                                                                                       

 Richard Rippe, Dean Witter
 7.50  7.25   8.25  7.70  1.2  1.4    5.0  4.0    142   135
 7.50  7.75   7.75  8.00  1.7  2.2    3.8  4.0    142   135
                                                                                                       

 Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank
 7.15  6.80   8.50  8.15 -0.6  0.4    6.6  4.5    149   146
 7.60  7.80   8.30  8.50  1.9  2.3    4.0  4.4    148   140
                                                                                                       

 Francis Schott, Equitable Life
 7.50  7.30   8.40  8.00 -0.3 -0.5    5.3  5.0    140   135
 7.70  7.40   8.20  8.50  1.8  2.3    4.3  4.4    150   148
                                                                                                       

 A. Gary Shilling, Shilling &amp; Co.
 6.00  5.00   7.25  6.00 -2.2 -3.5    3.7  2.9    170   180
 6.00  5.00   7.25  6.00 -2.4 -3.0    2.7  2.1    170   180
                                                                                                       

 Allen Sinai, Boston Co.
 7.30  6.95   8.50  8.00 -0.7 -0.2    6.5  3.2    135   125
 7.50  7.01   7.92  7.40  0.8  1.1    3.8  3.5    141   134
                                                                                                       

 James Smith, Univ. of N.C.
 6.87  7.05   7.55  7.60  3.2  2.1    5.9  3.8    158   161
 6.75  6.70   7.75  7.25  3.7  2.5    2.9  3.2    158   164
                                                                                                       

 Neal Soss, First Boston Corp.
 7.00  6.75   8.00  7.75  1.0  0.5    5.5  5.1    145   150

                                                                                                       

 Donald Straszheim, Merrill Lynch
 7.40  7.60   8.35  8.45  1.1  1.8    5.8  4.4    145   140
 7.49  7.65   8.10  8.40  1.7  2.0    4.4  4.3    150   143
                                                                                                       

 Joseph Wahed, Wells Fargo Bank
 7.00  6.40   8.30  7.90  0.9  1.4    6.0  5.3    141   135
 7.50  7.50   8.00  8.10  2.0  2.2    3.7  3.9    150   152
                                                                                                       

 Raymond Worseck, A.G. Edwards
 8.00  6.50   9.50  7.50  1.8 -0.8    5.5  4.5    143   160
 8.50  7.00   8.80  7.75  2.3  1.7    4.2  4.0    145   160
                                                                                                       

 David Wyss, DRI/McGraw-Hill
 7.20  7.30   8.50  8.80  0.4  1.8    5.0  4.3    145   135
 7.95  8.30   8.75  9.10  1.9  2.5    3.8  4.3    148   140
                                                                                                       

 Edward Yardeni, Prudential-Bache
 7.00  6.75   8.00  7.50  0.0  2.0    5.0  3.5    150   150
 7.75  7.25   7.75  7.25  2.0  2.0    3.5  3.5    165   170
                                                                                                       

 Average
 7.20  7.01   8.29  7.97  0.3  1.0    5.4  4.3    147   145
                                                                                                       

 Midyear Average#
 7.56  7.43   8.16  8.09  1.6  1.8    4.0  4.0    150   149
                                                                                                       

   *Treasury bill rates are on a bond-equivalent basis. (As
of late yesterday, three-month Treasury bills were yielding
about 7.65% and 30-year Treasury bonds yielding about 8.80%.)
   **Gross national product, adjusted for inflation.
Seasonally adjusted annual rate.
   ***Consumer price index, annual rate.
   #Averages for the midyear survey are for the 40 analysts
polled at that time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Walden Pond Development
   Project Has Been Scrapped
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONCORD, Mass. -- Plans to build a controversial
condominium project near Walden Pond, made famous by author
Henry David Thoreau, have been scrapped.
   The Trust for Public Land, a conservation group, agreed to
purchase for $3.5 million about 25 acres on which the
139-unit project was to have been built. The project was to
have included 42 low-income units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is a major victory for us," said Thomas Blanding, a
Thoreau scholar and president of the Thoreau Country
Conservation Alliance, a development opponent. "Walden is the
symbol of a balanced relationship between man and nature."
The dispute over the project was the subject of a page one
article in the Journal.
   The trust also promised state officials to find a suitable
alternative site for low-income housing within a year, said
Kathi Anderson, director of Walden Woods Project, a
conservation effort. Failing that, the group will have to
build low-income housing on part of the 25 acres it purchased
yesterday.
   The development project drew attention after a group of
about 50 musicians and actors, including Don Henley, Bonnie
Raitt and Carrie Fisher, backed the anti-development effort.
The group banded together to raise about $425,000, but
critics charged that the protest was a ruse by wealthy
Concordians to keep out the poor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Deifying Japanese,
   Dumping on Detroit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   GM HMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Each time I think I have seen the limits to which you will
go to denigrate the American auto industry (while deifying
the Japanese producers), you surprise me by going even
further.
   Your July 9 page-one story on General Motors' new Saturn
Division is a case in point. The fact that an American
company is investing $3 billion and doing virtually
everything the press preaches American industry must do to
compete against the Japanese doesn't necessarily mean that it
deserves the media's unmitigated praise. At the same time, I
don't think it deserves to be second-guessed before the first
car is ever built as you did in your treatise on how Honda
got more for less. Another Journal example of how those
infallible Japanese manufacturers have outwitted the dumb
Americans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We wait somewhat impatiently for you to balance the scales
a little. Here's one thought for starters. Has anybody
noticed that Honda Prelude sales in 1986 were 80,000 units,
but fell like a rock to only 43,000 units in 1989?
   We would like your readers to know that despite what you
write, the Japanese do not walk on water and American
companies can -- and are -- turning out some top-quality,
high-value cars and trucks in this country. It's unfortunate
that the American media either don't agree or don't care or
simply refuse to tell the story.
   A.C. Liebler
   Vice President
   Communications
   Chrysler Corp.
   Highland Park, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capital Holding Credit Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPH
</CO>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Capital Holding Corp. said it entered
into a five-year, $450 million credit agreement to increase
its financial flexibility. The life insurance company said
the credit agreement was arranged by Credit Suisse First
Boston Ltd. with 17 international banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Semiconductor Orders Rose
   3.5% in July, Group Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Orders for semiconductors in the U.S.
market ran 3.5% higher in July than a year ago, the
Semiconductor Industry Association said.
   However the microchip industry's sensitive book-to-bill
ratio -- an index of sales health -- has contracted from the
levels of the preceding two months, in keeping with the
industry's seasonal summer doldrums.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average monthly order bookings for July based on a
three-month moving average were $1.189 billion, up from
$1.148 billion in the year-earlier period.
   However, the trade group said July orders were down 6.4%
from the $1.270 billion figure posted in June 1990, and they
decreased 12.8% from the April level of $1.363 billion.
   Semiconductor shipments, or billings, in July were $1.079
billion, down 6.4% from the $1.153 billion level of July
1989, and down 16.7% from the $1.296 billion level in June
1990.
   Comparison of the three-month averages of both new order
bookings and order shipments resulted in a book-to-bill ratio
of 1.00, up from the year-earlier ratio of 0.92. A ratio of
one indicates new orders and shipments are in balance. A
ratio above one indicates sales are expanding, while a ratio
below one indicates new sales are contracting below the level
of shipments.
   The July book-to-bill ratio of 1.0 is the lowest since
last November, when the ratio was 0.95.
   "It's not outstanding news," an SIA spokesman said. "But
it is consistent with the industry's usual summer dip and
with earlier predictions for flat to slightly negative
growth" for the balance of 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr and Cathy Trost
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR DH GM JCI
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   BROAD-RANGING FUNDS for health and safety gain union
favor.
   The employer-financed funds pay for research, training and
worker-disease screening to improve fitness and avoid injury.
Construction trades are keen on the idea; they had lagged
behind industrial unions, and most of those have only small
health and safety offices. The Laborers Union's two-year-old
fund will double its staff of 15. It "has moved from the 16th
century to the 23rd," says Sandra Tillett of the AFL-CIO.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Sheet Metal Workers have a health and safety institute
and a trust; the institute has done 15,000 asbestos clinical
studies. The Carpenters and Ironworkers unions recently have
set up funds. Joint Auto Workers funds with auto makers offer
health and safety training.
   Construction has 6% of U.S. jobs, but over 20% of work
deaths; it has the highest injury rate of any industry.
                                                                                                       

   LEAD LOOMS as the newest big work place health hazard.
   With potential plans for stripping lead-based paint from
43 million housing units, and growing bridge, building and
storage-tank replacement or renovation, workers face major
exposure to toxic lead, unions warn. HUD guidelines, diluted
by the White House budget office, are stalled. OSHA excluded
construction work from more-stringent 1978 general
lead-exposure limits, but it mulls tougher rules.
   "We already have a lot of workers exposed to lead, and if
this work is done poorly, we're going to have a lot more,"
says John Moran, of the Laborers' health and safety fund.
Plumbers, Painters, Carpenters and Ironworkers unions also
push for protection from lead.
                                                                                                       

   WORKSITE SCHOOLS: A new way to aid working parents.
   Dayton Hudson's Target unit will open a school for
kindergarten through second grade next month in Minneapolis.
The company spent "several hundred thousand dollars" to fix
up a storefront space. The school district supplies teachers
and equipment. St. Paul has a 25-pupil kindergarten at First
Bank System, which forgoes $48,000 monthly rent.
   Employers cite less absenteeism and stress; school
districts save money and space. Dade County (Fla.) schools
pioneered the idea in 1987; they share programs with Miami
International Airport, American Bankers Insurance Group and a
community college. The district, saving $1 million from
employer-provided buildings, talks to six more employers
about such projects.
   A Honeywell Inc. engineer refused a job offer, to stay at
his Clearwater, Fla., facility, where his son is starting
kindergarten.
                                                                                                       

   A DIFFERENT TACK: A federal appeals court in Detroit rules
that a GM policy barring fertile women from jobs that expose
them to lead is discriminatory. A decision by another appeals
court upholding battery maker Johnson Controls' narrower
exclusion of women of child-bearing age will get Supreme
Court review.
                                                                                                       

   WHO WORKS LONGER? Female chief executives toil an average
56.2 hours a week, male counterparts 54.9 hours, a survey by
the Executive Committee shows. The San Diego firm polled 515
chiefs. In all, 40% of CEOs work 50 to 59 hours a week and
32% labor 60 to 69 hours.
                                                                                                       

   THE `COMPENSATION PARTY' seems to be over, says consultant
Towers Perrin, reporting 1990 increases of about 7.6% in 13,
500 managers' salaries and bonuses, after rises of about 11%
in 1989. Gains had widened in recent years. Consultant
Korn/Ferry says the average draw of 689 polled executives was
$289,000 in 1989, up from $116,000 in a similar 1979 survey.
                                                                                                       

   WHY WOMEN LEAVE: About two-thirds of employees who resign
from the federal government are women, says the Merit Systems
Protection Board. Women often depart for reasons unrelated to
work, many for family reasons. "More than a few" would have
stayed, if they'd had part-time work, the Board says.
                                                                                                       

   SEND MORE IMMIGRANTS. The message is gaining legislative
steam.
   A bill approved by the House Judiciary Committee would let
840,000 immigrants annually into the U.S. for two years, up
from 540,000 now, then level off at 775,000. Visas for
permanent workers would be boosted to 75,000, or 188,000
including families, from a 54,000 total now. Employers would
pay a fee for use of immigrants; they'd have to attest that
they tried to recruit U.S. workers, rather than getting a
federal certificate for each immigrant.
   A narrower bill passed last year by the Senate would allow
up to 150,000 employment visas a year, including families,
with 30,000 earmarked for professionals and skilled workers
and their kin. Bigger quotas are needed to update a 1965 law,
says Rep. Bruce Morrison (D., Conn.) chairman of the House
immigration subcommittee, the House bill's author. Some jobs
are going unfilled for lack of U.S. workers, he says.
   The Bush administration opposes the House bill, as opening
immigration too much, but backs the Senate version.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: The AFL-CIO will urge a national health-care
policy in commercials starting Sept. 24 on such TV shows as
"Murphy Brown" and the "Cosby Show." . . . Fines assessed by
the Labor Department from child-labor-law raids in March and
June have reached $7.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Rise
   On Bargain
   Hunting
   ---
   Industrials Gain 30.20;
   Bond Prices, Dollar
   End With Declines
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices rebounded sharply in thin trading
as bargain-hunters picked through the market after a weekend
that passed without a much-feared meltdown in the Middle
East.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 30.20 points to
2746.78 as 122.8 million shares traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Bond prices fell amid continued worries that
inflation is picking up. The dollar weakened against most
other major currencies, with traders betting that the Federal
Reserve will soon move to lower U.S. interest rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the last-minute surge in the Dow industrials was
powered by futures-related program buying, but traders said
they detected a broadly focused wave of bargain-hunting.
   "It was as if investors started coming in with a whole
bunch of confidence," said Paul Hennessey, head of equities
trading at Boston Co. He noted, however, that volume was
restrained by a power failure in lower Manhattan, which
hampered some securities firms.
   Joseph J. McAlinden, director of equity research at Dillon
Read, said investors are beginning to recognize that
companies other than those in the oil industry, such as basic
and precious metals producers, will be able to make money
despite higher inflation.
   "I'd rather own stocks that can act as a hedge against
inflation than bonds that get hurt by it," he said.
   But while stock investors may be able to find ways to
prosper amid higher inflation, fixed-income investors have
more to worry about. And yesterday, a sharp jump in gold
prices reinforced inflation fears.
   Currency traders pushed the dollar lower on the growing
expectation of lower U.S. interest rates, which would make
dollar-denominated investments less attractive compared with
foreign instruments. Traders are betting that the Fed will
have to ease short-term rates to stave off a recession, which
has grown more likely as a result of higher oil prices, said
Lorenzo Troni, foreign-exchange trader at PaineWebber
International Ltd.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell on thin Big Board volume. Declining
issues edged out advancers, 766 to 726.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell a quarter of a point, or $2.50 for each
$1,000 of face amount in light trading. The yield on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose to 8.80%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar ended lower. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5765 marks and 150.40 yen, compared
with 1.5905 marks and 150.45 yen Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   More Soviet Businessmen
   Are Allowed to Live in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush, seeking what he calls "more
normal" economic ties with the Soviet Union, raised a
longstanding ceiling on the total number of Soviet
businessmen permitted to live and work in the U.S.
   That limit has remained for many years at 69. Mr. Bush,
who didn't say how many more Soviet businessmen will be
allowed into the U.S., linked his step to the need to
"establish overall equality of opportunity for American
business people" who live in the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush said this move is in line with U.S. commitments
to assist the Soviet Union "institutionalize lasting,
market-oriented economic reforms." However, he cautioned that
he could reconsider his decision "should there be evidence
that this opportunity is being misused for
intelligence-gathering or other inappropriate activities."
   U.S. companies have been pressing for the right to post
more resident representatives in the Soviet Union and to have
wider contacts in Soviet society. But such privileges are
limited by reciprocity rules. U.S. companies with Soviet
joint ventures also are seeking easier entry to the U.S. for
their Soviet partners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Faithful Diarists
   Of the American Dream
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<LP>
   I am absolutely delighted with my brand-new subscription
to The Wall Street Journal, and I thought you'd like to know.
I get it every day at 5:30 p.m., and I genuinely look forward
to its arrival.
   I may be unusual among your subscribers, in that I spend
about 24% of my monthly income for my subscription to the
Journal: I'm in prison, and have less than $50 a month to
spend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You also may be interested to know that each issue gets
circulated among a group of readers, in return for other
publications. The Journal has real barter value in this
society, but the barter group is small: There are only a few
inmates who care what Alan Greenspan said yesterday (or who
he is in the first place).
   Thanks for doing such a good job. You can be certain I'll
continue to be an enthusiastic subscriber even after this
period in my life is over. Although I'm signing my name,
please don't use it; I've had more publicity than I want by
now.
   Inmate E-23884
   Vacaville, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Ozal of Turkey Joined Sanctions `on Principle,'
   But Enjoys New Leverage, Importance Anyway
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   ANKARA, Turkey -- A few hours after Iraq invaded Kuwait,
Turkish President Turgut Ozal broke off his vacation on
Turkey's Mediterranean coast and spoke by telephone to the
leaders of Syria, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt, Canada and the
U.S., as well as the deposed emir of Kuwait.
   That Mr. Ozal's telephone log during a crisis often
resembles a United Nations roll call is no fluke: Turkey and
its ebullient 62-year-old president more often than not find
themselves smack in the middle on strategic planners' maps.
The Iraqi crisis is just the latest example: Turkey is within
missile range of eastern neighbors Iraq, Iran and Syria. But
Turkey has in the past, and will in the future, come under
pressure from the west and north, too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It fights with neighbor Greece over Cyprus and other
islands. It quarrels with Bulgaria from time to time. For
now, at least, its most open and peaceful border is the one
that was most tense a year ago: a long stretch along the
Soviet Union's southern flank. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization listening posts and military bases that kept
track of Soviet activity are now a valuable means of
monitoring and reacting to the Iraq crisis.
   East-West tensions may have cooled, but the Middle East
crisis puts Turkey back in the middle. And this time Mr. Ozal
is determined to harvest all the long-term benefit he can. By
taking actions that not only back the U.S. and Western
Europe, but also support Saudi Arabia and other conservative
Gulf states, Mr. Ozal is extracting economic and political
concessions in return for his cooperation.
   Mr. Ozal's callers asked him to make a painful and risky
decision to shut off two pipelines that carry half of Iraq's
oil exports across Turkey to a Mediterranean tanker terminal.
It took him only two hours to decide, last Tuesday, to shut
off the oil, thus giving a vital early boost to anti-Iraq
sanctions. In return, Turkey wants an economic and military
cushion against fallout from this decision, and a much more
elusive payoff: international respect and membership in the
European Community.
   In an interview Saturday in his large office in Ankara's
Presidential Palace, a jaunty but tired-looking Mr. Ozal says
he decided to shut the pipeline "on principle: to go to a
country and make them accept your conditions by force (as
Iraq did to Kuwait). This cannot be accepted."
   Because of that decision Turkey now has a chance to get
what it has lacked for many, many decades: attention, and a
place in Europe. It has already started. Mr. Ozal was
delighted that President Bush called him a "staunch friend of
the United States" during the president's televised
announcement that he was sending U.S. troops to Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Ozal was also flattered that Secretary of State James
Baker came here first before going on to the NATO meeting in
Brussels on Friday. In talks with reporters at that session,
Mr. Baker and NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner
mentioned five times that NATO would spring to Turkey's aid
if it was attacked.
   Attention brings leverage. Mr. Ozal trumpets Turkey's
response to the crisis as proof of its political maturity and
its adherence to Western values as a means of pressuring the
European Community into accepting Turkey as a member. "This
crisis gives the opportunity to show that Turkey is a very
important country for Europe," Mr. Ozal says.
   "Turkey is a very important country," he continues. "A
free-market country. A modern country. A democratic country.
And we are also a Moslem country." With a population 98%
Moslem, and a land area 97% in Asia, Mr. Ozal's boldest move
was to apply for membership in the EC in 1987, posing Western
Europe a problem; Turkey's formal application to join has
been effectively shelved.
   "Although they won't say it out loud," Mr. Ozal says, "the
EC won't consider us for membership because of our Moslem
identity. But this incident in the Gulf should show that
tension in the future won't be communism against capitalism.
Instead there will be tension between Christianity and Islam,
dangerous for the whole world. Turkey has a lot of influence
in the Islamic world, so Turkey in the EC would help avoid
dangerous incidents. We're a bridge."
   When asked if he thinks this argument will really help get
Turkey into the EC, Mr. Ozal shrugs, then laughs. "No, I
don't. But this is my argument."
   Both the way the pipeline decision was taken and the way
he is now attempting to exploit it are typical of Turgut
Ozal's style. For 10 years the former international economic
official has played a high-risk game with the Turkish
economy, betting that the free market could create enough
wealth fast enough to satisfy a burgeoning population in one
of Europe's poorest countries. Even though his austerity
program alienated many voters, he managed to move from the
prime minister's to the president's office, taking the power
with him.
   His economic reforms, so far only partly successful, must
complete Turkey's transformation lest Islamic fundamentalism
or old-style political anarchy return. Following a period of
military rule, Mr. Ozal has mastered Turkey's chaotic
political system by amassing nearly all political and
economic power in his own hands. When he was prime minister
he ran Turkey nearly alone; after being elected president
last November by a parliament dominated by members of the
Motherland Party, which he founded, he appointed a loyal but
ineffective prime minister. Mr. Ozal continues to run Turkey.
   Political cartoons usually show the short, stocky, Mr.
Ozal dressed in flowing Sultan's robes. Like his Ottoman
predecessors he travels with a retinue, taking a dozen
cabinet ministers with him on a foreign trip, or hauling two
dozen businessmen with him to international conferences.
Political opponents say his family has too much influence on
Turkish affairs. His brother Korkut has close economic ties
with Saudi Arabia. Another brother and a cousin work for the
government, and his wife Semra, is said to have more
influence on her husband than his ministers.
   Mr. Ozal exudes a confidence that borders on cockiness. He
has been known to inspect a spit-and-polish army unit while
wearing jeans and a tee-shirt. When attacked in print he is
quick to sue for libel, and usually wins. When people are
sometimes jailed for insulting the president, a crime under
Turkey's constitution, Mr. Ozal can be slow to pardon them.
   As is now normal in Turkey, neither the opposition nor the
parliament was consulted before Mr. Ozal shut off Iraq's oil.
Erdal Inonu, chief of the main opposition Social Democratic
Populist Party, says, "Mr. Ozal is mixing up moves to raise
the reputation of the government with self-advertisement."
   Not so, says Mr. Ozal, who explains his calculations. On
the minus side, shutting the pipeline will cost Turkey
perhaps $2.5 billion in lost revenue, fees, and debt payments
from Iraq, and some political capital among hard-line Shiite
Moslems. Higher oil prices raise the risk of reigniting
inflation that his austerity measures had painfully shaved to
56% from last year's 75% rate. Participating in the sanctions
also opens Turkey to the threat of military reprisals from
unpredictable Iraq, not to mention the possible loss of more
than $2 billion in annual trade.
   On the plus side, the crisis has brought Turkey an
unequivocal reaffirmation of NATO's willingness to defend
Turkey against any attack. In return for his action on
sanctions and promises to let U.S. fighter planes use Turkish
airbases in the event of war, Mr. Ozal extracted from Mr.
Baker promises to compensate Turkey, largely from Kuwaiti
assets held outside the country, for any financial impact;
more economic and defense aid; and help in raising U.S.
import quotas for Turkish textiles.
   Although he says it didn't come up directly with Mr.
Baker, Mr. Ozal says Turkey would like to see the U.S. Senate
shelve forever a recently defeated bill sponsored by
Republican Sen. Robert Dole blaming Turkey for the 1910
massacre of Armenians, and would like Congress to drop its
ratio of giving Greece $7 in aid for every $10 it gives
Turkey. In addition, Mr. Ozal says Mr. Baker agreed to give a
diplomatic push to Turkey's EC application.
   Officials in Brussels say they aren't deaf to Mr. Ozal's
arguments, and say the pipeline shutdown will help as it
tries to get into the EC. But they also say Turkey's economic
problems, as well as alleged human rights abuses and its
shaky political system leave it too far out of step with the
rest of the EC to allow early entry. Most Eastern European
countries are expected to join before Turkey, which Mr. Ozal
finds exasperating.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Pension Expense May Drag
   Down '90s Corporate Profits
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Just when investors didn't need more bad news,
there is further reason for concern about the earnings
outlook at America's biggest companies.
   On the surface, corporate profits swelled for most of
1980s. But a startling amount of the increase didn't come
from operating factors such as strong sales or profit margins
-- it came from a decline in pension expense.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "A hidden source of past profit growth" is how Kidder
Peabody describes the reduction in pension expense. In a
study, Kidder shows how the pension factor has been
especially significant for America's largest companies. And
now, in an important turnabout, pension expenses now aren't
dropping any longer. Kidder says that in the 1990s, they
could well become a hidden drag on corporate earnings.
   "This trend in lower pension expense has reversed," says
the study by George Boyd, director of quantitative research,
and Easton Ragsdale, a Kidder vice president and analyst.
Pension costs "will no longer be a major source of future
earnings growth and stock price support -- buyers beware."
   The Kidder analysts argue, in short, that pension expense
can't be held down forever by the one-time punches of the
80s, which included a surging stock market and vast
work-force cuts by companies.
   From 1982 to 1989, shrinkage in pension expense accounted
for 12% of the rise in pretax profit of the Standard &amp; Poor's
500 companies. For the largest 100 companies (in terms of
market value), the contribution was an even bigger 17% of
growth in earnings before taxes. And for the top 25
corporations, the pension-cost decline accounted for a
startling 36% of pretax profit growth.
   Stated differently, S&amp;P pretax earnings grew at a 7.8%
compound annual clip from 1982 to 1989. But without the
effects of reduced pension costs, the annual growth rate was
a smaller 6.1%.
   Here again, the effect is most pronounced with the 25
largest companies. For them, pretax earnings grew at an
annual rate of 4.3%. But pre-pension or "normal" earnings
grew at a rate of only 2.5%.
   Kidder says the companies that have benefited most from
lower pension costs are "heavily weighted toward large,
old-line manufacturing companies, airlines, and defense, all
of which have major work forces." Among the greatest
beneficiaries were Pan Am, Bethlehem Steel and Lockheed.
   "Such companies tend to have the biggest pension plans,"
Kidder explains. And in the 1980s, operating profit growth in
manufacturing generally lagged behind that of consumer
companies.
   On the other hand, Kidder says, companies that benefited
least include those in finance, consumer goods and
technology, "which tend to be less labor-intensive" and less
unionized. Among the companies least affected: Ralston Purina
and Citicorp.
   Overall, pension expenses of the S&amp;P 500 companies plunged
by 51%, to $13.2 billion in 1988 from $26.7 billion in 1982.
And as a percentage of pretax earnings, pension costs shrank
to 5% from 18%.
   However, the long slide was reversed in 1989. Pension
costs for the year edged up to $14.4 billion, or 6% of pretax
profits.
   Thus, the effect of lowered pension costs is especially
great if an investor looks only at the 1982-88 period -- the
years before pension costs turned upward. In that span,
pretax earnings of the 25 largest public companies rose by a
total of $17.32 billion. And $7.99 billion of the increase --
a staggering 46% -- is attributable to reduced pension costs.
   Why did pension costs fall so sharply and so
systematically? A major reason was the long bull market. As
the stock market surged for most of the 1980s, pension
portfolios became "overfunded," meaning they were fatter than
needed to meet estimated future claims.
   "As the market was going up, it was easier for companies
to put less money in," Mr. Ragsdale says. In addition, he
says, many companies were cutting back employment levels. At
the same time, wage inflation was moderating (pension benefit
levels often are tied to wage rates.)
   But it's highly unlikely that pension costs will resume
their slide. "They had gotten to a very low level," Mr.
Ragsdale says. "They can't go to zero."
   In fact, several trends suggest they could rise. "It's
unlikely that the enormous stock market returns {of the
1980s} will be repeated in the '90s," Mr. Boyd says. And a
protracted bear market might require companies to cough up
more.
   In addition, wage inflation is creeping back. Nationwide,
the annual rate of wage and salary increases peaked at 7.2%
in the second quarter of 1982. It hit bottom in 1987, at
3.2%, and since then has risen steadily, to a 4.7% rate in
the second quarter of 1990.
   Moreover, in the next few years the overall benefits
burden on companies could grow considerably heavier. The
Financial Accounting Standards Board is expected to approve a
new rule this year that would require companies to treat
post-retirement health benefits similar to the way pensions
are treated.
   Under the proposed change, contributions that are made to
fund future retiree health payments would flow through
corporate income statements and be charged against corporate
earnings. This would add a new and sizable expense.
   The change isn't expected to be mandatory until 1993,
though some companies may start switching before then.
   "This could have a negative impact on profits in the
1990s," Mr. Ragsdale says. "Companies will have to make
significant yearly contributions to fund future retiree
health benefits."
   In many ways, the 1980s drop in pension costs resembles
the long slide in oil prices, which also acted as a pep pill
to corporate earnings. And, like the recent spike in oil
prices, the trend in pension costs is changing at an
inauspicious moment -- a period, Kidder notes, of "slow
economic growth and severe profit-margin pressure."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Archer Communications,
   PolyGram Sign an Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   QSNDF T.AAZ PLG
</CO>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Archer Communications Inc. and
PolyGram NV signed a licensing pact under which PolyGram
plans to use a computerized sound mixing process developed by
Archer, the companies said.
   Under terms of the nonexclusive five-year accord, the
Dutch music company will pay Archer a royalty of 1% of total
net retail sales of all PolyGram recordings that use Archer's
sound technology, known as QSound.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither company would forecast the potential value of the
agreement, though PolyGram said it plans to release at least
20 recordings featuring QSound during the next 18 months.
   A PolyGram spokeswoman wouldn't say which of the company's
stable of rock bands and other popular musicians would be the
first to use QSound, but she said the first of the recordings
could be out by Christmas. PolyGram's best-known artists
include Sting, Bon Jovi, U2, and Def Leppard.
   Earlier this year, Archer reached a pact with Japan's
Nintendo Co. to use QSound in home video games. It is also
negotiating licensing agreements with other music and video
recording companies, an Archer executive said.
   Archer's accord with PolyGram includes an option under
which PolyGram can acquire as much as 15% of Archer's common
shares, at $17.50 each, or a total of about $37 million,
during the next two years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Cheney Plans to Cut Back Purchases
   By Navy of Submarines, Destroyers
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT GD TGT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Signaling that the Navy must bear its share
of painful budget cuts, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
proposed scaling back plans to purchase superquiet Seawolf
submarines and the most advanced class of destroyers.
   The announcement, intended to cut about $7 billion from
Navy procurement plans through the mid-1990s, reflects the
harsh, long-term budget constraints facing each of the
services despite the current U.S. military buildup in Saudi
Arabia. The Seawolf attack subs and the Arleigh Burkeclass
guided-missile destroyers covered by Mr. Cheney's
announcement are among the most expensive and prized Navy
programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a four-month review of major ship-construction
plans, Secretary Cheney proposed to cut annual Seawolf
purchases roughly in half and reduce to 16 from 25 the number
of destroyers slated to be built by 1995.
   Mr. Cheney also is expected to announce that he wants to
redesign and scale back the Army's controversial, $42 billion
plan to purchase a new generation of light helicopters,
Pentagon officials said. The results of the helicopter review
were expected to be announced along with the ship proposals,
but officials said Mr. Cheney is likely to release those
details as early as today.
   There already has been strong pressure from Congress to
postpone purchases of the fast attack subs, which cost more
than $1.7 billion each and are to be built by General
Dynamics Corp.'s Electric Boat Division and Tenneco Inc.'s
Newport News Shipbuilding &amp; Drydock Co. unit. Under the
Cheney proposals, some Pentagon officials said there still
would be enough Seawolf business to support two contractors.
   By contrast, the destroyers so far have escaped serious
congressional budget-cutting efforts. The ships are built by
a unit of Litton Industries Inc. and closely held Bath Iron
Works.
   While emphasizing that "current events remind us of how
fragile world peace can be," Mr. Cheney said he nevertheless
concluded that the Navy's original production plans should be
shelved in light of dramatic improvements in U.S.-Soviet
relations. Specifically, Mr. Cheney wants to reduce Seawolf
procurement to three vessels every two years from 10 vessels
every three years.
   By embracing congressional proposals to eliminate at least
one of the two Seawolfs requested by the Navy in fiscal 1991,
which begins Oct. 1, Mr. Cheney hopes to save $1.8 billion in
that year alone.
   However, the Middle East crisis is expected to help the
Pentagon's budget in other ways. The Bush administration
apparently hopes to capitalize on the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait to deflect hefty troop cuts proposed for next year by
the Senate and the House Armed Services Committee. Senior
Army and Marine Corps officers, for instance, already are
privately warning congressional committees that eliminating
100,000 to 130,000 active-duty troops in 1991 could make it
difficult for the services to maintain the U.S. commitment to
the Saudis.
   Even if lawmakers reject that argument, Pentagon officials
predict that the full House will restore some of the $5.9
billion the armed services panel slashed last month from
President Bush's request for maintenance, training and other
"military readiness" accounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GAO Says Treasury
   Underpriced Bonds
   That It Sold to Mexico
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The General Accounting Office said the
Treasury's sale of zero-coupon bonds to Mexico involved "an
effective subsidy of approximately $192 million."
   The GAO, in findings to be presented at a House Banking
Committee hearing today, said the subsidy resulted from the
Treasury's decision to price the zero-coupon bonds based on
the coupon bond rate rather than the market rate for
comparable zero-coupon securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allan Mendelowitz, director of international trade, energy
and finance issues for GAO, said in a statement prepared for
delivery to the House panel that the pricing method was
within Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady's legal authority.
But he added that the GAO, Congress's investigative arm,
believes the pricing decision "was neither appropriate nor
good public policy."
   Mr. Mendelowitz said that if the Treasury wanted to help
Mexico, "the correct way would have been to obtain
congressional approval through the authorization and
appropriations process, rather than with an effective subsidy
provided through the underpricing of the zeros."
   The Treasury this year sold Mexico about $30 billion of
zero-coupon bonds as part of debt restructuring under the
so-called Brady Plan. Zero-coupon bonds are sold at a deep
discount to their face value and pay no interest until
maturity. The Treasury priced the bonds in relation to
conventional 30-year bonds rather than Strips, the
zero-coupon securities created in the marketplace when
dealers strip Treasury securities.
   The pricing method was attacked by various lawmakers and
others as a backdoor subsidy, but was strongly defended by
the Treasury as appropriate.
   "In the long run, this decision could set a precedent that
will cost the United States many times more than $192
million," Mr. Mendelowitz said. "The Mexico deal was the
first of many agreements anticipated under the Brady Plan."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Agency Rules
   Cement Imports
   Hurt U.S. Firms
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM C.CMX C.CMT
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. International Trade Commission,
clearing the way for stiff anti-dumping duties to be imposed
on imports of Mexican cement, ruled that the imports are
injuring U.S. producers.
   Following the ruling, Cemex S.A., Mexico's largest cement
producer, announced its intention to "phase out" about half
of its annual shipments of 3.6 million metric tons to the
U.S. At the same time, Cemex said it is considering whether
to appeal the ITC decision.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ITC's finding gives force to the Commerce Department's
earlier determination that duties should be imposed on the
imports to offset their allegedly unfair price advantage over
domestic products. The duties are 57.96% for Cemex, 53.26%
for Apasco S.A. de C.V., 3.69% for Cementos Hidalgo S.C.I.
and 57.65% for all other Mexican shipments. Those figures
represent the department's estimate of the extent to which
the imports are being "dumped" in the U.S. -- that is, sold
at prices below production costs or their home-market price.
   The duties would cut sharply into Cemex's normal U.S.
sales since they will add $17 a ton to the price of the
Mexican cement, currently about $30 a ton. The imports to be
affected are gray portland cement, which is widely used in
construction, and clinker, an intermediate material used in
finished cement.
   Clarence Comer, president of Houston-based Southdown Inc.,
hailed the ITC decision as an "important victory" for cement
producers in the U.S. South and Southwest. "It will enable
the industry to expand and modernize, creating jobs and other
economic benefits for this country," he said. Southdown led a
group of producers in Florida, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico
that petitioned for relief.
   Jose Trevino, Cemex's chief international officer, argued
that the ITC decision runs counter to moves by the North
American governments to move toward freer trade. "It is in
the interest of all the peoples of Canada, the U.S. and
Mexico that our contiguous economies be mutually supporting,"
he said in a statement.
   But U.S. officials say anti-dumping investigations are
designed to correct alleged unfair trading practices and
don't necessarily hamper moves toward free-trade relations
between countries.
   Mr. Trevino said Cemex won't be hurt seriously by the
reduction in shipments to the U.S. because rising
construction activity in Mexico could pick up the slack.
Cemex describes itself as the world's fourth-largest cement
producer, with total assets of $2.9 billion.
   The Mexican company said it may challenge the ITC's ruling
before the Court of International Trade, the New York
tribunal authorized to review such decisions.
   U.S. cement-makers claim that imports now account for 22%
of the 90 million tons in annual U.S. cement consumption. The
companies that filed the anti-dumping petition said dumped
imports have depressed cement prices here and caused U.S.
investors to abandon the industry.
   The Commerce Department estimated last year's shipments of
Mexican cement and clinker at more than $111 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Opera: The Really Complete Rossini Experience
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Pesaro, Italy -- Every summer this home town of Gioacchino
Rossini's comes up with another obscure work by the master.
This is not so hard: Of the nimble-fingered master's 39
operas most used to linger in darkness, like the white
asparagus that are this region's other speciality.
   But since 1980, Pesaro's Rossini Festival has done much to
revive its favorite son's forgotten works. A loyal following
flocks here every August ready to embrace another resurrected
masterpiecelet in this town of modest charms on the Adriatic
coast. Together with the Rossini Foundation -- whose scholars
are publishing much-needed new editions of the composer's
much-mangled scores -- the festival has dusted off such faded
bel canto flowers as "Il Viaggio a Reims," "Ermione,"
"Tancredi," "Bianca e Falliero," "La Donna del Lago," even,
as a bit of cheeky defiance toward the Verdi everyone knows,
Rossini's "Otello."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now Pesaro has turned its attention to "Ricciardo e
Zoraide," which drifted from the stage not long after its
premiere in 1818. One was inclined to wonder why, as Riccardo
Chailly led the orchestra through an unusually scored
overture in which clarinets, flutes and horns engaged an
offstage band in melancholy discourse. The wonder passed
quickly enough. "Ricciardo e Zoraide" soon proved that it is,
after all, entirely possible to deserve your fate. "R&amp;Z" is
mostly second-rate Rossini hitched to a libretto of nearly
unlimited idiocy.
   Zoraide is an Asian princess living in the African kingdom
of Nubia where Ricciardo, a Christian knight, eventually
rescues her from Agorante, the chief Nubian. Neither comic,
nor tragic, "R&amp;Z" belongs to that peculiar genre, the
"semi-seria" opera, which Beethoven attempted with somewhat
better results in "Fidelio."
   At the premiere in Naples, "R&amp;Z" was played in a grand
production of Aida-like dimensions with huge palaces and
exotic landscapes. The Pesaro production by the director Luca
Ronconi and designer-architect Gae Aulenti couldn't be more
different. Those who have seen Ms. Aulenti's rehabbing of
Paris's Musee d'Orsay know that hers is an elegant but tough
sensibility -- and thus a good match for Mr. Ronconi's
deflating attitude toward grand opera.
   There is only one set, a starkly beautiful sand dune
surrounded by a cool white cyclorama. The lights shine so
brightly on this desertscape (simply constructed out of
rubberized material with glued-down sand) that you initially
close your eyes. The effect is intentional. The opera is
staged like a strange mirage in the desert with characters
slowly coming into view from beneath the sand on elevator
stages. The faintly comic Nubians are played by Czech
choristers in brown body paint. There is no suggestion of a
major civilization. All is fable. I don't think Tawana
Brawley would approve of this production.
   As it happened, for other reasons, neither did Zoraide.
Little Pesaro is echoing with June Anderson's coughing as the
combination of sand and fixative fumes sent the exasperated
soprano to her allergy pills and her Ricciardo, William
Matteuzzi, to the hospital (briefly).
   Well, beauty always has its price, though in this case,
the set did extract a rather high one: Decca/London decided
against recording the opera in part because the hydraulic
stages made so much noise during rehearsals. Actually, they
were drowned out nicely at the opening by improvised fans
deployed by a dripping audience trapped in a theater that got
to be hot as Nubia. Ms. Anderson had asked that the air
conditioning be turned off while she was on stage (wearing an
airy, veiled costume with sea-green pantaloons I wanted for
myself in a larger size). As we noticed with a peculiar
mixture of pleasure and sweat-filmed dread, Zoraide barely
ever leaves the stage.
   Rossini wrote the part for Isabella Colbran, his mistress,
wife and later, ex-wife. She was said to have a powerful
personality and why she didn't nab the master by the ear and
shout: "Hey, Joe, you forgotta my aria]" is a mystery even
the Rossini Foundation's scholars probably can't solve. For
Zoraide has no major scene, though Ms. Anderson did finally
get to deploy her fabulously agile voice in an imaginatively
ornamented coloratura trio that stayed the rivulets for a few
moments. Along the way, there was a sensitively phrased duet,
"Ricciardo, che veggo," sung after Zoraide has discovered who
is hiding out underneath another veil.
   Mr. Matteuzzi surprised me too. Based on recordings and
reports of his debut fiasco at the Metropolitan, I expected a
midget with a pinched voice. But the tenor easily dispatched
his high-flying music while looking tall and trim in the snug
breeches designed for him by the show's costumer, Giovanna
Buzzi.
   Even more surprising was the Agorante, Bruce Ford. He got
the score 10 days before the opening after it was taken away
from tenor Chris Merritt, who arrived late without having
mastered a part all tricked out with coloratura and miles of
boring recitatives. In this feat of memorization, the young
Texan acquitted himself superbly, while showing a natural
affinity for the Rossini style, a secure top range and an
athletic set of legs adorned with little red ankle bracelets.
   Besides the festival -- with its recitals, lectures, and
small exhibitions -- there is not all that much to do in
Pesaro, though some time can be wiled away eating a Pizza
Rossini slathered with eggs and mayonnaise and listening to
it cadenza in your stomach days later. The art museum
contains exactly one major work, but it is truly major-an
Assumption of the Virgin, elaborately framed and painted in
wondrously translucent colors by Giovanni Bellini. Nothing
but postcards remain of the town's other major monument, a
monster sphere with teeth by Arnoldo Pomodoro, which used to
glower in the seaside square. I hear the drunks who broke the
thing by rolling it down the street one night are local
heroes. (Could they please come to Manhattan and evict its
mutant sister from the plaza of the World Trade Center?) But
it will probably take an act of God to remove the concrete
hotels blighting the beach.
   Earlier eras are recalled in a few handsome villas and the
small house in the Via Rossini where Gioacchino was born on
the first floor in 1792. (Close by is Via Tebaldi, an
architecturally undistinguished street recalling the famous
Pesarona and "Regata veneziana" singer, Renata Tebaldi). The
house is now a Rossini museum with surprisingly few mementos
of a long life that was lavishly eulogized at his huge
funeral in Paris in 1868. In the video room I watched part of
Pesaro's two-year-old production of "La Scala di Seta" ("The
Silk Ladder"). It seemed marginally more charming than the
revival I attended in the festival's smaller house, the
Auditorium Pedrotti, an un-airconditioned space -- not by
soprano fiat this time-outfitted with seats even more cramped
than the Teatro Rossini's. Rossini-sized persons are
encouraged to diet before visiting Pesaro.
   At any rate, the eponymous ladder is dropped many, many
times by Giulia, an old man's ward. She drops it from her
balcony to receive the young man she has secretely married.
Other admirers use it too. The opera, written in 1812 for a
Venetian public, is meant to be funny. But it was not a great
hit at the premiere and was hissed at a revival a few years
later.
   "Almost everything after its overture is anticlimactic,"
is what Herbert Weinstock, the composer's biographer, had to
say about "La Scala," though he might have changed his mind
had he seen Antonello Allemandi conduct it with ample
gestures befitting Beethoven's Leonore No. 3. An inventive,
tightly choreographed staging might have made a difference.
But neither the tenor, Oslavio di Credico, nor the soprano,
Nuccia Focile, had been given any comic turns by the director
Maurizio Scaparro, and were perhaps disinclined anyhow to
share our soggy state by capering energetically.
   Maybe what "Scala" and "R&amp;Z" needed most of all was that
Rossini speciality, the "aria di sorbetto," a little melody
sung by a secondary soloist while listeners revived
themselves with refreshments and blotted the sweat stains
from their outfits. Perhaps Philip Gossett, the editorial
director of the Rossini Foundation's critical editions, could
do us all a favor and come up with a tutti frutti assortment
to keep us going on hot nights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   American Barrick Resources Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   ABX T.ABX
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN BARRICK RESOURCES Corp. said it plans to sell
five million common shares for total proceeds of 122.5
million Canadian dollars (U.S.$106.8 million). The Toronto
gold mining concern said an underwriting group led by Gordon
Capital Corp. agreed to purchase the shares for C$24.50 each
for later resale to the public in Canada and in Europe.
American Barrick said it will use the proceeds for
development work on existing properties, potential
acquisitions and the repayment of long-term debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   The Thrill's Still There in New East-West Spy Novels
   ----
   By Donald Lyons
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   There are genres that have little to fear from history.
Agatha Christie can lie easy knowing that Miss Marple's
insights into greed and pride and lust in the arcadian
village of St. Mary Mead are timelessly valid; today's Sue
Grafton can place her famous private eye Kinsey Millhone into
a similarly mythical southern California; Dick Francis knows
equine DNA is steadfast.
   But it is otherwise with the spy novel. Born in the
tormented '30s and ripened in the fearful '50s and '60s, the
international thriller now seems on the ropes. History is
punching too fast, and the fighters on the card are not in
their prime. Even ex-champ Le Carre seems reduced, in 1988s
"Russia House," to empty epigrams and sour self-loathing.
Only Tom Clancy is holding on to his title.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two recent examples are variously depressing. Robin
Hunter's "The London Connection" (Morrow, 239 pages, $18.95)
is a dim epigone of the James Bond school. It is the third
novel starring Simon Quarry, "a reclusive British publisher,"
who functions on the sly as an ace government hit man. In
semi-retirement, he wishes nothing more than to live with his
Italian mistress on Majorca. Despite pleas to stop the
Medellin cartel from taking over the Caribbean Commonwealth
island of Cay Dorado, he refuses until the "narcotraficantes"
unwisely boff his pal. Then it gets personal.
   Author Robin Hunter, one is not surprised to read, is "the
pseudonym of a retired British publishing executive." Rife
with these naive fantasy projections, outdated Britocentric
assumptions and dead language, the book shows the Fleming
formulas (fun for five minutes in their heyday) turned flat
and fizzless.
   Another thriller variant sketches skulduggery in the White
House foiled by courageous investigative reporters -- a
"liberal" daydream in contrast with the "conservative" Bond
stuff. William Nixon's "Strategic Compromise" (Birch Lane,
416 pages, $19.95) tries to refry recent scandals into a
fresh burrito. Waspy U.S. Prez Delbert Satterfield, George
Bush's successor, has, under the prodding of
Edward-Teller-like scientist Rubin Steinbrenner, secretly
deployed Star Wars, spending billions behind Congress's back.
Hotshot Washington Post reporter Malibu Hamilton (yes,
Malibu) is poised to leak the sizzling dope to liberal Sen.
Ashworth, who cackles, "We're going to make Watergate and the
Iran-Contra scandal look like damned games."
   But a KGB mole on Ashworth's staff and the arrival in D.C.
of crack terrorist Sergio complicate matters and pose
harrowing moral dilemmas for Malibu. Here too History has
trumped a dumb plot, whose central conspiracy (predicated on
an aggressive U.S.S.R.) is technically impossible, weakly
motivated and dully explicated. Besides, the next big scandal
will not be a slight reshuffle of the last one. No
imagination here.
   Now good news. William Patrick, author of the previous
medical thriller "Spiral," has magnificently finessed the
end-of-the-Cold-War/end-of-history blues now affecting the
spy genre by going back to the real origin of the
20th-century malaise, to World War I. In "Blood Winter"
(Viking, 448 pages, $19.95) he evokes Berlin in 1917, a
desperate, doomed town. It's eerily timely too, as Berlin
seems about to be as central to the 1990s as it was to the
1910s.
   The novel opens in a powerful, masterly tone: "Black crows
hung in butcher shop windows all across Germany that winter.
The joke in Berlin was that soon there would be no more rat
to eat, only rat substitute. It was the third year of the
war. . . ." And the hardscrabble physical atmosphere of
Berlin is matched by an array of desperate, often crazed
human fauna. The hero is an idealistic spy, an American
doctor, Eli Gordon, who's been working in France in trench
hospitals and is persuaded by British intelligence (the U.S.
not yet being in the war) to go to Berlin to see if the
Boches are developing bacteriological warfare devices. Eli's
finds his first lead he finds eaten by a Siberian tiger in
the Berlin Zoo. His next, more productive contact is
brilliant U.S.-born biologist Margarethe Riesling, a
tormented genius currently being exploited by exotic creeps
like the perverted head of German Intelligence and the
Kaiser's sadistic dentist. (Nice Germans, and questionable
Allies, turn up too.)
   Eventually Eli and Margarethe flee with the biological red
herring by train, bike and foot across fields, marshes and
canals toward Holland and freedom -- only to meet diabolic
betrayal from unexpected quarters. This whole final journey,
as exciting as that in "39 Steps," becomes a redemptive
calvary, starred with love and marred by the century's tragic
paranoia. The book is a dazzling achievement, both gripping
and moving, lurid and achingly sad. It is at least as
authoritative as the fresh early best of Greene and Le Carre.
It seems it takes "only" an intimate feel for history, a real
knowledge of something (here Berlin and science), and
imaginative intuitings of human nature to revivify a flagging
genre -- or let's just say, to write a good novel.
   ---
   Mr. Lyons is a literary critic and editor living in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM and UAW
   Reach Accord
   To End Strike
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union
reached a tentative settlement late yesterday of a strike at
a parts plant at Flint, Mich., that has given the auto maker
a costly demonstration of the depth of its labor troubles.
   GM didn't disclose details of the settlement. Work could
resume at the Flint plant as soon as tomorrow, a GM spokesman
said. However, that may not be soon enough to prevent further
assembly plant shutdowns. It could take several days to
restock the supplies of gas tanks and other parts made at the
Flint factory.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Flint walkout, which began last Wednesday, was
ostensibly over local grievances. But union officials and
workers at the AC Rochester division plant said the strike's
real purpose was to show the UAW's determination to win broad
job protection for all 300,000 UAW-represented workers at GM.
The UAW and GM are currently bargaining for a new national
contract. The old pact expires Sept. 14.
   "We want job security," said 46-year-old Roger Wagner, who
has worked at the plant since 1964. "You wouldn't want to
work for a place for 26 years and then have them close the
place down."
   Mr. Wagner, who was at the local union hall to sign up for
strike benefits, said that when he went to work at the plant,
he had more than 12,000 co-workers. Now, there are only 2,400
people who actually work at the plant. Another 800 counted as
full-time workers are actually laid off, but are paid full
wages and benefits because GM gave their work to outside
contractors. GM has said another 600 of Mr. Wagner's
co-workers could lose their jobs in 1992.
   By taking the unusual step of sanctioning a local strike
during national talks, UAW Vice President Stephen P. Yokich,
head of the union's GM department, has sent a clear signal to
GM, and restive rank-and-file members, that he is willing to
put the fight for job security ahead of labor-management
cooperation. Mr. Yokich also has served notice that he is
ready to hobble GM with carefully targeted strikes if the
company won't bend on job security issues.
   The AC Rochester plant is a critical operation for GM
because it is the sole supplier of gas tanks for 55% of the
auto maker's U.S.-built cars, vans and trucks. By striking
this single factory, the UAW forced GM to shut other
operations employing about 11,550 people.
   Last week, GM shut all or part of truck plants at Moraine,
Ohio; Shreveport, La., and Pontiac, Mich. Yesterday, GM had
to stop the line at its Buick City plant in Flint, idling
3,300 workers who build GM's successful Buick LeSabre and its
sister car, the Olds 88 Royale. The Buick has the highest
quality rating of any car built by the Big Three U.S. auto
makers, according to a survey by J.D. Power &amp; Associates, a
California market research firm. Part of a truck plant in
Flint also shut down.
   In the wake of the strike, production could be halted
today at GM's assembly plant in Orion Township, Mich., which
builds the Cadillac DeVille and the Oldsmobile 98, a GM
spokeswoman said.
   The walkout could hurt GM's profit for the third quarter.
The company had planned a sharp boost in vehicle production
for the current quarter. "It's too early to tell whether we
can make up the losses," the GM spokesman said.
   Striking workers said a profit squeeze is exactly what
they wanted. "It's the only way you're going to get
management's attention," said striker Owen Jackson, who has
worked for GM in Flint for 40 years. "The only time we've
gotten anything here is when we put our foot down and let
them know where we stand."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Teamsters Vote
   New UPS Pact
   By Solid Margin
   ---
   Count of 65,463 to 53,091
   Was a Rejection of Call
   By Union's Leadership
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Teamsters union members, spurning the
recommendation of their leadership, solidly ratified a new
labor agreement proposed by United Parcel Service of America
Inc.
   Teamsters President William McCarthy asserted that the big
package-delivery company pressured employees by threatening
that they would lose their jobs if there were a strike.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Baltimore, Louis D'Amico, National Labor Relations
Board regional director, said the NLRB is investigating
charges of unfair labor practices against the company filed
by the Teamsters UPS negotiating committee and also by
members of a dissident union group, Teamsters for a
Democratic Union.
   The voter turnout was high. The Teamsters said they
counted 118,554 ballots from the 146,000 union members who
work for UPS. There were 65,463 votes for the contract and
53,091 against, the union said.
   The new three-year contract replaces one that expired Aug.
1 but was extended while the Teamsters counted ratification
ballots.
   At the request of federal mediators, UPS and the union had
agreed to keep negotiating regardless of how the vote turned
out. As a result, said Frank DePirro, a TDU official, many
UPS employees feel they were "tricked," because they were
afraid that a "no" vote would mean a strike and could also
mean they'd lose their jobs.
   Mr. DePirro said UPS ran a "well-organized" campaign for
ratification, including pre-work meetings, after-work
barbecues and one-on-one sessions with employees. In their
charges before the NLRB, about 20 TDU and Teamsters members
alleged that UPS sought to intimidate employees who wanted to
post material opposing the contract, threatening them with
loss of work or benefits.
   In separate charges filed with the NLRB, the Teamsters UPS
negotiators alleged that the company used coercive tactics.
The union contended that the company didn't bargain in good
faith, and that it held unlawful mandatory meetings in which
it intimidated employees who might vote against the company's
offer.
   The union also said UPS warned that if its offer were
rejected, employees would lose their jobs in a strike or that
their facility would close. UPS also said that it wouldn't
return to the bargaining table if the contract were rejected,
the Teamsters alleged.
   The NLRB's Mr. D'Amico said that whatever the outcome of
the agency's investigation, he wouldn't expect the case,
which could take two years, would have any effect on the
vote, itself.
   The contract offer ratified by the Teamsters members was
the second one made by UPS. It included wage increases of 50
cents an hour, or about 3%, each year of the three-year pact;
cost-of-living rises capped at 20 cents an hour in the second
and third years; signing bonuses; a new, lower wage tier in
the UPS schedule of reduced pay levels for new employees, and
an employer contribution totaling 35 cents an hour into the
UPS health and welfare fund and the pension fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, August 10, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                           Stock     N.A.     Stock     %
   Fund Name               Exch.    Value     Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express           NYSE     18.19    15 7/8  - 12.73
   Baker Fentress          NYSE     22.26    18      - 19.14
   Blue Chip Value         NYSE      7.06     6 1/4  - 11.47
   Clemente Global Gro     NYSE    b11.84    10 1/4  - 13.43
   Gemini II Capital       NYSE     13.81    11      - 20.35
   Gemini II Income        NYSE      9.89    12 1/8  + 22.60
   General Amer Invest     NYSE     22.96    18      - 21.60
   Growth Stock Outlook    NYSE     10.39     9 3/4  -  6.16
   Liberty All-Star Eqty   NYSE      9.18     7 3/4  - 15.58
   Niagara Share Corp.     NYSE     17.23    14      - 18.75
   Quest For Value Cap     NYSE     17.22    12 1/8  - 29.59
   Quest For Value Inco    NYSE     11.66    12 5/8  +  8.28
   Royce Value Trust       NYSE     10.00     8 5/8  - 13.75
   Salomon Fd              NYSE     14.32    11 7/8  - 17.07
   Source Capital          NYSE     38.70    40 1/8  +  3.68
   Tri-Continental Corp.   NYSE     27.14    23 1/4  - 14.33
   Worldwide Value         NYSE     18.11    15      - 17.17
   Zweig Fund              NYSE     10.68    11      +  3.00
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs     AMEX      6.84     5 3/4  - 15.94
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr    NYSE     b7.88     8 7/8  + 12.63
   Franklin Universal Tr   NYSE     b7.60     7 5/8  +  0.33
   Municipal High Inco     NYSE      9.42     9 1/2  +  0.85
   Zenix Income Fund       NYSE      6.32     6      -  5.06
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       


   European Warrant Fd     NYSE     10.60     9      - 15.09
   Franklin M-M Inco       NYSE     b8.72     8 1/2  -  2.52
   Zweig Total Return Fd   NYSE      9.06     9 1/8  +  0.72
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd  NYSE     13.68    11      - 19.59
   Alliance New Europe Fd  NYSE     11.51    10 1/4  - 10.95
   American Capital Conv   NYSE     21.19    18 3/4  - 11.51
   ASA Ltd                 NYSE   bc63.31    51      - 19.44
   Asia Pacific            NYSE     14.81    14      -  5.47
   Austria Fund            NYSE     15.16    12 1/8  - 20.02
   Bancroft Convertible    AMEX     20.01    17      - 15.04
   Bergstrom Capital       AMEX     61.90    61 5/8  -  0.44
   BGR Precious Metals     TOR    be10.95     9 5/8  - 12.10
   Brazil                  NYSE     11.66    10 3/8  - 11.02
   CNV Holdings Capital    NYSE      9.29     4 3/4  - 48.87
   CNV Holdings Income     NYSE      9.47    10 5/8  + 12.20
   Castle Convertible      AMEX     20.87    17 5/8  - 15.55
   Central Fund Canada     AMEX     b4.99     5 1/8  +  2.71
   Central Securities      AMEX     10.73     8 7/8  - 17.29
   Chile Fund              NYSE     16.33    15 5/8  -  4.32
   Couns Tandem Secs       NYSE     12.51     9 7/8  - 21.06
   Cypress Fund            AMEX      9.55     9      -  5.76
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils NYSE      7.96     8 1/4  +  3.64
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc     AMEX      7.93     7      - 11.73
   Emerging Ger Fd         NYSE     10.97     8 3/4  - 20.24
   Engex                   AMEX     11.00     8 5/8  - 21.59
   Europe Fund             NYSE     14.21    12 1/8  - 14.67
   1st Australia           AMEX     10.31     8 3/4  - 15.13
   First Financial Fund    NYSE      5.84     5 5/8  -  3.68
   First Iberian           AMEX     10.94    10      -  8.59
   First Philippine Fund   NYSE     10.93     8      - 26.81
   France Growth Fund      NYSE     11.07     9 7/8  - 10.79
   Future Germany Fund     NYSE     16.51    13 3/4  - 16.72
   Gabelli Equity Trust    NYSE     11.06    11      -  0.54
   Germany Fund            NYSE     12.89    13 1/8  +  1.82
   Global Utilities Fund   NYSE     10.84     9 1/8  - 15.82
   Growth Fund Spain       NYSE     11.98     9 3/8  - 21.74
   GT Greater Europe Fd    NYSE     13.79    12 7/8  -  6.64
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv      NYSE     12.10    10      - 17.36
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap    AMEX    b11.05     9 3/4  - 11.76
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref   AMEX    b49.24    48 1/2  -  1.50
   India Growth Fund       NYSE    f15.00    15 1/2  +  3.33
   Indonesia Fund          NYSE     14.16    13 3/8  -  5.54
   Inefficient Market Fund AMEX     10.45     8 1/2  - 18.66
   Irish Investment Fd     NYSE     10.61     8 3/8  - 21.07
   Italy Fund              NYSE    b14.96    12 7/8  - 13.94
   Jakarta Growth Fd       NYSE     10.69     9 1/2  - 11.13
   Japan OTC Equity Fund   NYSE    b12.18    10 1/2  - 13.79
   Korea Fund              NYSE     13.34    18 5/8  + 39.62
   Latin America Inv Fd    NYSE     13.51    11 1/2  - 14.88
   Malaysia Fund           NYSE     14.02    14 1/4  +  1.64
   Mexico Fund             NYSE    b15.96    16 1/2  +  3.38
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap     NYSE     10.35     9 5/8  -  7.00
   New Germany Fund        NYSE     14.65    12 1/8  - 17.24

   Patriot Prem Div Fd     NYSE      8.50    10 1/2  + 23.53
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II  NYSE      9.78    11      + 12.47
   Patriot Select DivTrust NYSE     13.88    14 3/4  +  6.27
   Petrol &amp; Resources      NYSE     32.63    31 7/8  -  2.31
   Pilgrim Regional        NYSE      8.07     7 5/8  -  5.51
   Putnam Dividend Inco    NYSE      9.91    10 1/4  +  3.43
   Portugal Fund           NYSE     13.26    12 5/8  -  4.79
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd   AMEX      6.20     5 1/2  - 11.29
   ROC Taiwan Fund         NYSE      8.66     9 5/8  + 11.14
   Scudder New Asia        NYSE     18.43    14 3/4  - 19.97
   Scudder New Europe      NYSE     12.02    10 1/8  - 15.77
   SE Savings Inst Fd      OTC      b7.14     6      - 15.97
   Singapore Fd            NYSE   bf10.92    10 3/8  -  4.99
   Spain Fund              NYSE     14.55    15 7/8  +  9.11
   Swiss Helvetia Fd       NYSE     14.35    13 5/8  -  5.05
   Taiwan Fund             NYSE    b17.03    23 5/8  + 38.73
   TCW Convertible Secs    NYSE     b7.73     8 1/4  +  6.73
   Templeton Em Mkts       AMEX    b16.06    16 1/8  +  0.40
   Templeton Global Util   AMEX    b10.77    11 1/4  +  4.46
   Templeton Value Fund    NYSE     b9.53     8 7/8  -  6.87
   Thai Capital Fund       NYSE     10.46    10      -  4.40
   Thai Fund               NYSE     20.16    21      +  4.17
   Turkish Inv Fund        NYSE     14.78    11 1/8  - 24.73
   United Kingdom Fund     NYSE     11.60     9 5/8  - 17.03
   Z-Seven                 OTC      13.29    14      +  5.34
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate.e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   Compiled by the staff of American Demographics magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Affording a House
   Isn't Getting Any Easier
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   HOUSING ISN'T likely to become more affordable for the
average American anytime soon, despite declining real-estate
prices in some areas.
   The Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University
recently released its annual report on the state of the
nation's housing. Slumps in residential construction and
economic difficulties caused by the savings and loan bailout
are seen as evidence of a weak housing market. But lower
prices are confined to certain local markets, the center
says, and persistent declines in home prices and rents are
unlikely on a national scale.
   This is good news for the many homeowners whose home
equity is their largest single asset. But the news isn't so
good for aspiring homeowners. Over half of baby boomers own
homes. Fewer homes will be built over the next decade, and
they will be bigger and more expensive, as baby boomers trade
up.
   Increasingly upscale housing stock means renters will find
it as difficult as ever to become homeowners. People need two
things to buy a house: cash for the down payment and closing
costs, and income to pay the mortgage.
   Some people have one but not the other. Among young
renters ages 25 to 34, 40% have the income to qualify for a
mortgage, but only 19% have the accumulated wealth for a down
payment. Relatively few have both. Just 20% of white renters
and 4% of black renters have both the income and savings
needed to buy a typical starter home with a 10% down payment.
                                                                                                       

   Greater Expectations
   On Babies' Longevity
                                                                                                       

   LIFE EXPECTANCY in the U.S. rose to a record high in 1989.
   Last year's newborn can expect to live an average of 75.2
years, according to new estimates from Metropolitan Life.
This is up from a 1988 government estimate of 74.9 years.
   Life expectancy at birth rose for both males and females,
although women still live nearly seven years longer than men,
on average. Girls born in 1989 can expect to live 78.6 years,
compared with 71.8 for boys.
   And living through the perilous infant and young-adult
years pays off. Men who turned 55 last year can look forward
to another 22.3 years, to reach the ripe old age of 77.3.
Women who turned 55 last year can expect 26.8 more years,
living to the age of 81.8. Men and women who celebrated their
75th birthday in 1989 have an average of 10.9 years to go,
for an average life expectancy of 85.9 years.
   Life expectancy for blacks continues to be lower than for
whites. Black males born in 1988 -- the latest government
estimate -- can expect to live 65 years, seven years less
than the life expectancy for white males. The gap is smaller
for black females. Their average life expectancy at birth is
74 years, five years less than for white females.
   Babies have come a long way since the turn of the century,
when life expectancy for whites at birth was 48.2 years for
boys and 51.1 years for girls. But getting older has always
had its rewards. In 1900, white men at 85 could already
expect to live another 3.8 years. Nearly nine decades later,
85-year-old white men can expect just another five years.
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam Veterans Work
   As Often as Non-Vets
                                                                                                       

   VIETNAM VETERANS are as likely as other men their age to
be working, unless they are disabled.
   A supplement to a Bureau of Labor Statistics survey
co-sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs found five
million of the nearly eight million male Vietnam-era vets are
now ages 35 to 44. Of them, 95% are in the labor force, the
same rate as for non-veterans in that age group.
   For the 2.5 million Vietnamera vets aged 35 to 44 who
served outside the Vietnam theater of operations, the rate is
even higher, 96%. For the 2.5 million men 35 to 44 who served
in Southeast Asia, 93% are in the labor force. The rate is
the same for vets who saw combat and those who didn't.
   Work force rates are obviously lower for those with
disabilities. Only 68% of the 548,000 Vietnam vets with
service-connected disabilities are in the labor force,
ranging from 84% for those with minor disabilities to 27% for
those with major disabilities.
   But these numbers, based on a survey of the civilian,
noninstitutional population, don't include institutionalized
veterans. Veterans Affairs people say the veteran population
in institutions is difficult to count, though probably small
enough that it doesn't affect the overall picture of the
veteran work force.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   JOB DISPLACEMENT is down, according to a Bureau of Labor
Statistics survey. About 4.3 million Americans who had been
with their employer for three or more years lost their jobs
between 1985 and 1990 because of plant closings, staff
reductions and related reasons. This is down from 5.1 million
workers with at least three years of tenure who were
displaced during the recessionary years in the first half of
the '80s. Two out of five displaced workers lost
manufacturing jobs in the late 1980s, and they were less
likely to be re-employed than those displaced in other
industries. . . . Four percent of Americans age 15 or older
need help performing at least one everyday activity because
of a health condition lasting three or more months. A new
Census Bureau study found that about 1% of adults need help
with just one of these five activities: doing housework,
fixing meals, managing money, getting around outside and
personal care. One percent need help with two activities; 2%
need help with three or more.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Souter Nomination Shows Pogo Was Right
   ----
   By Jerry Della Femina
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   It was, according to my friend Vinnie the Altar Boy, "hot"
in Our Lady of Grace Church on Avenue W in Brooklyn on that
Sunday in August 1949. The Friendly Frost fans were blowing
hot air at the congregation and it was standing room only
because this was the "10 o'clock" and that was Father
Cafaro's Mass. We all knew he didn't handle the heat too well
and would have everybody out in 40 minutes.
   Father Cafaro crossed us up. He stood at the pulpit,
perspiration dripped down his face, and gave a long sermon on
communism. He told us how godless communism was the greatest
threat to our freedom. Then he told us we must all pray for
the conversion of Russia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I was 13 and my friend and I giggled at the word
"conversion," because the only conversion we knew came after
a touchdown was scored by the football Giants and very often
a conversion was the difference between our fathers and
uncles beating the point spread.
   So, for the next 40 years, Father Cafaro and those priests
who followed prayed for the conversion of Russia. They were
war years -- most times it was a cold war, occasionally it
got hot. There was Korea, the A-bomb, Castro, the Missile
Crisis, Vietnam, Joe McCarthy ripping the country apart,
Nikita Khrushchev screaming "We will bury you," bomb
shelters, Sputnik ("My God, they're winning space") . . .
   We never had a moment when our politicians weren't telling
us that our way of life, our freedom, was being threatened by
communism. This was the generation that lived under the gun,
and if it consumed too much aspirin, Valium, grass, cocaine,
Haagen-Dazs ice cream, acid, Perrier . . . it had to be
forgiven, because we all grew up being taught to duck and
cover under our desks if we saw a flash of light. This would
save us, they said, from the hydrogen bomb.
   And then one day the headlines in the papers and the local
news told us we'd won. The wall was down. The other guys were
on the ropes. Father Cafaro's prayers of 1949 had been
answered in 1989. And we were all so numb and so weary that
we walked around saying, "Hey, how about that Berlin Wall?"
in the same voice we've said "Hey, how about those Mets?" But
we won. And nothing could hurt us now.
   It lasted about eight months. The headlines one Saturday
read "Brennan Resigns from Court" and by Monday they read
"Bush to Move Swiftly to Select a Successor."
   That day, a timid looking little man who bears a striking
resemblance to Mad magazine's ("What? Me Worry?") Alfred E.
Newman was being introduced to the U.S. as the latest
prospective member of the court. Nowhere in the introduction
was there any mention that this is the man who will tip the
balance of power in the court for the next 30 years.
   Those who watched the C-SPAN coverage of that press
conference saw George Bush whining his latest version of
"Read My Lips": "No, I didn't ask him his views on abortion.
Let's not make abortion the litmus test of a Supreme Court
justice." None bothered to ask the president, "If the future
freedom of our children is not a litmus test of a Supreme
Court Justice, what is?"
   As I watched the president turn away question after
question from the press and heard his excuse for why the
country couldn't hear Judge Souter's views on abortion until
the Senate heard them first, my mind kept going back to that
great Walt Kelly "Pogo" cartoon where the swamp animals
finally come to the conclusion that "We Have Met The Enemy
and They Is Us."
   And what does this new court mean? To me, it means that my
four-year-old daughter no longer has -- and might not have in
her lifetime -- the right to her own body . . . her right to
free choice. And if, in the future, she should ever become
pregnant, she must have an unwanted baby because the state
says she must, and that will be the law of the land. It means
my 15-month-old son will grow up in a world where if he is a
homosexual, he will have to stay in the closet for life
because the state will recognize only "real" men and real
"child-bearing" women just like the Russians would have done
to us if they'd had the chance.
   We will live to see many of the freedoms that were won in
our lifetimes taken away by the Bushes, the Scalias, the
Anthony Kennedys, and now, the Souters. Roe v. Wade? Forget
it. We'll be lucky if Miranda and Brown v. Board of Education
are around when it's over.
   I'm a Republican/Libertarian who has never voted for a
Democrat in his life. But I'm also a Republican who has
always believed you can't have too conservative a president,
nor too liberal a Supreme Court -- and that makes me a
republican in the true sense of the word.
   And so, this Sunday, a 54-year-old Republican/Libertarian
will go back to that little church on Avenue W in Brooklyn,
and he will kneel and say his first prayer in 40 years. I
will pray for the conversion of George Bush and his Supreme
Court.
   ---
   Mr. Della Femina is chairman of Della Femina McNamee Inc.,
an advertising agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boston Investor Seeks
   Financing to Acquire
   Southmark Securities
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   SM SMRKV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Boston investor Andre Danesh said he is seeking
financing to buy as much as 100% of the notes and preferred
shares and as much as 49% of the common stock in Southmark
Corp., which just emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
protection.
   Mr. Danesh, whose Allied Financial Corp. investment firm
specializes in insolvent companies, apparently hopes the
investment will prevent Southmark's management from selling
off its troubled real estate assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To reach his maximum targets at yesterday's closing
prices, Mr. Danesh would spend about $15 million for the
common stock and $20.5 million for the preferred stock, and
would negotiate a purchase of Southmark notes carrying a face
value of $75 million.
   Whether Southmark assets would prove to be a bargain at
that price is problematical. Federal thrift regulators could
seize Southmark's troubled San Jacinto Savings Association at
any moment. Disgruntled limited partners have ousted
Southmark as the general manager of many real estate
syndicates controlled by the Dallas-based real estate and
financial services concern.
   Southmark built its reorganization around San Jacinto. The
remainder of its assets are to be sold in a plan of
organization that went into effect last Friday.
   The plan also distributed 43 million common shares to its
creditors, who would then own San Jacinto. The $75 million in
notes and $100 million in preferred shares are to be redeemed
by sale of Southmark assets.
   Mr. Danesh said he disagrees with the plan's strategy.
"I'm not interested in selling real estate," he said. "I'm
just trying to put it back together. I don't like to sell
anything." He said he would work with management rather than
seek control.
   Mr. Danesh bought 10.3% of Southmark common shares last
November while the company was reorganizing. The
reorganization, plus subsequent sales, reduced his stake to
about one-half of one percent.
   New Southmark shares closed yesterday at $1.15625 in
national over-the-counter trading on a when-issued basis. The
preferred shares closed at $5.13.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sony's U.S. Unit to Develop
   A New Unix Generation
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sony Corp.'s U.S. unit will set up an engineering
group to develop the next generation of the Unix operating
system, widely used in engineering workstations, a company
spokesman said.
   A group of about 30 engineers will be set up within Sony
Corp. of America in October to produce a more advanced
version of the Unix operating system, the spokesman said.
Aside from about four engineers sent from Japan, the staff
will consist almost entirely of local engineers experienced
in working with Unix, the spokesman for the electronics
concern said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sony will be one of the first Japanese companies to
develop Unix software applications in the U.S., allowing the
company to take advantage of advanced U.S. software
technology and expertise, the spokesman said.
   "Workstations is the area in which competition is the most
intense and the pace of developing new products is the
fastest in the computer-related industry," he said.
   Establishment of the software developing group in the U.S.
will allow Sony to keep pace with technological developments,
he said.
   Computer software-related operations in the U.S. by other
Japanese companies center on converting U.S.-made application
software so that it can be loaded onto their own computers,
the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   The Gallery: Hans Hofmann Retrospective
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Hans Hofmann (1880-1966) was born a year
before Picasso and survived Jackson Pollock by exactly a
decade. This is more than a mere historical curiosity, since
Hofmann started his career smack in the middle of early
European modernism and ended it as a leading American
abstract expressionist. He was unique in many ways, not the
least of these being that he worked his way through both the
pre- and postwar styles of both World Wars, and that he
formed a bridge between the avantgarde painting of two
continents.
   Hofmann was also one of the few artists, either here or
abroad, who succeeded in balancing the polarities of bright
color and geometrically fractured space typical of fauvism
and cubism, the two main opposing currents of modernist
painting. The way in which he struggled to do this for more
than half a century, and the resulting variety of his
imagery, are made abundantly clear in the Whitney Museum of
American Art's retrospective exhibition, which includes more
than 100 paintings and drawings done between 1898 and 1965.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the length of his career, Hofmann did not have an
easy time of it. It was not until 1944, when he was 64 years
old, that he had his first one-man show in New York. In fact,
for most of his life he was known primarily not as an artist
but as a gifted teacher. Born in Germany, he worked in Paris
for several years during the first decade of the century and
became a kind of apostle of modernism. Caught in Germany at
the outbreakof World War I, and found unfit for military
service, he started his first art school in Munich in 1915.
He would remain deeply involved in teaching for the next 43
years.
   During the early 1930s, Hofmann transferred his teaching
activities to the U.S., first to California, then to the East
Coast. His schools in New York and Provincetown became
legendary, and in the decade after World War II he was widely
regarded as the most inspired art teacher in the country.
Twenty years ago, it seemed that everyone on the New York art
scene had once studied with Hans Hofmann, or at least claimed
to have done so. Among his students were a number of artists
who would go on to win major recognition, including Helen
Frankenthaler, Red Grooms, Lee Krasner, Louise Nevelson,
Larry Rivers and Myron Stout.
   That Hofmann was a highly regarded and influential teacher
is beyond question. His status as an artist, on the other
hand, is quite another matter. You come away from this show
feeling that throughout most of his career Hofmann was an
accomplished but not very inspired painter, and that it was
not until the last decade of his life that he really caught
fire and produced significant work.
   And yet, because of the brilliant way that the curator
Cynthia Goodman has installed the exhibition, this is not as
painfully apparent as it might be. For you enter this show at
the end, as it were -- amid the brightly colored, energetic
and powerful pictures that Hofmann painted during the last
decade of his life. And I would strongly suggest lingering in
these three front galleries for a while before venturing into
the back galleries that contain the early works.
   These late works are quite literally inspiring, for
several reasons. Here, for one thing, is the work of an
artist who for many years seems to have been thinking,
"Someday . . ." And here, rarity of rarities, that someday
really comes -- when he is in his mid-70s. Until then
Hofmann's situation is like that of a musician who has
extraordinary manual dexterity and a deep understanding of
his medium, but who can never quite get beyond making music
in a secondhand way. A performer rather than a creator.
Usually such people never really cross the line. But",
mirabile dictu", Hans Hofmann does.
   Going through the earlier work, you find yourself rooting
for the man. How could it be otherwise? There is so much
pictorial understanding evident in the early works, and so
much sheer willpower. The brightly colored and firmly drawn
"Table With Fruit and Coffeepot" (1936) almost makes the wall
shake. But the trouble is, you keep seeing the ghost of
someone else. Here it is Matisse. In the lovely 1914
watercolors it was Cezanne. In paintings of the '20s and
early '30s, it was Picasso or Braque or Bonnard, or an
earlier version of Matisse.
   The color throughout remains strong, if somewhat
indiscriminate -- every instrument playing as loud as
possible and all at once. But all those primary colors all at
once can be a bit wearing. The drawing throughout remains
vigorous, if somewhat approximate. Sometimes, as in the 1942
"Self-Portrait With Brushes," the overly stylized design is
irritating and rings false. The face is familiar but nobody
seems to be home.
   And then suddenly, you're back in those last rooms again,
back in the mid 1950sjust around the time that Hofmann closes
his school, is it merely a coincidence?and everything begins
to come together. In paintings like "Equipoise" (1958) the
primary colors are still there, all at full blast, but now
they somehow gather energy instead of dispersing it. The
surfaces become tenser and more unified. Rectangles push and
pull against each other, detach themselves from the bright
green background, are pulled back into it. There is a real
dialogue going on here, between the elements of the picture
and between the man and his inner self.
   Unified as these late pictures are, they are built on
strong contrasts: between amorphous blobs and insistent
rectangles, between smeary mud colors and planes of searing
chromatic intensity. These are particularly evident in the
Museum of Modern Art's "Memoria in Aeternum" (1962), a
picture of literally astonishing resourcefulness and
intensity, in which the echoes of fauvism and cubism are
still felt, but in an entirely fresh way. Which is, after
all, what artistic originality is all about.
   The exhibition, which is accompanied by a handsome
catalog, will be on view through Sept. 16. It will also be
seen at the Center for Fine Arts, Miami (Nov. 22-Jan. 20,
1991) and the Chrysler Museum, Norfolk, Va. (Feb. 14-April
14).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trefoil Extends Deadline
   In Child World Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CWLD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- The first public investment by Roy E.
Disney's new "white squire" fund appears to have hit a snag,
as the group postponed reaching a definitive agreement to
acquire a controlling stake in Child World Inc., the nation's
second largest toy retailer.
   The fund, Trefoil Capital Investors L.P., said it extended
until Aug. 24 the deadline for the agreement to acquire an
82% stake in Child World held by Cleveland-based CNC Holding
Corp. An agreement was supposed to have been concluded by
last Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Trefoil said only that the companies "have agreed to
mutually explore . . . the possible resolution of outstanding
issues relating to this proposed acquisition," and that
"there is no assurance that the parties will reach final
agreement."
   Exact terms of the proposed transaction haven't been
disclosed, although Trefoil has said it would follow up the
purchase with a $14-a-share, or $28 million, cash offer for
the 18% of Avon, Mass.-based Child World now in public hands.
   Trefoil is a $450 million investment fund formed by Mr.
Disney and principals of his Shamrock Holdings Inc.
investment concern. The fund is designed to invest in
companies burdened by heavy debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Troubles Never End
   ----
   By Donna Rifkind
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Brian Donovan is a young University of Michigan dropout
with no clear direction in his life. But his days of drifting
end abruptly when his family asks him to deliver $10,000 in
"gun money" to his fighting cousins in northern Ireland.
   According to family lore, Brian's grandfather, Patrick
Donovan, had killed a policeman in his youth and been forced
to leave Ireland forever. He went on to strike it rich in
America, settling in Detroit, but has never failed to send
regular donations to support the Republican cause back home.
Now in failing health, and sensing that this may be his last
contribution, Patrick insists that it be delivered personally
by a Donovan family member. Young Brian gets the assignment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So begins James Hynes's first novel, "The Wild Colonial
Boy" (Atheneum, 356 pages, $18.95), a political thriller with
a conventionally twisting plot that, because of its setting,
raises a few moral questions for the reader -- if only
occasionally for Brian, an innocent and sometimes a fool.
Brian, who likes to call himself a socialist and harbors some
sentimental sympathies for his grandfather's birthplace, is
essentially naive about the frustrations and dangers of
everyday life in war-torn Belfast.
   It doesn't take one of his Irish cousins, a beautiful,
passionate city councilor for West Belfast named Maire, much
time to realize that Brian would make the perfect courier for
some stolen Czech-made plastique. Maire's husband, the leader
of an extremist branch of the IRA named Jimmy Coogan, plans
to use the explosives to protest what he sees as a sellout to
the British.
   Only slowly does Brian begin to understand some of the
complexities of a situation mired in history and local
infighting. Traditionally, elected Republican officials from
Northern Ireland who are entitled to take a seat in the Irish
Dail, or Parliament, have abstained in protest. But now there
are rumors that a current IRA leader, Joe Brody, plans to
break tradition by taking his seat in the Dail and, in a step
toward reconciliation, is making overtures to the British
left.
   Jimmy Coogan sees Brody's political maneuverings as a
betrayal of traditional IRA militancy and he responds in the
traditional manner of the IRA militant, choosing a civilian
bomb target to express his disapproval: London's National
Gallery, to him a symbol of the detested, elitist Thatcherite
government. (Never mind that the Thatcher government can
hardly be accused of coddling its cultural institutions).
Coogan isn't about to transport the explosives himself -- his
face is too well-known to both the British and Brody's men.
The arrival of Brian, the quintessential American tourist, is
a godsend for Coogan.
   Soon, Brian is packing the plastique into his rucksack,
recognizing his own foolhardiness, yet unable to resist
Jimmy's dare. Complications arise almost immediately, most
troublesomely in the form of a pretty American tourist, Clare
Delaney, to whom Brian is instantly attracted. As they travel
together, Clare is never quite sure why Brian gasps every
time a policeman comes into view, but she likes him just the
same.
   In the meantime, Maire is arrested and interrogated by the
British, who find her wearing Brian's money belt. Not long
thereafter, Jimmy is gunned down by Brody's men as he is
heading back into Northern Ireland, just a hundred feet from
the border. Left behind are his operatives, who are waiting
to detonate Brian's bomb in the National Gallery.
   "The whole Irish past seems like yesterday," the critic
Hugh Kenner has written. And although the Ireland of James
Hynes's novel boasts as many fast-food restaurants as pubs,
with billboards of Sylvester Stallone looming over the Dublin
landscape, its political climate seems eerily frozen in time.
Mr. Hynes observes the same gaunt, haunted young men in
Belfast as must have paced the streets during the time of the
civil war in 1922. Jimmy Coogan compares Brody's sellout to
that of past Irish heroes who have "lost sight of the goal":
Michael Collins in 1921 and Eamon de Valera 10 years later.
Then as now, lives continue as factional violence threatens
everyday existence in a devastated country.
   "The Wild Colonial Boy" (the title comes from an Irish
song) suffers from uneven characterization. Mr. Hynes's
emphasis is fixed on Maire, Jimmy and Brian, while Joe Brody,
a potentially fascinating and pivotal character, remains
shadowy. Neither is it easy to believe that even someone as
feckless as Brian would really be dumb enough to carry 10
pounds of plastique all the way to London.
   On the whole, however, Mr. Hynes has produced a competent,
well-plotted thriller. He is judicious in his use of
melodrama, a favorite device in thrillers; when he employs it
(in one scene, Maire, having been told of Jimmy's death while
in prison, angrily sings an ancient Celtic song to the
British authorities), he generally manages to exercise
restraint. The author is sensitive in his handling of the
sickening violence that spreads through this sad terrain. And
while he understands the forces that drive a man like Coogan
to terrorism, he also dwells on the horrifying results of
fanaticism -- in this case the death of 11 innocent people.
What sets "The Wild Colonial Boy" apart from other books of
its kind is Mr. Hynes's clear compassion for every one who
suffers in the Irish predicament, a compassion that lends
weight and depth to an otherwise rather standard adventure
novel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Rise 30.20, Rebounding
   From Reaction to Nikkei Decline
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market rebounded from an early bout
of selling in slow trading, curtailed by an afternoon power
outage in the city's financial district.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 32 points
just after the opening in the wake of steep losses on
overseas stock markets, including Tokyo, where the Nikkei
index of 225 Japanese issues recorded one of its sharpest
declines ever.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But on Wall Street, prices gradually rebounded after the
initial wave of selling subsided, as a combination of
bargain-hunting and futures-related program buying lifted the
market. The Dow Jones industrials finished up 30.20 at
2746.78.
   Broader market measures couldn't keep pace with the
industrial average, which benefited from renewed buying
interest in both oil stocks and blue-chip,
recession-resistant consumer issues.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index recorded the equivalent
of a 25-point advance in the Dow Jones industrials by rising
0.21 to 335.73, while the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index went up 1.48 to 185.63.
   Declining issues outpaced advancers on the Big Board by
766 to 726. Volume was low, with 122,820,000 shares changing
hands, compared with 145,340,000 shares Friday. The latest
total was the lowest in five weeks. Traders attributed the
industrial average's early slide to nervousness about how the
market would react to the latest developments in the Middle
East. Mideast concern continued to take its toll on the Tokyo
market; the Nikkei Index of 225 issues plunged 1153.12, or
4.2%, to 26176.43. The drop was its fourth-largest point loss
and seventh-largest percentage drop on record.
   But while New York stock prices tumbled at the start of
trading, "There was not an avalanche of sell orders, by any
means," said Sid Dorr, head of institutional trading at
Charles Schwab &amp; Co., San Francisco. By midday, the
industrial average had erased its opening losses, and a round
of buying in the final hour of trading sent it up sharply.
   The power outage struck lower Manhattan as the result of a
substation fire about noon EDT at a Consolidated Edison Co.
of New York plant.
   The American Stock Exchange shut down its trading at 1:13
p.m. EDT after losing power to its systems, and outages
curtailed operations at a number of New York-based brokerage
firms. The New York Stock Exchange said the power problem
didn't close down its operations.
   Eastman Kodak surged 2 1/2 to 43 1/2 in composite trading
of 1.5 million shares, and other blue-chip consumer stocks
attracted buyers as well. Merck climbed 2 1/8 to 86 7/8,
Procter &amp; Gamble rose 1 7/8 to 81 3/4, Coca-Cola gained 3/4
to 44 1/2 and Philip Morris added 5/8 to 46 1/2 on volume of
1.4 million shares.
   Energy stocks rallied along with the price of oil;
September crude-oil futures were up 54 cents a barrel, to
$26.77; dealings on the New York Mercantile Exchange were
halted because of power problems.
   Exxon gained 3/4 to 52 3/8, Texaco added 3/8 to 63 1/2,
Mobil climbed 1 1/4 to 67 1/8, Amoco rose 3/4 to 56 1/2,
Unocal added 5/8 to 32 5/8 and Atlantic Richfield rallied 1
3/4 to 136 3/4. Du Pont, which owns Conoco, advanced 1 1/8 to
38 5/8.
   The precious-metals sector, another strong performer
lately as a result of the turmoil in the Middle East, also
attracted market players as the price of gold rose above $400
an ounce. Even American Barrick Resources, which said it
planned to sell five million common shares for 24.50 Canadian
dollars each, added 1/2 to 22 3/8.
   Among other gold stocks, Placer Dome rose 1 3/8 to 19 1/4
on 1.1 million shares, ASA Ltd. jumped 2 3/8 to 54 3/8,
Homestake Mining gained 1 1/8 to 23, Hecla Mining went up 1/2
to 12 3/4 and Battle Mountain Gold rose 3/8 to 13.
   Stock in Midway Airlines, a Chicago-based carrier, rose 2
to 9 5/8 amid reports that AMR Corp.'s American Airlines unit
has hired the investment banking firm of Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
to study the possible purchase of part or all of Midway.
   Multiple rounds of buy programs related to stock-index
arbitrage boosted the market in the final hour, traders said.
The arbitrage buying went into effect after index futures
rallied to sharp premiums to the cash indexes; the lack of
activity aside from the programs magnified the market impact
of the buying, traders said.
   International Business Machines climbed 1 3/4 to 103 3/4
on 1.5 million shares as technology issues benefited from
bargain-hunting. Compaq Computer added 2 3/8 to 56 1/4,
Hewlett-Packard went up 1/2 to 38 1/4, Motorola gained 1 3/8
to 76 1/4 and Texas Instruments rose 3/4 to 28 7/8.
   Japan OTC Equity Fund fell 5/8 to 9 7/8 in Big Board
trading following Tokyo's sell-off, and put warrants on the
Nikkei index -- a security which permits its holders to
profit when the measure drops -- rallied in the abbreviated
session on the American Stock Exchange. Salomon Inc.'s put
warrants gained 7/8 to 13 3/4 and led the American exchange's
most actives.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.32
to 338.00. Volume at the 1 p.m. closing totaled 9,480,000
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rexene Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RXN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REXENE Corp. (Dallas) -- Kevin W. McAleer was named
executive vice president, a new position, and chief financial
officer of this petrochemical products maker. Formerly he was
chief financial officer and a director of Varo Inc., a unit
of IMO Industries Inc. Herman Rosenman, who was chief
financial officer and vice chairman of Rexene, resigned in
April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BankAmerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BAC
</CO>
<LP>
   BANKAMERICA Corp. (San Francisco) -- Eric R. Durant, a
bank stock analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton Inc., was named senior
vice president and director of investor relations for this
bank holding company. Mr. Durant, 43 years old, previously
worked in institutional equity sales at First Manhattan Co.
From 1979 to 1986, he worked at Wells Fargo &amp; Co., where he
rose to senior vice president and director of investor
relations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Barry Switches Affiliation;
   Run for Council Possible
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Mayor Marion Barry switched his party
affiliation to independent from Democrat as a prelude to a
possible run for an at-large seat on the Washington City
Council.
   Mr. Barry took the preliminary step toward reviving his
political career only three days after he was convicted of a
misdemeanor cocaine-possession charge. A federal court jury
acquitted the three-term mayor on another cocaine-possession
charge and deadlocked on 12 other counts, including drug
possession, conspiracy and perjury. A sentencing date hasn't
been set.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Barry has said he won't run again for mayor. At a news
conference yesterday, he refused to commit himself to any
particular race, including one for a seat on the 13-member
council. He had to switch political affiliation to remain
eligible for the November ballot. He must make a final
decision whether to run within the next two weeks.
   Smiling enigmatically, the mayor said he changed his
registration "to keep my options." He acknowledged, however,
that some close associates have urged him to leave politics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Graying Europeans Battle Age Bias
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   MACCLESFIELD, England -- It's Wednesday, senior citizens'
discount day, and the B&amp;Q do-it-yourself store in this
prosperous Manchester suburb fills quickly with older
shoppers.
   Up and down the long aisles of lawn mowers and pine
paneling, one sees almost nothing but gray-haired heads among
both customers and workers. Except for its manager, the huge
store is staffed entirely by people over 50 -- a phenomenon
unique in Britain and, perhaps, the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You get far more satisfaction because {staff members}
know what they're talking about," says Ivan O'Dell, a
67-year-old retired banker busily shopping for a ladder. "You
get service, unlike from youngsters."
   The store's opening last fall marked a watershed. Rampant
job bias against older Europeans is just starting to decline,
thanks to a scarcity of young people and the spread of
U.S.-style advocacy groups. Unlike America, Europe lacks
tough laws broadly barring age discrimination. Employers
routinely run advertisements seeking workers under 40, force
staffers as young as 55 to retire and fire people simply for
being too old.
   Yet in recent months, more than a dozen U.K. retailers,
fast-food restaurants, hotel groups and government agencies
like Scotland Yard have started drives to attract older
employees or have raised age ceilings for entry-level
positions. Grocery chains in France and West Germany are also
mounting recruitment campaigns for "mature entrants."
   The European Commission is waking up to the age-bias issue
as well. "It's a big thing at the moment. It's coming up all
over the place," says Eamon McInerney, an administrator who's
widening an EC action plan for the elderly to fund research
on how member nations fight discrimination against older
workers.
   The commission's own hiring practices -- restricting many
professional jobs to those under 35 -- are also under fire.
The outcry comes primarily from Britain, where a
letter-writing drive has been organized by the U.K. offshoot
of the powerful American Association of Retired Persons.
Since retired U.S. property developer Robert Rose began that
group, he has gathered nearly 67,000 members and has
delivered petitions to the prime minister with 40,000 names
demanding an age-bias law. The group has also opened an older
workers' project with ECCO, a major French employment agency
that has 35 U.K. outlets.
   Now Mr. Rose is setting his sights on the rest of Europe.
This fall, he will join forces with Le Temps Retrouve, a
French magazine with 400,000 older subscribers and dreams of
political activism. He wants to forge similar links with
retiree organizations in West Germany and Spain. The goal: a
loose federation to end age bias and represent the 100
million Western Europeans over 50. Even if a Europe-wide
alliance attracts only 10% of the total, he says, "you will
have a very strong political force."
   At the moment, however, Mr. Rose's lobbying remains
focused on Britain because widespread age discrimination hits
people sooner here than anywhere else in Europe. That's
because of Britons' love affair with American youth culture
and an unflattering view of older people. Some want ads
request that sales representatives "ideally be aged 23 to 25
years." One youth-oriented magazine spurns applicants over
22. Even with top-management posts, "a lot of our employers
say they are looking for people aged 35 and no more --
because over 35 they're too old to train," says John Grumbar,
London managing partner of Egon Zehnder International,
executive recruiters.
   U.K. units of American multinationals typically copy such
local practices, long outlawed at home. The British unit of
Ford Motor Co. didn't ban age-specific recruitment
advertising until November 1988, when the U.S. auto giant and
its unions negotiated an equal-opportunity policy covering
age bias.
   Such policies are rare in corporate Britain, but age
barriers are tumbling among employers who are courting older
workers for vacancies. The number of Britons aged 16 to 20
will plummet by a third between 1989 and 1995, and a third of
the U.K. population will be more than 50 years old by the
year 2000.
   "In the next two to three years, the less enlightened
companies will wake up to the demographic problem, and there
will be a mad scramble to recruit the mature entrant,"
predicts Barry Ball, a personnel executive at Tesco PLC. More
than 6,000 people aged 55 and over work for Tesco, a big U.K.
grocer, triple the number employed when its hiring push
commenced in the fall of 1988. Tesco has since opened
middle-management jobs in its 379 stores to the older
newcomers and has extended its mandatory retirement age to 70
from 65.
   As many U.S. companies have realized, an investment in
mature recruits can pay off in lower turnover and absenteeism
as well as greater customer satisfaction. The Macclesfield
outlet "is a very successful store," says Jim Hodkinson,
chief executive of B&amp;Q PLC, Britain's biggest
home-improvement chain. "We are getting our staff to talk to
customers by a factor three times more than anywhere else in
the country." Surveys show consumers like such frequent
interaction.
   In fact, the store exceeded its sales goal during the 1990
first half by 40%. "We think that's partly due to the age
profile," Mr. Hodkinson says. The chain will open two other
outlets staffed solely with people over 50 by year-end.
   Despite the idea's apparent success, B&amp;Q executives are
still struggling to overcome their stereotypes about an older
work force. The chain trained its 54 Macclesfield employees
for two months, rather than the usual one. But most didn't
need the extra time.
   It also added a special course on proper lifting
techniques. "We thought that might be a problem," recalls
Mike Harris, the 41-year-old picked as store manager because
older colleagues resisted relocation. No one has suffered a
back injury so far because workers usually pair up to carry
heavy items.
   When a woman asks garden-center manager Ken Moss for a
60-liter bag of compost, for example, a white-haired salesman
rushes over to help. "He'll manage the 28 pounds," Mr. Moss
says. "That's light."
   The garden-center boss is the store's best worker, Mr.
Harris says, but adds, "I worried about him looking a bit
old" at 57. The store manager deliberately hired a
youthful-looking staff and prefers candidates under 60. "I
didn't want {the store} to look like a bunch of old-age
pensioners," he explains. "Customers would have said, `I
won't go in there. It's just a bunch of geriatrics.'"
   The CEO disagrees and says Mr. Harris suffers from culture
shock because he was used to hiring teen-agers. "There are a
lot of agile people at 70," Mr. Hodkinson argues. In fact, he
suggests, Mr. Harris's eventual successor may be a grand old
man of 60.
   ---
                     The Aging of Europe
                                                                                                       

                             Percentage of     Projected
                                Population    Percentage
   Country                Age 60 and Older       By 2010
                                                                                                       

   Belgium                        19.9%           23.9%
   France                         18.5            22.6
   Italy                          19.1            24.4
   Spain                          17.3            20.5
   United Kingdom                 20.6            22.2
   W. Germany                     20.5            26.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Eurostat
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tyson Foods' Chief Plans
   To Head European Office
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TYSNA
</CO>
<LP>
   SPRINGDALE, Ark. -- Like many U.S. companies, Tyson Foods
Inc. is establishing a beachhead in Europe. Unlike most
others, though, Tyson's commander-in-chief is leading the
invasion.
   Don Tyson, the chairman and chief executive officer of the
chicken processing company, told his staff last week that he
plans to establish a home and office in England sometime
after the first of the year. He said he plans to spend the
first two weeks of each month in Arkansas and the last two in
the U.K., tending to the expansion of his chicken empire
there. He expects he'll maintain his part-time residence in
England for at least six months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tyson, known as a hands-on executive who is reluctant
to delegate, said he isn't sure whether the company's chicken
products will fly in Europe. "I want to take the credit if it
goes well," he said. "If it doesn't, I'll face that too."
   Currently, Tyson holds 50% of a company that sells hens
and roosters in the U.K. and several European countries. Mr.
Tyson plans to grow and process chickens at the company, as
well as market the company's chicken products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Brokerage Houses Pick Stocks to Weather a Recession
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ABS BMY SYN GS MO KMG NHY REP S LOW CIR FBR LLY HUM BA TX
XON DI PA GEG MOB AXP MER CPQ GE ABT SGP PG BUD PWJ MOT KO
PEP IFF CPC AGE CHV AZTR BLY CHT IGAM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warships glide and threats rattle in the Persian Gulf. The
wolf of recession may be at the door. What's an investor to
do?
   Hang onto most of your oil stocks, lighten up on some
other holdings, and don't let Mideast hostilities lure you
into defense issues. That's what research directors are
saying at several of the 10 big brokerage houses in a
continuing study by The Wall Street Journal and Zacks
Investment Research Inc. of Chicago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks are "still somewhat overvalued," even though the
Dow Jones Industrial Average has fallen more than 200 points
since mid-July, says William Kealy, director of research at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. Since March, the firm has been
recommending that investors be "underexposed in equities."
   Goldman is the leader in the Journal-Zacks study, which
attempts to assess how individual investors would do if they
followed the brokerage houses' stock-picking recommendations.
Investors who follow the advice of closely held Goldman have
gained an estimated 99.8% during the four years through June.
Goldman also led the field for the 12 months ended in June,
with an estimated gain of 23%.
   While Mr. Kealy thinks investors should pare stock
holdings, he suggests keeping growth stocks with high market
shares and good product-development pipelines. Among those he
thinks fill the bill: Albertsons Inc., Abbott Laboratories,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Syntex Corp., Gillette Co. and
Philip Morris Cos.
   Though oil stocks have had a sharp run-up in the past two
weeks, Goldman still recommends Kerr McGee Corp., Norsk Hydro
of Norway and Repsol S.A. of Spain. It expects oil's price to
level off at about $22 a barrel, down a few dollars from last
week's panic levels but up a few dollars from the price this
spring.
   Manny Korman, research director at Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc., also likes energy stocks. In addition, he favors
recession-resistant stocks like drug, hospital supply,
hospital management, food, beverage and tobacco issues. Dean
Witter, a unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., isn't predicting a
recession, just "very slow growth." But Mr. Korman says he's
recommending basically the same stocks he would recommend in
a recession.
   Dean Witter was the hottest firm in stock-picking during
the second quarter, the study shows. The stocks it
recommended jumped more than 12% in the quarter, led by Lowes
Cos., up 48%; Circus Circus Enterprises Inc., up 31%; and
First Brands Corp., up 31%. Other big winners were Eli Lilly
&amp; Co., Humana Inc., and Boeing Co.
   As for energy stocks, Mr. Korman notes that Dean Witter
liked them before the latest explosion in the Persian Gulf.
"Our three favorites, at current prices," he says, are
Texaco, Exxon Corp., and Dresser Industries Inc.
   Here's a rundown on how the other eight firms are reacting
to Mideast events and what sorts of stocks they recommend
now. The firms are listed in order of the performance of
their recommendations in the 12 months through June 30.
                                                                                                       

   SMITH BARNEY: "We've had cheap energy for about 10 years,"
but that's over, says Alan Benasuli, research director at
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Even if the Mideast calms
down, he thinks oil will settle at $23 to $24 a barrel. So,
Smith Barney, a unit of Primerica Corp., recommends energy
stocks like Grace Energy Corp., Mobil Corp. and Texaco Inc.
"We're staying away from anything that has to do with
transportation, like airlines," and also from refiners, he
says. Seeing "a very strong likelihood of a recession," Smith
Barney is adding utility stocks to its recommended list: They
tend to be steady, and pay high dividends.
                                                                                                       

   SHEARSON LEHMAN: At fourth-ranked Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc., a unit of American Express Co., research director Fred
Fraenkel says it's still not too late to buy oil stocks.
"About a year ago, we foresaw a very bullish scenario for the
oils, based on the fact that demand bottomed in 1988," he
says. By 1995, Shearson thinks world demand for oil will
outrun the supply. The past two weeks' jump in oil-stock
prices, he says, "is not significant compared to the
long-term potential." Shearson also recommends selected
bargain-hunting among battered technology stocks.
                                                                                                       

   PRUDENTIAL-BACHE: Short-term traders should sell oil
stocks because "they ran up too fast," says Michael Culp,
research director at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. "We
still like quite a few (oil issues) on a 12- to 18-month
basis" though. Pru-Bache, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co.
of America, also likes health-care, pollution-control,
natural-gas, life-insurance and beverage stocks; it has
downgraded airlines. The unusual pick here is life insurance.
As the recession risk rises, Mr. Culp says people will be
looking for the sorts of conservative investments insurers
sell, like annuities and universal life.

   MERRILL LYNCH: At industry giant Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.,
research director Andrew Melnick warns against "blindly
looking at energy" and urges bargain hunting among some
technology stocks like Compaq Computer Corp. "At certain
prices, there are values," he says. Merrill also thinks
health care stocks are a fertile prospecting ground, since
they tend to be recession-resistant. As for oil stocks,
"shorter term it is too late" to buy them. Longer term, we're
still comfortable with them. We'd be buying into selling,"
Mr. Melnick says.
                                                                                                       

   KIDDER PEABODY: Extra oil pumping by Saudi Arabia,
Venezuela and Canada means "a worst-case scenario for the
price of oil -- $30 or higher -- is unlikely," says Stefan
Abrams, chief strategist for Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., a unit of
General Electric Co. "Energy stocks still have some merit,
particularly the oil-service stocks. But they will not
provide the multiyear leadership that occurred in the 1970s."
He says investors should look for growth stocks with an
international presence, such as Abbott Laboratories,
Bristol-Myers Co., Schering Plough Corp., Procter &amp; Gamble
Co., Gillette, Philip Morris, and Anheuser Busch Co.
                                                                                                       

   PAINEWEBBER: "Our stock-picking has not changed
materially, partly because we had quite a number of oil and
oil-service stocks in our top-rated category" before Iraq
invaded Kuwait, says James Voytko, research director at
PaineWebber Inc. "In a state of such extreme flux, I'm not
sure you do your clients a great service by whipping them in
and out of stocks." Because the U.S. economy was "rapidly
slowing" even before this latest shock, he recommends stocks
of companies "that are competitive globally," such as
Motorola Inc., Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc., International
Flavors &amp; Fragrances Inc., and CPC International Inc.
                                                                                                       

   A.G. EDWARDS: "We're looking for slow growth, with the
possibility of dipping into a recession for a brief period,"
says Terry Dessent, research director A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons
Inc. in St. Louis. He thinks people who already own such
"classical defensive" stocks as pharmaceutical and food
companies should hang onto them. But he doesn't recommend
that new buyers pile in: "Valuations are very high," because
buyers have been hedging against a recession for a while. As
for oil stocks, he likes Texaco and Chevron Corp. but
cautions against buying oil issues "en masse." Selected
technology stocks may be bargains, he says.
                                                                                                       

   RAYMOND JAMES: Raymond, James &amp; Associates, based in St.
Petersburg, Fla., ranks third for the long term, but has
slumped lately. It covers a smaller range of stocks than
competitors do, and has no coverage of oil stocks. It has
emphasized leisure issues, which were hurt in the second
quarter by news of a slowing economy and by subpar results
for Atlantic City casinos. With the additional blow of rising
oil prices (and hence rising travel costs), it has cut back
on its recommendations in the leisure area, but still
suggests investors buy Aztar, Bally Manufacturing Corp.,
Chart House Enterprises Inc. and International Game
Technology.
   ---
      Comparing Brokerage Houses' Stock-Picking Prowess
                                                                                                       

   Estimated performance of stocks recommended by major
securities firms in periods ended June 30, 1990, ranked by
performance in the most recent 12 months.
                                                                                                       

 BROKERAGE    3       12      48    BIGGEST   BIGGEST
 HOUSE      MONTHS  MONTHS  MONTHS  GAIN*     LOSS*
                                                                                                       

                                    Wal-Mart
 Goldman                            Stores     First Chicago
 Sachs       9.7%    23.0%   99.8%   +64%       -24%
                                                                                                       

                                    Freeport
                                    McMoRan
 Smith                              Cooper     Hilton Hotels
 Barney      4.4     20.8    82.5    +33        -34
                                                                                                       

 Dean                               Boeing     National Data
 Witter     12.1     20.3    57.0    +87        -50
                                                                                                       

 Shearson                           Amgen      Genlyte
 Lehman      7.9     16.8    76.8    +80        -27
                                                                                                       

                                    Anthem     Nu-West
 Prudential-                        Elec.      Industries
 Bache       8.7     15.4    50.4   +119        -72
                                                                                                       

                                               Prime Motor
 Merrill                            Microsoft  Inns
 Lynch       8.4     15.0    52.4   +122        -63
                                                                                                       

 Kidder                             Centocor   Wordstar Intl
 Peabody     6.3     14.1    54.8   +160        -65
                                                                                                       

                                    Electronic Bally Mfr.
                                    Arts
 PaineWebber 6.3     12.1    60.5    +90        -60
                                                                                                       

                                    Ballard    Jan Bell
 A.G.                               Medical    Marketing
 Edwards     4.5      4.6    45.9    +74        -59
                                                                                                       

                                    Vicorp
                                    Restau-    Clean
 Raymond                            rants      Harbors
 James       4.8     -0.5    77.1    +72        -54
                                                                                                       

 Comparison yardsticks
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Industrial Average
             7.4     22.7    76.5
                                                                                                       


             6.3     16.5    63.4
                                                                                                       

   Note: All figures include dividends. Individual investors'
results will vary.
   *For that portion of the 12-month period during which a
particular brokerage house recommended the stock.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research Inc.
   (See related story: "Study Reveals Brokerages' Selection
Process of Stocks" -- WSJ August 14, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Precision Mecanique Labinal S.A.:
   French Concern's Revenue
   In 1st Half Increased by 9%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Precision Mecanique Labinal S.A. reported
yesterday that its consolidated revenue for the first half of
1990 rose to 3.832 billion francs ($718 million) for a 9%
gain from the year-earlier total of 3.512 billion francs.
   The engineering group said in a communique that the sales
gain was led by the firm tone of civil aviation and
automobile cable markets. These elements were partly offset,
however, by weakness in the computer and military aviation
sectors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Labinal underlined that part of its first-half revenue
gain reflected the first-time consolidation of recently
acquired units such as Technofan and Labauto Iberica. It said
the advance would have been limited to 5% after adjustment
for these structural changes.
   The group hasn't yet published comparable first-half
earnings figures. For all of 1989, Labinal's consolidated net
income after payments to minority interests was 272 million
francs on revenue of 6.800 billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- LVMH S.A.:
   French Concern's Revenue
   Increased 2% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LVMHY
</CO>
<LP>
   LVMH Moet-Hennessy-Louis Vuitton S.A. said its
consolidated revenue rose to 8.823 billion francs ($1.65
billion) in the first half, up 2% from the year-earlier 8.63
billion francs.
   The French champagne, cognac, baggage and perfume group
said in a communique that first-half turnover growth was
limited by the franc's 11% rise against the dollar during the
period and its 22% rise against the yen. It said that, on a
constant exchange rate basis, first-half sales would have
shown a 13% rise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LVMH underlined that its 1990 net income figures won't be
as sensitive to the franc's strength as its revenue figures
were, thanks to the group's systematic currency hedging
policy. It reiterated its previous 1990 net income forecast,
made at an annual meeting of shareholders in June, for a gain
of about 15% from the 1989 total of 2.932 billion francs.
Sales of cognac and spirits rose 6% to 2.455 billion francs
from 2.325 billion a year earlier. Sales of perfume and
beauty products rose 6% as well, to 2.168 billion francs from
2.043 billion.
   But sales of leather goods and luggage eased 3% to 2.179
billion francs from 2.257 billion while turnover from
champagne and wines edged down 0.3% to 1.840 billion francs
from 1.846 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Power Outage Curbs Trading; 30-Year Treasury
   Falls 1/4 Point as Short-Term Securities Advance
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR FHP JAPAN EUROP FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Trading activity in the bond market was
brought to a virtual standstill as a power outage in lower
Manhattan, which includes Wall Street, left some dealers
without equipment with which to buy or sell securities.
   "We didn't see any trading" during most of the afternoon,
said James Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Government Securities Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Securities dealers such as Shearson were unable to trade
because their electronic broker screens were inoperable and
telephone lines were dead. The power outage occurred in the
early afternoon and was caused by a fire at a Consolidated
Edison substation.
   Even firms that weren't affected by the outage said they
saw very little business. "Nothing was going on," said Joel
Kazis, manager of government trading at Smith Barney, Harris
Upham. He said the market was moderately active during
morning trading, but "once the power failure happened
downtown, things really quieted down."
   Meanwhile, bond prices ended mixed. The benchmark 30-year
Treasury bond ended 1/4 point lower, a loss of $2.50 for a
bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's yield, which
moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to
8.80%.
   Dealers said prices of long-term securities continued to
suffer from perceptions that inflation is accelerating.
Yesterday's rise in the price of oil and gold merely
heightened investors fears of inflation.
   Short-term securities, however, ended modestly higher
because of perceptions that the Federal Reserve will soon
ease monetary policy by lowering the federal funds rate from
8%. The rate is what banks charge each other on overnight
loans.
   "Investors believe that the Fed will ease soon," said
Lawrence Leuzzi, a trading manager at S.G. Warburg. Mr.
Leuzzi believes the Fed could vote to ease credit conditions
after its next Federal Open Market Committee meeting,
scheduled for next week.
   Until then, Mr. Leuzzi believes that prices of short-term
securities will continue to rise. The latest two-year notes
ended about 1/8 point higher, while the yield on the notes
fell to 7.89%.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 99 13/32 to
yield 8.80%, compared with Friday's price of 99 21/32 to
yield 8.771%.
   The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of 100 13/32 to
yield 8.67%, compared with Friday's price of 100 17/32 to
yield 8.65%.
   The Treasury sold $18.4 billion of shortterm bills
yesterday at its regular weekly auction. Although some
primary dealers had trouble placing bids at the auction
because of the power outage, a spokesman for the Fed said the
auction proceeded smoothly.
   The average discount rate was 7.41% for three-month bills
and 7.31% for six-month bills. Those rates were higher than
at last week's auction, when they were 7.23% and 7.19%,
respectively.
   Here are auction details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                13-Week         26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ............ $30,033,150,000 $27,193,840,000
   Accepted bids ...........  $9,238,800,000  $9,218,540,000
   Accepted at low price ...             64%             30%
   Accepted noncompet'ly ...  $1,756,525,000  $1,321,065,000
   Average price (Rate) ....  98.127 (7.41%)  96.304 (7.31%)
   High price (Rate) .......  98.135 (7.38%)  96.320 (7.28%)
   Low price (Rate) ........  98.127 (7.41%)  96.299 (7.32%)
   Coupon equivalent .......           7.66%           7.70%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Aug. 16. The 13-week bills mature
Nov. 15, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Feb. 14, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   The junk bond market edged lower on thin volume after the
power outage in lower Manhattan.
   "The afternoon was a non-event," said one high-yield
trader. "Of the five brokers I talk to, only two were fully
staffed."
   Most junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities with low
or no credit ratings, ended 1/8 to 1/4 point lower.
   Among the high-yield securities that traded lower were
junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. RJR's 17% exchangeable
pay-in-kind debentures ended 3/8 point lower at 90 1/8, while
the food and tobacco giant's 13.5% subordinated debentures
finished down 1/4 point at 97 1/2.
   The junk bonds of Fort Howard Corp. were also lower after
the company reported that its second-quarter loss widened to
$26.8 million from $19.3 million a year earlier.
   Fort Howard's 12 3/8% senior subordinated notes ended 3/8
point lower at 95 3/4.
   Meanwhile, among the key gainers were junk bonds of Bond
Brewing, which skyrocketed on unconfirmed rumors that a
higher tender offer for the bonds is in the works. Bond
Brewing's 12.625% subordinated debentures, due in 2006,
closed up 10 points at 62.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The plunge in the Japanese stock market caught up with the
already wobbly Japanese government bond market, sending bond
prices sharply lower.
   Driven largely by arbitrage trading, the Nikkei stock
average ended 4% lower, the fourth-largest drop in percentage
terms. In response, the price of Japan's benchmark No. 119
10-year bond ended at 83.26, down 0.28 point, to yield
8.085%.
   The selling in the stock and bond markets had a greater
impact than might otherwise have been the case as
participation is thin with the Japanese August holidays in
full swing. On the other hand, the absence of investors
during another rout in the Japanese markets may have relieved
them of another source of selling.
   West German and British government bonds ended lower in
quiet trading.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bond prices were virtually unaffected by the
power problems, traders said, with bonds stable at early
levels of 1/8 to 3/8 point easier.
   "If bonds were going to be volatile, this has probably
taken it out of them," one trader said.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018
was off 3/8 point, at 98 bid to yield 7.35%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities trading ground to a standstill during
the power outage in New York.
   One trader quoted Government National Mortgage Association
9 1/2% pass-through securities for August delivery at 99 1/4,
up 1/8 on the day, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9 1/2%
securities up 5/32 at 98 26/32, and Federal National Mortgage
Association 9 1/2% securities up 1/8 at 99 10/32.
   Prior to the trading interruption, pricing details for a
$500 million Freddie Mac real estate mortgage investment
conduit were announced.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Study Reveals Brokerages'
   Selection Process of Stocks
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MER PWJ GE S AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Within reason, brokerage houses in the
Journal-Zacks study of stock-picking prowess may choose what
list of stocks they will be judged on. Of course, they have
to specify in advance.
   Merrill Lynch, PaineWebber and Raymond James are judged by
the stocks their analysts rate "1" on a five-point scale.
Kidder Peabody is judged by stocks rated "1"or "2."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A.G. Edwards is judged by stocks analysts say to "buy" or
"accumulate." Prudential-Bache is judged on a each analyst's
"single best idea," not counting sell recommendations.
   At four firms -- Dean Witter, Goldman Sachs, Shearson
Lehman and Smith Barney, a stock-selection committee reviews
analysts' recommendations and selects a subgroup as the
firm's official recommended list. Smith Barney goes one step
further, and winnows the committee list down to a short
"retail recommended list."
   The study assumes that an investor buys the recommended
stocks, and sells all others, even if they're designated as
"holds" or "weak buys." Equal dollar amounts are put into
each stock, and portfolios are adjusted monthly to keep the
amounts equal. All buying and selling is on the last trading
day of each month. Commissions and taxes are disregarded,
mostly to make the results comparable to market indexes.
Dividends are included.
   Brokerage houses are given a chance to check the data for
accuracy. Nine firms did so this quarter; Merrill Lynch said
it didn't have a person available to do the checking.
   (See related story: "Your Money Matters: Brokerage Houses
Pick Stocks to Weather a Recession" -- WSJ August 14, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- N.V. Nationale Borg-Maatschappi:
   Firms Has Takeover Talks
   On Dutch Insurer's Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N.NN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Dutch insurance group Nationale-Nederlanden NV said
that it was holding negotiations with the insurance group NV
Nationale Borg-Maatschappij on acquiring NBM's priority and
ordinary shares outstanding for 270 guilders a share.
   On Friday, NBM's shares closed at 178.50 guilders a share
on the secondary, parallel stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nationale-Nederlanden expressed confidence that its bid
for NBM would be accepted.
   In 1989, NBM had premium income of 63.7 million guilders
and net profit of 7.5 million guilders.
   Nationale-Nederlanden, based in The Hague, one of the big
three Dutch insurers, had premium income of 23.1 billion
guilders in 1989 and net profit of 973 million guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Several Wheat Prices Fall to Contract Lows on Sign
   Soviet Purchases of U.S. Wheat Are Shriveling
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Prices of several wheat futures contracts sank
to life-of-contract lows amid signs that Soviet purchases of
U.S. wheat are shriveling.
   Prices of some corn futures contracts tumbled to their
lowest levels since February as good growing weather in the
Midwest continued to improve the prospects for an
eight-billion bushel corn harvest this fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was a big down day," said Victor Lespinasse, an
assistant vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds, Chicago.
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the wheat
contract for September delivery fell to a new low of $2.7375
a bushel before settling the day at $2.7525 a bushel, down
5.25 cents.
   The price of the September wheat contract has fallen about
30% over the past year amid the combination of forecasts for
a big harvest in the U.S. this year as well as slumping
demand from the Soviet Union.
   The Agriculture Department reported last week that the
U.S. wheat harvest should increase 33% from last year's crop,
which was damaged by drought.
   At the same time, good growing weather in the Soviet Union
is increasing crop prospects there, and cutting its need for
U.S. wheat.
   According to Daniel W. Basse, director of market research
at AgResource Co., Chicago, the pace of U.S. wheat exports
has dropped 32% since June 30, compared with the year-earlier
period.
   Because of the Soviet crop prospects, most analysts expect
the Soviet Union to reduce its grain imports from all sources
by roughly 20% through next June. It isn't clear how U.S.
trade will be affected; however, the U.S. is one of the
largest shippers of grain to the Soviet Union.
   Crop prices were also depressed yesterday by reports that
the Soviet Union's plan to sell roughly $5 billion in
diamonds is running into internal opposition. U.S. grain
traders had been speculating that the cash-strapped Soviet
Union would use some of the proceeds from any diamond sales
to buy U.S. crops.
   In July, the Soviet Union agreed to sell diamonds to the
Swiss branch of De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. and to
borrow $1 billion from the company.
   According to traders, the Russian Federation is apparently
opposing the move by the central government. It isn't clear
whether that will block the pact, but the Russian republic is
a source of Soviet diamonds.
   U.S. grain exports also seem to be slipping at least
temporarily under the weight of higher fuel costs, which
increases shipping costs, traders said.
   After the close of trading yesterday, the weekly crop
condition reports by Midwest states indicated that the corn
crop is maturing slowly. The unusually wet spring delayed the
planting season.
   However, the crop generally is in good shape even though
rainfall in some states such as Iowa has been the heaviest in
118 years.
   In that state, 91% of the corn crop is in excellent or
good condition, compared with 89% a week earlier. While the
rainfall has washed out some fields, it has helped restore
subsoil moisture that was exhausted during the 1988 drought.
   Soybean prices dropped yesterday in the wake of beneficial
rains in the Mississippi Delta region, where conditions have
been dry.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Persian Gulf activities again overshadowed all
other factors in influencing petroleum prices and futures
trading yesterday. Spot prices for North Sea crudes were 35
cents to 55 cents a barrel higher. September crude on the New
York Mercantile Exchange was 54 cents higher, at $26.77 a
barrel, when trading was halted because of a power outage in
lower Manhattan. Prices were bolstered by reports that an
Iraqi pipeline across Saudi Arabia was closed and an Iraqi
tanker had been turned away from a Saudi terminal.
   But events outside the Middle East helped buoy prices, as
well. For the fourth time in 11 days, North Sea oil workers
stopped work in a bid for union recognition and better safety
rules. News reports said some 7,000 workers walked out in the
24-hour wildcat strike, but added that the companies involved
put the number much lower and said production wasn't being
affected. Separately, the Houston Ship Channel was hit by yet
another oil spill. A barge buckled, spilling 20,000 gallons
of heating oil into the channel, according to Coast Guard
officials. The waterway was obstructed, but not closed.
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK MARKETS: A major power failure struck New York
City's downtown financial district early yesterday afternoon,
shutting down electricity and disrupting communications.
   A spokeswoman at the Commodity Exchange, which is in the
World Trade Center, said the clocks on the exchange froze at
1:13 p.m. EDT and trading was suspended shortly afterward.
   "There are no closing or settling prices because the
exchange floor is pitch dark and the prices on the boards on
the wall aren't visible," the spokeswoman said. The Commodity
Exchange is part of a five-exchange complex housed in the
Commodity Exchange Center. All the exchanges share the same
trading floor.
   At around 2 p.m., the personnel of the exchanges were
evacuated and sent home.
   Precious metals, with trading spurred by the volatile
Middle Eastern situation, were strong at the time of their
suspension. The August gold contract, which will cease
trading Aug. 29, was up $8.30 an ounce based on the last
posted trade, at $405.20. The most-active September contract
advanced $8.10 to $414.00. September silver surged, outdoing
even gold as it last traded at $5.1520 an ounce, for a gain
of 16.10 cents. October platinum rose $9.70 an ounce to
$506.00.
   James Kneafsey, president of Cambridge Financial
Management Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., said that in the gold
sector, "The market's ability to rise above $400 and hold the
gains was very significant."
   Ian MacDonald, vice president, Credit Suisse, New York,
said "the majority of the buying, especially for bullion, is
coming out of the Middle East," adding, "There seems to be a
major shift among investors toward gold because of war and
inflation." He noted that silver was pulled up by gold.
   London dealers said investors in the Far East, Europe and
the U.S. also joined in the buying that sent gold hurtling
higher.
   The gold price could rise as high as $423, analysts said.
But the market is very volatile, and any setback, such as a
slump in the global stock market, could be negative for gold
because it would point to a recession and slower jewelry
demand, they said.
   Jeffrey Nichols, president of American Metal Trading
Advisors in Toronto, said a number of factors accounted for
the exceptional strength of the gold market. "There is a
tightness in the gold supply," he said. This triggered
short-covering, or the buying back of contracts by traders
who had previously sold in anticipation that prices would
decline, Mr. Nichols said.
   Mr. Nichols said producers had been heavy sellers
recently. Yesterday, however, "apparently they didn't have
any more gold to sell, and this helped prices rise more than
had been expected."
   Finally, Mr. Nichols noted, gold was due to go up because
"it had some catching up with the rise in the price of oil
and to compensate for the drop in the dollar."
   Last-trade prices were mixed in the "soft" commodity
markets. September delivery cocoa was down $44 per metric ton
to $1,097, while October sugar was unchanged at 10.49 cents a
pound. September coffee was up 2.10 cents a pound at 95.60
cents, mostly on reports that a dock strike may be erupting
in Brazil, the world's major coffee producer.
   September copper's last trade was at $1.2010, for a
decline of 1.90 cents a pound. There was strong
options-related buying early in the day in London, but this
petered out later. By the time copper opened for trading in
New York on the Commodity Exchange prices in London had
already turned downward, and the decline was reflected in the
New York market in what one analyst described as "dull
trading." Cash markets for copper were quiet. Japan has
recently been a strong buyer of physical copper but no
interest was in evidence from that quarter yesterday, an
analyst said. Another analyst noted that Thursday's intraday
high of $1.3430 in the New York September contract, which was
a new life-of-contract high, was the highest price for that
contract since October 1989. October cotton was off 1.55
cents a pound to 73.35 cents. A trader said contracts were
sold in the wake of a U.S. Department of Agriculture report.
"It was mildly bullish," the trader added, "but that had been
expected and was already in the market. Traders then started
selling."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equitec Posts Loss
   In Quarter, Discloses
   Default on All Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EFG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- Equitec Financial Group Inc., posting a
net loss for the second quarter of $3.4 million, or 68 cents
a share, disclosed it now is in default on all of its debt
obligations outstanding.
   For the year-ago period, the financial services company
had a loss of $3.3 million, or 68 cents a share. That figure
includes a loss of $2 million from discontinued operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the recent period declined 30%, to $8.3
million from $11.8 million.
   For the six months ended June 30, Equitec posted a net
loss of $8.8 million, or $1.78 a share, which includes losses
from continuing operations of $7.7 million and from
discontinued operations of $1.1 million.
   For the year-earlier period, Equitec had a net loss of
$4.6 million, or 93 cents a share, which included losses from
continuing operations of $2.6 million, and from discontinued
operations of $2 million.
   Revenue for the recent six months declined 25%, to $16.8
million from $22.3 million.
   During the quarter just ended, Equitec said it failed to
make the interest payment on its 12% senior subordinated
debentures, thus placing it in default on all its debt
outstanding.
   Richard L. Saalfield, Equitec chairman and chief executive
officer, said the company continues to work with its advisers
to "investigate alternative methods of restructuring its debt
and other obligations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Kennedy Center's Bid for Funds Raises
   Questions About Role, Who Should Pay
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For water to reach the drains in the garage
at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, it
must flow uphill.
   Gravity being what it is, even here in the nation's
capital, it doesn't. The result is that the water --
rainwater mostly -- has been collecting in pools for years,
stagnating, and now the concrete is cracking. Popping through
the cracked concrete are rusting steel reinforcing rods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cost to fix the 1,400-car garage: $15 million.
   But that's only part of the problem. The marble that coats
the huge, 25 million-cubic-foot structure on the banks of the
Potomac River is beginning to buckle just like the concrete
in the garage. Marble slabs -- high-priced Carrara from Italy
-- actually undulate. They bend and weave, and soon they may
begin falling off. Up on the roof terrace, the marble
planters are leaking, and water sometimes pours down into the
Grand Foyer. Carrara marble, it turns out 19 years after this
national cultural center was opened, isn't appropriate for
Washington's 95-degree summers and 20-degree winters.
   The cost to fix the main building itself: $15 million
more.
   But that's still not the end of it. Over the years, the
center, just like the national government itself, has been
running up a deficit. In recent years, thanks, in part, to
the center taking over the deeply distressed National
Symphony Orchestra and pumping $500,000 into Annie 2, one of
the biggest bombs in recent musical-comedy history, the debt
has blossomed.
   The cost to retire the debt: another $15 million.
   The center's new chairman, New York investment banker
James D. Wolfensohn, expects Congress to come up with the
cash -- all $45 million of it -- now. "What we say to
Congress is this," says Mr. Wolfensohn. "Please help us get
to the starting line, and we'll take it from there,
absolutely." But his request is raising new questions about
the center's role and who should be paying for what.
   The Kennedy Center is a half-living memorial to the late
president and half-performing-arts center, with 7,000 seats
in six separate theaters. The government, through the
National Park Service, pays for maintaining the building --
most of it anyway -- and the center's 41 trustees (they
include Mr. Wolfensohn) raise the cash to put on the shows.
   What Mr. Wolfensohn calls the "gray area" is the theaters
themselves. No one is quite sure who should pay for their
upkeep. Some lack modern sound systems. In one of the big
ones, the Opera House, stagehands still raise and lower the
curtain by hand. All of the theaters are deteriorating. Mr.
Wolfensohn, an amateur cellist who numbers many of the
world's leading musicians as personal friends, hopes to cut a
deal on that so that the government pays those costs too.
That's down the road, but it could add up to as much as $10
million.
   This is the center that brought culture to the nation's
provincial capital. Before it was built, the biggest venue in
town was the Daughters of the American Revolution's
Constitution Hall, best-remembered as the place that turned
away Marian Anderson because she was black.
   Though the center is named for a Democratic president, it
was begun by a Republican, Dwight Eisenhower, whose favorite
orchestra was led by Lawrence Welk. President Eisenhower
signed the enabling legislation in 1958.
   The architect was Edward Durell Stone. His grandiose plans
included the romantic notion that guests should arrive at
what he called "the people's shrine to culture" by barge. In
time, his plans were tempered. The contractor was
Philadelphia's John McShain, whose Democratic political
credentials were impeccable.
   What emerged by opening night in 1971 (the center had
become a memorial to Mr. Kennedy in 1964) was a huge, $73
million, marble-sided barn covering three separate interior
buildings -- the Opera House, the Eisenhower Theater and the
Concert Hall, all entered from the Grand Foyer, one of the
world's largest rooms.
   Tucked into the building, too, are three smaller theaters,
along with restaurants and a cafeteria. But no one thought to
supply office space, and so the center's 182 employees are
jammed into what was once storage room. "It's a rabbit
warren," says Mr. Wolfensohn, whose offices at his own
investment house in New York and at that city's Carnegie
Hall, which he also heads, are more suitably grand.
   There were problems right from the start. The building
leaked like an old, waterlogged barge. Experts blamed the
design -- or the contractor, and sometimes both. The
government came up with a modest amount of money for repairs.
But now the center is leaking all over again.
   "When they water the planters up on the roof terrace,
water pours right down through the light sockets inside the
building," says Joseph Lawler, the Park Service's manager at
the center.
   "You can walk in the main entrance here and get soaking
wet on a sunny day," says Geraldine Otremba, the center's
operations director.
   Part of the problem is that there are only 12 drains for
the flat, 136,800-square-foot roof. "We always have problems
with flat roofs," says Mr. Lawler. "This one doesn't have
enough pitch or enough drains." Part of the problem, too, is
the Italian marble itself; it isn't tough enough. Even more
serious is the failure to install enough expansion joints.
The building is 600 feet long, but it has just two expansion
joints, each three inches wide. "The building doesn't have
enough room to expand and contract," says Ms. Otremba. "We're
going to have to put in more expansion joints," says Mr.
Lawler.
   There are mechanical problems, too. "The air-conditioning
coils and chillers are rusting," says Mr. Lawler. "One of
these hot nights, we're going to lose it."
   To top it off, all the willow trees in front of the center
are dying.
   Rep. Sidney Yates, Democrat of Illinois and chairman of
the appropriations subcommittee charged with funding the
center, thinks Congress will pay for the repairs and retire
the deficit, in installments. "If you want a center like
this, you have no other choice," he says. But he also
believes Mr. Wolfensohn and his trustees will be required to
raise more money from the private sector in the years ahead.
"That's in the nature of the cost-sharing arrangement we have
here," he says.
   Still unsettled after all these years is a more
philosophical question: What do you do with the building?
   Mr. Wolfensohn, fresh from his triumph restoring Carnegie
Hall, thinks big. He likes extravaganzas. He thinks so big
that the center's artistic director, Marta Istomin, who tends
to think small ("Sensational events can produce questionable
results," she said), resigned. Mr. Wolfensohn looks forward
to the center's showpiece effort next year -- a Texas
festival.
   But Mr. Wolfensohn may be on the right track. Washington,
for all its cultural growth, still isn't New York, London or
Paris, and highbrow performances don't always sell. "She
Always Said, Pablo," a murky play about Pablo Picasso and
Gertrude Stein, closed two weeks early a few days ago. But
still knocking the natives dead, night after night -- the
most successful show at the center, making $30,000 a month --
is a lightweight, audience-participation whodunit called
"Shear Madness." President Bush has been to the center to see
it twice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Federal Paper Board:
   Firm Agrees to Acquire
   Unit of Peter Kiewit Sons
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FBO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Paper Board Co. said it agreed to acquire
Continental Bondware Inc., a paper cup maker, from Peter
Kiewit Sons Inc.
   Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Kiewit is based in
Omaha, Neb.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Paper Board, Montvale, N.J., which manufactures a
wide variety of paper and paper goods, said that the
acquisition will complement its purchase last year of
Imperial Cup Corp.
   Continental Bondware, which operates two plants in
Illinois, has annual sales of about $180 million. Federal
Paper Board had sales of $1.2 billion last year.
   Federal also announced that it agreed to share and
exchange technical information with Tokan Kogyo Co., Japan's
largest paper cup manufacturer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- New Brunswick Scientific Co.:
   Lab Equipment Maker Had
   Wider Loss in 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NBSC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Brunswick Scientific Co. reported a wider loss in the
second quarter, citing a softer market for laboratory
equipment among its university and government agency
customers.
   The Edison, N.J., company reported a loss of $1.1 million,
or 32 cents a share, compared with a loss of $121,000, or
three cents a share, a year earlier. Sales were $7.7 million,
down from $8.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it completed a workforce reduction of
25%, to about 340 employees, in order to offset a downturn in
orders. It said its Eastern Europe export business was down
considerably.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Columbia Gas System:
   Utility Agrees to Sell Unit
   For $39.2 Million Plus Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   NGE CG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Columbia Gas System Inc. said it agreed to sell its New
York subsidiary to New York State Electric &amp; Gas Corp. for
$39.2 million plus debt outstanding. Binghamton-based New
York State Electric has agreed to pay $20 to $25 million to
purchase all of Columbia Gas of New York's debt outstanding
at the closing date at face value. The transaction is subject
to regulatory approval and is expected to close by Dec. 31.
Columbia Gas of New York, also based in Binghamton, serves
about 68,000 customers. Wilmington, Del.-based Columbia Gas
produces, stores and distributes natural gas in 14 states and
the District of Columbia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cablevision Systems Corp.:
   Firm Posts Loss in Quarter,
   Cites Acquisition Expenses
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   CVC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cablevision Systems Corp. reported a second-quarter loss
of $67.7 million, or $3.09 a share, reflecting interest costs
and depreciation expense tied to acquisitions of cable-TV
systems the Woodbury, N.Y., company made last year.
   Operating cash flow-earnings from operations before
depreciation and amortization-advanced 15%, however, to $61.6
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In February 1989, Cablevision acquired cable-TV systems
from National Amusements Inc.'s 84%-owned Viacom Inc.
subsidiary. And last December, the company acquired certain
systems from a subsidiary of Times Mirror Co.
   The loss compares with net income of $24.1 million, or 99
cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Revenue climbed
13% to $141.2 million from $125.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- International American Homes:
   Real Estate Concern Takes
   Write-Down of $6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   HOMEQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   International American Homes Inc. said that it took a $6
million pretax write-down on its real estate inventory in its
fiscal first quarter and that it would suspend operations in
Southeast Florida and curtail them in California.
   For the quarter ended June 30, the Clark, N.J.-based
company reported a loss of $4.1 million, or 59 cents a share,
after the write-down. In the year-earlier period, it had a
profit of $1.6 million or 23 cents a share. Revenue in the
recent quarter was $13.4 million, down from $41 million a
year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, which has been operating under bankruptcy
court protection since April 16, said the write-down was
necessary because of the continuing slump in the home
building industry.
   In addition, the company saw its home sales revenue and
profit margins fall in all market areas.
   In the wake of its filing for Chapter 11 protection from
creditors under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, construction
lenders have been unwilling to finance any new projects,
making it difficult to restore normal operations, the company
said.
   The company continues to market homes in the Washington,
D.C., Baltimore, and Tampa, Fla., areas. It said is
attempting to dispose of all excess inventory.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wall Street Limps Through a Blackout Monday
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ED
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A power blackout in lower Manhattan forced an
early-afternoon closing of New York's two biggest commodity
exchanges and the American Stock Exchange, disrupting trading
in some financial markets.
   Futures trading was halted in oil and gold, two of the
world's most important commodities whose prices have jumped
in reaction to turmoil in the Middle East. The blackout also
affected a wide range of financial instruments, from stock
options and currencies to the Federal Reserve's weekly
auction of Treasury bills. Trading in bond markets was
especially hard hit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was an eerie scene. Hundreds of traders stood in
darkened commodity trading pits in the World Trade Center,
below clocks that stood frozen at 1:13. Now-useless trading
cards littered the floor.
   The New York Mercantile Exchange, which trades the world's
benchmark oil futures contract, and the Commodity Exchange,
which trades the major gold contract, both shut down trading.
Three smaller commodity exchanges and the nearby American
Stock Exchange, a major stock-options market, joined them.
   But several blocks away on Broad Street, the New York
Stock Exchange, the nation's biggest stock market, remained
open and finished up in a final-hour rally.
   The blackout was caused by a fire that broke out around
noon EDT in a Consolidated Edison electrical substation and
knocked out power to several blocks in the financial district
here. As of late yesterday, Con Ed officials said most of the
power had been restored, but not before eight firefighters
out of 100 on the scene were injured.
   The exchanges plan to open today, barring any further
blackouts. But the disruption couldn't have come at a worse
time for New York's commodity markets, which have been roiled
in the past week by volatile oil and precious metals trading.
For the first time in more than a decade, traders and
investors had no closing price for oil and gold and other
important commodities.
   However, these and other commodities continued to trade in
ports and other trading centers -- the spot markets -- in the
U.S. and abroad. But that didn't help some futures traders
who were stuck in the middle of trading positions.
   Blair Karasin, an independent stock-index futures trader,
said that he had bet that stock prices would rise, but that
he didn't complete his trade because he couldn't reach
brokers in Chicago, where index futures are traded. Now he
doesn't know the price at which he will be able to complete
the transaction.
   "I hope nothing terrible happens overnight," he said after
walking down eight flights of stairs at the World Trade
Center. The New York Merc and Comex said they would establish
settlement prices for commodities traded there at today's
close.
   Yesterday's problems demonstrated once again how
concentrated the nation's financial machinery is, and how
quickly the markets can be disrupted. Major brokerage firms
and the stock exchanges -- including the Big Board -- have
spent millions of dollars in recent years to build better
backup systems to handle emergencies. Many of those systems
were used yesterday to keep some semblance of order.
   At the darkened Merc and Comex, prices stood frozen on
wallboards above traders' heads: The current crude oil
contract stood at $26.77 a barrel, up 54 cents; gold was
$405.20 an ounce, up $8.20. The Merc plans to open by 11
today; the Comex hadn't yet set an opening time.
   Although the American Stock Exchange shut down, trading in
some of its stocks continued on regional exchanges, traders
said. The Amex composite index closed at 338.14, down 1.18.
   The blackout occurred shortly before the bidding deadline
for the government's regular weekly Treasury bill auction.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which conducts the
auction on behalf of the Treasury Department, said the sale
of $18.4 billion of three-month and six-month bills proceeded
smoothly. That's because the Fed's trading and auction
equipment was running on a backup power system.
   "As far as we are concerned, the dealers were all able to
make bids and therefore the auction took place normally,"
said a Fed spokesman.
   But several dealers had trouble communicating with their
own employees who were waiting at the Fed to receive bidding
instructions from their trading desks. Some employees
couldn't get through to find out at what price to bid.
   A manager at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.
said his firm was forced to bid "blind" at the auction,
meaning that it participated without knowing exactly how the
market was trading. Dealers typically base auction bid prices
on current market prices, which change rapidly in the bond
market.
   It's not the first time that trading has been disrupted at
the exchanges here. Two weeks ago, the New York commodity
exchanges closed for 50 minutes when the ticker feed that
transmits commodity prices broke. But traders and exchange
officials couldn't recall the last time the exchanges didn't
provide final settlement prices.
   The power outage, which struck Con Ed's South Street
Seaport substation, also wasn't the most disruptive that Wall
Street has seen. That's because the Big Board didn't have to
close. An early-morning electrical fire last November shut
down both the Big Board and the American Stock Exchange for
an hour, temporarily dislocating stock-index futures trading
on the Chicago commodity exchanges.
   That fire broke out in the lower-Manhattan building that
houses the Securities Industry Automation Corp., which
processes stock quotations from the nation's major exchanges.
   The U.S. foreign-exchange market, which trades about $175
billion a day, also was thrown into some confusion yesterday.
Initially, only a few institutions were affected. But as the
day went on, the blackout spread, knocking out phone lines
and trading screens at banks, securities firms and currency
brokers.
   Some dealers alleged that Chicago traders tried to take
advantage of the situation. With many big commercial and
investment banks here unable to trade, they said, traders on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange tried to push the dollar
higher.
   By so doing, they were squeezing those traders and
speculators who had earlier sold dollars short, betting that
the currency would keep falling. Often, traders, big
investors and corporations leave so-called stop-loss orders
with banks to automatically buy or sell currencies at a
specific price. These act as a safety valve to either lock in
a profit or stem a loss.
   But unable to trade, some New York banks couldn't fulfill
these stop-losses and some dealers got caught in a
shortsqueeze, said a trader at Chase Manhattan Bank here. "It
was difficult to call out and get prices," said Leonard
Dendunnen, a trader at Union Bank of Switzerland here.
   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York switched immediately
to backup power, a spokesman said. Although the computerized
system that settles billions of dollars in daily payments
among banks continued to operate during the power outage,
some institutions were having trouble linking up with the
system by computer. But the spokesman said that meant only
that the institutions affected would have to settle
transactions by hand or by messenger.
   "Some transactions may be stuck in a computer and have to
be done manually," he said, "but the capacity exists to
settle normally."
   At the two big commercial banks with headquarters in lower
Manhattan -- J.P. Morgan and Bank of New York -- the power
outage caused only marginal problems. "There was only a brief
interruption of trading until the emergency power kicked on,"
said a spokesman for J.P. Morgan. At Bank of New York, a
spokesman said that while there was no interruption of
customer transactions, the building was without lights.
"We're literally in the dark," the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Science:
   AT&amp;T, Japan Firm
   Sign an Agreement
   On Chinese Project
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   T J.KDD FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. has signed
an agreement with Japan's international communications
carrier and the telecommunications authority of China to
upgrade China's international communications system.
   The agreement, with Japan's Kokusai Denshin Denwa and the
Directorate General of Telecommunications of China's Ministry
of Posts and Telecommunications, calls for the partners to
build a new system -- including a satellite earth station
network and the first undersea fiber-optic cable to China --
in two phases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first phase, to be completed by next year, a
network of satellite earth stations will be built providing
digital voice and data communications services to major
office buildings in Beijing and Shanghai. Satellites of the
International Telecommunications Satellite Organization, or
Intelsat, will tie the network together.
   The second phase, which is scheduled to be built and
operating in 1993, is a 800-mile, digital fiber-optic
submarine cable that will link Japan's Kyushu Island and the
Chinese coast near Shanghai. The cable is expected to carry
about 35,000 phone calls simultaneously, "a significant
expansion over the existing system," according to an AT&amp;T
spokesman, who declined to provide further details.
   William B. Carter, AT&amp;T's executive director of submarine
systems, said the China system will provide one of the last
major links in a digital communications system encircling the
globe. He said equipment suppliers for the systems haven't
been chosen, but said the project should cost between $20
million and $45 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi Arabia
   Refuses to Load
   An Iraqi Tanker
   ---
   Kingdom's Move Indicates
   It Is Enforcing Embargo
   By U.N. Against Trade
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Saudi Arabia turned away a tanker attempting
to load Iraqi crude oil, the surest sign yet that the Saudis
have shut down the export of Iraqi oil through a big pipeline
that crosses Saudi territory.
   The refusal to load the Iraqi tanker, reported by oil
industry sources and confirmed by U.S. officials, indicates
that the use of a naval blockade led by the U.S. won't be
needed for now to halt the flow of Iraqi oil from one of its
major export points at the Saudi Red Sea port of Yanbu. The
U.S. and Britain have said they are ready to begin using
warships to block ships carrying Iraqi oil, but some other
nations are voicing reservations about a blockade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Saudi Arabia's action also appears to reflect political
resolve by its government to enforce a United
Nations-sponsored trade embargo imposed against Iraq for the
invasion of Kuwait. U.S. officials were watching the tanker
closely for several days near Yanbu. They feared that if the
tanker had been loaded and had attempted to leave, it could
have forced a military move by the U.S. Navy and opened the
way for deeper hostilities with Iraq.
   Meanwhile, U.S. officials said the threat of an Iraqi
military move beyond Kuwait to Saudi Arabia persists, despite
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's weekend proposal of a
diplomatic initiative to reverse his occupation of Kuwait.
Iraq now has about 150,000 troops in Kuwait, the Pentagon
said, up from its earlier estimate of 120,000. The troops
"appear to be digging in" but remain capable of going on the
offensive on short notice, State Department spokeswoman
Margaret Tutwiler said.
   Pakistan said it will send troops to Saudi Arabia to join
U.S., British, Egyptian, Moroccan and Syrian forces. The
addition of Pakistan to the force is politically significant,
because Pakistan is a Moslem nation, and the Saudi
government, guardian of Islam's most holy sites, is sensitive
to charges of turning over defense of the nation to
non-Moslems.
   The Pentagon said Defense Secretary Richard Cheney will
travel to Saudi Arabia to visit the U.S. soldiers and may
stop in other gulf nations.
   Concern is growing in the Pentagon about the cost of the
huge U.S. military operation, and officials said the Bush
administration plans to seek supplemental funding from
Congress to cover it.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Kuwait's
exiled government has asked all five permanent members of the
U.N. Security Council to help enforce a trade embargo against
Iraq. Along with the U.S., the permanent members are the
Soviet Union, China, France and Britain.
   But reports from Paris said that France, which has sent
warships to the region, won't participate in a naval blockade
of shipments to and from Iraq, arguing that by stopping ships
it would become a "co-belligerent" in the Persian Gulf
conflict.
   The Bush administration, when it received a request from
Kuwaiti leaders, said it would begin stopping shipping to and
from Iraq. Administration spokesmen said the interdiction
would apply to oil shipments leaving Iraq and shipments of
food and other goods entering the nation. Pentagon spokesman
Pete Williams said officials were drawing up general orders
for an effort designed to prevent ships from reaching Iraq.
   Enforcing the sanctions will be far easier if Turkey and
Saudi Arabia don't allow oil through two pipelines that carry
Iraqi crude to ports for loading on tankers. The pipeline
across Saudi Arabia can carry 1.5 million barrels a day,
though it had been shippping only about 800,000 barrels,
financial sources said. The pipeline crossing Turkey to the
Mediterranean Sea has a capacity of about 1.8 million barrels
a day and had been carrying about 1.7 million barrels before
Turkey blocked the flow of Iraqi oil last week. In addition,
Iraq had been shipping 300,000 to 400,000 barrels daily
through the Persian Gulf.
   But one Iraqi lifeline may remain open. A small amount of
Iraqi oil also is exported through a pipeline to Jordan, and
some is trucked to the Jordanian port of Aqaba for export.
Reports from Jordan said the Jordanian pipeline remains open.
And perhaps more important, there were reports that Jordan
would allow shipments of food and other goods destined for
Iraq to be unloaded at Aqaba for shipment to Iraq by truck.
   U.S. officials said the Saudis indicated they refused to
load the Iraqi tanker by not sending tugboats to guide it
into port. The Saudis didn't announce that the tanker had
been turned away, and the State Department's Ms. Tutwiler
said the U.S. would let the Saudis "speak for themselves" in
explaining why it wasn't filled.
   Meanwhile, the Bush administration is beginning to come to
terms with the cost of its military operation. President Bush
plans to return to Washington from his vacation home in Maine
for meetings today and tomorrow, and among the issues he will
address is how the gulf crisis affects the administration's
position in budget negotiations with Congress. Both the
unanticipated costs of the gulf operation and slower economic
growth resulting from higher oil prices will affect the
administration's budget plans.
   The administration earlier declared that because of the
gulf crisis, parts of the Pentagon budget will be excluded
from any budget cuts mandated by the Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction law.
   The ultimate cost of the U.S. military operation -- and
who will pay for it -- is one of the thorniest issues facing
the White House and the Pentagon. Preliminary estimates peg
the Pentagon's cost at a minimum of $3 billion, if the crisis
continues for just a few months. Some independent estimates
put the monthly cost at $300 million.
   As a first step to cover the cost, Mr. Bush may announce
this week that he will seek additional appropriations from
Congress. A Pentagon official said the department's
legislative office was notified that the White House will ask
for "significant additional appropriations," but officials
didn't provide details.
   Acknowledging that the price tag could skyrocket if
fighting breaks out or if there is a long standoff between
U.S. and Iraqi forces, Pentagon officials said the U.S. is
urging Saudi Arabia to pick up some of the cost. The Saudis
"have indicated a general willingness to work out a
compromise," said a military official familiar with the
issue. There also is likely to be pressure in the U.S. to
force Japan, more dependent than the U.S. on Persian Gulf
oil, to pick up a big share of the tab.
   As part of the same talks, U.S. and Saudi military
officials are discussing how to set up a coordinated chain of
command for the force in Saudi Arabia. The fact that troops
from different nations are involved raises questions of
national pride, along with practical questions about how to
communicate with officers and troops who speak different
languages.
   According to Pentagon officials, they haven't reached any
decisions with the Saudis about the cost-sharing or command
issues.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fluor Corp.:
   Concern Awarded Contracts
   Valued at $22 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR MOB WE T.W
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Corp., an engineering,
construction, and technical services concern, said that it
was awarded two contracts valued at $22 million.
   Fluor said that its Fluor Daniel unit was awarded a
contract by Vancouver-based Westcoast Energy Inc. for $10
million to provide process design, detailed engineering and
procurement for expansion of a gas processing facility near
Fort St. John, in northeast British Columbia. Project
completion is scheduled for late 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unit was also awarded a contract by Mobil Oil Corp.
for $12 million to provide engineering, procurement and
construction management services for a sour water stripper
tower to remove pollutants from the water stream at Mobil's
Chalmette, La. refinery. Project completion is scheduled for
mid-1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Con Ed Personnel
   Faced With Bribery,
   Extortion Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   ED LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department's inspector general
charged 17 former and current Consolidated Edison Co.
employees with bribery and extortion involving cash from Con
Ed customers, electrical contractors and others.
   The inspector general's office of labor racketeering filed
criminal complaints in federal and state courts in New York.
The complaints alleged that the Con Ed employees extorted
cash in return for, among other things, overlooking safety
hazards such as natural gas leaks, allowing illegal gas and
electrical hookups to go unreported, and expediting the
providing of gas or electrical service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investigation is part of a probe by the
labor-racketeering office into corruption in the New York
construction industry, said Stephen Cossu, the office's New
York agent-in-charge.
   Complaints were filed in federal district court in
Brooklyn charging extortion and fraud against seven persons
of Con Ed's Bedford/Bushwick branch, including two managers.
   Ten people including a supervisor were charged in state
court with extortion and bribery, including allowing illegal
hookups for Manhattan customers, at a restaurant, auto repair
shop, laundromat and an apartment building, and permitting
delays in repairs of gas leaks at an apartment building and a
restaurant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Electronics
   Unit to Buy a Stake
   In Robeson Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   RBSN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINEOLA, N.Y. -- Robeson Industries Corp. said it agreed
to sell as much as 50.1% of its common stock outstanding to a
subsidiary of General Electronics Ltd., Hong Kong.
   Carl Singer, chairman of Robeson, said the deal should
alleviate a cash squeeze brought on by the company's
restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The restructuring decimated the company's working capital
to the point that we needed additional capital," Mr. Singer
said. An earlier agreement to sell a 30% interest to a
Japanese consumer electronics distributor fell through.
   The General Electronics subsidiary, General Electronics
(Overseas) Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company, agreed to
purchase $750,000 of newly issued Robeson common stock and
assume a $500,000 three-year interest-free promissory note
issued by Robeson, which is convertible into Robeson common.
General Electronics will also receive a one-year warrant to
buy an additional $750,000 of Robeson common.
   If General Electronics converts the note and exercises the
warrant, it will hold a majority interest in Robeson. The
agreement, however, entitles it to nominate only two of the
seven members of Robeson's board.
   Mr. Singer said that he has been closing down Robeson's
U.S. manufacturing facilities and focusing on marketing a
broad line of kitchen appliances, household fans and heaters,
much of it through its Hong Kong outpost.
   He said Robeson expects to report a profit in the next
quarter, its first in more than three years, but didn't
specify the amount. He projects sales of $35 million to $37
million in 1990, down from $42 million last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. ECONOMY appears headed for significantly higher
unemployment and little or no growth in the next year,
according to a survey of economists conducted by The Wall
Street Journal since the Mideast crisis began. The consensus
represents a swift change of mood from a similar survey less
than two months ago, when most economists predicted a
continuing expansion. The economists still disagree, however,
about whether a recession lies ahead.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iraq has slashed its oil production to as little as
600,000 barrels a day, in response to the tightening world
embargo. The current level, about one-sixth the country's
pre-embargo output, is enough to meet the nation's internal
needs plus a trickle of exports bypassing the near blockade,
mainly via trucks through Jordan.
   ---
   Stock prices rebounded sharply in thin trading as bargain
hunters picked through the market. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average rose 30.20 points to 2746.78. Bond prices fell amid
continued worries that inflation is accelerating. The dollar
weakened against most major currencies.
   ---
   Tokyo stocks nosedived in shallow trading on selling by
arbitragers. The Nikkei closed with its fourth-largest single
daily loss in terms of percentage, and the seventh-largest
plunge in terms of points. The 225-stock index plunged
1153.12 points to 26176.43.
   ---
   A power blackout halted trading at oil, gold and commodity
pits in New York. Trading at the American Stock Exchange was
also stopped, but the Big Board remained open. The affected
exchanges plan to open today.
   ---
   General Motors reached a tentative accord with the UAW to
settle a fiveday strike at a parts-making factory. The
walkout forced shutdowns at five GM assembly plants and sent
a message that the union is willing to employ carefully
targeted strikes.
   ---
   TWA and Eastern Airlines pared many fares for travel
during the slow fall and winter seasons, bucking an industry
trend. It is unclear whether their rivals will follow suit.
   ---
   United Parcel Service union workers solidly ratified a new
labor agreement, spurning the recommendation of their
leadership. A Teamsters official alleged that the company
threatened employees with firings in the event of a strike.
   ---
   Polly Peck of Britain said its chairman, Asil Nadir, is
considering taking the food and electronics group private.
The move would cap a decade of hectic growth for Polly Peck.
   ---
   Imports of Mexican cement are injuring U.S. producers, a
federal panel concluded, clearing the way for stiff
anti-dumping penalties. The ruling could set back
U.S.-Mexican initiatives to remove trade barriers. Cemex,
Mexico's largest cement firm, said it may appeal the
decision.
   ---
   Mobil agreed to buy from Exxon the stake Mobil doesn't own
in two refineries and a chain of gasoline stations in
Australia. The deal's value is believed to be about $400
million.
   ---
   AT&amp;T's new credit card continues to enjoy strong demand.
The company now ranks eighth among the nation's card issuers,
with $750 million in revenue after 140 days in operation.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 122,820,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2746.78, up 30.20; transportation 978.83, up 4.01; utilities
203.97, up 0.88.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3370.27, off
9.50.
   Commodities: indexes unavailable because of power failure.
   Dollar: 150.40 yen, off 0.05; 1.5765 marks, off 0.0140.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares Plunge in Thin Holiday Trading;
   London Stocks Slip but Finish Far Above Lows
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks nosedived in shallow, holiday trading on
consistent arbitrage selling pressure.
   The Nikkei Index closed with its fourth-argest single
daily loss in terms of percentage, and the seventh-largest
plunge in terms of points.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, share prices ended lower, but the quiet start
to the week found the market retracing half its losses by the
close to finish near intraday highs.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues plunged 1153.12 points
to 26176.43. Volume on the first section was estimated at 250
million shares, down from 317.3 million shares Friday.
Decliners outnumbered gainers 934 to 34, while 70 issues were
unchanged.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index was at
26100.17, off 76.26.
   Monday's Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in
the first section plummeted 63.84 points, or 3.10%, to
1993.04. The close on the Topix was the first time it had
been below 2000 points since February 1988.
   The second section index plunged 123.75 points, or 3.01%,
to 3988.36. Volume in the section was estimated at seven
million shares, down from 11.3 million shares Friday.
   The market was thin because of this week's traditional
Japanese "O-Bon" festival season, with fund managers and
institutions on vacation, traders said. But with conventional
trading operations scarce, arbitrage activity was rampant.
   Prices tumbled from the opening on index-linked selling
mostly by arbitragers, falling to an intraday low of 25913.76
points and not showing a turnaround until late afternoon. At
that, the Nikkei Index recovered only about 260 points by the
close.
   Since Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2, the Nikkei Index has
fallen 4661.56 points, or 15.12%. The repeated declines, with
the exception of a strong rebound Wednesday, have steadily
chipped away at buying sentiment.
   But as the index broke through downside support at 26000
points Monday afternoon, marking an intraday low for the
year, participants were hit by a new level of frustration,
traders said.
   "We are now living in a painfully high interest rate
environment . . . and the level where the market operates
will have to adjust to that," said Paul Muller, manager of
international sales at Schroder Securities (Japan) Ltd. "It's
no longer a liquidity-driven, lower interest rate market."
   Traders said that technical chart support points to 24500
as key for the Nikkei Index.
   Combined with anxieties about the conflict in the Persian
Gulf, a weaker yen, a high balance of margin positions and
higher interest rates, the market is further distressed by
the uncertainty of where prices will ultimately bottom.
   "The market is really sick right now," said Minami Omura,
a broker at PaineWebber Inc. "I can't read the charts; I
can't even see the supporting line."
   Ms. Omura said some of her clients say that they'd like to
buy because shares have become so much cheaper, but can't
because they can't know how much lower prices will fall.
   Although Big Four and top foreign brokerage traders alike
said that they're bottom-fishing for growth and quality
stocks, they added that they intend to dump those shares at
the first sign of strength.
   The market has during previous crashes managed to recover
on support from bargain hunters, particularly individuals,
but with the likelihood that interest rates will remain high,
the prospects for buying have been severely cramped, traders
said.
   "Even if the situation {in the Persian Gulf} should
stabilize, it's unclear what to buy," one trader at a U.S.
firm said.
   Bitten twice already from buying on margin after the last
two mini-crashes, when the Nikkei fell to 1,569.10 points to
33,321.87 points Feb. 26 and when it lost 1,978.38 points to
28,002.07 points April 2, individuals aren't willing to try
again, traders said.
   Those investors who bought after the February plunge have
to settle margin positions by the end of August, which in a
declining market will only increase downward pressure,
traders said.
   And the Nikkei has retreated 21.44% since the February
plunge.
   Similarly, institutions have begun to reduce their cash
positions to block losses, PaineWebber's Omura said, but then
have found that they can't always do so because volume is too
thin to execute the transaction.
   Institutions are somewhat better off than individuals,
however, because they have enough cash to hedge their
positions by selling futures, traders said.
   Other hedging opportunities include buying Topix shares,
seen as outperforming Nikkei issues, after index-linked
selling of Nikkei cash positions, although traders noted that
there's not too much benefit with the Topix declining.
   Arbitrage was one of the only employable trading
instruments Monday, as futures were trading consistently at a
discount to the cash indexes until late in the day. Selling
pressure kept futures from rising on the arbitrage activity,
with futures closing Monday at stop-lows, traders said.
   Arbitrage selling against the Nikkei 225 index and Topix
was also used with options trading Monday.
   Traders said that until a conclusion is in sight for the
Middle East conflict, there's always the potential that oil
supplies will be cut, justifying soaring oil prices and
underlying a prolonged financial crisis.
   Shares were down across the board, with especially poor
performances by high-technology, steel and oil shares.
   Sony closed at 7,730 down 80 yen, Kyocera lost 220 yen to
7,830 yen and Fanuc fell 350 yen to 6,150 yen.
   Nippon Oil Co. finished 70 yen lower at 1,330 yen, while
Showa Shell also lost 70 yen to 1,230 yen.
   Kawasaki Steel lost 12 yen to 489 yen.
   Heavy industry companies were also lower. Kawasaki Heavy
lost 23 yen.
   In London, a lack of fresh developments in the Middle East
and only modest losses at the start of trading in New York
helped London traders regain some of their nerve late in the
day.
   "There hasn't actually been that much selling," noted the
head of trading at a major London brokerage. "London was
never that nasty" despite the fears generated by the buildup
of U.S. military forces in Saudi Arabia over the weekend and
Tokyo's near-record fall earlier Monday.
   Some traders were even beginning to sense the market may
be about to bottom out from its mid-summer fall. Compared
with the U.S. market in particular, said one U.K. broker,
London shares are "quite good value, but you've got to be
prepared" for a further thrashing in case of a fullfledged
war in the Middle East.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index was off
14.3 points at 2219.5, only a point lower than the day's high
reached as the market opened. The low came just ahead of the
New York opening, when the FT-SE 100 was off 27.2 points.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index fell 10.8 points to
1732.2. Volume was a thin 294 million shares.
   August holidays combined with the nervousness over the
Middle East to leave the market thinly traded. Institutional
investors, noted one dealer, "are sitting on their hands" for
fear of getting caught out should the market grow more
agitated by developments in Kuwait.
   Yet within the quiet, traders noted a willingness in some
quarters to pick up blue chip shares in large blocks. "If you
offer them garbage, they won't take it," said one equity
salesman. "But a quality line of stock you can place with
consummate ease."
   Among the shares benefiting from the interest in cheap
blue chips was ICI, which rose 2 pence to 943 pence.
   Otherwise, dealers said the day was largely featureless.
U.K. economic indicators, including a 1% rise in retail sales
in July from June, added to the market's early losses. But
dealers said that investors were largely ignoring local
economic data in their watch for news from the Middle East.
Even the July retail price index, due Friday, is likely to be
ignored because it won't reflect the jump in oil prices seen
since the beginning of the month, one trader said.
   Among the few corporate developments, Polly Peck
International rose 24 pence to 417 pence after its chairman
said he was considering making an offer for the group. The
stock had traded as high as 450 pence early in the day.
   Eurotunnel, which acknowledged a slower-than-expected
syndication of a #2 billion credit package, dropped to 475
pence from 500 pence.
   Carlton Communications, trounced late last week on fears
of still more disappointment in earnings, recovered to gain
20 points to 339 pence.
   Elsewhere, shares closed lower in Frankfurt, Zurich,
Brussels, Amsteram, Stockholm, Madrid and Milan. South
African gold stocks closed sharply higher.
   Also, stocks ended lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Taipei, Manila, Wellington, Seoul.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                                Aug 10     Aug 9     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .......................    310.4     314.5    - 4.5
 Britain ....................    663.0     666.4    - 8.0
 Canada .....................    384.1     384.8    -11.2
 Japan ......................   1135.5    1142.3    -31.4
 France .....................    499.3     498.7    -11.9
 Germany ....................    281.8     280.9    - 1.2
 Hong Kong ..................   2258.7    2270.1    + 7.7
 Switzerland ................    200.3     200.0    - 9.2
 Australia ..................    323.3     322.7    - 2.4
 World index ................    484.3     488.5    -14.6
   ---
                Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

 ISSUE (COUNTRY)                             CLOSE   %CHG
                                                                                                       

                    WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Bell Resources (Australia)                   0.19  + 35.7
 Berisford International (Britain)            0.47  + 34.3
 Denison Mines B (Canada)                     1.75  + 29.6
 Denison Mines A (Canada)                     2.15  + 22.9
 Teikoku Oil (Japan)                        1610.0  + 19.3
 Toyo Sash (Japan)                          5200.0  + 18.7
 Bougainville (Papua) (Australia)             1.25  + 15.7
 Kern (Australia)                             0.55  + 14.6

 Homestake Mining (U.S.)                    21.875  + 11.5
                                                                                                       

                   LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Forsayth (Australia)                         0.08  - 33.3
 Danto (Japan)                              2350.0  - 24.2
 Chiyodo Corp. (Japan)                      1660.0  - 22.8
 Elec And Eltek (Hong Kong)                   0.52  - 22.4
 Skf B Fria (Sweden)                         135.0  - 22.4
 Internatio-Muller (Dutch)                    67.0  - 20.2
 Seda Barcelona (Spain)                      392.0  - 20.0
 Overseas Union Ent. (Singapore)               7.4  - 19.6
 Teikoku Sen-I (Japan)                      1810.0  - 19.2
 Godo Shusei (Japan)                        1300.0  - 18.2
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE WHITE HOUSE SAID its naval barricade of Iraqi ships is
taking hold.
   As the U.S. ordered a fourth aircraft carrier to the
Mideast, Britain and Australia said they will help the U.S.
interdict Baghdad's shipping, but France said it wouldn't
join the embargo. Included in the U.S. naval cutoff are food
shipments bound for Iraq. In Saudi Arabia, an Iraqi tanker
tried to dock at a terminal to take on oil, but was turned
away. Pakistan voted to send troops to defend Saudia Arabia,
joining ground forces from the U.S., Egypt, Morocco and
Syria. The State Department said at least 500 Americans
slipped out of occupied Kuwait despite Iraq's refusal to let
non-diplomats leave. The U.S. estimates 2,500 of its citizens
are in Kuwait, and 500 to 600 in Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reuters reported that allies of the U.S. in the U.N.
Security Council criticized the naval actions, arguing the
U.S. didn't have the authority to enforce U.N. sanctions by
military means.
   ---
   Defense Secretary Cheney proposed scaling back plans to
purchase super-quiet Seawolf submarines and the most advanced
class of destroyers in an attempt to cut a total of about $7
billion from the Navy's procurement plans through the
mid-1990s.
   ---
   Soviet President Gorbachev signed a decree ordering the
widest rehabilitation yet of the millions of victims of
Stalin's purges, saying the actions against them were illegal
and a violation of basic rights. The decree singled out
measures taken against landholders during the mass
collectivization of the late 1920s and early 1930s.
   ---
   Washington's Mayor Barry switched his party registration
to independent from Democrat, clearing the way for a possible
run for a city council seat in November despite his
conviction Friday on a drug-possession charge. The
54-year-old official has urged the Justice Department against
a retrial on unresolved drug and perjury charges.
   ---
   Pakistan's armed forces repulsed an attack by India's
troops along the line that divides the disputed territory of
Kashmir, officials in Islamabad said. New Delhi denied the
claim. In Karachi, ousted Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto
spurned a reported deal with Pakistan's interim rulers that
would have allowed her to leave the country.
   ---
   Kidnappers in southern Lebanon freed a Swiss hostage, Elio
Erriquez, after 10 months' incarceration, handing over the
24-year-old orthopedic expert to Syrian authorities, Red
Cross officials said. He was taken to Damascus. Erriquez was
the second Swiss captive released since last week.
   ---
   Mandela said the African National Congress may relax its
conditions for the lifting of trade curbs against South
Africa, saying the black nationalist group might settle for a
declaration of intent from President de Klerk on establishing
a nonracial constitution. The ANC has demanded that such a
constitution first be implemented.
   ---
   A judge declared a section of the Immigration Act
unconstitutional because it violates defendants' due-process
rights. The section, aimed at curbing drug trafficking,
allows legal aliens who have been jailed for some felonies to
be jailed again -- indefinitely and without a chance for bail
-- during deportation proceedings.
   ---
   Firefighters in California treated giant 2,000-year-old
sequoia trees with fire retardant to protect them against a
flames that were advancing through Yosemite National Park. In
Oregon, 1,200 Army soldiers were being sent to take up
positions against the lightning-sparked blazes. Fires also
burned in Alaska, Washington, Idaho and Utah.
   ---
   Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed to hold talks over the
disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, the Soviet newspaper
Pravda reported. A date wasn't given for the discussions
between the presidents of the two Soviet republics. The
meeting would be the first such high-level talks since ethnic
clashes erupted in the territory in 1988.
   ---
   Bush ended the limit on the number of Soviet business
people permitted to live and work in the U.S., saying he
wanted to improve economic ties with Moscow. The limit this
year was 69, the White House said.
   ---
   Protesters in South Korea rallied at Seoul's Yonsei
University to demand unrestricted travel to North Korea. Riot
police clashed with about 3,000 students and dissidents who
had gathered to support unification of the divided Korean
peninsula.
   ---
   U.S. Marines flew helicopters into rebel-held territory in
Liberia to evacuate 97 foreign nationals, including at least
four Americans. Separately, rebel leader Taylor agreed to
discuss the country's civil war with Gambia's president,
which probably will delay the deployment of a five-nation
West African peacekeeping force.
   ---
   Salvage crews sopped up oil from the Houston Ship Channel
after the third large oil spill in as many months in or near
the busy shipping thoroughfare. The Coast Guard said at least
21,000 gallons of oil spilled Sunday when a barge buckled as
it was being loaded with fuel oil.
   ---
   The FAA announced a freeze on some hiring and said
contingency plans are being made for sharp cuts if Congress
fails to pass a 1991 budget. In the event that automatic
spending cuts take effect Oct. 15, administrator Busey said
safety factors would force the agency to order reductions in
airline and corporate flight schedules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cray Research Agrees
   To Settle '89 Lawsuit
   With Shareholders
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Cray Research Inc. said it agreed in
principle to settle a 1989 shareholder lawsuit for $700,000.
   Cray said three separate suits, which claimed the company
had failed to make public certain financial information and
details about future business prospects in 1989, were
consolidated into a single action in Minneapolis federal
court last fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a letter to employees yesterday, Cray contended that
the suit is without merit. The company said it agreed to
settle the matter to save time and expense. Cray added that
the agreement is subject to certain contingencies, including
court approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Steel Output Rose
   2.3% in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
increased 2.3% last week to 1,901,000 tons from 1,858,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output rose 4.6% from the 1,818,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 85.2% of its capability last week,
compared with 83.3% the previous week and 81.8% a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sun Microsystems Inc.
   Files Stock Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mountainview, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems Inc. said it
filed a registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission covering a proposed offering of 5,938,834
new shares of common stock together with 1,061,166 shares to
be offered by certain selling shareholders.
   Sun said 5.6 million of the shares will be sold in the
United States by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Salomon Brothers Inc.
and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Another 1.4 million shares will be sold outside the U.S.
by an international syndicate managed by Goldman Sachs
International Ltd., Salomon Brothers International Ltd. and
Dean Witter Capital Markets International Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDonnell Douglas
   Names David Little
   To C-17 Program
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MD
</CO>
<LP>
   LONG BEACH, Calif. -- McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s Douglas
Aircraft Co. division named David A. Little vice
president-deputy general manager of its C-17 military cargo
plane program, in further executive shuffling designed to
shore up performance on the Air Force contract.
   Mr. Little, 47 years old, previously general manager of
the program, succeeds Jack Hayden, 43, who assumed the newly
created post of vice president-deputy general manager for
fiscal management and support.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Little will concentrate on manufacturing operations,
and will work with Leonard F. Impellizzeri, staff vice
president for engineering and advanced systems for the St.
Louis-based parent who in May was named vice president-deputy
general manager of the C-17, with responsibility for
technical aspects of the program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviet Press, Enjoying New Frankness,
   Is Speaking Its Mind on Foreign Policy
   ----
   By Gregory L. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The day after Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Soviet
newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda ran the story under the
critical headline: "The armor is strong and the tanks are
ours."
   Unlike other official Soviet press accounts of the Iraqi
invasion, which largely reiterated Kremlin condemnation of
the action, the youth daily used the occasion to take a swipe
at long-standing Soviet policy in the Middle East. "We can
only regret that the main military might of this army
consists of military technology delivered to Iraq by the
U.S.S.R. for years," it wrote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Glasnost is finally catching up with Soviet foreign
policy. For three years now, newspapers and television have
made use of the new spirit of openness introduced by Mikhail
Gorbachev to run ever bolder reports about the dismal state
of life inside the country. But their commentary on foreign
affairs has been tamer.
   Since revolution swept away the Soviet-backed regimes of
Eastern Europe last fall, however, that has started to
change. Life in the capitalist West, once depicted as the
land of the homeless, the unemployed and peace demonstrators
brutally dispersed by truncheon-wielding police, has now been
idealized almost beyond recognition. More cautiously, the
policies of dictators who remain Soviet allies are coming in
for tough criticism.
   Komsomolskaya Pravda, which has a circulation of almost 22
million, has been leading the pack, especially with its
needling of Cuba and North Korea. The needling has drawn
angry responses.
   In March, the paper ran a highly critical two-part series
of life in North Korea. It opened with the phrase, "Time's up
for the Korean revolution and its leader," and proceeded to
draw parallels between Kim Il-Sung's regime and that of
former Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. The North Korean
ministry of information summoned the reporter to express its
displeasure, and editors in Moscow received threatening phone
calls from North Korean students.
   Komsomolskaya Pravda's Havana correspondent has had it
harder. One story ran down the list of problems faced by
Russian brides settling in Cuba. High on the list was a
rationing system that gives them only two pounds of potatoes
a month. For potato-loving Russians, that one fact was a
stinging indictment of the Cuban regime. Not long after the
article ran, the reporter was involved in a car accident in
Cuba under "mysterious circumstances," says Maxim Chikin,
Komsomolskaya Pravda's 28-year-old foreign editor.
   But such articles remain the exception. Editors admit that
foreign policy remains a touchy subject and almost no foreign
correspondents have experience challenging the government.
   Yassen Zasursky, dean of Moscow University's journalism
school, says no official paper has yet openly criticized the
thrust of Mr. Gorbachev's foreign policy, and other sniping
has been rare, until recently.
   Before the Iraqi invasion, when the Western press was
already calling President Saddam Hussein "the butcher of
Baghdad," the Soviet media paid little attention to him. One
exception was a May article in the weekly Argumenty i Fakty
that blasted Saddam Hussein for committing atrocities against
Kurds and communists inside Iraq, and blamed past Soviet
leaders -- not Mr. Gorbachev -- for selling him arms.
   Other Soviet publications picked up these attacks only
after the invasion, once the Kremlin cut off arms sales to
Iraq. Four days after Iraq's invasion, the radical youth
weekly Sobesednik likened it to the Soviet invasions of
Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968. "Why did our
country arm this monster (Saddam Hussein) with super-modern
arms and maintain a treaty of friendship and cooperation with
such a regime?" the paper asked.
   The latest issue of Moscow News, another outspoken weekly,
urges the Kremlin to assume some responsibility for resolving
the crisis. The Soviet leadership, it wrote, "was well
informed about the rivers of blood that drowned the country
during the cruel campaign of destruction against the Kurdish
minority and the Iraqi Communist Party, but preferred shamed
silence, delivering Iraq various weapons in return for no
small amount of money."
   Most of the press hasn't been so brave. But in one area,
the depiction of life in the West, almost all papers have
thrown caution to the wind.
   A new TV show in Leningrad called "Ordinary Capitalism,"
recently took its viewers on a trip through the wonderland of
Austria. After lovingly showing supermarket shelves groaning
with goods most Soviets can only dream of buying, the show
managed to find a rare fault: a taxi that the TV crew called
from their Austrian friend's mobile phone was 25 seconds
late.
   With the Communist Party discredited, the U.S. government
is sometimes depicted as a model for Soviet reform. One
recent report on Soviet TV took a look at U.S. agriculture.
The new view of the U.S. has already convinced most Soviet
viewers that everything in America works perfectly. So it
came as quite a shock to viewers used to blaming bureaucrats
for everything from cigarette shortages to sour milk that a
mere 10,000 bureaucrats administered the U.S. farm system.
   Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter created a sensation
when he explained that the government machine tries to help
farmers. Boris Kalyagin, Soviet TV's Washington
correspondent, says the notion that a government could help,
rather than hinder, was mind-boggling for viewers.
   Some think all this goes too far. Erik Alekseyev, 64, the
foreign editor at Trud, the national labor-union paper,
grumbles about "a wave of ecstasy" in reporting Western
affairs.
   Adjusting to new times can be particularly hard for the
old guard of Soviet journalists such as Gennady Vasilyev. A
sprightly 64-year-old, Mr. Vasilyev long served as one of the
best-known and fiercest anti-Western propagandists. He
started his career with the Soviet news agency Tass under
Stalin in 1949, and has spent the past 25 years at Pravda,
the Communist Party daily.
   He admits, his job was to show the evils of capitalism.
"It was once very simple, I remember it well," Mr. Vasilyev
says. In the old days, "our task was seen as explaining what
was decided somewhere at the top."
   As late as 1987, Mr. Vasilyev still denounced American
"extreme rightist circles, who are betting on inflaming
hatred toward the peoples of socialist countries, working up
American chauvinism and intensifying the nuclear arms race."
   Mr. Vasilyev now sings a different tune. In late July, for
example, he wrote a commentary on President Bush's speech,
made at the launching of a new aircraft carrier, about the
need to keep a strong military. The stock cliches about U.S.
imperialism are nowhere to be found. The tone was apologetic,
calling for understanding of Mr. Bush's need to look tough on
the eve of this fall's election campaign.
   He now says he regrets his past. "I feel sorry for myself
that my best years, the ones I spent in America, in England,
were so unproductively used," he laments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Berkshire Hathaway's
   Net Income Climbed
   7.5% in 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BRK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OMAHA, Neb. -- Berkshire Hathaway Inc.'s increased
earnings from recent "white-squire" investments pushed
second-quarter net income higher, despite a drop in capital
gains.
   The diversified concern, controlled by stock-picker Warren
Buffett, said net climbed 7.5% to $94 million, or $81.95 a
share, from the year-earlier $87.4 million, or $76.27 a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earnings from Berkshire's operations -- its insurance,
manufacturing, merchandising and services lines -- rose 33%
to $82.9 million, or $72.32 a share, compared with the
year-earlier earnings from operations of $62.4 million, or
$54.45 a share.
   Earnings from Berkshire's nearly $2 billion in holdings of
four issues of cumulative convertible preferred stock
contributed to the higher income. Those holdings include
substantial convertible preferred holdings, acquired in the
latter part of 1989, in Gillette Co., USAir Group Inc. and
Champion International Corp.
   As with a similar 1987 investment in Salomon Inc., such
so-called white squire buy-ins can help companies deter
would-be raiders, because Mr. Buffett typically promises not
to sell the stake he's acquiring, or to join forces with
hostile suitors, for several years.
   Berkshire Hathaway said after-tax earnings from the four
issues was about $38.5 million in the latest quarter,
compared with investment income of about $13.5 million in the
year-ago period, when it held only the Salomon preferred. The
company noted that the higher investment income was partially
offset by higher interest costs related to borrowings to fund
the 1989 preferred-stock purchases.
   Berkshire Hathaway's realized investment gain, which
fluctuates widely, dropped in the latest period to $11
million, or $9.63 a share, from the year-earlier quarter's
$25 million, or $21.82 a share.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Berkshire Hathaway shares slipped $75 to close at $6,700 a
piece.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Clashing Cultures:
   Immigrants to Europe
   From the Third World
   Face Racial Animosity
   ---
   Neo-Nazis Active in Germany;
   Le Pen Seeks to Oust
   Foreigners From France
   ---
   The Open Borders of '92 Loom
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz and Craig Forman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- In Italy's fashion capital, the vogue this summer
is short skirts, sheer fabrics -- and clashing cultures.
   "Africans and Italians don't mix," says Michele Corti, his
face red with sun and rage. Mr. Corti, an agricultural
researcher, has organized a protest against new housing for
Arabs and Africans in Milan. Sweltering beneath a statue of
Leonardo da Vinci, the protesters wave placards saying,
"Milan Is Becoming the Bronx of Italy]" and "Casbah? No Thank
You]"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the rally swells, a Senegalese street peddler named
Ngor packs up his imitation Louis Vuitton handbags and
hurries off. "I am just doing what Italians did in America
100 years ago," the 27-year-old immigrant says. "Trying to
make a living."
   Throughout Western Europe, societies that once sent their
huddled masses across the Atlantic now are fending off the
tired and poor from teeming Third World shores. With European
economies booming and fertility rates plummeting -- Italy's
is now the world's lowest -- the need for immigrant labor has
soared. But as Third World people pour into Europe, the
differing cultures collide. Friction could well become more
frequent and more intense if the fallout from Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait creates an anti-Arab backlash. Even long before the
invasion, Europe's racial problems were getting ugly:
   -- In March, masked Italians rampaged through the streets
of Florence, clubbing and knifing North Africans.
   -- In April, on Hitler's birthday, neo-Nazis in Berlin
assaulted African workers and clashed with Turkish street
gangs.
   -- During one week in May, Swedish youths firebombed
refugee camps eight times, hospitalizing 12 immigrants.
   -- In June, baton-wielding Spanish police were accused of
beating 10 Africans camped out in Madrid's central square.
   In some European countries, moreover, the native
population is already declining, while that of many African
and Arab nations is doubling every 20 to 25 years. And with
Europe's internal borders set to dissolve in 1992, an
immigrant arriving in Genoa or Marseilles could roam and work
freely all across the Continent.
   As East/West tensions fade, "immigration is the biggest
problem facing the whole European community," says Remy
Leveau, a French political scientist. Adds Italian
demographer, Massimo Livi-Bacci, "This isn't something like
Japanese cars that you can control with a yearly quota. If
the right balance isn't found, the situation could explode."
                                                                                                       

   Germany
                                                                                                       

   And it already has in some cities. Barricaded inside an
East Berlin garret, a young man with swastikas and storm
troopers tattooed on his arm explains the stance of a new
group called National Alternative. "If you mix races in
Germany, it never works," says Heiko Baumert, flanked by
other young men with shaved heads and black, steel-toed
boots. "We want to wake up Germans and pressure the state to
kick foreigners out."
   National Alternative primarily objects to 90,000
immigrants in East Germany, most of whom were imported from
fellow Marxist states in Vietnam, Cuba, Mozambique and
Angola. Formed in February, National Alternative set up
headquarters just a few streets from the tall, tattered
apartment blocks where most of the immigrants live. "Germans
Defend Yourselves]" proclaims one of the group's banners. On
a Saturday night, spotlights shine from the roof, and youths
patrol the street outside, clutching baseball bats beneath
their paramilitary jackets. To passers-by, they offer
pamphlets decrying the "foreign viruses in our city."
   Asked if such echoes of the Third Reich are intentional,
Mr. Baumert shrugs. "It is demagoguery to ignore the
achievements of the Nazis," he says.
   The group, which receives aid and advice from neo-Nazis in
West Germany and Austria, has a hard core of only about 300
members, and police recently forced them to find new
headquarters. But its doctrine has found fertile ground among
East Germans worrying about their jobs. The men's room of a
nearby nightclub is scrawled with graffiti -- "Sieg Heil" and
"Foreigners Out" -- and youths at the bar have used chains
and clubs to battle black Africans in an adjoining apartment
block.
   East German officials say immigrants' employment and
residency contracts -- usually running five years -- will be
honored, though some employers are laying off foreigners as
free-market reforms shrink the work force. Other workers
aren't waiting for pink slips. In front of a building labeled
"Workers Living Quarters, Bloc-A, Number 315," Vietnamese men
bang together crates marked "Hanoi" and "Haiphong" and pile
their possessions inside.
   "I don't want to go home, but I don't want to die,
either," says a 30-year-old factory worker, Phung Tien. In
June, Mr. Tien watched as skinheads stabbed and killed one of
his friends in East Berlin's central square. German
co-workers at the factory call him "Vietsi" -- an insult
roughly equivalent to "Jap" -- and ask why he doesn't go back
where he came from.
   More than 5,000 Vietnamese in East Germany have applied
this year for asylum in West Berlin. But tension also is
running high on the west side of the fallen Wall, where
287,000 foreign workers live. German law makes it hard for
"guest workers" to become citizens, and many immigrants fear
that the first economic downturn will make them expendable.
   "Why should anyone hire a Turk when they can get a skilled
East German for the same price?" asks Mehmet Kabuk, who
migrated from Anatolia to West Berlin 20 years ago.
   Mr. Kabuk runs a kebab shop in Kreutzberg, a Turkish
enclave abutting the Wall and crowded with mosques,
belly-dance clubs and butchers selling meat slaughtered
according to Islamic rules. For Turkish migrants, this little
Istanbul was once the Promised Land. In his 20s, Mr. Kabuk
opened his own shop, and at 31 he now clears the equivalent
of $2,500 a month, four times what he could earn in Turkey.
He has a new Mercedes parked out front. "My mother said we'd
eat three or four eggs a day in Berlin and watch TV," Mr.
Kabuk recalls. "She was right."
   When the Wall was breached last fall, Mr. Kabuk handed out
free shish kebab to the East Germans flooding in and looked
forward to a boom in his business. But in the months since,
he has often been abused by German customers, and he has even
scuffled with them in his shop. Then, one day, he woke to
find "Turks Out]" painted on the wall of a kindergarten by
his house, beside a crude sketch of a child hanging from a
gallows. He has decided to take his wife and two Berlin-born
children back to Turkey, but he worries about the adjustment
after so many years abroad. "We are foreigners in both
lands," he says.
   Turkish alienation, and anxiety, have fueled the rise of
Turkish street gangs. Wearing American football jerseys and
adopting names such as the Vikings, Black Panthers and Crazy
Kick Brothers, they are being blamed for a wave of assaults
and petty crimes in West Berlin. Right-wing skinheads are a
favored target.
   "If any Nazis come near here now," says a gang member
named Ali, running a finger along his throat, "we'll show
them a little Islamic justice." He adds, "I hear it is easy
to get guns in America. Can you bring some next time you
come?"
                                                                                                       

   France
                                                                                                       

   France, like Germany, has a large foreign community that
now feels under siege. Immigrants -- largely North African --
make up about 8% of France's 55 million people. France also
has Europe's strongest anti-immigration movement, Jean-Marie
Le Pen's National Front.
   "If integration between Islamic immigrants and the French
were possible, it would have happened already," says Mr. Le
Pen, speaking from his luxurious villa near Paris. His
solution to the immigration problem: "We must make these
people go back to their homes."
   Dismissed as a racist fringe group just a few years ago,
the front has won seats in the European Parliament and local
government; it captured more than a third of the vote in
working-class districts of Marseilles. The front also is
active at the grass-roots level. Under posters saying
"Immigration Stop" and "Let's Make France for the French,"
the front's social workers in Marseilles hold weekly open
houses and help residents with pensions, civil-service jobs
and other paper work.
   "No one else will help me," says Lucille Champoussin, an
unemployed 60-year-old. "I was born here, have lived all my
life here, and I don't have a right to anything. But these
Arabs get everything. It just isn't right."
   Youssef Mendani also has lived in Marseilles his whole
life and feels he hasn't had a right to much, either. The
22-year-old son of Algerian immigrants shares a small
apartment with seven siblings in a housing project adjacent
to a junkyard. Children play jungle gym in a burned-out
delivery truck. Young men linger idly in groups, joking in
Arabic that they are "holding up" the project's cracked
concrete walls.
   Mr. Mendani finds that his French citizenship doesn't rule
out racism. He was tossed out of junior high school when
officials restricted the number of immigrant students. He
dropped out of another school when a teacher said his
background suited "Arab work," such as heavy labor, rather
than the languages he wanted to study.
   "Everyone talks of getting out," he says, picking his way
across the broken glass and garbage on the project's grounds.
"But there is no place to go."
   Like many second-generation immigrants in Europe, Mr.
Mendani feels caught between cultures. He doesn't want to go
back to Algeria and its rising Islamic fundamentalism. But in
France, integration seems impossible. "Today is the same as
yesterday, and tomorrow will be the same, too," he writes in
a poem. "The express train roars past less than 100 feet way.
As it does, the old buildings tremble, and we do, too."
   In both France and Germany, the import of foreign workers
has stopped, though immigrant communities continue to grow
through births and laws allowing family reunion. But
opponents of immigration fear that the opening of Europe's
internal borders in 1992 will bring a fresh wave of Arabs and
Africans, with Italy the principal gateway.
                                                                                                       

   Italy
                                                                                                       

   For decades, manpower was Italy's biggest export; an
estimated 25 million Italians migrated overseas between 1870
and 1970. However, economic growth and falling birth rates --
as well as slim entry requirements -- have reversed the
trend. Now, Italy has about a million immigrants, and
thousands more arrive each week, often illegally. "The
Mediterranean," says Italy's foreign minister, Gianni de
Michelis, "is our Rio Grande."
   In the hot kitchen of a Milanese restaurant, a cook in a
tomato-spattered apron tosses spaghetti into boiling water
and stirs a pan of pesto. The cook is an agricultural
engineer from Egypt; so is the dishwasher working beside him.
   "Young Italians would rather steal than do kitchen work,"
says the restaurant's owner, Andrea Ferrari-Nasi. Hiring
immigrants hasn't hurt his business; the restaurant, which is
awarded one fork in the Michelin guide, is packed until
midnight.
   Mr. Ferrari-Nasi, though, says language and cultural
differences -- Muslims don't like handling pork, for example
-- make it hard to train Arabs. So, when planning to open a
second restaurant, he advertised for an Italian cook, waiter
and dishwasher. Two months later, he has received only one
response. "Every restaurant owner I know has the same
problem," he says.
   So do many other employers in Milan. A bakers' association
recently offered to train 5,000 immigrants for jobs it
couldn't fill. So did a merchants' group. Not surprisingly,
immigrants flock to the prosperous city from other parts of
Italy, especially Genoa, where ferries from North Africa
disgorge hundreds of newcomers each weekend. Milan now has an
estimated 70,000 foreign workers, up from about 5,000 just
two years ago.
   The influx has overwhelmed Italy's lumbering bureaucracy,
and baton-wielding police have beaten back restive migrants
lined up each dawn to apply for working papers. The mass
influx has created social strains, too. An abandoned farm
near Milan, where 700 Moroccans live in stables and share two
portable toilets, has had three mysterious fires this year;
officials suspect arson by right-wing Italians. When the city
proposed moving homeless immigrants to tent camps on its
outskirts, local residents blockaded the streets, and the
city backed off.
   Roberto Formigoni, a Christian Democrat from Milan and a
vice president in the European Parliament, blames much of
this friction on "campanilismo" -- roughly, "worship of one's
own church spire."
   "There is a long tradition in Italy of regarding anyone
from outside your own village with suspicion," he says.
Earlier in the postwar period, northern Italians directed
this provincialism at poor migrants from the south. Now, they
feel threatened by Africans and Arabs.
   In Florence, anger at foreign street merchants boiled over
this spring, and several immigrants were severely beaten. A
month later in Genoa, a deranged Tunisian's assault on a
small girl sparked two days of vigilante reprisals; residents
threw bottles and set guard dogs on North Africans. The
Milan-based Lombard League, which seeks regional autonomy and
tough curbs on immigration, captured 19% of the vote in
regional elections in May -- second only to the Christian
Democrats.
   The Italian government has tried to walk a tightrope
between native anger and the need for good relations with its
Mediterranean neighbors. New laws this February offered
amnesty to immigrants in the country before 1990 but
tightened restrictions on newcomers and set large penalties
for employers who hire illegals. Under pressure from the
European Community, Spain also is tightening entry
requirements for Moroccans and Latin Americans.
   The Italian demographer, Mr. Livi-Bacci, views the trend
to restricting immigration as short-sighted. As Europe's
population ages, he says, the need for working-age migrants
is sure to increase. And he adds that blocking immigration
could roil countries such as Egypt and Morocco, which rely
heavily on remittances from workers abroad.
   In the Loreto subway station in Milan, it is easy to
discern the new Europe that anti-immigrationists fear. Every
noon, Senegalese migrants gather at a cafe there to exchange
letters from home and information about jobs and housing. In
one corner, an Italian-speaking migrant helps a newcomer fill
out a form for a merchant's license. In another, two men with
braided hair and African robes discuss going to Belgium,
where pay is said to be high.
   "A lot of people in Senegal have never heard of Rome, but
everyone knows Loreto," says Youssoupha Kalla, a street
merchant in Italy for two years. "This is the place you come
to get rich."
   Mr. Kalla, 26, has a wife and child in Senegal, and seven
siblings -- one already in Italy, another in France. He had
hoped to bring the rest of his family to Italy but delayed
his plans because of a recent crackdown on street peddlers in
Milan. Now jobless and bothered by the rising racial tension,
he is thinking of returning to Senegal -- but just for a few
months.
   "I need Italy, and Italy needs people like me," he says,
folding up his newspaper. "I will be back."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE EUROP J.FUT J.CHJ G.DBK A.ANZ
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $500 million of real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in 10 classes by Prudential-Bache Securities. The
offering, FHLMC 194, is backed by Freddie Mac 8 1/2%
securities with a weighted average coupon rate of 9.40% and
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 25.67 years.
Details on prices and yields weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Fujitsu Ltd. (Japan) -- $330 million of bonds due Aug. 30,
1994, with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 5% coupon
at par, via Nikko Securities Co. Each $10,000 bond carries
two warrants, exercisable from Sept. 19, 1990, through Aug.
9, 1994, to buy company shares at an expected premium of 2
1/2% to the closing share price when terms are fixed Friday.
   Chujitsuya Co. (Japan) -- 120 million Swiss francs ($91.3
million) of 7 3/4% public bonds in two tranches. First
tranche of 70 million Swiss francs issued at 100 1/2,
maturing Sept. 5, 1997, guaranteed by Yokohama Bank. Second
tranche of 50 million Swiss francs is issued at 100 3/8,
maturing Sept. 5, 1995, guaranteed by Fuji Bank.
   Deutsche Bank Finance N.V., (West German parent) -- 100
million Australian dollars (US$79.8 million) of 14% bonds due
Sept. 7, 1993, priced at 100.95 to yield 14.24% less fees via
Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Ltd. Guaranteed by Deutsche
Bank AG. Fees 1 1/2.
   ANZ Banking Group (Australia) -- 75 million Australian
dollars of 14 3/4% bonds due Sept. 20, 1993, priced at 101.95
to yield 14.55% less fees via Samuel Montagu &amp; Co. Fees 1
1/2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   English Channel Tunnel
   Runs Into Financing Wall
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   U.EUR F.EUT
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The project to tunnel across the English Channel
hit more choppy water, as nearly half its bankers balked at
increasing their lending.
   Eurotunnel PLC, the Anglo-French consortium building the
cross-channel link, said 91 members of its 210-bank syndicate
have so far declined to contribute to an extra two billion
pounds (US$3.75 billion) credit. The rejection, from banks
that had been expected to provide 31% of the borrowings,
raises new financial problems for the project and jeopardizes
its plan to sell more stock in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London analysts and Eurotunnel officials, however,
expressed confidence that this latest snag will be resolved
-- as have numerous other technical, political and financial
obstacles to the complex project. "The fact that {the
finance} is a bit sticky and going rather slowly isn't
abnormal," said Eurotunnel Chief Executive Alastair Morton.
   The train tunnel, set to open in June 1993, will cut
transit time between London and Paris to three hours.
Technical snags and inflation have expanded its price tag,
estimated in 1987 at #4.9 billion to #7.66 billion.
   The latest snag came in increasing Eurotunnel's syndicated
credit line to #7 billion from #5 billion. The project's four
lead bankers -- Banque National de Paris, Credit Lyonnais,
Midland Bank PLC and National Westminster Bank PLC -- had
agreed in June to arrange the credit increase, to cover
higher construction-cost estimates. But since then, the four
lead banks have been unable to get all the other members of
the 210-bank syndicate to go along.
   "Most banks do have quite a lot {of lending} in this
project already," one participant in the talks said,
explaining the lenders' hesitation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Enserch Unit Gets
   Nuclear Reactor
   Design Contract
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   ENS WX SW S.ABB
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Energy Department awarded two contracts,
each potentially valued at $1.5 billion over 10 years, for
advanced design work on two types of new nuclear reactors.
   The department selected Ebasco Services Inc., a subsidiary
of Enserch Corp. of Dallas, to provide advanced design work
for a heavy-water reactor to produce tritium, a perishable
radioactive gas used in making nuclear weapons. Ebasco was
selected over Westinghouse Electric Corp., a department
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the other contract, to design a modular,
high-temperature, gas-cooled reactor, the agency selected a
consortium consisting of General Atomics, Combustion
Engineering Inc., Stone &amp; Webster Engineering Co. and Burns &amp;
Roe Co. This type of reactor, based on a relatively new
technology, would use a helium coolant. The consortium had no
competition for the long-term contract, the government
spokesman said.
   The department wants to build two new reactors to replace
its aging and crippled tritium reactors at Savannah River,
S.C. One would be built at the Savannah River site, the other
at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory near Idaho
Falls, Idaho.
   However, Congress has questioned whether two reactors are
necessary, especially given the thaw in relations with the
Soviet Union. Construction money to complete either of the
reactors hasn't been appropriated.
   The new reactors, which if built would come on line in the
year 2000, are to incorporate "passively safe" systems that
offer safety features reducing the dependence on operators
and mechanical parts in accidents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Top Japanese Banks'
   Ratings on Debt
   Lowered by Moody's
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.DKB J.FUJ
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded credit
ratings of two of Japan's biggest banks, citing their high
exposure to Japan's real estate market and vulnerability to
rising interest rates.
   The New York-based rating concern lowered the long-term
debt of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. and Fuji Bank Ltd. to
double-A-1 from triple-A. Moody's retained the Prime-1 rating
on the two banks' short-term debt. Moody's earlier announced
it was considering a downgrading of the two banks' debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In taking its action, Moody's focused on the high
overheads and slow pace of adaptation to changing market
conditions at the two banks. Dai-Ichi Kangyo is the world's
largest bank, with $421 billion in assets, and Fuji, with
$392 billion, is the fourth biggest.
   Interest rates in Japan have been moving up rapidly this
year, raising the cost of funds at the banks, and both
companies have large amounts of real estate loans outstanding
in Japan. Land prices in Japan, which have doubled in the
past five years, are considered inflated by many analysts.
   "The issue is core profitability," said Roger B. Arner,
Moody's representative director in Japan. "This is
significant in that it's a further differentiation among the
large commercial banks. These banks are less able to
compete."
   The banks objected to Moody's credit-rating revision. "We
highly regret this decision, which we believe does not
accurately reflect the bank's state of affairs," a
spokeswoman for Dai-Ichi Kangyo said.
   A spokesman for Fuji Bank said the bank wasn't happy with
the revision. He said Fuji would issue a statement later.
   Moody's Mr. Arner played down the importance of the lower
ratings to the fund-raising abilities of Dai-Ichi Kangyo and
Fuji. "These are still very high ratings," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900814-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900814-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   In New Hampshire Congressional Primary, Voters
   Encounter a Spokesman for Each Voice in the GOP
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/14/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   JACKSON, N.H. -- Across the broad wood planks of the
covered bridge, past the white clapboard town hall and up
into the hills stands a 1786 structure that may be becoming
one of the most unlikely power centers in American politics
today. It is a hostelry called the Christmas Farm Inn, and
the rooms carry names like Vixen, Dancer and Donner.
   The man who owns the inn, Bill Zeliff, is a former
antifreeze marketing specialist, and this summer he emerged
as one of the leading contenders in perhaps the wildest
congressional primary of the season. His rivals in this
Republican race include a man who owns a dairy farm, an Agway
outlet and a crafts shop; a career naval officer who has
become an auctioneer; an insurance adjuster who wants to
eliminate dairy subsidies; a former Democrat who wants to
legalize drugs; and a man whose family runs Six Gun City, a
replica of an Old West town tucked away, incongruously, in
the northernmost reaches of the White Mountains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Only in New Hampshire," says state Sen. Bill Johnson, the
auctioneer and sometime real-estate salesman.
   But the race to succeed GOP Rep. Robert Smith, who is
running for the Senate, is more than just a reminder of the
quirkiness of a state whose politics are as colorful as the
leaves that line the Presidential Range each fall. It is a
snapshot of the various elements of the Republican coalition.
   "This race in many ways represents the entire range of the
Republican Party," says Thomas Rath, a former GOP attorney
general prominent in Granite State politics. "Anybody who
wants to play in this game can find someone whose tent he
fits under. This is the Republican Party."
   Together the eight contenders are the political proof of
Robert Frost's theorem, that New Hampshire contains "one each
of everything as in a showcase."
   True to form, each of them claims a shard of the party.
Mr. Zeliff, the innkeeper, is widely believed to be former
Gov. John Sununu's favorite in the race, though the White
House chief of staff is trying to keep a proper distance.
Douglas Scamman, who owns the dairy farm and serves as the
speaker of the New Hampshire House for $125 a year, is the
choice of the Statehouse gang. Larry Brady, a former Commerce
Department official, is the favorite of the devoutly
conservative Manchester Union Leader newspaper. Dean Dexter,
a county commissioner and former state representative, claims
the support of evangelical Republicans. Sen. Johnson boasts
of the support he has among the state's motorcycle riders,
grateful to him for helping to kill a mandatory-helmet bill
last year.
   The GOP field also includes Dennis Hogan, a 25-year-old,
one-term state House member with a campaign budget of $6,000,
and Chris Tremblay, who runs a construction company and is
portraying himself as "a guy who's just a member of America's
working class."
   "Every interest in the party is involved in this," says
Republican Gov. Judd Gregg, who hasn't endorsed a candidate.
"But there is one thing they have in common: every one of
them says he is a conservative. That's because everyone in
New Hampshire is a conservative."
   Not exactly. State Rep. Michael Weddle of Portsmouth, who
has only been a Republican since February, was an early
opponent of the Vietnam War, has been arrested twice
protesting outside the Seabrook nuclear power plant and
supported a Martin Luther King holiday, which hasn't been
enacted here. "I remain critical of the Republicans," he
says. But he switched parties because he calculated that the
campaign leading to the Sept. 11 GOP primary would be a good
forum for his platform of "immediate legalization" of
marijuana and the licensing of other drugs. He is given
almost no chance of winning.
   The winner of this madcap GOP race will face either Joseph
Keefe, a Manchester lawyer who is heavily favored in the
Democratic primary and regarded as a future Democratic star
in the state, or his rival, state Sen. Bobby Stephen, a
conservative, anti-abortion, blue-collar Democrat who is
campaigning on an anti-tax platform.
   The setting for this struggle is the 88 communities in the
eastern congressional district of New Hampshire, stretching
from the state's 13 miles of coastline to what a 17th-century
British adventurer called the "daunting terrible" peaks of
the White Mountains. The region has spawned both "The Great
Stone Face," Nathaniel Hawthorne's well-loved tale of mystery
and honor, and "Peyton Place," Grace Metalious's story of sin
and small towns. It includes both Phillips Exeter Academy and
Mr. Scamman's farm-supply outlet.
   For the past several months, the eight candidates have
trooped through small industrial towns built around old
river-powered mills, visited defense factories planted along
the highways, lingered in tiny hamlets dropped between the
notches of the north country and courted the large
Franco-American community of Manchester, all to little
effect. One poll shows more than two-thirds of the voters are
undecided.
   Not that the contenders are going to need much support.
The last time the congressional seat was open, in 1986, it
took only 9,000 votes to win the GOP nomination. "The shame
is that there aren't enough Democratic votes to take
advantage of the chaos," says David Van Note, a leading
Democrat in North Conway. The Democrats cannot be counted out
-- Norman D'Amours, a Democrat, held the seat for a decade --
but this remains Republican territory, especially in the
northern part of the district. "I'm a little old white-haired
lady," says Marion Putnam, president of the Conway Historical
Society, "and almost everybody I know is a Republican."
   The other GOP candidates are spending most of their time
attacking Mr. Zeliff, whose well-financed campaign will be
the only one to put television commercials on the air and who
is campaigning with a penny jar that he says symbolizes his
commitment to watch federal spending. His rivals are arguing
that the innkeeper is an outsider who, in the words of Mr.
Scamman, is "trying to buy" the election.
   But the Christmas Farm Inn has emerged as something of a
GOP political clubhouse, and such luminaries as Barbara Bush
and members of the Sununu family have lingered on the inn's
venerable green porch. The apparent support of Mr. Sununu --
his son attended a Zeliff fund-raiser and his wife remarked
that she favors the innkeeper -- is also antagonizing some in
the field of candidates.
   "I served the administration that George Bush was a part
of for three years, and I don't appreciate his chief of staff
coming in here like some King Tut, some Middle Eastern
potentate," says Mr. Brady, who became an acclaimed
whistleblower when he revealed that Carter administration
technology transfers were assisting the manufacture of Soviet
tanks. "It's just unfair."
   Mr. Brady, however, has been the beneficiary of support
from the Union Leader, whose headlines have boomed: "Well
Said, Larry Brady"; "Brady was First"; "Brady's Prescience";
"Give 'Em Hell, Larry"; and "Brady Bunch: Not for Wimps."
   At the same time, the paper is portraying Mr. Scamman, who
has a 200-head dairy operation at Bittersweet Farm, as "a
taxer" for his support of an increase in the state's
business-profits tax and in the realestate transfer tax. Mr.
Scamman's picture has run under headlines such as: "The Big
Loser"; "Drunk on Power"; "Devious Doug"; and "Scamman for
Congress?"
   But even Mr. Scamman's rivals know that the newspaper
can't choose the nominee, and the House speaker remains a
major force in perhaps the most unpredictable contest of the
year. "You literally have to shake as many hands as you can
to win this," says Mark Brady, Mr. Brady's son and campaign
manager. "It's a mess, but its how we do things here."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
