<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hechinger Views
   Its Warehouse Unit
   As Growth Vehicle
   ----
   By Anne Nichols
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   HECHB
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANDOVER, Md. -- Hechinger Co. expects its Home Quarters
Warehouse subsidiary to become "the primary growth vehicle
for the company," John Hechinger Jr., president and chief
executive officer, told Dow Jones.
   The retailer of home-improvement products and equipment
currently operates a total of 108 outlets, including 16 Home
Quarters units. Nine more Home Quarters outlets are scheduled
to open in the next few months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Certainly, opening new stores will have a dampening
effect on earnings" for the near term, Mr. Hechinger
conceded. He said the company will open four Home Quarters
units in Boston and will enter the markets of Columbus, Ga.;
Birmingham and Montgomery, Ala.; and Newport News, Va.
   Last year, the company opened four Home Quarters outlets
and 13 Hechinger stores. This year, it will open only two new
Hechinger stores.
   Home Quarters stores, which have about 105,000 square feet
and are nearly twice the size of traditional Hechinger
outlets, carry fewer items and take a more aggressive
discounting approach.
   "One of the big misconceptions with our business is that
it is affected by housing starts," Mr. Hechinger said. The
company targets owners of existing, single-family homes for
do-it-yourself improvements.
   In general, the home-improvement industry is "highly
fragmented," Mr. Hechinger said. "The top 25 chains represent
a small portion of the total business done in the category."
He predicted there will be "fewer and fewer larger players."
   For the fiscal year ended Feb. 3, Hechinger reported
earnings of $34.2 million, or 95 cents a share, on revenue of
$1.23 billion. On Tuesday, Hechinger reported that
first-quarter profit rose 15% to $8.4 million, or 23 cents a
share, from $7.3 million, or 21 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose 20% in the latest quarter.
   Mr. Hechinger declined to make a specific projection for
fiscal 1991, but he expressed confidence in the outlook. "I
feel good about our company's prospects for the future," he
said. "We've grown at 25% a year for 20 years, and I expect a
continued 20% growth range in new markets."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Housing Starts Rise in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Construction of 147,845 houses got under way in
Japan in April, a 0.5% increase from a year earlier, the
Construction Ministry said.
   The rise was in line with a general trend upward,
sustained by long-lasting economic growth led by domestic
demand. Though housing starts fell 2% in March, they have
been rising consistently since August 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, a research institute said housing starts in the
fiscal year that began in April will total about 1.5 million
units, a 10% decline from fiscal 1990, and the same as the
Construction Ministry's earlier estimate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chips &amp; Technologies Lawsuit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CHPS
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Chips &amp; Technologies Inc. said it
settled its trade secrets suit, filed in January, against
Elite Microelectronics Inc. and several former Chips
employees.
   The settlement involves no monetary payment, which Chips
had originally sought. Instead, the agreement stipulates that
an independent inspector make periodic visits to Elite's
facilities to be certain the company isn't using Chips' trade
secrets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit had charged that former Chips engineers and
design managers, who went to work for Elite, were misusing
privileged information about their former employer's VLSI
semiconductors and chip sets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No Lion: California
   Considers Preserving
   A `Harvestable' Cat
   ---
   Will Voters Spend Millions
   On a Thriving Species?
   Point-Blank `Slaughter'
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- Dick Weaver can recall many a mad,
sweat-drenched scramble through thicket and ravine hoping to
catch a mountain lion. More times than not, the lion --
despite a pack of well-trained dogs on its tail -- gave Mr.
Weaver the slip, sometimes by flight, sometimes by fang.
"Dogs have been killed by the lions they chase," he says.
   "People who think this isn't fair chase need to go along
once and try it," agrees Terry Mansfield, a veteran of a
dozen mountain-lion chases. Mr. Weaver is a recently retired
40-year veteran of California's Department of Fish and Game;
Mr. Mansfield is the department's chief fish and wildlife
manager.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Their weapons of choice on mountain lion hunts have been
tranquilizer darts and radio collars as part of the state's
extended cat-counting effort. The official conclusion is that
the California lion, its ranks once perilously thinned by
decades of bounty hunting, has rebounded spectacularly after
18 years of scrupulous state protection.
   The state says there now are perhaps 5,000 mountain lions
in California. In the vernacular of modern game management,
those are "harvestable" numbers -- high enough that the state
has been proposing (unsuccessfully) since 1987 to allow
hunters to kill up to 190 lions a year.
   State Fish and Game officials, in pushing sport hunting of
lions, find themselves with a political tiger by the tail.
Contending that game managers have inflated lion numbers to
promote a sport that borders on barbarism, lion lovers have
bypassed the thickets of state bureaucracy and gone straight
to the voters with a measure that would ban trophy hunting of
the big cats, also known as cougars.
   They have come armed with a powerful image that makes even
the pro-hunting lobby squirm: Because the secretive,
150-pound lions are too wily to be stalked, hunters use
tenacious hounds to chase them up a tree. Once treed -- and
often exhausted -- the lions are shot point-blank with
high-powered rifles.
   "This is not sport," says Sharon Negri, director of the
Mountain Lion Preservation Foundation, which helped collect
signatures to get the lion protection measure on the ballot.
"This is slaughter."
   Indeed, if the initiative, to be decided by voters on
Tuesday, were merely a referendum on lion hunting, the
largely pro-hunting coalition that opposes it likely would
have conceded defeat. Polls by both sides show that up to 80%
of voters, including many hunters, tend to agree with Ms.
Negri, especially since lions are valued for neither food nor
fur and typically end up as trophies on a wall.
   But the measure does much more than cast an anti-hunting
net over the lion: It will cost almost $1 billion over the
next 30 years, a price tag that has been seized by its
detractors in attempting to untrack it. That money will go to
acquire habitat, though not just for lions; two-thirds of it
will be earmarked for other rare and endangered California
species. Some of the land might be used for other purposes,
such as parks, but the animals couldn't be disturbed.
   Conservationists, viewing the annual influx of 600,000 new
residents into a state whose population has tripled since
1945, say the mountain lion will inevitably be crowded out of
its native range unless lion habitat is put aside. The theory
is both ambitious and novel: an attempt to require government
to protect a species, and safeguard its habitat, before it
falls into the threatened category.
   "It does little good to protect lions from hunters if they
don't have a place to roam," says Gerald Meral, director of
the California Planning and Conservation League, among the
many environmental groups campaigning for Proposition 117.
The environmentalists point to Florida, where unbridled
development has reduced the Florida panther, the mountain
lion's once-common first cousin, to as few as 30 animals, on
the verge of extinction.
   The struggle over the lion has been a cat fight for two
decades. Between 1916 and 1971, the lions, which range from
the state's southern deserts to its northernmost coastal rain
forests, were considered a nuisance and hunted for bounties;
more than 12,000 were killed. With evidence that the numbers
of lions were in steep decline, Gov. Ronald Reagan approved a
moratorium on lion hunting in 1971.That moratorium stayed in
place until 1985, when Gov. George Deukmejian vetoed a bill
that would have extended it while biologists measured the
lion population.
   But when Fish and Game attempted to open a lion hunting
season, Ms. Negri's group and others blocked the hunts in
court, convincing state judges that the department hadn't
adequately assessed the lion population before deciding there
were huntable numbers.
   Finally, the cat's friends, sure that the state would
persist in its lion-hunting efforts, collected 700,000
signatures last year to force Prop 117 onto the ballot. "In
truth, many of us didn't want to do an initiative," says Ms.
Negri. "But the people want to see the mountain lion
protected. We believe you can't take a good-ole-boy
management program and shove it down the people's throat."
   Prop 117 proponents say $30 million a year is a small
price to pay -- just 1/20th of 1% of California's annual
budget. But the price tag has provided an issue for
opponents, including the National Rifle Association, to
scratch away at support in a state where the mere whiff of
extravagant spending can doom a measure.
   Mr. Weaver, the retired Fish and Game man, is heading an
umbrella organization called Californians for Fair Spending
on Wildlife Protection. He says the cost is particularly
onerous considering the state's conclusion that the lion --
far from threatened -- may be overabundant in some places.
   Game officials cite statistics that the number of lions
killed after preying on livestock or other domestic animals
is up from about 10 a year in the 1970s to 72 last year. They
also note that while the lion is indeed rare or non-existent
in most states east of the Mississippi River, mountain lions
thrive in 11 other Western states, all of which continue to
allow annual hunts.
   Mr. Weaver also argues that since only half of the $30
million in annual habitat spending would come from new
sources, the other half probably would come at the expense of
existing habitat and species protection programs. This, he
says, "is bad game management."
   Mr. Weaver's coalition has also gotten support from
unlikely sources: a sprinkling of state health-care
providers. Last year, voters approved a new tobacco tax, with
most of the money going to health programs. But some of that
tobacco-tax money would also be used in the land acquisition
program. The health workers worry about health programs going
begging for the benefit of saving wildlife. The NRA and other
Prop 117 opponents have picked up on that argument, telling
voters that the initiative isn't bad because it bans hunting,
but because it steals health care from widows, orphans and
indigents.
   Mr. Weaver's coalition also includes the California
Cattlemen's Association and the state's Farm Bureau
Federation, whose members object to further public land
acquisitions; half of California is in public ownership
already. They also worry about increased lion attacks on
livestock, though the initiative continues to allow hunters
to kill lions feeding on farm animals.
   In any case, all this is much ado about nothing, argues
Jim Gibbons, coordinator of California Houndsmen for
Conservation, a 5,000-member hunting group that opposes Prop
117. Mr. Gibbons insists that his members mostly just want to
chase the lions to take pictures of them, which has always
been allowed. "The thrill of the sport is to run the things
and catch them," he says. "Most of our guys shoot with
cameras."
   If Proposition 117 passes, however, hunters can even leave
their cameras at home: The measure appears to outlaw chase of
lions by dogs for any reason.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Junk Buy-Backs Take Off;
   Issuers Spring at Discounts
   ---
   Often-Secret Moves
   Can Boost Earnings
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   BUR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate buy-backs of junk bonds hit a record
$2.5 billion during the first quarter and are expected to set
new highs for the year.
   Dozens of companies that sold junk bonds to investors now
are rushing to buy them back at a steep discount. Traders say
that the surge in buy-backs is one reason -- along with
falling interest rates -- for the recent modest rally in the
sagging junk market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The buy-back trend started to sizzle after the junk-bond
market went into a tailspin last September. Since then,
prices of some high-yield, high-risk bonds have fallen as
much as 40%, creating opportunities for companies that have
access to large amounts of cash to buy back their debt on the
cheap.
   Tom Mandel, a portfolio manager at 1838 Investment
Advisors L.P., believes that corporate treasurers are among
the biggest buyers of junk bonds. "It's clearly a big help to
the market. People at least have bids for their bonds,
whereas before they could easily have not had any. You're not
always getting a fair price, but at least you're getting
something."
   Joseph Bencivenga, director and manager of high-yield
research at Salomon Brothers Inc., said the buy-backs have
provided a firm floor under the depressed junk market.
   Most of the $2.5 billion of junk bonds that corporations
bought back in the first quarter were repurchased informally
in the open market, according to statistics compiled by First
Boston Corp. But the figures also include bonds that were
formally "called" or retired.
   The buy-backs are great for the issuers, which get to
retire their debt at a discount to face value in transactions
that can boost earnings. In recent months, traders have
spotted Burlington Industries Inc., Mark IV Industries Inc.,
Coltec Industries Inc., Levi Strauss &amp; Co. and many others
actively buying back their bonds.
   But don't expect to hear much about the trend. Traders
said the buy-backs are often kept secret, at least long
enough for the companies to buy the bonds while prices are
still cheap. That's very different from the stock market,
where companies routinely announce stock repurchase programs.
But then, the purpose of buying back stock is often to boost
prices, whereas bond buy-backs are designed to retire debt
cheaply.
   "We have such an illiquid market, that as soon as a
company announces it's buying back debt, prices jump," said
Kingman Penniman, senior vice president at McCarthy, Crisanti
&amp; Maffei, a Xerox Corp. unit. "Once you advertise that you're
buying, nobody wants to sell at low prices."
   On and off speculation that RJR Nabisco Inc. is
considering buying between $1 billion and $2 billion of its
junk bonds have kept prices of those bonds gyrating wildly in
recent months.
   Burlington Industries, a textile and apparel maker,
quietly repurchased junk bonds with a face value of $260
million for just $200 million -- a $60 million discount. Like
many junk-bond issuers, Burlington took out a bank loan to
get the money to buy back its bonds. Banks are often willing
to make such loans to corporate clients because the buy-backs
improve a company's financial health, investment bankers say.
   Burlington said the transaction resulted in a $14 million
net extraordinary gain to first-quarter earnings. Burlington,
which reported a net loss for the quarter, purchased the
bonds between January and March.
   There are signs, however, that bondholders are starting to
balk at the low-ball bids received from companies.
   "One thing that may slow down repurchases is bondholders
themselves, if they feel they are not being adequately
compensated," said Salomon's Mr. Bencivenga.
   On Wednesday, for example, Michelin &amp; Cie.'s Michelin
Finance unit said it was unsuccessful in its attempt to buy
back the junk bonds of its Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co.
subsidiary. Although Michelin offered to pay bondholders
premiums over current market prices, junk-bond traders said
investors held out for more money.
   The Michelin transaction differs from many recent
buy-backs in that the French tire maker made a formal, public
offer to investors.
   Most companies, however, quietly buy up their junk bonds.
Often, the buy-backs are initiated by traders on behalf of
large institutional investors that have been unable to sell
their bonds. Some money managers say they contact junk-bond
issuers directly and negotiate buy-back agreement without the
help of Wall Street.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mr. Coffee Stock Issue
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAVA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mr. Coffee Inc.'s initial public offering
reached the market at a premium to its $10-a-share offering
price, and ended the day at $11.125 a share on national
over-the-counter volume of 4.2 million shares.
   Four million shares were brought to market; the Bedford
Heights, Ohio, coffeemaker company, which was bought in 1987
for $72 million, will pay off two-thirds of the debt that was
used to acquire it. Three million shares were offered by the
company; one million by existing shareholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offering was underwritten by a syndicate led by Alex.
Brown &amp; Sons Inc. The stock's trading symbol is JAVA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   Rights Bill Opposed; Breathing Room in Clean Air Act
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SMALL BUSINESS LOBBIES against proposals for a new civil
rights bill.
   Congressional sponsors of the new bill want to override
several recent Supreme Court decisions that they say weaken
the 1964 Civil Rights Act banning employment discrimination.
But small-business groups argue that the bill would, in
effect, require hiring quotas, which they say would hurt
firms with fewer workers; they focus their lobbying on
President Bush, who has said he won't sign a "quota" bill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They also oppose a change that would add punitive damages
for intentional discrimination. An amendment by Missouri GOP
Sen. John Danforth revising some terms "doesn't begin to
solve the problem," says Nancy Fulco, human resources
attorney for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
   Compared with the current law, the language of the new
bill would make it harder for an employer to prove that its
hiring process is fair, says John Galles, executive vice
president of National Small Business United. But an aide to
Sen. Danforth says the new wording simply summarizes the
essence of earlier civil rights case law. And as for damages,
Ralph Neas, executive director of the Leadership Conference
on Civil Rights, adds: "We've said from the beginning that
this bill has two purposes: to overturn five Supreme Court
decisions and to add monetary damages for intentional
discrimination."
   The bill's backers deny that the legislation would
effectively mandate quotas and accuse opponents of trying to
delay passage.
   ---
   CLEAN AIR COMPROMISES by the House make small firms
breathe easier.
   Small business won two important amendments in the clean
air bill passed last week by the House. One amendment would
enable a small business to reduce emissions by using
reformulated chemicals or operating at different hours
instead of simply buying costly anti-pollution equipment.
Another would let companies apply for one emissions permit in
their home state, which then would automatically seek the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's approval. The original
bill required seeking separate permits from the home state,
all contiguous states and the federal government.
   The separate clean air bill passed earlier by the Senate
says the states should decide permit issues. But "if Congress
doesn't take care of this now, they'll have to come back and
fix it within a year, like kids coming back to do extra work
after school," says Christian Braunlich, director of the
National Association of Manufacturers' small manufacturers'
forum.
   Small furniture manufacturers are relieved that the House
measure also would require states to give small concerns
technical compliance information. The American Furniture
Manufacturers Association says that because of California's
air-quality rules, its industry has lost about 2,000 of the
14,000 jobs it once had in Southern California.
   A House-Senate conference will iron out differences
between the two bills. Small-business lobbyists believe the
favorable House provisions will be retained in the final
clean air package sent to President Bush.
   ---
   IT'S A MYTH that small businesses create most of the
nation's jobs, three economists argue in a new book,
"Employers Large and Small," (Harvard University Press). The
book, by Harvard's James Medoff and James Hamilton and
University of Michigan's Charles Brown, seeks to debunk the
theory, prominently espoused by economist and consultant
David Birch, that most job growth depends on entrepreneurs.
The authors argue that when the high failure rate of small
concerns is considered, they create jobs roughly in
proportion to their share of the work force. Mr. Birch
counters that federal studies support his view that small
firms create a disproportionate share of new jobs.
   ---
   A NEW CANDIDATE emerges for the Small Business
Administration's chief counsel for advocacy, a post vacant
since last fall. Robert Hsueh, an immigration lawyer from
Texas, has been through the rigorous government background
check and is expected to be the nominee. The Bush
administration's last nominee, educator Kyo Jhin, withdrew
from consideration in February.
   ---
   BUDGET GIMMICKRY? Small firms are wary about current
fiscal talks.
   "There's no deficit crisis, there's a political crisis,"
charges Lawrence Hunter, deputy chief economist for the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. He contends that some lawmakers are
trying to scare the public with talk of a vastly more
expensive savings and loan industry bail-out in order to
raise taxes and avoid politically painful spending cuts.
   Another proposal for a capital gains tax cut is expected
to come out of the summit, but it may get a lukewarm
reception from small business. Such interests say very small
companies won't benefit from the cut, and medium-sized ones
fear it will carry a price tag -- other hefty taxes. A major
worry of many small businesses: new environmental taxes,
aimed at forcing companies to recycle solvents and other
materials. "All you have to do is cloak yourself in the good
flag of environmentalism and you can tax . . . all sorts of
things," says Dirk Van Dongen, president of the National
Association of Wholesaler-Distributors.
   National Small Business United says its members are
willing to face some tax increases, but only if there are
also real spending cuts.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: Some 18% of small manufacturers surveyed this
year by the National Association of Manufacturers said they
derive from 5% to 10% of their revenue from exports. Only 12%
put exports at that level when surveyed in 1989. . . . Mad at
your computer? Emote Control Systems Inc., an Arlington, Va.,
start-up firm, offers "Smack 'n Toss," a spongy toy
resembling a computer monitor and keyboard that squeals when
pounded or stomped on. The toy comes complete with an
abuser's guide and warranty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong to Expand Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong will expand its fledgling Exchange
Fund bill program to include treasury instruments that are
longer than 13 weeks in duration, David Nendick, the colony's
secretary for monetary affairs, said.
   Mr. Nendick said that he is pleased with the dozen weekly
auctions of the tax-free bills to date, but that some changes
will be made after the initial program ends next Tuesday. "To
enhance the effectiveness of the bills as money market
instruments, bills of other maturities up to 12 months may be
issued additionally from time to time," he said. The
government began auctioning off the 13-week bills in
mid-March to provide a mechanism to adjust liquidity in the
system. About 3.5 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$444.9
million) of bills have been offered in HK$300 million
installments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hong Kong has had a steady stream of budget surpluses, so
it doesn't need to rely on treasury debt issues for fiscal
reasons. The auctions for Exchange Fund bills have found a
steady local appetite and are regularly oversubscribed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Economic Data
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's gross domestic product rose 0.1% in
March as a result of an increase in output of goods-producing
industries, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   The increase followed a 0.1% gain in February and a 0.1%
decline in January. In the first quarter, the figure rose
0.2%. It reflects the total value of the country's output of
goods and services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, output of goods rose 0.2% partly because of a
pickup in the production of autos and auto parts. Output of
the services industry remained unchanged.
   Separately, the Canadian Conference Board reported that
its index of business confidence fell in the first quarter to
its lowest level since 1983. The board's survey was conducted
in mid-March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Offers Warrants
   In Play on Belgian Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   SB B.CMT B.DEF B.PET B.SOL B.BBL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Salomon Inc. offered a novel way for investors
to bet on a rise in Belgian share prices without the
complications of dealing on the Brussels Bourse.
   The New York-based investment banking firm offered 500,000
warrants representing a basket of six blue-chip Belgian
shares at 283 Belgian francs ($8.17) each, or a total of 142
million Belgian francs ($4.1 million). Such share warrants
have proliferated in several other European countries in
recent years, but bankers here said they believed Salomon's
issue was the first of its kind in Belgium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Each 100 warrants represents the current value of two
shares of Barco N.V., one of Bekaert N.V., one of S.A.
Cimenteries CBR, four of Delhaize "Le Lion" S.A. Belgium,
three of Petrofina S.A. and two of Solvay &amp; Cie. Based on
yesterday's share prices, the warrants are priced at a
premium of 18.6%. That means that, if the warrant is held for
its full 18-month life, the value of the underlying shares
would have to rise at least 18.6% to make it profitable for
holders.
   The warrants can be exercised from June 29, 1990, through
Nov. 29, 1991. They will be listed on the London and
Luxembourg stock exchanges. The issue is being distributed by
Salomon's London investment banking unit as well as Dumenil
Leble Bank (Belgium) S.A. and Banque Bruxelles Lambert S.A.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Benton Oil Completes a Well
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BNTN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   VENTURA, Calif. -- Benton Oil &amp; Gas Co. said it completed
the Steidlmayer 6-2A well in Colusa County, Calif., which
tested at a rate of 4.9 million cubic feet of natural gas a
day without water. Calculated absolute flow was determined to
be 9.6 million cubic feet a day.
   The well was tested using a 16/64ths-inch opening with
flowing tubing pressure of 3,083 pounds per square inch. The
well was drilled to 7,750 feet and output was found between
7,588 feet and 7,624 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BMW's 5-Month Sales Rose 3%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, an
auto maker, said its world-wide group sales in this year's
first five months totaled 11.6 billion marks ($6.89 billion),
up 3% from a year earlier.
   Chairman Eberhard V. Kuenheim, in remarks prepared for
BMW's annual meeting, said the company produced 237,000 autos
in the first five months, but didn't provide a year-earlier
comparison. He said new registrations of BMWs world-wide at
231,000 units were little changed from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Coca-Cola `MagiCans' Go Poof After Just Three Weeks
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   KO
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Goodbye "MagiCans."
   Only three weeks after launching the biggest advertising
campaign in its history, Coca-Cola Co. is abandoning the core
of its $100 million summer promotion. The much-hyped
MagiCans, which resemble regular cans of Coca-Cola Classic
but actually contain money and certificates for prizes, were
tarnished by malfunctions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But more damaging than the cans' defects, according to
industry executives, was the incessant bad publicity that
seemed to surround the promotion.
   "There was too much negative press," says one industry
executive familiar with the campaign. Coke, he adds, "decided
let's just end this before the press got any worse." However,
a Coca-Cola spokesman says, "We felt winding down the program
was appropriate because we didn't want any consumers to be
concerned about any Coke promotion."
   Last night, Coke was scheduled to begin running ads that
say: "The last MagiCans are out there, but not for long. So
look for MagiCans today, because now you see them, soon you
won't."
   Abandoning MagiCans is a blow to Coca-Cola's image as a
premier marketer. Enamored of the technical gimmickry that
delivered scrolled money from inside a can, Coke spent more
than two years developing the technology. It had even
test-marketed the cans in Iowa and Illinois cities last fall.
   But with a growing number of reports that prize-delivery
mechanisms were broken -- and that one boy in Massachusetts
had drunk some foul-smelling water from one of the cans --
the company now may be left with more than 500,000 MagiCans
on its hands and potential problems with the prizes inside.
   Original plans called for the distribution of 750,000
MagiCans through Aug. 15, according to the official game
rules made available in grocery stores. A Coke spokesman says
"hundreds of thousands of cans" are already in the market.
The cans, according to the new ads, will be "going, going,
gone by mid-June." One industry executive says the promotion
will end with about 200,000 cans actually distributed.
   The official rules, however, specify exact numbers of
prizes to be won. For example, the promotion was supposed to
make 25 cans available with $500 bills inside, the rules say,
and 560,050 cans with $5 bills. Now, Coke officials are
huddling to figure out what the legal ramifications are,
according to the industry executive. Says Coke's spokesman:
"We've made no decision on what we'll do with those prizes."
   Supposed to be a flashy, no-hitches promotion, MagiCans
have become a major preoccupation at Coke headquarters here.
As reports of the malfunctions grew -- some 70 consumers have
called Coke to complain -- concerned officials began doing
consumer research to determine to what extent the brand's
image was damaged. And work on other marketing projects was
sidetracked as top Coke officials wrestled with problems with
MagiCans.
   The MagiCans were the heart of the summer promotion for
Coke's flagship brand. The campaign also includes commercials
with the vocal group New Kids on the Block and giveaways such
as cups that feature peel-off stickers with prizes
underneath. While the MagiCans will disappear, Coke still
plans to continue with the remainder of the Classic
promotion.
   In recent days, Coke has tried to salvage the MagiCan
campaign. Research had indicated that many consumers --
despite the mechanical problems -- still took a fancy to the
cans. Moreover, the promotion was boosting sales.
Nonetheless, Coke began a series of full-page newspaper ads
warning people about the faulty mechanisms. Advising
consumers to "take a good look" at the MagiCans, the ads
described the difference between a broken prize device and a
working one.
   The ads also instructed people not to drink from a
MagiCan, which contains water instead of Coke to give the can
the feel of the real thing. Health officials who tested some
of the water found that it wasn't harmful, but Coke still
could face potential liabilities from any consumers who
accidentally ingested it.
   Says Coke's spokesman: "Given that there are no health or
safety issues involved here, legal considerations played no
part in our decision."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Court Dismisses
   Suit Against Pfizer
   Over Heart Valve
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PFE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A California court dismissed a lawsuit that
would have forced Pfizer Inc. to notify about 60,000 people
that they had received a potentially defective artificial
heart valve.
   In March, Public Citizen, a consumer group associated with
Ralph Nader, filed a lawsuit in state court in Los Angeles
asking that Pfizer's Shiley subsidiary be required to contact
valve recipients, advise them of the valves' history of
defects, and pay for medical consultation and psychological
counseling. Pfizer has argued that the recipients should be
told about the valve by their doctors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling, by Los Angeles superior court Judge Ronald M.
Sohigian, is the latest in a series of lawsuits related to
the Shiley-Bjork convexo-concave heart valve that have cast a
shadow over Pfizer, raising questions about the size of its
financial liabilities stemming from the valve.
   Pfizer's announcement of the court's decision buoyed the
company's shares, which closed at $65.875 a share, up $2.25,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   Pfizer said the court ruled that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration regulations pre-empt California state law
regarding medical devices. Although the FDA has ruled that
patients should be advised about the valve's potential
problems by their doctors, it is holding hearings to consider
whether to change its position.
   Pfizer has told the FDA that 394 of 85,000 heart valves it
sold world-wide between 1978 and 1986 are known to have
failed because of the fracture of a particular part. The flaw
has resulted in 252 reported deaths. The two models in
question are Shiley's 60-degree and 70-degree convexoconcave
Bjork model heart valves. The FDA banned the use of one model
in 1986; the company also stopped selling the other model.
   In its suit, Washington-based Public Citizen charged that
despite the problem, neither Shiley nor Pfizer has directly
alerted recipients of the valves or their personal doctors.
The consumer group said people ought to be advised of the
symptoms of a failing valve in order to have it treated
quickly.
   Brian Wolfman, a Public Citizen lawyer, said the court's
ruling was "wrong," noting that California law can require
direct patient notification despite the FDA position.
   He said the group will appeal the court's decision.
   Steven Kany, a Pfizer lawyer, said the company believes
that most, perhaps all, valve recipients already know about
the valve's problems from their doctors, or from news stories
and advertisements by product-liability lawyers. Moreover,
"Public Citizen knows that we don't have the names of about
half the people who received the valves," Mr. Kany said,
"That is known by the doctors who implanted the valves or
treat recipients."
   The issue of notification may become more important
pending the outcome of another lawsuit by a woman who is
seeking damages from Pfizer due to anxiety about the valve's
performance. In early May another California court ruled that
the recipient can sue Shiley even though her valve hasn't
failed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equitable Life Makes Painful Decisions,
   But Firm Felt It Had Few Other Options
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cutting costs by $100 million in the next 100 days will be
painful, but Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. has
decided that it has few other options.
   Shackled by a substantial shortage of capital, the U.S.'s
third-largest life insurance company has decided it must get
a grip quickly on its out-of-control expenses. That means
streamlining corporate management, cutting sales commissions
to agents and slashing the dividend the firm pays
policyholders. The challenge is especially tricky for
Equitable, which must make sure the next austerity moves
don't drive away too many of its 11,000 agents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An internal company memo from a recent meeting quotes
Robert Barth, president of Equitable's largest unit, as
saying: "While there is still a residue of distrust among
agents, it's reassuring to see the support by agency managers
to recent cutbacks in commissions, etc. We will lose some
agents and business, but we'll have to live with it."
   Equitable's array of problems, reflected in the departure
two weeks ago of its president and the resignation last week
of its chief financial officer, are dogging the company in
the marketplace. Never a triple-A-rated insurer, Equitable
faces fresh concerns about its junk-bond holdings.
   Executive shake-ups in the past two years and the poor
public-relations job the company has done in managing these
changes have caused the company's reputation to slip among
its peers and among consumers. Some agents complain that they
now have to spend as much time selling the company name as
they do peddling Equitable's life insurance and financial
products.
   Insiders say morale is very low. Nowhere is it worse than
among Equitable's agents, which some industry observers see
as one of the company's most valuable assets. As part of its
cost-savings moves, Equitable has cut agents' commissions as
many as 10 percentage points on some products, as well as the
dividends paid to policyholders. Industry analysts say the
investment yields Equitable pays on some investment-type
policies have been reduced by about a half-percentage point
below the going rate among the company's chief competitors.
   While these actions save money for Equitable, they don't
make the agents' jobs any easier. Lower dividends and
investment yields make it all that much tougher to close a
sale, agents say.
   The next 12 to 18 months promise to be particularly
difficult for the company. Industry peers as well company
insiders hope the new management has the stamina and courage
to make the hard choices needed to get Equitable back on
track.
   Michael Puccia, head of Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.'s life
insurance rating analysis group, says Equitable had relied on
superior investment performance "to bolster earnings and to
mask problems such as its bloated expense structure." Now, he
says he expects new management will shift the company's focus
toward "product profitability."
   Equitable "hasn't shown solid {companywide} earnings
performance in many years. The company needs to get control
of its operations so most of its cylinders are clicking at
the same time," Mr. Puccia says.
   Since John B. Carter's sudden departure as president and
chief executive officer, Equitable Chairman Richard H.
Jenrette has intervened to assume those duties and to push
for rapid change. Commenting on his self-imposed deadline of
100 days, he says, "If you don't make changes then, you don't
do them later on."
   But the 61-year-old Mr. Jenrette recognizes the anxiety he
is stirring up. "All this talk of cost-cutting has engendered
some apprehension around here. But I do feel people are
genuinely pulling for me," he says. "We want to be lean and
smart, not lean and mean."
   Thomas M. Kirwan, whom Mr. Jenrette has picked as chief
financial officer, noted in a recent internal memo that
combining Equitable's three financial areas into one unit
should save the company some $14 million. In addition, there
have been discussions of proposals to cut about $40 million
in sales-agent expenses. But Mr. Jenrette stressed that no
cost-cutting plans for agents have been finalized.
   Even so, there are some costs that Mr. Jenrette and his
new team won't be able to whittle down soon. For instance,
company insiders say Equitable has leased hundreds of
thousands of square feet of prime office space in Manhattan
that the company isn't using and can't dispose of. The first
of the leases doesn't expire until 1996. In one building,
Equitable can't find any takers for its offer to sublet at
$14 a square foot, while the company continues to pay $28.
   One of the objectives of Mr. Jenrette's cost-cutting
mission is to help Equitable build up capital. Analysts say
other insurance giants such as Prudential Insurance Cos. and
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. are nearly 50% better
capitalized than Equitable.
   Mr. Jenrette concedes that Equitable must "demonstrate a
high level of earnings" on its $61.7 billion of assets to
build capital and win a higher claims-paying rating from the
Wall Street houses. In the past few years, lack of capital
has made Equitable downplay a joint venture with Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co. known as Tandem Financial. Similarly, Equitable
was forced to sell Integrity Life Insurance Co., an Arizona
concern that marketed Equitable products through banks and
brokerage firms. In the mid-1980s, while Equitable was
involved in these ventures, it eliminated several product
lines that were attractive to investors because the company
lacked sufficient capital to support them.
   But Mr. Jenrette believes Equitable still has some hidden
assets. He contends that the company's stake in its
investment units, including Alliance Capital, Equitable
Capital Management, and Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, is
probably worth about $1 billion more than what the insurer
lists on its balance sheet. He adds that Equitable has equity
positions in various start-up companies, which it carries on
the books at about $200 million.
   "Over time," he says, "these could be worth a good bit
more."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Chairman
   Sounds Warning
   On Stock Futures
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Richard Breeden said that the current debate over stock-index
futures is similar to the dispute over the savings and loan
crisis and that "people have been warned."
   Mr. Breeden, who is battling with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission for regulatory control over the
commodity-exchange products, also contended that the U.S.
regulatory structure is "not a strongly successful model that
the whole world tries to emulate. We are losing market share
{in stock-index futures} at a very rapid rate." He added:
"Volume is down in the last three years {in index futures}.
It's not this rapidly growing product."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The arguments, in an interview, were some of the strongest
to date by Mr. Breeden, who has stepped up his rhetoric in an
effort to win support for a Treasury Department proposal to
shift jurisdiction of index futures.
   Citing the thrift crisis, Mr. Breeden said, "People have
said, `Why didn't somebody warn us?' Well, here you have a
bunch of people warning." Specifically, he argued that the
leverage created by low margins in the futures industry
causes excess volatility. Noting that margins on index
futures stood at 2.2% before the stock market's plunge last
Oct. 13, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 6.9%, he
said, "Even thrifts don't have 97.8% leverage."
   He said that Congress should move to create federal
oversight of futures margins, which currently are set by the
commodity exchanges and can be changed by the CFTC only in
specific emergencies. Those exchanges are dependent on volume
encouraged by lower margins, Mr. Breeden said. "We have
thought that is something very prudent to try to correct."
   Moreover, he argued that the securities markets have been
more innovative in the past decade than the commodities
markets, largely aided by regulators. He cited off-board
trading and upstairs trading in the securities markets, while
commodities markets can only trade by the open outcry method.
   Those who argue that innovation has been only in futures
are offering "a complete mischaracterization," Mr. Breeden
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lafarge Buys Stake in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   LAF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   RESTON, Va. -- Lafarge Corp., a construction materials
maker, said it purchased 52% of a new aggregate and asphalt
company, Parker Lafarge Inc., formed from assets previously
owned by Houston-based Parker Brothers &amp; Co., which will
retain a 48% interest. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The new company has annual sales of about $40 million.
Lafarge, which has many operations in Canada, said the
acquisition is part of its expansion in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Net at Software
   Toolworks Surged
   During 4th Period
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANNY TWRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHATSWORTH, Calif. -- Software Toolworks Inc. said net
income more than tripled in its fourth quarter ended March
31, bolstered by its recent acquisition of Mindscape Inc. and
strong sales of computer game products.
   The maker of entertainment, educational and office
software said net rose to $2.3 million, or 12 cents a share,
from $740,000, or five cents a share, a year earlier.
Per-share amounts are adjusted for a 2-for-1 split paid April
4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest period includes an after-tax charge of $1.2
million related to costs of the Mindscape acquisition and
$677,000 in tax credits for previous losses.
   Revenue jumped 78% in the quarter, to $21.9 million from
$12.3 million. Shares outstanding averaged 20.3 million in
the latest period, compared with 16 million a year earlier.
   The company acquired Mindscape on March 15 in a stock swap
valued at about $40 million. Because the transaction is being
accounted for under the pooling-of-interests method, the
latest period's results as well as the earlier ones include
those of Mindscape, a company official said.
   Mindscape, based in Northbrook, Ill., has a license to
produce game cartridges for Nintendo Co. computer game
system. Software Toolworks said its latest results were
boosted by the company's release of an "Infiltrator" game for
the Nintendo system as well as sales of older game products
including "Paperboy," "Road Blaster" and "The Hunt for Red
October."
   Software Toolworks said it signed a letter of intent with
Canon Inc. of Japan to develop software for the Canon
Navigator IBM-compatible personal computer to be released
this year.
   For the year ended March 31, Software Toolworks' net was
$2.5 million, or 14 cents a share. It had a net loss of $4.3
million, or 29 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue swelled
96% to $68.7 million from $35.0 million. Average shares
outstanding, adjusted for the 2-for-1 split, rose to 18.3
million from 14.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Bush Sniffs a Deal,
   But I Smell a Trap
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   In Paul A. Gigot's May 11 Potomac Watch column, "The
President Sniffs Out a Budget Deal," he wrote of the belly
laughs that talk of a line-item veto and other significant
budget reforms invokes inside the Washington Beltway. Well,
I'm holding my stomach after reading Mr. Gigot's column, not
from laughter, but from that sinking feeling one gets when he
realizes disaster has just about hit. When so astute an
observer as Mr. Gigot is tempted to give serious credence to
the seductive offer of deals by the big spenders and taxers,
one has to worry that the Washington virus of wishful
thinking has reached epidemic proportions. The budget
"reforms" now dangled before the president are nothing more
than fig leafs offered to a man being asked to humiliate
himself.
   None of the big spenders and taxers are talking about true
budget reform such as constitutional line-item-veto authority
and a balanced-budget/tax-limitation constitutional
amendment. (If the president is serious about wanting a
line-item veto, why doesn't he go ahead and exercise the
line-item-veto authority he professes to believe the
Constitution already grants the president?)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   None of the taxers and spenders are talking about
returning the Social Security surplus to taxpayers -- to end
the current dishonest practice of diverting Social Security
taxes to pay for general government spending -- and extending
Gramm-Rudman through 1999 to make up the lost revenues by
restraining spending growth. All we see so far are flimsy
proposals to enhance presidential rescission authority with a
simple majority-rule congressional override provision and
dangerous balanced-budget requirements with impotent "tax
notification" provisions that would increase the
already-substantial bias toward raising taxes.
   The administration is playing a very dangerous game by
tantalizing Congress with the suggestion that it is willing
to trade large tax increases for budget-process reform.
Bush's boys easily could blunder into a situation when they
trap the president into a corner and he is forced to trade
off tax increases against superficial budget-process reform.
Then we can all hold our noses with one hand as we sniff the
deal and hold our stomachs with the other hand, and, again,
it won't be from laughter.
   Lawrence A. Hunter
   Deputy Chief Economist
   U.S. Chamber of Commerce
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Norsk Hydro AS
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NHY EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   NORSK HYDRO AS (Stockholm) -- Egil Myklebust, a
48-year-old lawyer who heads a Norwegian business and
industry confederation, was designated chief executive
officer of this state-controlled petroleum, fertilizer and
metals concern, to succeed Torvild Aakvaag, 63, who is to
retire next year. Mr. Myklebust, a former veteran executive
at Norsk Hydro, will rejoin the company in the fall and is
expected to serve as deputy to Mr. Aakvaag before succeeding
him sometime next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bull &amp; Bear Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9B
</SO>
<CO>
   BNBGA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bull &amp; Bear Group Inc., a manager of mutual
funds, said it terminated efforts to seek a buyer or an
equity partner in a joint venture arrangement for its fund
management business.
   Bassett S. Winmill, chairman of Bull &amp; Bear, said, "While
we received numerous expressions of interest, acceptable
terms could not be negotiated which would be in the best
long-term interests of both our employees and our
shareholders."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company manages about $345 million in fund assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Banks' Bad Debts
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- The bad debt expenses of banks in Australia more
than doubled during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1989,
reaching almost three billion Australian dollars (US$2.32
billion), according to a new KPMG Peat Marwick 1990 Financial
Institutions Performance Survey.
   In announcing the survey results, Michael Ullmer, chairman
of KPMG Peat Marwick's Banking Industry Group, attributed the
increase in bad debt expenses to aggressive lending to
entrepreneurs coupled with the government's high
interest-rate policy in 1988 and 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial Jobless Benefits Claims
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 343,000
in the week ended May 19, from 353,000 the previous week, the
Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended May 12 rose to a seasonally adjusted
2,434,000, or 2.3% of those covered by unemployment
insurance, from 2,379,000 the previous week, when the insured
unemployment rate was also 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended May 12 rose to 2,336,500, from 2,328,600 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alcide's Elliot J. Siff
   Resigns 2 Top Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ALCD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- Alcide Corp.'s chairman and chief
executive officer, Elliott J. Siff, resigned after 10 years
with the manufacturer of disinfecting pharmaceuticals and
systems.
   "It's a good, opportune time for someone to come in and
take over management," the 59-year-old Mr. Siff said. The
company narrowed its loss to seven cents a share from nine
cents for the nine months ended Feb. 28. Sales rose 12% to
$1.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Siff says the company "will be close to break-even"
for the fourth quarter "and looks forward to a profitable
first quarter" of fiscal 1991.
   Alcide's products and systems destroy microorganisms
including bacteria, viruses and fungi. Its markets include
pharmaceuticals and health care, food processing and animal
health.
   Mr. Siff, who will continue with Alcide as a consultant,
plans to work on some new projects. One he mentions is a $60
million blind pool: a fund formed by investors from which Mr.
Siff hopes to start a number of high-technology companies in
various fields.
   While the company seeks out a successor, Thomas L.
Kempner, 63, will be chairman of the management committee and
acting chairman of the board. Mr. Kempner is chairman and
chief executive of Loeb Partners Corp., an investment banking
firm.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Alcide shares were
quoted at $1 bid, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norway's Unemployment Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   OSLO -- Norway's unemployment rate was 3.9% at the end of
May, down from 4.2% at the end of April but up from 3.5% a
year earlier, Arbeidsdirektoratet, the government's labor
agency, said.
   The jobless rate peaked at 4.7% in January, when 101,900
people were out of work. The May total was 84,800 -- 52,200
men and 32,600 women -- down 6,700 from one month earlier but
up 8,500 from a year earlier. The rate data excluded 45,600
people employed in extraordinary state work programs, down
4,800 from last month and up 9,300 from 12 months earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Good Guys] Will Expand
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- The Good Guys], an electronics products
retailer in Northern California and Nevada, said it is
expanding into Southern California, opening 10 to 12 stores
in the area within 18 months.
   The company said its first store, which will open in Los
Angeles on July 1, will be the first major consumer
electronics store in the U.S. to operate 24 hours a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Sale of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's Hay Unit
   Appears Imminent, at a Reduced Price
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co.'s long-awaited sale of its Hay Group
unit finally appears imminent -- at a price far below what it
once hoped to fetch for the consulting company.
   People close to Hay confirmed that a management buy-out of
the Philadelphia-based firm that specializes in compensation,
employee benefits and human resources planning would be
announced as early as next week. The price is expected to
range between $85 million and $95 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although such a management buy-out has been rumored
repeatedly over the past few months, an executive familiar
with Saatchi's plans said negotiations were finished and all
that remained was for Hay to complete financing and legal
details. Both Saatchi and Hay declined to comment.
   The sale of Hay to its own managers would nearly complete
Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's withdrawal from the world of management
consulting, a field it once vowed it would dominate. What's
more, even in retreat, the troubled British advertising giant
fell short of its own expectations.
   The company last June told analysts it hoped to bring in
between $393 million and $550 million from the sale of its
stable of a dozen or so consulting businesses. But, including
the Hay sale, Saatchi's major consulting companies have
brought only about $132 million: Saatchi late last year sold
its interest in its Information Consulting Group unit to
McKinsey &amp; Co. for $12 million, while the sale of a small
consulting company in France, one in Britain and of Cleveland
Consulting Associates in the U.S. fetched $25 million total.
Of major units, only Gartner Group, a company smaller than
Hay, remains unsold.
   The executive familiar with Saatchi's situation said
Saatchi had been discussing continuing to hold a mortgage of
about 20% of the Hay purchase price, and that it was
understood that a third, British investor, might assume an
equity position in Hay.
   One analyst said a final sale would be positive for all
concerned. "This whole episode is best closed," said Alan
Gottelsman, an analyst with PaineWebber. "This should have
happened a year ago."
   A person close to Hay suggested that following the buy-out
Hay would revert to its pre-Saatchi structure of ownership by
about 120 key principals. Hay has about 1,000 employees in
the U.S.
   The buy-out will leave Hay's managers with a big task. Hay
"has really suffered over the past two years," says David
Lord, managing editor of Consultants News, an industry
publication, which ranks Hay 18th among U.S. consulting
companies. The publication estimates Hay's 1989 revenue at
$210 million, about flat from the year earlier.
   While Hay doesn't disclose specific revenue figures, a
company spokesman acknowledged "relatively flat" revenue,
attributing it to "an industrywide phenomenon." Hay confirmed
that it is closing two of its 20 U.S. offices and laying off
an unspecified number of consultants. "The current cutbacks
in professional and administrative staff are part of a normal
adjustment process," the spokesman said.
   ---
   Joanne Lipman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Luxembourg's Bank of Credit to Close
   Most U.S. Operations Amid New Probes
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hounded by two new investigations and under
increasing pressure from the Federal Reserve, the Bank of
Credit &amp; Commerce International is planning to close most of
its U.S. operations.
   An internal status report prepared by B.A. Palkhiwala,
general manager of the Luxembourg-based bank's U.S. branches,
said that its problems include a large batch of "classified
loans," or loans of questionable value. The report added that
these loans will complicate "contingency plans" of the once
fast-growing bank to close its Florida and California offices
and consolidate operations in its New York City office. A
copy of the report was obtained by The Wall Street Journal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report said the New York office is being investigated
by the district attorney's office in Manhattan, which has
issued subpoenas for records of six accounts. It added that
there is a separate investigation under way by federal
prosecutors in Miami that poses a "very serious danger" of a
new indictment against the bank and some of its U.S.
officers.
   A statement issued yesterday from BCCI's London
headquarters said that Mr. Palkhiwala's report presented a
limited view of the reorganization alternatives being
considered and that it represented Mr. Palkhiwala's views and
not necessarily those of the bank. BCCI, which has $21
billion of assets, added that it has more than enough assets
to cover classified loans and that it is "completely
confident" it won't be indicted in Miami.
   Earlier this year, BCCI pleaded guilty to an indictment
accusing it of drug-related, money-laundering charges brought
by U.S. prosecutors in Tampa, Fla. According to federal
officials, BCCI is one of the targets of a separate
investigation under way in Miami that is examining why the
bank temporarily injected $25 million into CenTrust Bank of
Miami in 1988 at a time when federal examiners were
questioning CenTrust's soundness.
   CenTrust went into receivership in March and is expected
to cost U.S. taxpayers about $2 billion. BCCI attorneys have
said there was nothing illegal about the transaction.
   The report stated that Zafar Iqbal, who is head of the
management reorganization committee for BCCI's new owners in
Abu Dhabi, will meet this month with Federal Reserve
officials in New York and Washington who have been applying
"pressure" to meet with a top BCCI official.
   The bank currently is working on plans to close offices in
Miami, Los Angeles and San Francisco. The report said that
these plans are complicated by a bad-loan portfolio that the
Federal Reserve has said can't be transferred to another
branch within the U.S. "The substantial portfolio of
classified loans," the report stated, "will need handling in
order to prevent massive write-offs."
   In its statement from London, BCCI said that $29 million
of its $152 million loan portfolio in Miami is classified --
which is banking jargon for loans that may not be repaid in
full. The bank said a recent infusion of more than $600
million is "more than adequate" to cover any losses, both in
Miami and elsewhere. Mr. Palkhiwala's report noted that
federal and state regulators are concerned that BCCI records
may be destroyed or lost during a consolidation. It suggested
that all records be microfilmed and kept in a central
repository.
   A spokesman for the New York district attorney's office
said it could neither confirm nor deny that it was
investigating BCCI's New York office, which runs most of the
bank's U.S. operations.
   In April, BCCI announced it was being reorganized after a
large cash infusion from Sheik Zayed al-Nahyan, president of
the United Arab Emirates and the ruler of oil-rich Abu Dhabi.
Previously it had been controlled by a group of Pakistani
bankers in London who experienced large losses in 1989 as the
result of unsecured or poorly collateralized loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lobbyists Against Noise Pollution
   Pick Up Some Unexpected Allies
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC
</CO>
<LP>
   It may be sweet music to Judy Hawkins's ears, but to
teen-agers who use her 7-Eleven store in downtown Victoria,
British Columbia, as a meeting place, the music that blares
through outdoor speakers is twisted, sister.
   "I try not to pay attention to it," says 16-year-old John
Ark, hanging out in front of the store. Adds friend Paul
Upjohn, 18: "It's like standing in an elevator. It makes me
feel like kicking in the windows." Shelly Lang, 16, says, "A
lot of kids bring ghetto blasters" to try and drown it out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The scathing music reviews suit Ms. Hawkins just fine.
Hers is one of 10 7-Eleven convenience stores in British
Columbia that use tunes teens find offensive to keep them
from loitering nearby, plugging up parking lots and scaring
off potential customers.
   The programmed music, which the store buys monthly from a
local distributor, goes by the name the Golden Sound. It's
heavy on light, meandering instrumentals by artists such as
Ray Conniff and Mantovani.
   "It's all the music that kids hate, stuff like `Moon
River,' " says Tom Wolnicki, a 7-Eleven supervisor who helped
Ms. Hawkins install her sound system in April.
   Ms. Hawkins says the bad vibes quickly vexed the
loiterers. "The after-school crowd {used to be} anywhere from
15 to 20 kids" who would loiter outside her store, slurping
Slurpees or crunching candy. "Now, it's just five or six" who
can stomach the music. And they don't linger long.
   "When I see half a dozen kids gathering, that's when my
antennae turn up," along with the sound volume, says Ms.
Hawkins. But "it's not as if, boom, they're gone. It usually
takes three or four minutes" for the noxious notes to do
their work.
   A spokeswoman at the Dallas headquarters of Southland
Corp., 7-Eleven's parent, says the 7,000-store chain is "real
excited" about using the anti-loitering scheme elsewhere. To
date, she says, it's being used only by the 7-Eleven stores
in British Columbia. "Maybe we could even elevate it to
orchestra or chamber music," the spokeswoman adds.
   Jerry Reske, vice president of Pacific Sound Inc. in
Seattle, which sells the Golden Sound in the Northwest, says
he isn't surprised by its use as teen repellent. People like
different kinds of music, he says, and "for teen-agers, it's
a downer. . . . I've done programming to {drive teens away
from} a number of carwashes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Bigotry by Implication
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Julie Salamon's review of the movie "Longtime Companion"
(Leisure &amp; Arts, May 10), while positive in general overview,
harbored underlying prejudices that I found disturbing. The
implication that homosexuals are other than familiar and
likable, and that they live on the fringe, serves only to
emphasize the point that society seeks to isolate those
largely affected by acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
   It is precisely this bigoted attitude that promotes
superficial judgment and obliterates one of the major health
concerns in this country. It is unfortunate that more
deliberate attention will not be made toward conquering this
fatal disease until it either begins to ravage the
heterosexual population or until heterosexuals begin to
accept the fact that homosexuals do indeed lead respectable,
middle-class lives, no different from their own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Suzanne Ridge
   Boston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Advance in Heavy Trading
   As Investors Dismiss Worries Over Weaker Yen
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks finished higher in active trading, as
investors dismissed evidence of the yen weakening and
demonstrated faith in the market's ability to recover,
observers said.
   Meanwhile, London stocks bounced back from their
midafternoon lows to end moderate trading broadly unchanged.
Dealers attributed the recovery purely to Wall Street's
reversal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues gained 204.54 points to
33130.80 yesterday, after rising 108.59 points Wednesday.
   In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index fell
74.24 points to 33056.56.
   Thursday's volume on the first section was estimated at
800 million shares, off slightly from Wednesday. Advancers
outnumbered decliners 612 to 346, while 160 issues were
unchanged.
   According to Mahmoud Ghaemmaghami, manager of research and
a portfolio adviser at WestLB Securities Pacific Ltd.,
forecasts for the market, as well as for the yen, remain
strong.
   "This recovery should continue; not judging by the
Nikkei-Dow alone . . . but looking at the whole market," he
said.
   Indeed, the overall market's strength was evident in
healthy progress on both the Tokyo Stock Price Index of all
issues listed in the first section and the second section
index.
   The Topix advanced 18.65 points, or 0.77%, to 2435.74,
while the second section index gained 35.96 points, or 0.92%,
to 3938.28. The second section index has fallen only two days
since April 26. Volume on the second section was estimated at
17.8 million shares, up from 14.5 million shares.
   Despite a strengthening of the dollar over the yen
yesterday, investors apparently are confident that the yen is
on a firming trend, observers said.
   Much of the dollar's gains have been interpreted as a move
out of Deutsche marks, equity traders said.
   "The dollar has been stronger for the past few days
because of Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev's meetings over arms
cuts," WestLB's Mr. Ghaemmaghami said. "I think this is kind
of a temporary reaction, and the yen should strengthen over
the next couple of weeks."
   Various undervalued sectors -- including shipping,
warehouse, railways, oil and real estate -- firmed as
investors were driven by faith in the market's fundamentals,
participants suggested.
   "The main pillars of strength for the whole market are the
yen and good corporate results" for fiscal 1990, Mr.
Ghaemmaghami said.
   Moreover, investors are shedding fears of yen depreciation
on earnings, with many companies making bullish forecasts for
the current year, he said. And Japan's economy has continued
to expand in terms of gross national product data.
   Speculative groups have also become more active, several
traders noted.
   Strong performers yesterday included many oil companies,
helped by optimism on the yen. Mitsubishi Oil led the sector,
up 100 yen to 1280 yen (66 cents to $8.45).
   Nippon Oil rose 60 yen to 1260 yen and Teikoku Oil rose 40
yen to 1260 yen.
   Tokyu group companies rose again on speculative interest,
stemming from talk that the group's cross-shareholdings are
being increased. Tokyu Corp. soared 120 yen to 1970 yen,
Tokyu Construction added 30 yen to 1350 yen, and Tokyu
Department Store rose 60 yen to 1820 yen.
   Shipbuilders, including Ishikawajima Harima Heavy
Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries, were firmer.
   But most high-technology shares were softer, despite the
implications of a stronger dollar on their export-oriented
businesses.
   Meanwhile, London's performance was volatile, with initial
gains swiftly eroded by profit-taking, futures selling and a
general lack of momentum.
   "The market ran out of steam," said one dealer.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index ended
down 1.1 points at 2345.1, after falling to a low of 2333.7.
The peak of 2357.2 was reached shortly after the start of
official trading.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index was down 2.4 points at
1855. Volume was 466.2 million shares, compared with the
556.4 million issues Wednesday.
   Traders generally agreed that, in the near-term, the
market could consolidate recent gains at yet-lower levels.
"It's been too far, too fast," said one trader.
   With London's near-term performance seen hinging on Wall
Street, institutional investors may remain sidelined for a
time. But fund managers are heavily underweighted, traders
noted, suggesting that London could also benefit from their
entry into the market.
   The market generally appears to want to test the upside,
traders said. "Any hint of good news, an acute shortage of
stock, an absence of sellers or a strong Wall Street" will
propel the market upward, said one trader.
   Featured stocks yesterday included Guinness, which gained
27 pence to 769 pence (46 cents to $13.04) on Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton interest, and Enterprise Oil, which rose 34
pence to 663 pence on continued speculation that Elf
Aquitaine will mount a takeover bid.
   Other shares to rise included Bass, which gained 15 pence
to #10.86 on what one trader termed "a good old-fashioned
squeeze." Carlton Communications rose 29 pence to 565 pence
on renewed interest.
   Rolls-Royce rose 6 1/2 pence to 223 1/2 pence on
speculation that something is afoot with the company. Traders
said they couldn't suggest what this may be.
   On the downside, Glaxo eased 12 pence to 785 pence on
concern about competition in the U.S. for that company's
leading products. Traders generally cautioned that stocks
with high dollar earnings may be soon hit by the strong
pound.
   Meanwhile, stocks closed higher in Milan; lower in Paris
and Zurich; and mixed in Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Stockholm.
South African markets were closed for a holiday.
   And prices ended higher in Sydney, Hong Kong, Taipei,
Manila, Wellington and Seoul, and were lower in Singapore.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                            May 30     May 29     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .................   332.8      332.5     + 2.4
   Britain ..............   697.6      682.8     - 3.2
   Canada ...............   392.4      388.2     - 9.3
   Japan ................  1363.7     1360.6     -17.6
   France ...............   592.7      593.3     + 4.5
   Germany ..............   296.5      297.7     + 3.9
   Hong Kong ............  2308.1     2273.5     +10.1
   Switzerland ..........   225.4      223.2     + 2.1
   Australia ............   303.9      302.8     - 8.3
   World index ..........   526.4      524.3     - 7.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Still No Guarantees in Commodity Funds
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Long-term commodity funds that promise investors won't
lose money are still selling briskly, despite criticism that
people looking for above-average returns are apt to be
disappointed.
   Last year alone saw the birth of seven more so-called
"guaranteed" commodity funds, which raised $759 million from
investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The funds, which are actually limited partnerships, seek
to meld the wild risks of the commodities markets with the
safety of cash-back protection: Investors who maintain their
holdings in a fund for a certain time -- usually five years
-- are assured they will at least get back their initial
investment.
   Recent versions of the funds have sought to answer
criticisms that earlier guaranteed funds used too much of
investors' money to provide the guarantee and put too little
into actually trading commodities. That, coupled with heavy
expenses and fees, made it difficult for the funds to
generate the kind of returns people usually want when they
take the plunge into commodities investing.
   But despite the improvements, guaranteed funds are still
no panacea. People who really want to play the commodities
markets might be better off putting a portion of their assets
in conventional managed futures investments, some financial
advisers say. They can minimize the risks by keeping the bulk
of their money in stocks and bonds.
   "A good investment adviser or broker can help an investor
to decide the appropriate percentage to put into managed
futures, and then help pick the best {commodity} fund or pool
available in the same way he would help an investor make
investments in stocks, bonds or real estate," says Ken
Steben, president of Steben Asset Management Inc. of
Bethesda, Md.
   There's certainly no disputing the allure of the word
"guarantee" -- especially in the world of commodities, where
some statistics show that 70% of those who invest for
themselves come out losers on an annual basis. A guarantee
increases the size of the pool of investors who will consider
an investment in the futures market, says Ken Tropin,
chairman of the Managed Futures Trade Association. But
guaranteed funds "are neither better nor worse than
nonguaranteed funds -- they are simply different," he says.
   The first guaranteed commodity funds, which came out in
1986, put as much as 65% of investors' money into zero-coupon
government bonds. (A zero-coupon bond is one sold at a
discount to its face value, pays no annual interest, and
reaches its face value at maturity.) The idea was that even
if the fund lost money in commodities trading, the value of
the zero-coupon bond would grow enough over the life of the
fund to return investors' principal.
   The heavy commitment to zeros, however, left only 35% of
the investors' money for oil, gold, pork bellies or other
commodities-futures contracts. If the amount allocated to
futures trading were lost, trading would have to be halted
and investors would have to wait for the zeros to mature to
break even.
   Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. brought out a zero-backed
guaranteed fund in February 1986 that was up 47% at the end
of April. A similar fund started by Shearson in June 1988 is
up only 3%.
   More recent funds have used different guarantee
approaches.
   In July 1989, Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. brought out a
guaranteed fund that theoretically makes 100% of its assets
available for commodities trading. (Usually, only about 35%
of net assets will actually be devoted to trading.) This fund
uses a guarantee from the trading manager and a bank letter
of credit to insure that investors will be made whole at the
end of the fund's six-year life. As of the end of April this
fund was up 22%.
   The trading manager for the fund is Mint Investment
Management Co., a firm that has seven offshore guaranteed
funds. The first three of its funds brought out in 1986 are
all up more than 100%.
   James Klein, chairman of PaineWebber Futures Management
Corp., created another fund that took a different approach in
trying to boost performance. Some of its assets effectively
serve double duty: A portion of investors' money went to buy
zero-coupon bonds, which are held by his firm's parent,
PaineWebber Group Inc., in return for a letter of credit
guaranteeing that limited partners would be made whole.
   Mr. Klein says this arrangement effectively allowed 65% of
investors' money to be allocated to zero-coupon bonds and 70%
to commodity trading. He also structured his fund to have
lower fees than most public funds trading today. The fund,
which was closed to investors in January, is up a little over
2%.
   In the end, how well any of the guaranteed funds do will
hinge on the performance of their commodity trading advisers.
But to the extent that the guarantees take away from the
money going into commodity trading, or lead to higher
operating expenses, it raises the threshold the trading
advisers must clear before investors profit.
   And while having a guarantee may make investors more
comfortable, some question whether it's really necessary for
those who add commodities to a diversified portfolio.
   "We have been very timid in educating the public to think
of futures investments as a separate asset class," says
William Gianopulus, managing director of public offerings at
Index Futures Group Inc., a Chicago futures brokerage house.
He notes that investors probably already have a portion of
their portfolios in bonds so the guaranteed fund is, in part,
duplicating that portion and increasing the investor's costs.
"Do you give the investing public what they need or what they
think they want?"
   ---
         How Some Guaranteed Commodity Funds Compare
                                                                                                       

                   Shearson    Dean Witter     PaineWebber
                   F-1000      Principal       Guaranteed
                   Series VI   Guaranteed III  Futures
                                                                                                       

                                                LETTER OF
 TYPE OF           ZERO-COUPON   LETTER OF   CREDIT &amp; ZERO-
 GUARANTEE         BONDS         CREDIT      COUPON BONDS
                                                                                                       

 Portion of Investors'
  Money Allocated to
  Trading Commodities    35.0%    100.0%          70.0%
                                                                                                       

 Expenses as Percent
  of Trading Assets      17.1      16.9           12.8
                                                                                                       

 Trading Profit Required
  For Investors to Make
  8%*                    22.7      20.6           14.7
                                                                                                       

 Trading Profit Required
  For Investors to Make
  20%*                   55.9      36.4           31.9
                                                                                                       

 *Assuming initial allocation to trading doesn't change over
life of fund
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Delorme Is Named
   Chairman of Quebec's
   Pension Fund Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA WNEWS T.MDI DTC
</CO>
<LP>
   QUEBEC -- The Quebec government, as expected, named
Jean-Claude Delorme chairman and general manager of Caisse de
Depot et Placement, the provincial government's powerful
pension fund agency.
   Mr. Delorme, 56 years old, is president and chief
executive officer of Teleglobe Canada Inc., a unit of Memotec
Data Inc., a Montreal telecommunications and communications
equipment concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Delorme was appointed to a 10-year term, effective
July 1. He succeeds Jean Campeau, 58, chairman and general
manager since 1980. Montreal-based Caisse de Depot manages
34.2 billion Canadian dollars (US$29.1 billion) in assets and
is one of the biggest players in Canadian financial markets.
   The government also named Guy Savard, a Sherbrooke,
Quebec, accountant, as a director of Caisse de Depot, filling
a vacancy on the board. The government said it intends later
this year to create the new positions of president and chief
operating officer of Caisse de Depot. A government
spokeswoman said Mr. Savard "would be an interesting
candidate" for the new posts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Salamander Find:
   Witnessed, Verified
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   I appreciate the attention given to our environmental
activities in your April 23 article "Salamander Draws Fire
From Developers."
   The salamander pond on the Bridgewood, N.Y., parcel was
found without prior knowledge of a proposed subdivision. As
to the statement "No one was there to witness the find," I
was accompanied by James Ash, a noted Long Island naturalist.
The salamander was kept in a refrigerator to duplicate the
outdoor temperature at that time of year. Southhampton town
officers verified the find the following day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue of balancing the needs of developers and
endangered species is an urgent global problem. As a
businessman, I understand the need for a responsible balance
between economic necessity and environmental protection.
However, once a species is extinct, any possibility for
balance is lost forever.
   Andrew E. Sabin
   President
   Sabin Metal Corp.
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong to Import More Laborers
   ----
   By Steven Jones
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The government says it will admit more
foreign workers into this British colony, but businessmen and
economists say the increase isn't enough to overcome a
persistent labor shortage or to slow wage inflation.
   K.Y. Yeung, secretary for education and manpower, said
Hong Kong will allow as many as 10,000 semiskilled workers to
enter this year in addition to 2,000 construction workers
already due to arrive for jobs on a huge airport and port
project.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Yeung said the foreign-worker program is an extension
of one started in April 1989 that allowed for the selective
introduction of technicians and skilled laborers from abroad.
That program has brought in 2,700 skilled workers. A quota of
2,700 for that program also was announced for this year,
bringing to 14,700 the total of skilled and semiskilled
workers that may be imported in 1990.
   However, Ian Christie, director of the Hong Kong General
Chamber of Commerce, estimates that there are "at least"
165,000 or 170,000 job vacancies in Hong Kong. For three
years, the chamber and other business associations have been
lobbying for large-scale imports of labor.
   "I've got to be pleased that the government has at long
last seen fit to move in the right direction," Mr. Christie
said. "But this is only a very small percentage. It isn't
likely to depress wage increases."
   The tight labor market and rapidly rising wages are
factors in the colony's high inflation of the past two years.
Inflation was about 10% in 1989 and ran at a 9.4% annual rate
in the first quarter of 1990, according to government
figures.
   The government says nominal earnings for manufacturing
workers at the end of 1989 were 15% higher than at the end of
1988, or 5% higher after inflation. Real, or
inflation-adjusted, earnings of service employees were 6%
higher, and real earnings of construction workers were up 7%.
   The labor-importation program "could have a modest effect"
on this wage inflation "if the measures are concentrated on
the critical areas," said Miron Mushkat, director of regional
economic research for Baring Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Among the areas most in need of workers are manufacturing,
construction and hotels and restaurants, he said.
   The 10,000 semiskilled workers -- defined as those with at
least one year's job experience and not in need of vocational
training -- are aimed at helping businesses most hurt by the
labor shortage. The government said half the quota is
expected to go to the clothing industry, to wholesale, retail
and import-export trades and to hotel, catering and
tourism-related businesses.
   Labor unions, which have opposed labor imports, argue that
employers will use foreign workers to undercut local pay
scales and benefits.
   But Mr. Yeung said the government will only consider
applications from employers proposing to pay at least the
median wage for the industry. In addition, employers will be
required to provide housing, medical treatment and
transportation to and from Hong Kong, and imported workers
will have two-year contracts. However, if there are layoffs,
the imported workers will be first affected, Mr. Yeung said.
   He also repeated a government promise that there will be
no "large-scale importation" of unskilled labor into Hong
Kong.
   The 2,000 construction workers to be allowed in were
described as an "initial" allotment; the project to build an
international airport and container port is expected to
require more than 20,000 workers by middle of the decade. The
multibilliondollar project is scheduled to be finished by
1997, the year Hong Kong is due to revert to Chinese rule.
   Local businesses began calling on the government to relax
its rules on imported workers more than three years ago. At
that time, the colony's factories and businesses were working
near their capacity, and exports were expanding at
double-digit rates. The export boom hit as growth in the
labor pool was slowing because of declining birth rates and a
1980 cut in immigration from China.
   Hong Kong allows the hiring of expatriate managers and
professionals on a case-by-case basis. It also has allowed
the importation of more than 50,000 domestic helpers on
two-year contracts.
   The government initially resisted calls for importing
workers for other areas, maintaining that the labor shortage
would ease as the economy slowed down. It also said it wanted
to ensure that Hong Kong residents gained from the colony's
economic success. However, the shortage has persisted despite
a cooling of the economy that worsened in the wake of last
year's political turmoil in China.
   The government estimates that gross domestic product will
increase 3% in 1990, compared with 2.5% in 1989.
   While the number of job vacancies reported has declined in
some sectors, it remains high. Last December, the latest
reporting date, manufacturers reported 36,200 vacancies, down
30% from December 1988. A total of 86,900 vacancies was
reported by major business sectors in December 1989,
according to government figures. Private estimates of total
vacancies range up to 200,000.
   Hong Kong's unemployment rate rose to 1.7% in the first
quarter of 1990 from an average of 1.35% during 1989. But,
economists say, 1.7% still represents a tight labor market.
They say 2.5% to 3% unemployment would still be considered
"full employment" for Hong Kong.
   Further exacerbating the tight labor supply is the
increasing emigration from the colony ahead of the 1997
Chinese takeover. According to some estimates, 1,000 people
are leaving Hong Kong each week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Tracking Leads to Happier Trails
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   What an example of killing the messenger. Your April 23
article "`Tracking' of Minority Pupils Takes Toll" shines the
spotlight on the outrageous differences in percentages of
white students vs. minority students in high-achievement
classes in schools throughout the country. The article
deduces (I assume a reflection of the Rand Study deduction)
that, because there are so many more minority students in
low-achievement groups, tracking should be abolished because
it is racist policy.
   But the tracking is only the barometer, not the cause, of
the discrepancies among students' ability to learn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You point with horror to the fact that in many schools
tracking of students begins as early as kindergarten. As a
parent involved in an integrated public-school system for
eight years, I feel qualified to report that the differences
in a child's ability to learn are every bit as pronounced in
kindergarten as they are in high school.
   By eliminating tracking or by trying to make tracking the
villain of a painful scenario, what do we accomplish?
Education designed to serve the lowest common denominator?
   Instead, let us address all of our energies and resources
toward the soul of the problem. Let us commit ourselves to
early-childhood programs, mentoring programs, programs for
teen-age parents and dropouts, and every other creative
approach available to combat the conditions that are keeping
minority children prisoners of their own fates.
   Nancy Butler Brown
   Denver
   ---
   I spent 30 years teaching students ages 11 to 15. In my
opinion, the main reason for poorly educated students is the
propensity of the educational bureaucracy for mixed-ability
classes. Forcing students to take a course when they do not
have the prerequisite knowledge is a cruel and insidious way
of perpetuating segregation. Yet it happens daily in the name
of desegregation.
   Until the people who control our schools learn to use
objective measures of achievement (not ability) and to group
students accordingly, we will continue to have such problems
as low self-esteem and a high dropout rate.
   Claudine Miller
   La Jolla, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Steel Exports Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's steel exports in April dropped 23% to 1.4
million metric tons from a year earlier, the Japan Iron and
Steel Federation said.
   Shipments to all major markets showed substantial
year-to-year declines, except for those to the U.S., which
fell a modest 1% to 287,000 metric tons. A metric ton is
equal to about 2,204.62 pounds. Total exports in April,
mostly based on contracts signed last December, were down 7%
from the previous month. The exports have declined from
year-earlier levels in every month but one since August 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With Japan's economy in its 42nd consecutive month of
expansion, steelmakers have been preoccupied with meeting
strong demand from domestic industries, such as auto making,
shipbuilding and construction.
   April's exports were relatively unaffected by the weakness
of the yen since the beginning of the year. Lower
dollar-denominated prices of Japanese steel may push up
exports to the U.S. and Southeast Asian countries, but the
gains are likely to be offset by continuing declines in
shipments to the Soviet Union and China.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Property, Casualty Insurers' Net
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Net income of the nation's property and
casualty insurers declined 34% in the first quarter.
   Earnings, including investment income, fell to $2.26
billion from $3.46 billion a year earlier, according to the
Insurance Information Institute, a trade group. The figures
are compiled from reports of insurers representing about 97%
of the nation's property-casualty insurance business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decline in profitability reflected "basic economics,"
with costs rising faster than premiums, the institute said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   `Supported' Jobs
   Can Work Wonders
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Stephen S. Hamilton ("To Educate the Young, Get Them out
of School," editorial page, April 30) observes that most
people learn best by doing something useful with what they
are learning. Without application, school learning fades
rapidly. During the past decade, the Institute for Human
Resource Development and others doing research and practical
work in the field of employment for people with severe mental
retardation and other disabilities have discovered that
"supported employment" works.
   Placing people in jobs and providing the support necessary
for them to learn and stay on the job is much more effective
than training or educating first and then finding a job where
specific retraining is almost always necessary. These
supported-employment programs have proved effective in making
the transition from school to work for this population. Those
concerned with the apprenticeship or partnership programs
recommended by Mr. Hamilton would be well advised to consider
the proven approaches and techniques developed for bringing
people with severe disabilities into the workplace. They can
work for all.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Quincy S. Abbot
   Chairman
   Institute for Human Resource Development
   Glastonbury, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We Respect Dignity
   Of Amnesty-Seekers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   I was appalled to read in your April 30 page-one article
that students in the English classes for amnesty-seekers in
Dallas were "absorb{ing} little English, but a lot of
humiliation." As an administrator in an English program
approved for amnesty, I speak with authority when I state
that all programs are not run in such a manner as the one you
visited.
   In Illinois all teachers in amnesty programs must be
trained in special workshops and experienced in teaching
English as a second language to adults. The teachers hired
are professionally trained people who respect the dignity and
self-esteem of their students. I agree it is unrealistic to
expect our students to learn English in only 40 hours. We are
attempting to help them gain some survival skills in English
and a basic knowledge of American history and government.
These skills, it is hoped, will enable them to improve their
lives and may even spark an interest in continued education
and in being "politically active in their new homeland," as
immigration attorney Juan Jasso urged them. Our students are
interested and enthusiastic and many continue in our program
long after their 40 hours for legalization are completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Katharine B. Anderson
   Township High School District 214
   Community Education
   Arlington Heights, Ill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   OECD Aims for Successful Completion
   Of Multilateral Trade Talks This Year
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The industrialized world's economic leaders
committed themselves to completing multilateral trade talks
successfully this year, but remained divided over how to cut
back agricultural subsidies.
   The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
a club of 24 wealthy countries, also said in the communique
at the end of its annual meeting that recent changes in
Eastern Europe affirm Western democratic values and improve
"the prospect of a truly integrated global economic system."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although pleased with recent economic growth, the OECD
said that to ensure continued expansion, further
international economic cooperation and action is needed to
lower inflation, reduce unemployment, cut trade and payment
imbalances, promote stable exchange markets, sustain
investment and -- where appropriate -- encourage higher
savings.
   The U.S. in particular is eager to boost its savings rate.
"There is a world shortage of funds," Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady told reporters at a breakfast meeting, and
expressed his belief that current U.S. budget negotiations
would "put savings back in the pool."
   The OECD statement, which is something of a primer for
issues that may be raised in Houston during the July summit
of the leaders of the seven major industrial nations, clearly
identified the areas that need to be negotiated to achieve a
solid global-trade agreement. It called for greater
integration of environmental considerations into economic
decision-making, and welcomed negotiations aimed at cutting
the use of so-called tied-aid credits. Such subsidized
credits are used by nations to win business for their
companies.
   The OECD countries, which include the U.S., Japan and
Western European nations, also said that "every effort should
be made to eliminate or bring under enhanced discipline"
trade-distorting industrial subsidies, and indicated that
they will try to achieve this goal through the current talks
under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
   A successful outcome of the GATT round has "the highest
priority on the international economic agenda," the OECD
communique said. The group also firmly committed itself to
the broadening of the GATT treaty that is being sought in the
current Uruguay Round of trade talks, named for the country
where the negotiations began in 1986.
   This broadening would extend the GATT, which has 97 member
countries, to cover services, trade-related investment,
agriculture, textiles, and intellectual property -- such as
software and copyrights. It also will entail ensuring that
developing nations are properly integrated into the GATT and
offered the benefits of open markets -- particularly in
textiles and agriculture -- along with the disciplines of
strengthened trade rules and dispute-settlement mechanisms.
Until now, the GATT has primarily covered tariffs in the
industrialized world.
   But this broad boost for the GATT was jarred by a sharp
disagreement over agricultural subsidies between the U.S.,
backed by Canada, Australia and New Zealand, on one side and
the 12 European Community nations on the other. The EC
refused to address export subsidies specifically, but offered
to address all agricultural subsidies in the aggregate.
   As a result, the OECD's final statement included two
versions of what should be done to revamp agricultural trade
fundamentally. The U.S. and its allies "feel that
negotiations should proceed to seek specific policy
commitments in each area of the negotiations: internal
support, barriers to market access and export subsidies," the
communique said. But EC nations "prefer to seek reductions in
support and protection with commitments encompassing all
measures affecting import access and export subsidies."
   U.S. leaders were blunt about the dispute. "It would be
easy to paper over the differences, but that wouldn't advance
the cause," said Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter. "It's
time to let the world know that there are major differences,
and cause people to focus on them." There won't be a GATT
agreement on agriculture "unless the European Community is
prepared to be more forthcoming on export subsidies," Mr.
Yeutter told reporters.
   Speaking for the U.S.-led group, Trade Representative
Carla Hills said export subsidies are "the most pernicious"
form of agricultural subsidies as they lead to immense
overproduction and widespread international dumping. This in
turn causes big distortions in agricultural trade that
particularly disadvantage other food exporters, including
many developing countries.
   The EC wasn't giving any ground, though. It "attaches
great importance to maintaining certain price and supply
stability in the interest of both producers and consumers,"
said Ray MacSharry, the EC's senior agricultural official.
Exports subsidies, he said, are "an integral part" of the
EC's price system.
   The OECD isn't in doubt about the cost of agricultural
subsidies. In its communique, the group said that altogether
they cost OECD taxpayers and consumers $245 billion in 1989,
a decline from $280 billion in 1988, but still higher than
for any year before 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MANAGING
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR U PN UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Helping Fast-Trackers
   Stay on the Track
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FAST-TRACK managers often get derailed as they scamper up
the corporate ladder, especially at fast-growing companies
where promising young people rise swiftly.
   Psychologists say this happens because fast-trackers are
psychologically out of sync with older peers. "They're
bright, clever and creative, but they often lack the breadth
of experience in dealing with people that makes them wise,"
says Kenneth Settel, a psychiatrist at the Levinson
Institute, Belmont, Mass. Colleague Tim Havens says their
youthfulness makes such managers more vulnerable to harsh
self-criticism.
   Chubb Corp. finds that the fast-track process doesn't
always give those in the fast lane the competence necessary
to do a job well, so an up-and-coming manager's
self-confidence erodes. "If you put fast-trackers in the deep
end of the pool too early, they'll drop to the bottom," says
David Fowler, Chubb's senior vice president for human
resources.
   Bosses can help reduce the risk of problems by recognizing
that a young manager is out of sync. "Listen hard to grasp
issues and viewpoints that are foreign to you," Dr. Havens
urges.
   Some companies send fast-trackers for special training in
how to deal with people. At others, young managers benefit
from peer groups of fast-trackers, which provide support and
"relief from that odd-duck feeling," Dr. Havens says. At
Chubb, young managers in distress may be reassigned to areas
where they can restore their confidence.
                                                                                                       

   Handling Bad News
   In Annual Reports
                                                                                                       

   FOUR MAJOR accidents forced airline managers to face the
sensitive topic of how to treat the crashes in their latest
annual reports to shareholders. Some bit the bullet. One
carrier decided it was better to say nothing.
   USAir Group Inc.'s report mentions the troubles that
Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake caused to its
operations. But there was no mention that one of its
airplanes ran off a runway at New York's LaGuardia Airport in
September, killing two passengers and injuring 21. A USAir
spokesman says the company's decision against mentioning the
crash was "no attempt to sweep anything under the rug."
   By contrast, UAL Corp.'s annual report details the
"tragic" United Airlines accidents last year over the Pacific
and in Sioux City, Iowa. It said rescue work by its flight
crews and Sioux City residents are now "a part of United
Airlines' legacy." A United spokesman said there was "never
much debate" whether to mention the fatal accidents.
   In a letter to shareholders, Pan Am Corp. Chairman Thomas
G. Plaskett refers to the "senseless murders of 270 innocent
people" who died in the terrorist bombing of Pan Am Flight
103 in December 1988. He said their deaths "were personally
devastating . . . to the people of Pan Am."
   Generally, investor-relations consultants favor disclosing
bad news with the good. "The issue is credibility," says
Denver consultant Carl Thompson. "If you don't address the
bad news, people won't believe your good news."
                                                                                                       

   Computer Aids May Hurt
   In Decision Making
                                                                                                       

   COMPUTER programs designed to assist managers in making
decisions don't always help, and sometimes can hamper
performance, a team of researchers finds.
   Jeffrey E. Kottemann, assistant professor of computer
information systems at the University of Michigan, simulated
a manufacturing-production process in a growth industry. He
had M.B.A. students decide on output and staffing, given
uncertain demand, over 24 mock quarters. One group used a
spreadsheet-oriented computer aid that helped members
evaluate alternatives. The other group was on its own,
relying on intuition and experience.
   Contrary to Mr. Kottemann's expectations, the
computer-assisted people significantly underperformed the
unaided, in the initial experiment as well as two follow-ups.
With the computer aids, he says, people appear to have sought
short-term results by understaffing and underproducing. But
those decisions, over time, meant lost sales and extra costs.
   Oddly, the computer-aided group didn't recognize that
using the programs led to poor decisions. "They were
significantly more confident in their performance than the
unaided group," Mr. Kottemann says. He and two colleagues,
Fred D. Davis Jr. and William Remus, plan further work to
help explain when and how computer aids affect actual and
perceived performance.
                                                                                                       

   Companies Do More
   Than Test for Drugs
                                                                                                       

   DRUG TESTING by employers soared in the 1980s, but signs
emerge that companies are looking to other methods to curb
drug abuse by employees.
   The number of employers that test for drugs rose only 7%
in the latest survey by the American Management Association,
after jumping 33% in 1989.
   Meanwhile, the number of big companies that train
supervisors and managers to spot behavior that might indicate
drug use jumped 24% this year. Now 36% of respondents provide
such training, including one in five that train managers but
don't test for drugs.
   Companies that provide drug education and awareness
programs surged 38% in the latest survey, and more than half
-- 51% -- of major firms now support employee-assistance
programs for drug abusers, up from 42% in 1988. "The small
increase in the number of companies that test, and the larger
increase in the number pursuing other initiatives, is a
positive finding," says Eric Greenberg, editor of the
management group's research reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Thorn EMI to Sell
   Its Lighting Unit
   To GTE of U.S.
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   U.THN GTE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Thorn EMI PLC Chairman Colin Southgate said the
British music and electronics concern has reached an
agreement to sell its lighting unit to GTE Corp. of the U.S.
   Thorn said last month that it was holding talks with GTE,
a telecommmunications, lighting and precision-materials
group. In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Southgate
confirmed the sale agreement, but declined to give details.
He said Thorn had considered but dropped the idea of forming
a joint venture with GTE. "They will probably end up buying
the whole (lighting) business," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Southgate also confirmed that Thorn is negotiating to
buy a 50% stake in Hungaroton, Hungary's state record
company. The British concern previously had declined to
comment about reports of such talks.
   The deal "is still on the cards," and Thorn probably will
pay "less than #10 million ($17 million)" for the 50% stake,
Mr. Southgate continued. People familiar with the
negotiations had valued the 50% stake at #15 million to #17
million.
   The transaction, though small in dollar terms, would rank
as one of the biggest entertainment industry ventures thus
far in the rapidly changing East bloc. The Hungaroton
investment would give Thorn "a learning curve for moving into
the rest of Eastern Europe," Mr. Southgate said. He also
disclosed that Thorn is considering buying some small music
businesses in Poland and Czechoslovakia.
   Separately, Thorn said yesterday that pretax profit in its
fiscal year ended March 31 rose 10%, to #318 million from
#289 million, helped by a doubling in earnings at its EMI
Music division. The results exceeded analysts' expectations.
   Thorn's directors proposed a final dividend of 21.5 pence
a share, bringing the full-year payout to 30 pence a share,
an 11% improvement on last year's 27 pence. Sales on the year
rose 13% to #3.72 billion from #3.29 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harlyn Sees Net
   In Period Above
   14 Cents a Share
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HRN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Harlyn Products Inc., encouraged by strong
sales for Mother's Day, expects per-share net income of more
than 14 cents on sales of about $8 million for the fiscal
fourth quarter ending June 30, said Harold Weisbrod,
chairman, and Edward Dudziak, president.
   In an interview, the executives didn't give net income
estimates in dollars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier fourth quarter, the jewelry maker had
indicated net income of $569,000, or 16 cents a share, on
sales of about $5.8 million. Harlyn doesn't normally break
out fourth-quarter results from its year-end numbers.
Year-earlier fourth-quarter results were arrived at by
subtracting sales and earnings for the first nine months of
fiscal 1989 from the year-end numbers.
   For fiscal 1990, Harlyn expects earnings of more than 50
cents a share on sales of more than $30 million, Messrs.
Weisbrod and Dudziak said. That compares with fiscal 1989 net
of $1.5 million, or 40 cents a share, on sales of $24.8
million.
   Harlyn is also in talks for a possible acquisition of a
jewelry company that the executives declined to identify. "It
would fit in very well with our sales, marketing and
manufacturing . . . and it wouldn't require any additional
costs other than the purchase price," Mr. Weisbrod said.
   Last year, Harlyn acquired George Hoffman Jewelry
Manufacturing Inc., a Beverly Hills, Calif., maker and
marketer of diamond jewelry. "We've controlled the costs
there, and sales have increased slightly," Mr. Dudziak said.
   Of Harlyn's continued earnings performance, Mr. Weisbrod
said, "We're very optimistic. . . . Even though the jewelry
business hasn't been so good, ours has been superb." He said
sales of family jewelry, adorned with birthstones of various
family members, "is stronger than it has ever been." The
company experienced unusually strong sales of its rings for
Mother's Day.
   Mr. Weisbrod said Harlyn has reduced the average delivery
time for its rings to under two days, from three or more days
last year. (Harlyn now guarantees delivery within three days
after a customer places an order.) The company has also
implemented various cost-cutting measures to improve the
bottom line.
   Business for Harlyn's Bangkok manufacturing plant has
increased as a result of higher sales in Europe and Japan.
The plant's sales are expected to more than double this year
from last year's $1.2 million and to double next year, Mr.
Dudziak said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loan Project Helps Bangkok Community
   ---
   Low-Income Area Improves
   With Corporate Aid
   ----
   By John Bethelsen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANGKOK, Thailand -- A few residents gathered earlier this
month for a ceremony to mark a loan repayment of 65,000 baht
($2,527) to Citibank's Thailand branch.
   Citibank has lent 1.5 million baht, free of interest, to
160 families in the Wat Chonglom low-income community to
better their lives and establish income-generating
enterprises. The bank and its advisers hope the project can
revamp the philosophy of corporate aid by giving the
recipients goals and responsibilities that lead to
self-sustaining improvements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Businessmen from domestic and multinational companies are
paying close attention to the ideas behind Citibank's
venture, and another organized in 1987 in Saraburi province
by Swedish Motors Corp., which assembles and markets Volvo
cars in Thailand under license from AB Volvo. If the two are
successful, the executives say, they will represent a more
effective way for companies to channel their aid efforts to
the poor.
   Both projects are the brainchild of Roger Chical, a
68-year-old French physician who retired in 1985 as the World
Health Organization's chief of mission in Bangkok. Dr. Chical
has spent much of his professional life in aid work in Africa
and Asia. Along the way, he says he discovered that most of
what he did for international relief organizations didn't
work and didn't last beyond his tour.
   In casting about for alternatives, Dr. Chical came up with
a simple theory. The poor, whether in urban or rural areas,
know their problems better than corporations, governments or
international agencies, he says. If they are provided with
the opportunity and responsibility to plan their own
improvements, they can do it. If they are loaned money rather
than given money, they will make good on their obligations,
he says. The key to is to make knowledge and resources
available and then leave the community to function.
   Community-development officials point out that his isn't a
new idea, but Dr. Chical and Citibank are willing to give the
recipients a lot more room to work on their own.
   Dr. Chical "believes that communities or people should be
left to do everything possible to help themselves," says
Charles Ames, Bangkok-based director of Foster Parents
International, a community-development program. "{Dr. Chical}
doesn't like nongovernmental organizations to do anything for
people. He believes that communities should only get
resources that they can use, and aid officials should only be
consultants. Then let the communities proceed at their own
pace."
   For Citibank, the Wat Chonglom project was at least partly
born out of frustration, says Kenneth S. Paley, the bank's
vice president in Thailand for consumer services. Like many
multinational institutions, the bank contributes substantial
amounts to charity in the countries where it has branches.
But often, he says, there is no control over the money, and
no monitoring of how it is spent.
   "We didn't know how effective it was, or what happened to
it after we gave it," he says. "Each of these might be a
great charity, but we give once and there's no
follow-through."
   The bank's experiment began in August 1988. Dr. Chical had
been searching for an urban community to put his ideas into
practice. He found it in Wat Chonglom, where he and Citibank
officials held meetings with residents to ask what they
needed to do to improve their lives. Dr. Chical emphasizes
the importance of not forcing the project on the community.
   Under his tutelage, the community developed a program to
meet what he calls basic minimum needs -- "food, water,
shelter, education, health, social and spiritual development,
and some income" -- a list he developed as a WHO
representative.
   The changes in Wat Chonglom since that meeting are all the
more remarkable for the stark contrasts they offer with other
low-income communities nearby, where residents tread amid
filth and mud.
   Wat Chonglom has put in cement sidewalks, and its trash is
picked up regularly. Houses have been improved structurally.
Residents have planted flowers in boxes throughout the
community. Nearby communities are eager to attempt similar
experiments.
   Most important for Dr. Chical's goals, the community
itself decided it could generate its own income by bringing
in a high-quality leather-goods business with the help of
Business in Thailand Ltd., a Bangkok marketing and trading
company. Residents are being trained for production of
leather goods, and 50,000 baht has been spent to buy leather
supplies. Other projects, including garment making and flower
arranging, are in progress, Mr. Paley says.
   Citibank and Dr. Chical hope Wat Chonglom has attained
enough momentum to keep going. "This is a fundamental thing,"
the physician says. "It has become a partnership for
development that includes business."
   Citibank officials say there is a long way to go at Wat
Chonglom in one aspect of the partnership. The bank
originally scheduled three to 10 years for repayment of its
loan. But two repayments have been made in less than two
years, including the one earlier this month, putting the
community well ahead of schedule, Mr. Paley says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   DOW JONES INDUSTRY GROUP indexes for Tuesday, May 29, were
affected by a correction from the Pacific Stock Exchange on
the price of Philip Morris Cos. stock, to $43.625 a share
from the originally reported $42.50. This change caused the
following index revisions: the household products industry
group to 509.81 from 503.74 originally; the non-cyclical
consumer sector to 507.06 from 505.98, and the Dow Jones
Equity Market Index to 335.56 from 335.42.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HUDSON'S BAY Co.'s real estate subsidiary, Markborough
Properties Inc., estimates the market value of its properties
at 2.9 billion Canadian dollars (US$2.47 billion). An earlier
edition misstated the figure.
   (See: "Hudson's Bay Co. Plans to Spin Off Real Estate
Unit" -- WSJ May 25, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BankAmerica
   Will Acquire
   Western S&amp;L
   ---
   Bid for $81 Million Marks
   First Arizona Purchase
   By Rejuvenated Concern
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   BAC WSL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   BankAmerica Corp. won the government's bidding contest to
acquire the insolvent Western Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Arizona's second-largest thrift, in a transaction that marks
the rejuvenated bank holding company's first acquisition of a
thrift or bank in that state.
   Late last night BankAmerica confirmed it is paying $81
million to acquire Western, marking one of the larger
premiums that the federal Resolution Trust Corp. has received
in its efforts to liquidate its bulging inventory of troubled
thrifts. The bank said the acquisition covers the thrift's 61
branches, $3.5 billion in deposits and $3.5 billion in
assets, including $1 billion in consumer and residential
mortgage loans and $2.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank said it has an option to return those loans that
don't meet certain criteria to the RTC.
   The government is still expected to take a loss of $1.3
billion, at the least, in disposing of Western's assets.
BankAmerica noted that the RTC will be retaining Western's
commercial real estate loans, certain other commercial loans
as well as all nonperforming assets.
   Phoenix-based Western Savings, with some $4.6 billion in
assets, was taken over by the government last June after
piling up huge loan losses related to the Arizona commercial
real-estate bust and other soured ventures. At Dec. 31, it
reportedly had a shareholder deficit of about $1.4 billion,
making it one of the larger single contributors to the
increasingly enormous cost of bailing out the sick industry.
   For BankAmerica, the acquisition shows how the
once-troubled banking concern, which now has the strongest
capital base of the 10 largest U.S. banking concerns, is
using its new-found financial muscle to expand gradually
through acquisition.
   "I think the timing of the entree is excellent. Things are
pretty well washed out in Arizona," said Don Crowley, a San
Francisco bank analyst with Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
"Granted, a lot has been frittered away because of the
problems, but it is a good base to begin with in Arizona."
BankAmerica already operates a mortgage company in Arizona.
   The amount of deposits that BankAmerica ultimately retains
could be substantially smaller than the current $3.5 billion
total. Only some $1.8 billion of the total are so-called core
retail deposits, with the balance being high-yield brokered
deposits and other funds. Under federal law, BankAmerica has
the discretion to reset interest rates almost immediately on
those brokered funds, which would probably reduce the total
amount it retains.
   The price BankAmerica is paying is equal to about 4.6% of
Western's core deposits, which analysts consider on the high
side, perhaps partly reflecting the fact that several other
banking concerns, including Security Pacific Corp. of Los
Angeles, were believed to have been active bidders. But a
spokesman for San Francisco-based BankAmerica said the
premium wasn't that steep, based on the bank's own core
deposit estimate for Western of $2.1 billion, which would
indicate a purchase price equal to about 3.9% of such
deposits.
   Earlier this year, the RTC identified Western as a
candidate for quick sale. The $81 million price-tag, while a
pittance for a healthy large institution, is one of the RTC's
biggest deals in months. In February, for instance, it sold
Bright Banc Savings Association of Dallas to Banc One Corp.,
Columbus, Ohio, for $45 million, a price equal to about 2.1%
of core deposits, or about half the rate that BankAmerica is
paying.
   In October, NCNB Corp. of Charlotte, N.C., acquired from
the government Tampa, Fla.-based Freedom Savings &amp; Loan
Association for $40.4 million and University Savings
Association of Houston for $129 million.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, BankAmerica shares closed at $30.625, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Presidio Oil Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRSB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Presidio Oil Co. said it is considering selling
its West Virginia oil- and gas-producing properties and
gas-gathering systems or forming a joint venture with a
partner capable of helping fund drilling in the area.
   Presidio, an oil and gas concern, said that it has about
76 billion cubic feet of gas in West Virginia, or about 15%
of its oil and gas reserves. It said proceeds from any sale
of the properties would be used to reduce its $145 million in
bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it hired Petrie Parkman &amp; Co. of Houston
to advise it about a possible transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Land Claims Prompt East German Fears
   ---
   Those Who Fled West Want
   Their Property Back
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   BALLENSTEDT, East Germany -- Pointing to the castle on the
stony hilltop above his house, Joachim Hake says he is happy
it might soon be reclaimed by its "rightful" owner, a prince
who fled to West Germany with his mother after World War II.
But on the matter of the Salzmanns' return, he isn't so sure.
   The Salzmanns are the West Germans who own the crumbling
villa next to Mr. Hake's small, tidy house. In 1982,
Ballenstedt's Communist bosses decided that the expansive
garden attached to the Salzmann villa was publicly owned, and
they gave Mr. Hake permission to build his house there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm all for correcting the injustices of the past," says
the East German farmer. "But I can't very well pick up my
house now and move it." As if to fan his anxiety, a nattily
dressed West German couple showed up in his neighbor's yard a
few weeks ago, snapping photographs of the area. It was the
Salzmanns.
   Mr. Hake is just one of thousands of East Germans caught
in a mounting legal cross fire over who owns what in this
once staunchly Stalinist nation, whose former Communist
leaders expropriated much of the country's private property
and businesses years ago. Simply walking around Ballenstedt
-- a town of 9,000 people tucked into the picturesque
foothills of East Germany's Harz Mountains -- one encounters
enough potential land disputes to keep a good-sized law firm
in business for the next decade.
   East Berlin's new leaders want to dismantle the
state-ownership system, but they insist that former owners be
compensated rather than having their property returned. But
in a statement that might signal a dispute with East Berlin
on how to handle West Germans' claims on houses, apartments
and businesses in East Germany, the Bonn government said this
week that returning the property, not compensation, was the
correct course.
   "Expropriated property is, in principle, to be handed
back," said Hans Klein, chief spokesman for Chancellor Helmut
Kohl's coalition government, following a Bonn cabinet meeting
at which the property question was discussed. "Only in
exceptional cases should compensation solutions be found," he
added.
   "There's a storm brewing in East Germany right now,
because many of the normal chains of property ownership were
broken by the Communists," says Hans-Jochen Moser, a West
German lawyer who helps people reclaim property in East
Germany.
   The property issue is so explosive, in fact, that it
wasn't addressed in the recently signed treaty on German
monetary and social union. Instead, the two countries agreed
to hash out a supplementary agreement dealing with the web of
property claims.
   West German experts estimate that as many as a million
people will lay claim to property they left behind in East
Germany when they fled west after World War II or during 40
years of Communist rule. There are also many West Germans who
either emigrated legally or inherited land from East German
relatives, but who, like the Salzmanns, didn't bother about
these legacies until now.
   Adding to the difficulty of arriving at a compromise is
the sheer complexity of trying to transfer vast amounts of
property into private hands without the best of everything
getting snapped up by relatively wealthy West Germans.
Indeed, the image of West Germans crowding back into the
country to take over factories and houses stirs deep
resentment among East Germans, who refer to is as "the big
sellout."
   The Social Democrats -- the leading opposition party in
Bonn and the junior partner in the government coalition in
East Berlin -- are pushing for protections for the East
Germans, such as limits on the sale of property to Westerners
and special rights of first refusal for East Germans.
Meanwhile, the Christian Democrats, who head the ruling
coalitions in both Germanys, favor the quickest return to
private property possible.
   Much as it may rankle, the East Germans have few options
but to welcome their prosperous neighbors. West Germans have
the money and motivation to undertake the wholesale
rebuilding of East Germany. If this doesn't happen, East
Germans will continue to flock over the border in search of
jobs and decent housing in the West.
   "This whole town needs to be put back into private hands
to create the incentive to invest," says Wolfgang Gurke,
Ballenstedt's newly elected Christian Democratic mayor. "But
figuring out how to do that is going to be a nightmare."
   In a cluttered room on the second floor of the town hall,
another harried official, Eberhard Dittmar, spends his days
sorting through more than 200 applications from residents who
want to buy their houses -- including one from Mr. Hake, who
is seeking to buy the land under his house. And besides that
of the prince, the city has also registered claims from a
half-dozen other West Germans. "Of course, we can't do
anything until this land issue is clarified by our
government," says Mr. Dittmar.
   The town actually started selling houses and land two
months ago, but it quickly stopped after rumors spread that
Communist bureaucrats were snatching up choice parcels for
themselves and ignoring potential conflicts with West German
claims. While this moratorium may be good for the cause of
justice, it is the sort of policy that has some West German
officials worried.
   West German business and political leaders, including
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, have cautioned that delays in
privatizing property could slow the rush to redevelop East
Germany and make unification more painful. "If you want to
invest in a country, it means you're going to buy something
-- and you can't do that without clear ownership," says
Ulrich Schmid, the East Berlin-based representative of West
Germany's Dresdner Bank AG.
   Ballenstedt seems eager to welcome back its former
royalty, especially if that means an infusion of money.
Prince Eduard von Anhalt -- whose father's name, Herzog
Joachim von Anhalt, still evokes respectful admiration from
elderly residents -- has announced that he wants to reclaim
his family's castle, the remnants of a huge hotel, several
smaller palaces, and nearly 1,500 acres of farmland and
forests. It all belonged to his father, who perished at the
hands of the Communists after World War II.
   In an arrival that seems like a page from "Dr. Zhivago,"
the prince came to town in December, just after the Berlin
Wall opened, and found his family's crumbling castle divided
into apartments and a forestry school. He later rented a room
at the end of one of the building's abandoned corridors, just
to establish a base here.
   To calm local fears, he has vowed not to kick out anyone
who lives on his contested property. And he has announced big
plans to transform the castle first into a training center
for unemployed workers and later into a high-class
hotel-management school. He also wants to rebuild the hotel
outside the castle gates, once the most elegant in the
region. Most important, according to the locals, he says he
has backers in the West willing to bankroll his dreams.
   It all sounds wonderful to the residents of Ballenstedt,
who grumble that the castle was about to collapse anyway. Mr.
Gurke's Christian Democratic Union even campaigned on a
platform that included a promise to welcome back the prince.
"The city won't have any money to rebuild the castle," says
the mayor. "We need all our money for building apartments."
   At the center of such debates is East Germany's concept of
Volkseigentum, or "people's property." Everything snatched up
by the Communists during various waves of nationalization,
including the sweeping agricultural land reform of 1946
implemented by the Soviets, fell into this amorphous
category. The theory was that, since everyone owned the
property, everyone would take care of it.
   But like so many things in East Germany, the concept never
worked the way it was intended. Typically, the finest
properties were quietly distributed to party functionaries
and members of East Germany's hated secret police.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guess and Jordache Reach Agreement
   After Seven-Year Legal Confrontation
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- After nearly seven years of all-out war,
the families running the Guess and Jordache jeans businesses
want to concentrate again on plastering their labels on
millions of consumers, rather than spending their time in
court.
   The determination to spend more time in the office than
the courtroom comes in the wake of Wednesday's surprise
announcement that the Marciano brothers of Guess Inc. of Los
Angeles and the Nakash family of Jordache Enterprises in New
York agreed to end their bitter fight by restoring Guess'
complete ownership to the Marcianos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nakashes, in exchange for the half-ownership of Guess
that they bought for about $5 million in 1983, will receive
an undisclosed portion of $106 million of Guess profits that
have been placed in an escrow account and full ownership of a
jointly owned subsidiary, Gasoline. A dozen related suits,
scattered from Hong Kong to the U.S., also will be settled.
   But in keeping with the years of acrimony, the Marcianos
face another legal dogfight that may affect the settlement.
Marshall B. Grossman, a lawyer who was replaced by the
Marcianos as they entered into settlement talks, filed a $17
million lien against the Marcianos' settlement proceeds.
   The Marcianos had promised Mr. Grossman a $10 million
bonus if he restored control of their apparel empire to them,
but later charged him with trying to block the settlement.
   Paul Marciano, the Marciano family spokesman, called the
filing "unprofessional and unconscionable," and said the
company has already paid about $10 million to Mr. Grossman's
firm. Mr. Grossman declined to confirm the action, citing
attorney-client privilege, but said his firm "has taken no
action whatsoever" that will block the settlement.
   Pierce O'Donnell, who negotiated the settlement with the
Nakashes on behalf of the Marcianos, said it's unclear what
effect the lien will have, but said the families are
"remaining calm."
   That calmness is atypical of the dispute, which eventually
involved the Internal Revenue Service, a Congressional
inquiry and bitter charges of fraud and deception. But
despite the tremendously expensive legal proceedings -- which
racked up more than $80 million in legal fees -- both
families appear to have kept their apparel lines in strong
positions amid a volatile retail setting.
   Guess, founded in December 1981 with $170,000 in capital,
now employs 1,000 people and had more than $500 million in
sales last year after positioning itself as a status label
among free-spending younger consumers. "Their licensing
business has great potential," said Alan Millstein, a retail
consultant who publishes an industry newsletter. "The lawsuit
apparently made them hunker down, but now they'll probably
expand aggressively."
   Paul Marciano says a career fashion line for women is
doing well, as are a relatively new line of prescription
eyeglass frames, a fragrance line and a licensed handbag
line. "We intend to open broader on new products, but we
intend to keep our distribution tight, limited," Mr. Marciano
said, referring to Guess' upscale distribution channels that
include major department stores.
   Jordache, founded by the Nakash brothers in 1978, is
firmly geared toward a more cost-conscious crowd. "Jordache
is almost exclusively sold through mass merchants, but it's
carved out a real niche," said Deborah Brontson, an apparel
analyst with Prudential-Bache Research.
   Joe Nakash, Jordache's chairman, says the company expects
total wholesale and licensed business sales to hit $700
million this year. "Now that this is all over, we want to be
a billion-dollar company," he added. Mr. Millstein, the
consultant, said that although the basic denim business has
been depressed in recent years, Jordache has lessened the
risk of a downturn in its basic business with a widespread
licensing program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Rethinking Federal Guarantees
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE FNM
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Few Americans know much about Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
their five siblings, but they should. These
government-sponsored enterprises have piled up $863 billion
in off-budget borrowing, up from only $37 billion in 1970.
While these operations are generally regarded as sound,
policy makers have finally awakened to the fact that the idea
of federal guarantees, as in "federal deposit insurance,"
deserves a rethinking.
   Yesterday, the Treasury Department issued a 400-page study
calling for these off-budget corporations to meet tougher
capital standards and to obtain triple-A credit ratings
without factoring in their implicit taxpayer guarantees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs, are private
corporations chartered by the federal government to channel
credit to agricultural, housing and student borrowers. In the
1980s, as the federal budget deficit constrained new
spending, Congress created several new GSEs to shove
commitments off-budget. The latest entity is "Farmer Mac,"
the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corp., which this year
began packaging and selling farm loans, much as Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac do for home mortgages. Another entity,
"Connie Lee," began in 1987 to guarantee college-construction
loans. Many legislators now want to set up a "Velda Sue" to
buy and package small-business loans.
   The federal government doesn't formally guarantee the debt
of any of these entities, but the market operates on that
assumption. In 1985, the Farm Credit System, a GSE set up
back in 1917, became insolvent and asked for a federal
bailout. Congress, of course, passed a $4 billion rescue
package. In an eerie parallel to the S&amp;L disaster, the Farm
Credit System got into trouble after 1971, when Congress gave
it permission to broaden and expand its lending to non-farm
rural homeowners and liberalized loan requirements to
farmers. Congress repeated this cycle in 1982, when it
enabled marginal S&amp;Ls to invest billions in risky ventures.
In short Congress has repeatedly shown itself willing to
undermine the prudence of the underlying loan commitments.
   Richard Glauber, Treasury undersecretary for finance, says
it's time to rein in and better supervise the GSEs. Mr.
Glauber thinks GSEs should increase their capital base since
he says some are now "the most thinly capitalized of major
U.S. financial entities." Fannie Mae, which provides a
secondary market for many federally guaranteed mortgages, has
$3 billion of equity backing up $336 billion worth of home
mortgages.
   It now turns a healthy profit and its head, David Maxwell,
promises to increase its capital in the future. However, a
senior HUD official believes a shaky housing market could
make Fannie Mae "the country's biggest insolvent savings and
loan." This may be arguable, but it's encouraging that
federal officials are finally focused on these exposures.
Treasury wants all GSEs to earn a triple-A bond rating
without consideration of their taxpayer backing within five
years, or face growth restrictions.
   Another reason Treasury wants the GSEs to earn their own
credit rating is that the data generated in the process would
finally allow the government to quantify the size of its GSE
subsidies -- something that cannot be done now.
   Even some Members of Congress have become interested. Rep.
Jake Pickle of Texas has held a series of hearings on the
risks inherent in GSEs. Rep. Major Owens, who represents a
liberal New York City district, says the S&amp;L crisis was
caused by "socialized banking." He says disasters in other
federal loan programs could occur if "we refuse to
acknowledge their threat to the economy and general moral
code of our society."
   Reform won't be easy. Many in Congress think capital and
credit standards will restrict credit for contributors and
favored constituencies. Last year, Senator Alan Cranston, one
of the Keating Five and a backer of raising the mortgage
exposure of the loss-plagued Federal Housing Authority, tried
to block approval of the Treasury's study of GSEs. He did
succeed in making it a one-time-only study, instead of an
annual report.
   Others in Congress say shaping up Fannie, Freddie and the
other GSEs isn't necessary because most are profitable. "If
it ain't broke, don't fix it," was the advice some Senators
gave at a recent Banking Committee hearing. After the S&amp;L
crisis, no one should buy that don't-worry, be-happy line
from Congress. If the S&amp;L mess has taught us anything, it is
that the appropriate time to fix a problem is before rather
than after we wake up to discover a disaster.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hamilton Oil Corp. Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAML U.SOR U.UMA U.ETP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Hamilton Oil Corp. said it discovered natural
gas and condensate in the U.K. sector of the North Sea.
   The company said the well flowed at a rate of 11 million
cubic feet of gas and 3,000 barrels of condensate a day
through a 40/64 inch opening.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hamilton Oil is the operator with a 27.3% interest. The
company said its partners are Sun Oil Britain Ltd., with a
30.3% interest; Elf Oil &amp; Gas Ltd., 23.3%; Ultramar
Exploration Ltd., 8.3%; Monument Resources Ltd., 1.7%, and
Enterprise Oil PLC, 9.1%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eurotunnel's Lenders
   Consent to Provide
   Additional Backing
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.EUR
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Eurotunnel PLC may be seeing a glimmer of light
at the end of the tunnel.
   The Anglo-French consortium said its four lead banks
agreed on terms to lend an additional #2 billion ($3.39
billion) -- needed to cover still higher costs for the
beleaguered cross-channel link. In exchange for increasing
Eurotunnel's #5 billion credit lines to #7 billion, the banks
insisted that the company arrange standby underwriting for a
#530 million equity rights offering planned for this fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new financing arrangements clear a hurdle toward
completion of the tunnel project, which has been beset by
revised cost estimates, reworked funding arrangements and
disputes with its contractor consortium. Eurotunnel's
protracted difficulties have made investors skittish. Some
skepticism undoubtedly will linger until the latest financing
proposal wins approval this summer from the full consortium
of 208 banks backing the project.
   "There have been a lot of doubts (about Eurotunnel) and
there will continue to be doubts as cost figures are
revised," said William Beazington, an analyst at Shearson
Lehman Hutton Securities in London. But with extra funding
apparently lined up, he added, "I might guardedly say that
now is the time to start considering buying" Eurotunnel
stock. In late trading on London's Stock Exchange yesterday,
Eurotunnel shares were off five pence at 543 pence ($9.21).
   Eurotunnel yesterday raised the project's estimated cost
to #7.66 billion, citing higher inflation, higher interest
rates and lower projected revenues. That's up from its April
estimate of between #7.5 billion and #7.6 billion -- and way
above Eurotunnel's projected total cost of about #4.9 billion
set in 1987. Eurotunnel officials also said the project
likely won't pay a dividend until 1999, four years later than
initially expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Home
   Products Names
   Canavan President
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AHP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Home Products Corp. named Bernard
Canavan president, strongly emphasizing its effort to focus
on health-care businesses.
   The 54-year-old Dr. Canavan, who has been executive vice
president of the parent and chairman of the Wyeth-Ayerst
Laboratories subsidiary, succeeds John R. Stafford, 52, who
continues as chairman and chief executive officer of American
Home.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a natural progression of events," said Ronald M.
Nordmann, analyst at Paine Webber Group Inc. Dr. Canavan "had
been there for over 20 years. He'd run the major
pharmaceutical operations of the company, and it sends a
signal that American Home Products wants to be recognized as
a {prescription} drug company rather than an over-the-counter
drug or consumer-product company."
   American Home took a giant step in that direction in
mid-March, when it agreed to sell its Boyle Midway
consumer-product operations, which include prominent brands
such as Black Flag insect repellent and Woolite cleanser for
delicate fabrics, for $1.25 billion to Reckitt &amp; Colman PLC
of the U.K. American Home said it expects to close that sale
shortly.
   Dr. Canavan declined to comment on specific moves he plans
to make. But he said he aims to build American Home's strong
franchises in prescription and over-the-counter
pharmaceuticals and veterinary-care and hospital products.
   Even with the focus on health care, American Home has no
plans to shed its foods division, which has "good consumer
brands and recognition," Dr. Canavan said. The division, with
some $900 million in annual sales, includes products such as
Chef Boyardee Italian foods and Pam antistick cooking spray.
   American Home's 1989 sales were $6.75 billion.
   Dr. Canavan's former positions at the parent and
Wyeth-Ayerst won't be filled. Fred Hassan, president of
Wyeth-Ayerst, will continue to report to Dr. Canavan. The
company's prescription-drug research and development
activities, which had reported to Dr. Canavan, now will
report to Mr. Hassan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Spelling Entertainment Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SPELLING ENTERTAINMENT Inc. (Los Angeles) -- E. Duke
Vincent was named executive vice president of the parent and
vice chairman of its unit, Aaron Spelling Productions Inc. He
had been senior vice president and president of the executive
committee for the unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Asset Management Expects Net,
   Revenue for Second Quarter to Increase
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   UAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- United Asset Management Corp. expects
second-quarter earnings and revenue to be about the same as
the first quarter, when the company reported net income of
$4.3 million, or 26 cents a share, on revenue of $40.1
million.
   If results match the first quarter, UAM would be posting
gains above the 1989 second quarter. In that period, the
company had net income of $3.6 million, or 23 cents a share,
on revenues of $35.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAM President Norton Reamer, in an interview, said he
expects assets under management to reach a record high at the
end of May, of about $39 billion, up from $37.7 billion at
March 31.
   Net asset growth is coming from market appreciation, and
not new invested funds. Mr. Reamer said customer cash flow --
or new cash added vs. cash taken out of portfolios -- was
negative so far this year, but only by about 1% to 2% of
portfolio assets.
   "We're bucking the trend" of greater losses in the rest of
the industry, Mr. Reamer said. Because pension plans have
appreciated to a size larger than that required to pay future
benefits, employers have been net withdrawers from plans for
several years. UAM's portfolios are 60% invested in stocks
and 40% in fixed-income securities.
   Mr. Reamer said he returned recently from Japan, where he
has been exploring UAM's interest in forming a joint
money-management venture with Japanese financial concerns.
UAM, which has acquired 22 money-management concerns since
1983, also is shopping for acquisitions, generally among
firms managing at least $300 million, in the United Kingdom
and on the European continent. Another sector where UAM hopes
to make acquisitions is U.S. money-management concerns that
specialize in foreign stocks and bonds or domestic real
estate, Mr. Reamer added.
   "Our goal is to manage all asset classes in all parts of
the world," Mr. Reamer said. Acquisitions that would bring in
foreign clients and investments to UAM are a priority now, he
said because of "huge amounts of capital being generated in
Japan," and the desire by institutional investors globally to
expand the geographic diversity of portfolios. UAM currently
has negligible assets under management.
   "Britain is the most logical shopping place," the UAM
president reckons, because a British purchase would kill two
birds with one stone -- bringing in new foreign customers and
assets invested outside the U.S. But UAM also has found
strong German and French bank interest in U.K
money-management concerns, bidding up prices for potential
buy-out candidates in London.
   Mr. Reamer said he thinks UAM is capable of acquiring a
money-management concern with as much as $15 billion in
assets -- which would add nearly 50% to the company's current
portfolios. Asked whether he thought UAM would make an
acquisition before the end of 1990, he said "it would be
normal to expect that we would. We have a great appetite for
deals."
   UAM wants to "strike an alliance" with a Japanese partner,
perhaps a trust bank or insurer, that will enable UAM to
manage a U.S. equities portfolio for the partner's customers.
Mr. Reamer said he believed that buying a Japanese money
manager isn't possible or desirable because of heavy market
concentration and cultural resistance to foreign ownership.
But he said that Japanese investors are beginning to show
greatly increased interest in the U.S stock market, providing
opportunities for U.S. managers.
   In addition to its interest in getting foreign customers
and assets, UAM also continues to shop for U.S. money
managers. Mr. Reamer said many U.S. banks, under regulatory
pressure to raise capital, currently are interested in
money-management divestments. He said UAM had reviewed
several for purchase, but declined to identify them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Titan to Buy M/A-Com Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TTN MAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Titan Corp. said it signed a definitive
agreement to acquire M/A-Com Government Systems Inc. from
M/A-Com Inc. of Burlington, Mass. Terms of the cash
acquisition weren't disclosed.
   The M/A-Com unit is a supplier of earth-based satellite
communications equipment to the U.S. government. Titan makes
computer products and provides services for defense programs.
Titan said that completion of the acquisition, expected at
the end of June, is subject to the signing of a definitive
loan agreement and regulatory approvals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   It Only Looks Like Child Abuse
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Houston -- Six girls, aged 13 to 15, are leaping and
flipping their little hearts out on the blue-carpeted mat in
the shed-like building in northwest Houston, but their
overseer, a burly, mustached man, is not charmed. During a
pause, he mimics and exaggerates their errors, and shakes his
head in dismay.
   Kim Zmeskal, a tiny, pale-eyed 14-year-old, is a special
target of his wrath. "If you're not going to put up a decent
effort, you might as well go home," he tells her after she
bobbles a multiple somersault in a floor-exercise routine.
"You can't progress if your mind isn't in it."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But later, after the girls have left, Bela Karolyi pleads
not guilty to child abuse. "These are very talented, very
motivated kids, and they are here because they want to be the
best," he says. "Sometimes they have to be pushed."
   He goes on, "If I were a piano teacher, saying the same
things to my gifted pupils, people would understand. But
sports really are no different. We are playing difficult
pieces here -- Beethoven and Tchaikovsky. We want to play
them better than anybody else."
   Since Karolyi came to Houston in 1982, a year after
gaining asylum from his native Romania during a visit to New
York, American girls in his charge have been doing just that
in the demanding sport of gymnastics. He coached Mary Lou
Retton, winner of the all-around gold medal at the 1984
Olympics in Los Angeles, and Phoebe Mills, whose bronze medal
in the balance beam at Seoul in 1988 was the first by a U.S.
female in games in which the entire East Bloc competed.
   Next week in Denver his latest prodigy, young Miss
Zmeskal, will be among the favorites in the 1990 U.S.
championships. She burst into prominence last March by
capturing the McDonald's American Cup, gymnastics' shiniest
international prize, offered annually on these shores.
Karolyi pupils have won eight of the last 15 of those. His
first winner, in 1976, was his Romanian pupil, the elegant
Nadia Comaneci, perhaps the best woman gymnast ever.
   None of this has been accomplished quietly. At meets, Bela
cheers on his charges and envelops them in celebratory bear
hugs he might as well patent. Between times, he wars with the
sport's powers-that-be.
   His flight from his homeland capped a running feud between
himself and what he calls the "party guys" in the Romanian
athletic bureaucracy, and he doesn't mean fellas who ran
around wearing funny hats and throwing streamers. The last
straw, he says, was the furor he raised at the 1980 Olympics
in Moscow, after judges deliberated for a half hour before
giving Comaneci a score on the beam, her last event, that
left her .075-point short of her second all-around gold,
behind a Soviet.
   "Their {the Soviets'} cheating was so dirty and open I
couldn't keep my mouth shut, even though I knew I'd have to
answer for it at home," he says now.
   Becoming a Texan hasn't changed his outspokenness; he was
pointedly critical of the U.S. Gymnastics Federation for not
making him the 1988 U.S. Olympic women's coach after the
trials, in which his Houston school produced three of the six
team members and the one run by Californian Don Peters, who
had the job, produced none. He says he'll make the same fuss
in '92 if the circumstances are repeated.
   "If I have the best athletes, I should be coach; if
somebody else has them, he or she should. What could be
simpler?" he declares.
   He adds: "Maybe they don't like that I talk. Well, too
bad. Life's short. I'll be quiet a long time when I'm dead."
   The life that the 49-year-old Karolyi has lived to date
has been eventful by any standard. A heavyweight boxer and
track-and-field hammer thrower as a youth, he admits to
taking up gymnastics coaching "because that was what they
{the regime} were pushing, so that was where the opportunity
was." He and his wife and aide, Martha, spotted Comaneci as a
girl in Onesti, made her a champion, and himself Romanian
national team coach.
   After a defection he remembers as more exasperating than
dramatic ("two days we stood in line for our immigration
papers"), the Karolyis waited in vain for U.S. coaching
offers, a snub that still rankles. While looking for work in
California, he unloaded ships and worked in restaurants. The
couple finally got jobs in Norman, Okla., and scraped up the
wherewithal to open their Houston club.
   Mary Lou came from West Virginia for training here, and
Phoebe, et al., followed. Now, Karolyi Gymnastics enrolls
some 600 pupils and affords its proprietors a life style that
includes a cattle and quarter-horse ranch along the Trinity
River east of town. Even detractors grant Bela's pre-eminence
as a motivator, an accolade he smilingly accepts.
   "Coaching sports like track and field is dry, academic.
For gymnastics, you need to bring out some pizzazz and a
little guts," he says. "Mary Lou was the best kid for that.
She had wonderful spirit. She was like a little chicken in
the big meets; you could almost see her heart beating."
   Karolyi believes that Zmeskal, a 4-foot-5, 70-pound eighth
grader, can pick up where Mary Lou left off. He praises her
speed, coordination and showmanship, and hopes that between
now and '92 she can acquire the stamina and discipline that
Olympic medalhood requires. He notes that she and Hilary
Grivich, 13, another budding Olympian still competing as a
junior, are special to him because they've spent their entire
gymnastic lives under his tutelage. Zmeskal has been a
Karolyi Kid since age six, having been introduced to the
sport by a babysitter whose daughter attended his school.
   Like the dozen or so other elite students at Karolyi
Gymnastics, Zmeskal trains six hours a day, six days a week.
She smiles a lot off-mat, collects bottles, and says the
balance beam is her favorite event "because it used to scare
me but doesn't any more."
   She asserts that she doesn't mind the work, or Bela's
verbal prodding. "When I was younger, he'd always smile at me
and pat my head, but now I know I have to really train," she
says. "And I know that even when it seems like he's trying to
kill us, it's for our own good."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advancing Gorbachev
   ----
   By Peggy Noonan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the art of politics there is a craft called Advance.
These are the men and women who prepare an area for a visit
by a leader or politician. Advance men and women are a loose
fraternity with their own lore ("Remember the kid they told
to find a speech site for a speech by Kefauver" -- or
Kennedy, or Romney -- "and he asked the locals what's the
most popular nightspot in town, and he booked it, and that
night he gets there all proud with Kefauver and it's a strip
joint? And Kefauver makes the speech?"). They have their own
traditions and even language ("When is the candidate
leaving?" "Wheels up 4 p.m.")
   Advance makes sure the man who heads the receiving line
isn't a convicted child molester; they make sure the sound
system works, the press can file, the crowd shows. They are
among the indispensables of politics, and generally
underappreciated. Good Advance means only that Brit Hume will
not lead with "In a haphazardly planned event that never
really got off the ground" -- cut to picture of presidential
candidate tripping over exposed cables on way to podium and
knocking over row of girl scouts. Bad Advance means, in a
beneficent campaign, one more and you're out. And so Advance
people take on the tics of the trade: a certain jut-jawed
intensity, an addiction to jogging and junk food, and a
desire to carry on three conversations at the same time on
the car phone, the cellular phone, and the radio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Mikhail Gorbachev visits Minneapolis and St. Paul,
Minn., this Sunday (ETA lunchtime, wheels up early evening) a
small army of a few dozen Advance veterans called in by the
governor's office and the business community will have paved
the way. I spoke to one just after midnight Wednesday. After
the negotiations -- "Don't put my name in, I'm no big deal,
you can quote but not for attribution, and check all spelling
with your desk" -- the Advance person settled in to chat
while waiting for room service.
   What's happening?
   "Right now we're waiting for the Twins to beat the Orioles
so we can roll a few hundred tables onto the Astroturf. The
International Press Center is the field of the Hubert H.
Humphrey Metrodome. There'll be hundreds of phones and copy
machines and faxes. The Russians particularly asked for
faxes. The filing center is in right field. The press office
is on the right field foul line. The technician's lounge is
in center field. The food's in left field. They may need new
turf there when it's over."
   How are things going?
   "We're tearing our hair out. Reporters are calling and
saying `Three days out and you don't have a schedule, oh ha
ha.' We don't know how many events we have. Normally at this
point in the trip Americans would be going over the schedule
with a fine-toothed comb. But we don't have a schedule. The
Russians won't tell us what they want to do. They're not
being secretive or balky; they just don't know. Or they can't
get Gorbachev's people to sign off. They're still
`considering' everything."
   This is what they're considering: Mrs. Gorbachev may visit
a typical American family in south Minneapolis. (So far the
designated family is that of Karen and Steve Watson and their
four children. A local paper said of them Wednesday: "They're
the Watsons, not the Cleavers. Their home is modest and well
kept, but not too modest or too well kept." He's an
elementary-school art teacher, she's a nurse. Their dog is
half Irish setter and half golden retriever. Mr. Watson is
thinking of showing Mrs. Gorbachev the dishwasher and the
laundry room.) Both Gorbachevs may attend an ecumenical
service in the big Roman Catholic cathedral in St. Paul. They
may visit an art museum. They may briefly get out of the
city. "The Soviet and American advance, Soviet security and
the Secret Service went off on a bus today to look at farms."
   What have the Soviets said yes to? An airport arrival
ceremony, which is to include every member of the Minnesota
congressional delegation; a luncheon in the governor's
mansion -- "So far the Soviets want it private, no press";
and a meeting with business leaders, probably featuring Q&amp;A
with Mr. Gorbachev. Who will be there? "All the hitters and
CEOs. This is definitely a business trip, no question."
   How do you know?
   "You can tell when you talk to them." Who? "The Russian
Advance guys. They came in last week." Are they like American
Advance guys? "No, not the same manic attention to detail."
   Minnesota is the headquarters of Cargill, a company that
sells grain to the Soviet Union. Minnesota is also home to 24
Fortune 500 companies, including 3-M, Honeywell, Pillsbury,
General Mills and Control Data Corp. Control Data is probably
the touchiest of these names. The Soviets have an order in
with the firm to buy $32 million of Cyber 962 mainframe
computers -- computers that some say could have the kind of
military applications that used to be blocked under
technology-transfer rules. But the Russians are expecting to
get Washington's approval on the hardware deal shortly.
Advance people, for their part, sometimes refer to the
transaction as "selling the Soviets computers that have
something to do with nuclear tests."
   One senses the state's attitude toward the Gorbachev visit
is not unlike that of a wife who has been hastily informed
that tomorrow night the husband's best potential customer
ever is coming to dinner; the silverware's out, the flowers
have been ordered and the tablecloth is being ironed. From
the moment the Soviets accepted Gov. Rudy Perpich's
invitation, boosters and businessmen went into high gear.
Within 24 hours they had a Gorbachev Visit Office in a new
downtown office building -- 7,000 square feet of office space
donated by Carlson Co., a local holding company. IBM came in
and donated all computer operations. U S West, the local
phone company, donated all cellular and desk phones, pagers,
beepers and radio phones.
   "You should see the people out there. Every business in
town is offering people and products and calling in to help.
It's incredible. It's like Super Bowl fever. On local TV
they're showing kids learning Russian songs and Russian
phrases in the schools. I don't mean Berlitz is gonna get
bought out on language tapes, but the spirit is incredible.
I'm blown away by the business community. It's Gorby fever.
It's like when people are psyched up for a Super Bowl. I'd
like to see people get this psyched up over a president."
   What about the local political implications? There was
talk recently that the Gorbachev coup would re-elect Rudy
Perpich this fall.
   "Listen, let me run this down for you. Perpich is bringing
to Minnesota in 1991, for the first time, the U.S. Open. Also
in '91 he's got the International Special Olympics. In '92
he's got the NCAA final four and the Super Bowl. And he got
Gorbachev. So I don't know what his problems are but he must
be feeling pretty good." Wednesday night, when Mr. Perpich
walked into the daily Advance countdown meeting in a
conference room at the Radisson Plaza Hotel, he got a
standing ovation.
   Has the Advance person been told of anything special Mr.
Gorbachev is going to do, such as, oh, speak a sentence or
two of English for a perfect seven-second bite on the
networks? Something homey and American and aimed also at the
folks back home, like, "Don't change horses in midstream"?
"No, no speech is planned."
   Who is in the Russian party?
   The Advance person sighs. "We don't know, we're trying to
find out exactly from Washington." Do you know how many
people are in the Russian party? "No, but it's not like five
to six, not like 100. A few dozen."
   Anything more on the schedule?
   "No. But it'll be whirlwind."
   When will the Gorbachevs get to rest?
   "That's called `private time.' It's built into the
schedule. The Radisson Hotel's got rooms for them. So you
know, Mrs. Gorbachev can go into the bathroom if she wants to
get the governor's wife out of her face. Oh, this is
interesting. The Russians know Gorbachev's spontaneous. They
know their guys like we know our guys. They're telling us
they don't know what he'll do. They're not even asking about
the motorcade route -- you know, so we could help them
arrange a crowd for a spontaneous jump out of the limo. We're
finding out the spontaneous thing is genuine."
   With Lithuania unresolved, with Moscow bracing for panic
buying in a K mart without inventory, with Yeltsin rising,
any contingency plans for a Gorbachev defection?
   The Advance person pauses.
   "Actually, a woman at yesterday's meeting said, `What do
we do if when he gets to the cathedral he asks for
sanctuary?' Everybody laughed."
   ---
   Miss Noonan wrote speeches for President Reagan and George
Bush and is the author of "What I Saw at the Revolution: A
Political Life in the Reagan Era" (Random House).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Market Assets
   Gain $128.3 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Assets of the U.S.'s 502 money market funds
rose $128.3 million to $381.54 billion, in the week ended
Wednesday, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington trade association.
   Assets of 239 general purpose funds fell $231.2 million to
$129.25 billion, and assets of 102 broker-dealer funds rose
$481.4 million to $159.62 billion. Assets of 161
institutional funds fell $121.9 million to $92.68 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The number of funds was revised for the week ending May 23
to exclude one general purpose fund that closed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Buy-Out Gets
   Boost as Greenwald
   Joins Unions' Bid
   ---
   Despite Chrysler Ex-Official's
   Financial Expertise,
   Deal Isn't a Sure Thing
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The union effort to acquire United Airlines receives a
substantial boost with the adddition of former Chrysler Corp.
Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald as leader of the buy-out
group, but a successful deal remains a long way off.
   During the federal bailout of Chrysler, Mr. Greenwald
played a key role in negotiating with the many lending
institutions that helped keep the company from bankruptcy.
Through that experience, he built up strong bonds with a
number of banks, including Japanese institutions that could
prove crucial to the success of the bid for Chicago-based UAL
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With a big loan to pay off and aircraft purchases to
finance, Mr. Greenwald's financial expertise could be
invaluable at United.
   Nonetheless, the buy-out is far from a sure thing. The
climate for such highly leveraged transactions is poor, and
widespread concerns remain that banks, which scorned an
earlier labor-management bid, won't finance the current $4.38
billion offer. Ultimately, lending institutions will have to
decide whether to participate based on the merits of the deal
itself.
   UAL's stock rose $4.625 to $155.50 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, reflecting generally positive
reaction to Mr. Greenwald.
   However, the stock is still trading at a sharp discount to
labor's $201-a-share offer, suggesting takeover stock traders
don't want to take larger positions with the deal still a
long way from completion. The offer includes only $155 a
share in cash; the rest is in debt and securities whose value
may change with time.
   Although he waffled several times over his decision, Mr.
Greenwald exuded confidence yesterday at his first public
appearances as the buy-out's leader. Before accepting the
post, he said he consulted with several commercial bankers.
"I did my own form of due diligence," he added, using a
banking term for investigating a transaction's potential
problems.
   "I'm convinced (the deal) will be done," he added. He said
he also was influenced by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.'s recent
decision to join the financing effort, citing Goldman's
reputation for success.
   Mr. Greenwald will get a big fee whether or not the deal
succeeds. Although he declined to discuss the fee, a person
familiar with the arrangement said it would amount to a
percentage of the $1.1 million annual salary the unions
agreed to pay him. Mr. Greenwald agreed to run UAL for five
years if the buy-out succeeds.
   Despite his considerable strengths, some bank officials
expressed concern about his lack of airline experience. "I
don't think they've resolved the management issue by bringing
in Greenwald," said the chief executive officer of one of the
nation's largest leveraged buy-out lenders.
   The banker notes that Mr. Greenwald's experience is in
manufacturing, a business quite different from the
service-oriented airline industry.
   Acknowledging his shortcomings in this area, Mr. Greenwald
said airline executives will comprise United's "key
management" team. The unions have said they want to keep
substantially all of UAL's 40 current senior managers. They
have asked an executive search firm to find an executive from
within the industry to serve as Mr. Greenwald's chief
operating officer, a post not currently held at UAL.
   The more thorny questions facing Mr. Greenwald concern the
deal's financial merits. Banking officials are concerned
about the absence of a major equity investor. They also
question whether a highly leveraged airline can survive in a
cyclical industry that requires heavy capital expenditures. A
heavy debt load, they say, will make United particularly
vulnerable to fare wars launched by stronger competitors.
   Mr. Greenwald said the banks' wariness is "normal at this
point." Lenders, he noted, haven't yet seen detailed
financial data on the transaction. Union advisers said they
will begin circulating that information now that Mr.
Greenwald is on board. Mr. Greenwald will personally pitch
the transaction to lenders.
   Union advisers recently discussed the transaction with
representatives of eight banks. The bankers' reaction left
them "optimistic," one person familiar with the discussions
said. The unions have to overcome the specter of last
October's failed labor-management bid. Privately, union
officials acknowledge that market conditions for leveraged
buy-outs haven't improved much since then.
   The advisers say Mr. Greenwald will try to convince the
banks that the current transaction is far different from the
one that collapsed. They cite the lower purchase price, $201
a share compared with the earlier bid of $300 a share, that
will require less debt financing.
   They also stress the fact that as a venture involving
employee ownership, both banks and UAL will receive
significant tax benefits. Because the current deal calls for
100% employee ownership, those benefits will be even greater
than in the earlier deal involving a 75% employee stake.
   One problem is that the syndication market, in which large
banks lend vast sums and then parcel out portions of the loan
to various banks, "is dead," one U.S. banker said. That could
leave Mr. Greenwald with the tough task of convincing 20 or
so banks to lend relatively large sums.
   The 54-year-old executive cites his experience in getting
400 banks to sign a Chryler agreement, all on the same day.
"I don't remember that as having been easy," he said. He also
noted that he was forced to run Chrysler at a time when the
company had no net worth.
   "I've learned you do what you have to do," he said. One
difference, though, between the Chrysler bailout and the UAL
bid is that Chrysler's lenders knew the federal government
was backing Chrysler with a loan-guarantee program. Chrysler
ultimately paid back the loans without government help.
   Bankers have also expressed concern about how much
involvement UAL's oncewarring unions will have in running the
company. "Are they going to get in the way of management?"
the top lending officer of a large New York bank asked.
   Mr. Greenwald said he is convinced UAL's labor leaders
will let him run the company. They agreed to a five-year
nostrike clause. At Chrysler he wrenched major labor
concessions when the company was failing.
   He said he made no specific promises on how he would run
UAL, although he agreed he wouldn't diversify the company.
United's pilots union played a large role in forcing the
company to sell off its hotel and car rental businesses three
years ago.
   Over the last five years, UAL has endured a bitter pilot
strike, three changes in chairmen and a major restructuring.
"The employees have gone through hell. The whole purpose of
employee ownership is to stabilize the company," Mr.
Greenwald said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Introduces
   Device for Messages
   Via Rotary Phones
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. says it's
introducing the first answering machines that respond to
rotary-dial phones, making it easier for people to call home
or office to get their messages.
   Owners previously were limited to using touch-tone phones
or beepers when calling home for messages. The new answering
machines now have a human-speech synthesizer that responds to
a voice command to retrieve messages, getting around the
touch-tone problem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The machines also are the first to store as many as four
different outgoing messages to callers, the company said. Two
models of the answering machine have two lines, permitting
one caller to leave a message while another is given a signal
to wait and then leave a message. AT&amp;T said the two-line
models are designed for the growing number of households,
home offices and small businesses with two telephone numbers.
   AT&amp;T is introducing the machines at the Consumer
Electronics Show, which opens tomorrow in Chicago. Among
other products, the telecommunications giant is introducing a
two-line cordless telephone and a caller identification unit,
which can be used with caller identification services
provided by local phone companies. Users who have the local
service can use the Call Display 64 to view the numbers of
incoming calls. The unit stores the numbers and times of the
most recent 64 calls, whether or not they were answered.
   Separately, AT&amp;T Capital Corp. said it completed its
acquisition of Encore International Inc., a computer leasing
concern. Encore will operate under the name AT&amp;T Systems
Leasing Corp., and current management will remain intact in
its Bloomfield Hills, Mich., headquarters, AT&amp;T Capital said.
   AT&amp;T earlier this year divided its AT&amp;T Credit Corp.
subsidiary into five business units and renamed it AT&amp;T
Capital. The unit offers equipment leasing and financing
services for AT&amp;T and non-AT&amp;T equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Names
   Wang Minister
   Of Finance
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- An outspoken law-and-order advocate was
appointed as Taiwan's finance minister, underlining the
government's recognition of the need for financial-market
reform.
   The appointment of 51-year-old Wang Chien-shien as finance
chief was part of a new cabinet announced yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wang, a tax specialist, has been a vocal critic of the
rampant corruption in Taiwan's stock market. "He's clean,
tough and very impatient, so I think that he will speed up
financial reform," said C.C. Chen, vice president of
International Commercial Bank of China. Mr. Wang succeeds
Shirley Kuo.
   Analysts said another significant change in the new
cabinet, which was approved by the ruling Kuomintang, was the
appointment of Vincent Siew as economics minister. During his
18 years in various trade posts, Mr. Siew has become known as
a skilled negotiator who can get what he wants without
ruffling feathers.
   For the most part, however, when Defense Minister Hau
Pei-tsun becomes premier tomorrow, the faces in his cabinet
will be much the same as those under his predecessor, Lee
Huan. Mr. Hau, 70, will retain most of the technocrats who
have been serving in the cabinet for the past two years,
although some will be changing jobs. The new cabinet will be
sworn tomorrow.
   Analysts said that one of Mr. Wang's priorities will be to
clean up the stock market and close Taiwan's remaining
gray-market investment houses. He also is expected to
increase the pressure on Taiwan's companies to become listed
on the stock exchange. The move would force more companies to
disclose financial information, making it easier for the
government to collect taxes.
   Mr. Siew, the new economics minister, formerly headed the
Board of Foreign Trade. Two years ago, when farmers were
protesting the import of U.S. agricultural products, Mr. Siew
tried to calm the angry crowd in front of his office. He
continued smiling and talking even while being pelted with
eggs and rotten fruit.
   Patience will come in handy for the 51-year-old official.
One of his biggest tasks will be to work out compromises
between industrialists and environmentalists. Battles between
these two groups have halted the construction of many
projects, including petrochemical plants and power-generation
facilities.
   One of Taiwan's smoothest diplomats, Fredrick Chien, 55,
who was de facto ambassador in Washington from 1985 to 1988,
will be minister of foreign affairs. The current foreign
minister, 53-year-old Lien Chan, will become governor of
Taiwan province. Analysts expect Mr. Chien to continue
efforts begun by Mr. Lien to be more practical than
ideological in expanding Taiwan's contacts with nations that
recognize China.
   Mr. Chien has been serving as chairman of the Council for
Economic Planning and Development, an agency that coordinates
government research and planning. He will be succeeded in
that job by Ms. Kuo, the current finance minister. Ms. Kuo,
dubbed the "Iron Lady" when she took on stock-market
speculators by announcing a capital-gains tax in September
1988, turned out to be unsuited for such a high-profile post,
according to analysts.
   The current economics minister, Chen Li-an, will succeed
Mr. Hau as defense minister. The appointment of Mr. Chen,
whose father was premier and vice president under
Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek, has raised some controversy. He
served only four months in the military, while the usual
requirement is for all males to serve two years. Mr. Chen,
52, was exempted from active duty after basic training in
1954 so that he could study in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Portrait of a Feminist Heroine
   ----
   By Janet Byrne
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Simone de Beauvoir was an instant celebrity after the
publication of her pioneering feminist book, "The Second
Sex," in 1949. By the 1970s she was "sacred monster" to the
radical feminists whose sexual politics had supplanted hers.
She ended up a lionized if somewhat compromised figure.
Untrusting, self-absorbed, alcoholic, de Beauvoir doesn't
arouse much sympathy.
   Deirdre Bair has written a huge, heroic book that focuses
on de Beauvoir's contribution to intellectual history, though
the unflattering minutiae that fill many of its pages make de
Beauvoir look small and fallible. Ms. Bair seems predisposed
to take the optimistic view of her subject in this avowedly
"feminist" biography, "Simone de Beauvoir" (Summit, 718
pages, $24.95), even when history and her own hard research
shine a darker light.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the five years before de Beauvoir's death in 1986
of cirrhosis, Ms. Bair, winner of the National Book Award for
her biography of Samuel Beckett, visited her at 11 rue
Schoelcher, where de Beauvoir lived alone with her books, TV,
travel collectibles, and a refrigerator which blocked the
foyer. Having flushed her morning vodka from her system, de
Beauvoir poured them each an ounce of Scotch.
   With the Montparnasse cemetery outside, they discussed her
life. De Beauvoir had told Ms. Bair she wished to be
remembered as a writer, not the feminist author of "The
Second Sex," and they considered forming a "biographical Hall
of Mirrors." When de Beauvoir died, Ms. Bair was left to her
own interpretations. The result is the woman as feminist
heroine -- the role de Beauvoir resented because it eclipsed
her other achievements.
   Working the often unheroic facts of de Beauvoir's life
into feminism's agenda is not easy. She was not, this
feminist biography notwithstanding, a woman's woman.
Threatened by intellectual female writers, she avoided them.
Lest her friends prefer one another, she prevented them from
meeting. She screened worshipful female students as partners
for her lifelong companion, Jean-Paul Sartre, apparently
seducing several first herself. In her autobiographical first
novel, about a love triangle, she kills off the rival
protagonist.
   Ms. Bair seems both to love and be appalled by her
subject. A voyeuristic prig whose unlikely pastime, in her
late teens, was masquerading as a prostitute in Paris bars,
de Beauvoir slipped past remonstrating Catholic parents to
the Sorbonne, where she performed compulsively well in
philosophy -- an unladylike department, by her mother's
standards -- and met Sartre.
   The couple got off to a great start. But soon he was
denting her thin emotional armor, swallowing handfuls of the
stimulant Corydrane as if they were vitamins and making
frenzied love to teen-agers. At one point, their world grew
so self-referential they fixated on each other's hands, with
Sartre looking on while de Beauvoir spent hours applying
garish nail polish (incongruous on a woman who wore torn
dresses and hated to wash her hair).
   In occupied Paris, despite paper rationing and censorship,
they furthered their careers. While Sartre played
buffoonishly at Resistance activity, forming an ersatz cell
as though no established movement existed, de Beauvoir
published for the first time, and from 1943 drew a weekly
paycheck from the German-run state radio. Ms. Bair handles
the charges of "moral collaboration" and "opportunism" by
adopting a strangely inappropriate language of "feelings."
They "did what they felt they needed to do in order to
survive. If they felt better about their actions by analyzing
and explaining them . . . their equivocations should probably
be judged accordingly."
   Following de Beauvoir's lead, Ms. Bair treats the genesis
and composition of "The Second Sex" sentimentally, quoting de
Beauvoir's remark about conceiving her 900-page masterwork
"almost by chance." She portrays de Beauvoir in a sober
ecstasy of research and writing, processing details of her
friends' lesbianism, Sartre's precepts, and books like "The
Kinsey Report" sent by her mostly long-distance lover Nelson
Algren. Finally, she cranked out the chapters fortified by
liquor and pep pills.
   Ms. Bair devotes much of the book's last third to the "The
Second Sex's" reception: jeers, obscene hate mail, awe,
international acclaim. De Beauvoir became public property,
like a film star, her "lopsided" relationship with Sartre in
the spotlight. In public a feminist bulwark, de Beauvoir
privately dismissed (Ms. Bair tells us in the notes) critics
of her perceived enslavement to Sartre: "I'm sorry to
disappoint all the feminists, but you can say that it's too
bad so many of them live only in theory instead of in real
life."
   The theory and reality of de Beauvoir's life were two
different matters. Born into the "belle epoque" and raised as
a spoiled bourgeois girl, she was a feminist by default: She
didn't fit well into the world of women as it existed, and
when she described her dissatisfaction she spawned a
movement. As one of its first leaders, she sometimes came up
short. And so her messy life occasionally locks the wheels of
Ms. Bair's big, sleek feminist vehicle.
   ---
   Ms. Byrne is writing a biography of Frieda Lawrence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Air Travelers
   In a Frenzy
   For Coupon
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL PN AMR DAL U AWAL TEX NWA MDW TWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Airline coupons that offer $35 discounts have triggered
wide interest -- and a cat and mouse game between consumers
and carriers.
   While consumers are scrambling to get copies of newspapers
with the $35-discount coupons run by UAL Corp.'s United
Airlines unit, some airlines accepting the coupons are trying
to make as few fares as possible eligible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The United coupons are so popular that many carriers have
been forced to honor them for fear of not being competitive.
But the airlines aren't honoring the coupons on tickets
already purchased -- a provision consumers think should be
changed.
   "That's the only fair thing to do," says Harry Gourevitch,
a Washington, D.C., lawyer who hammered United with
complaints after it refused to redeem the $35-off coupons on
tickets he bought before the promotion began May 21. "I
called United reservations this morning. I got a fellow
called Chris, and he said he had a lot of calls already but
he couldn't do anything. It's fraud on consumers." United
says the restriction is part of its publicized rules.
   The gimmick is so big that many carriers fear being
swamped by it. Some, such as AMR Corp.'s American Airlines
unit, Pan Am Corp.'s Pan American World Airways unit and
Delta Air Lines, refuse to participate. Others are sneakier.
   On May 23, two days after United started advertising its
coupons, one of its commuter carriers dropped a $176
round-trip fare between Los Angeles and Monterey, Calif., to
$174. Although small, the fare cut typically would be good
news for travelers. This time, it wasn't. By cutting the
fare, the United commuter line made the fare ineligible for
the $35-off coupon. The promotion's rules say the coupon
can't be applied to fares below $175.
   With the $176 fare, fliers could redeem a coupon and fly
for $141. "I couldn't believe it," says Jean Burgess, manager
of House of Travel in Los Angeles, who was trying to book the
$176 fare.
   WestAir Holding Inc., which operates the commuter line,
acknowledges the sleight of hand. "We had what might be
described as an overzealous pricing person who, thinking that
he was looking out for the company's best interest, reduced
the fare," says a spokesman. "As soon as our senior people
became aware of it, they changed it." Last Friday, the fare
was returned to $176.
   USAir Group Inc. didn't back off so quickly. As of
yesterday, it still had the $174 fare.
   Airlines were just as crafty on the Los Angeles-Reno,
Nev., route. Over the past several days, United, USAir and
America West have all introduced a $174 fare that doesn't
qualify for the $35-off coupon.
   In addition to USAir and America West, the airlines
accepting United's coupon on their flights include:
Continental Airlines, a unit of Texas Air Corp., NWA Inc.'s
Northwest Airlines, Midway Airlines and, on a limited basis,
Trans World Airlines.
   "The coupons have stimulated business quite a bit," says
Gwen Wells, manager of Century Travel in Denver. She says
business is up 10% to 15% since United started its coupon
deal.
   For their part, consumers are besieging newspapers and
libraries with requests for issues of papers that carried the
ad containing three clip-and-save coupons.
   In Orlando, Fla., a public library official says somebody
ripped the coupon page out of two newspapers on file.
United's coupons were run in only one issue of various
newspapers across the country -- on May 21 in some and May 23
in others -- and the number is limited because photocopies
aren't accepted. United wouldn't disclose the number of
coupons published.
   In Seattle, the two daily papers were forced to slap a
one-paper limit on the May 21 issue after a local travel
agent snatched up 75 copies. June Saty, who works in the
Seattle Times and Seattle Post-Intelligencer's circulation
department, says, "I've had people come in and just about
jump over the counter at me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potamac Watch:
   Dissident-in-Exile
   Says Gorbachev
   Trails Revolution
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The new consensus this summit week is that Mikhail
Gorbachev is a besieged man. The consensus is finally
catching up with Vladimir Bukovsky.
   Years ago, the famous former dissident was saying that the
seemingly mighty Soviet Union was in fact a ramshackle
edifice built on lies and terror. Months ago, he was saying
that the mighty Mikhail championed in the West was a failure
at home. Now he's saying that both Russian and Western
interests are best served not by more schizophrenic Gorbachev
"reform," but by U.S. support for Soviet democracy. Amid the
summit hoopla, it's worth listening to one of the few who's
been right from the start about the Soviet crackup.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet Union is now in a "runaway revolution," with
Mr. Gorbachev as the laggard, says Mr. Bukovsky from his
Cambridge, England, home-in-exile. Mr. Gorbachev is
yesterday's man, a transitional figure. He will get credit
for creating the process of revolution that he, as a product
of the old regime (the Communist Party), was ill-prepared to
master. Mr. Bukovsky's analogy is the Russia of 1905-17, when
the czar was promoting reform that became a revolution he
lost control of.
   The failure is evident in the contradictions of the
Gorbachev reforms -- a "regulated market economy,"
"productive socialism." He understands the necessity of
change but not the means. His latest economic reform could be
the Red Queen's: pain first (higher prices), incentives later
(private property). The man who once presided over Soviet
agriculture -- defined as 73 years of bad weather -- is not
the man to preside over Soviet renewal.
   The Communists, Mr. Bukovsky goes further, quoting former
Hungarian Communist Imre Poszgay, "cannot reform themselves.
They cannot liquidate themselves." They must be swept away,
toppled by an alternative force, as they were in Eastern
Europe. Even if Mr. Gorbachev were to become a radical
democrat tomorrow, he could succeed only by dismantling his
own rule. And even if he tried that, says Mr. Bukovsky, "the
people wouldn't trust him." He has too much Communist history
in his past.
   "What you need now in the Soviet Union is a clean, clear
break from the past," he says.
   Ah, but what about the threat from Mr. Gorbachev's
"right," from Pamyat, or Russian ultra-nationalists? The
State Department sponsored a visit of these types recently,
and they scared the Gorbo-skepticism out of even so savvy an
observer as columnist Charles Krauthammer.
   Mr. Bukovsky says, don't fret. The U.S. spent taxpayer
money "to bring in six idiots. . . . They are nothing,
nothing] People don't vote for them. They can't even get
elected to city councils]" And it's true -- even in the
Russian republic nearly every candidate from the lunatic
right has been trounced in elections.
   George Bush nonetheless says the enemy is "instability,
unpredictability," so Mr. Gorbachev is our man. But Mr.
Bukovsky replies that Mr. Gorbachev has become the enemy of
stability. He's the one stirring up ethnic Russian agitation
in the Baltics. His Politburo sent in the troops who gassed
nationalists in Soviet Georgia. His failure to understand
free markets is sending the country into depression. The KGB
is stirring up the ultra-nationalists -- the better to let
Mr. Gorbachev appear as the indispensable centrist.
   "The Baltics are peaceful now. But if they fail in getting
independence, there will be a radicalization," Mr. Bukovsky
predicts. "The non-violent forces would lose credibility.
Remember, Lithuanians were still fighting in the forests in
the 1950s." This argument would be common wisdom if the
government in turmoil were in the Philippines or South
Africa. But Mr. Gorbachev always gets the benefit of the
American doubt.
   "The current position of the American administration is
untenable," he adds. "On the one hand, they say the changes
in the Soviet Union are irreversible, so you can sign arms
agreements. On the other hand, they say you can't recognize
Lithuania because it might lead to a reversal. You can't have
it both ways."
   The West must rethink its strategy. "Is it in the interest
of the West to see the disintegration of a huge country,
one-sixth of the globe going into protracted civil war and
famine? If it is, then they should support Gorbachev," he
says. "If it's not, then they must support the democratic
forces in the Soviet Union."
   Russia has never had a democracy, but Mr. Bukovsky says:
"Look at the results. Everywhere there has been a vote, the
democratic reformers have won." Boris Yeltsin ("more sincere
than Gorbachev but still very much tied to his Marxist past")
of the Russian republic is in the headlines this week, but
others will soon become known too -- Moscow Mayor Gavriil
Popov; the Ukraine's Vyacheslav Chornovil. They offer the
only alternative, he says, to the current spiral of
disintegration -- strikes, food riots, rebellion. They would
be able to do what Mr. Gorbachev so far won't: Defuse revolt
in the republics by dismantling the empire.
   In his memoir of prison life (12 years in all), Mr.
Bukovsky wrote that to keep sane he built a castle in his
mind. His suffering then may provide his advantage over
Western Sovietologists now: He remembers how much people have
suffered. His next book, due out this month in France, is
entitled, "U.S.S.R.: From Utopia to Disaster." His timing
seems about right.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Mixed;
   Bonds, Dollar
   Post Advances
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices turned in a mixed performance, as
investors took profits in blue-chip issues that have led the
recent rally and then bid for stocks that are catching up.
   Bond prices, meanwhile, extended this week's string of
gains by drifting higher in light trading, and the dollar
rose.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average eased 1.90 points to
close at 2876.66 in active trading, but the broader Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-stock index nudged ahead to a third consecutive
record close, up 0.37 at 361.23.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices rose more than an
eighth of a point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 face amount. The
dollar gained against most other major currencies on concern
over instability in the Mideast and questions about how a
reunified Germany would be aligned politically.
   Economic indicators are strengthening the case for slow
but stable growth in the U.S. economy and low inflation, both
of which tend to make fixed-rate investments such as bonds
attractive. But slow growth -- rather than a recession -- is
also relatively good for stocks. That's why investors haven't
been eager to jump off the blue-chip bandwagon; the Dow Jones
industrials have posted new highs in eight of the past 13
sessions.
   "I like the market," said Philip Roth, chief technical
analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds, "but I don't rule out a
correction for a few days." Over the summer, however, he
expects stocks to move modestly higher. One reason is a
decline in commodity prices, a further sign that inflation
need not be feared. As a result, interest rates should fall,
meaning bond yields will drop, which in turn should lure more
investors into stocks.
   But David Bostian, chief investment strategist at Jesup &amp;
Lamont, said stock market investors may discover that growth
is slowing faster than they thought. "Investors' perceptions
have become divorced from the economy," he warned.
   Bond prices fell in early trading in reaction to regional
surveys of purchasing managers that suggested the
manufacturing business is improving. But then dealers began
buying back bonds to replace those they had sold, in effect
betting that prices would fall-which drove prices higher.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell. Trading was moderately active, with
165.7 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock
Exchange. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners, 801-682.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices climbed. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond eased to 8.57%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar gained slightly. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6965 marks and 152.10 yen, compared
with 1.6830 marks and 151.45 yen late Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, May 31, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 5/16% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 30 to 59 days; 8.10% 60 to 149 days;
8.05% 150 to 179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.04% 30 days; 8.04% 60 days; 8.01%
90 days; 8% 120 days; 7.96% 150 days; 7.95% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% five months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 1/2% six months; 8 3/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.50; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Tuesday, May 29, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.80% 13 weeks; 7.74% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.22%, standard conventional fixedrate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.15%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   LVMH Makes Offer to Buy
   6.8% More of Guinness
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LVMHY U.GUI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, a French
spirits and luxury products group, said it is offering to buy
an additional 6.8% of Guinness PLC through a tender offer.
   The company said it is offering to pay as much as 825
pence ($13.99) a share to acquire as much as 59.4 million
shares in Guinness, a British spirits group. The purchases
would lift LVMH's holdings in Guinness to 24.1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   LVMH's current holdings include 42.8 million shares, which
the company acquired yesterday. Guinness shares are currently
trading at 762 pence, up from 742 at Wednesday's close.
   The intended enlarged holding would draw LVMH's stake in
Guinness roughly even with the 24.1% fully diluted stake
Guinness holds in the French group. The two companies agreed
in 1988 to allow each to hold equivalent stakes in the other.
   If LVMH receives more than the required shares under the
tender, it said it will drop its offer price to the lowest
price at which the full number of shares can be acquired.
   Should the tender fail to attract enough shares to lift
its stake to the target level, LVMH said it will buy
additional shares in the market through U.K. brokers S.G.
Warburg &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unlikely Leader:
   Taiwan, Long Noted
   For Cheap Imitations,
   Becomes an Innovator
   ---
   Rising Costs Force a Shift
   From Toys to High-Tech,
   With Government Help
   ---
   The Japanese Chase MICE
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN NSM TXN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HSINCHU, Taiwan -- Bobo Wang was a rising young star at
Xerox Corp. when he decided to pick up his computer chips and
start a company here. The Taiwanese government was happy to
oblige.
   It gave him low-interest financing and tax incentives. It
also set him up in a Silicon Valley-clone industrial park
between the capital city of Taipei and the two best
engineering schools. The park has cheap rent, clean water,
dependable electricity and even a bilingual school for
children, on winding streets with names like Innovation Road
and R&amp;D Road.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The help paid off. Several months ago, the company Mr.
Wang founded, Microtek International Inc., scored a coup. It
hit the market with a device that feeds both black-and-white
and color photographs into a computer -- a boon for desktop
publishers because it's almost like getting two machines for
the price of one. Not only did it get to the market ahead of
the Japanese, but the scanner sells for less than half the
price of a comparable Japanese product.
   By the time Japan's Sharp Corp. scrambled its version onto
the market, Microtek was far ahead. The result: In about six
months, little Microtek sold 11,000 of the $2,700 scanners --
more than Sharp will probably sell in a year.
   Microtek is an example of the new Taiwanese economy --
moving from imitation to innovation. The past generation of
Taiwanese businessmen were content to copy existing products
of the West and Japan. With cheap labor, a weak currency and
an export-or-die philosophy, they made Taiwan famous for
cheap knock-off electronics, toys and tennis shoes. Now that
economic conditions are shifting, Taiwan's industry is
quickly pushing into high-technology products that sell
because of their sophisticated features, not just lower
prices.
   Its move is being closely watched in the Pacific Rim.
Newly industrialized nations such as South Korea have
neglected innovation -- and now they fear they won't be able
to make the transition. They are examining the Taiwanese
model of government support for entrepreneurs and
engineering.
   At Microtek, Robert Hsieh, head of office automation
products, spends much time traveling abroad to industry
conferences and workshops, where he listens for new-product
ideas in the conversations and complaints of computer
hobbyists, newsletter editors and office managers. He also
encourages his staff to leave Taiwan and find new things. An
American-educated image-processing expert, Mr. Hsieh keeps a
small staff of technical people in the U.S. to watch trends
in research and consumer behavior. "We feel it when something
exciting comes along," he says.
   And they're prepared to take advantage of those feelings.
"We move fast," says Mr. Hsieh. "Japan has committees,
committees and committees to decide something. We can jump
right on things because all I need is one signature."
   Taiwan's new attitude was the result of some brutal
realities. Wages are up 40% since 1986, and the New Taiwan
dollar has been up as much as 50% against the U.S. dollar. No
longer low-cost producers, companies were faced with raising
prices overseas or cutting profit margins.
   But the Taiwanese have turned the situation to their
advantage, forcing themselves to change the way they do
business. They are moving toward high technology and
higher-value products. "The only solution is to add value to
our products," says Stan Shih, chairman and chief executive
of Acer Group, Taiwan's leading computer maker.
   Microelectronics Technology Inc. was making components for
microwave receiving equipment; now it makes complete systems
for ships -- and a portable unit that weighs just 65 pounds.
Inventa Electronics Co., which made almost-disposable
calculators, now builds personal computers as well as clocks
and telephones. Kennex International Corp. is designing
high-end sporting goods. And Vidar-Sun Moon Star Co., which
used to produce electronic parts, now makes mobile phones and
digital microwave radios.
   Taiwan's governmental and private R&amp;D spending has doubled
in just five years, to about 50 billion New Taiwan dollars
($1.8 billion). About half of that is spending by the
government, which often funnels money to research projects
that can be shared by many small companies, such as
artificial intelligence software or computer chip design.
   The government encourages the substitution of machines for
workers; that costs about $35,000 an employee initially, but
the government estimates the payback comes in two years. It
is also letting labor-intensive and low-tech factories close
or move offshore. "We are responding to the reality," says
Frederick F. Chien, chairman of the Council for Economic
Planning and Development, a cabinet-level post. "The
high-growth days are over."
   That's relative, of course. Taiwan still expects annual
growth of about 7% -- down from an average of 7.9% in the
1980s, but more than double a level that would be considered
excellent in the U.S. Exports are expanding vigorously, 9.3%
last year and probably more than 8% this year, thanks to the
shift to higher-value products. Per capita gross national
product will hit $8,500 this year, making Taiwan one of the
most affluent Asian lands.
   Taiwanese companies also are starting to buy into the U.S.
A Taiwanese business and government consortium recently
bought Wyse Technology Inc. for $156.7 million. Companies
that hardly anyone outside Taiwan has heard of are buying
small Silicon Valley concerns, as well as hotels like the
Mandarin Oriental in San Francisco (for $60 million) and even
eight insolvent Texas savings and loans ($37 million).
   The movement of investment offshore, about $4 billion in
the last two years, is invigorating the economies of
Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand. An additional $1 billion
has leaked to mainland China, which is still officially at
war with the Nationalist government on Taiwan.
   Korea, impressed with the Taiwan model, is setting up a
science park for entrepreneurs and is studying ways to
attract engineers, particularly Koreans in the U.S., to start
their own small companies in Korea. Seoul says it will invest
$5.89 billion over three years in R&amp;D. "We have to develop
the tendencies such as you find in Taiwan," says Kim
Chong-In, the Korean president's top economic adviser.
"Korean entrepreneurs are not so good at adapting to
technological change. We have to become more flexible and
adaptive."
   Taiwan isn't out of the woods yet. With a population of
nearly 20 million and small, albeit rich, companies, Taiwan
will find it hard to compete against giants in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan. Its companies lack experience and name
recognition. Revenues and profits are soft during the
transition. Says Mr. Chien: "This is a very exciting period,
but it is also a very dangerous period."
   One advantage for Taiwan is that its economy has been
built largely by small entrepreneurial companies that can
change quickly. "To be successful you don't have to be the
biggest, you have to be the fastest," says Klaus C. Wiemer,
president of TSMC, Taiwan's largest computer-chip maker.
   That is certainly Microtek's strategy as it finds niche
products to exploit. And how this company has succeeded shows
how Taiwan's policies jump-started its high technology.
   Mr. Wang, a Taiwanese immigrant to the U.S., developed a
device called a micro in-circuit emulator (MICE). It enabled
a computer programmer to debug a program at the same time the
basic instructions for the program were displayed.
   He could have started a company in the U.S. to develop and
market the MICE, but following the trend of thousands of
educated Chinese-Americans, he and four other young engineers
and entrepreneurs headed for Taiwan in 1980.
   The Microtek MICE -- smaller and cheaper than any other
debugger -- got to the market before U.S. or Japanese
competition. It proved a hit and the company was profitable
within two years. Mr. Wang plowed 35% of the first year's
$200,000 in revenue into R&amp;D. Since then, the level of
investment has never dropped below 10%. He started hiring
engineers from Taiwan and the U.S., many of them
Chinese-Americans who once worked for Xerox.
   In Taiwan, the company had a ready pool of engineers to
choose from. Taiwanese are well-educated. Some estimates say
almost 10% of Taiwan's work force has engineering training;
Taiwanese schools turn out about 10,000 engineers a year.
   With 30% of Microtek's 435 employees assigned to R&amp;D, the
company came up with other niche products. It makes
computer-controlled machine tools and the software to run
them. And it now is building its scanners in the U.S. for the
U.S. military. Slip a special board of computer chips in the
computer -- Microtek makes that, too -- and you can shoot
documents from one office to another, bypassing photocopier
and facsimile machines. Next up: Multi-function machines that
will be able to copy, scan, print and fax.
   Smallness can help innovation, but it has its decided
disadvantages. With sales of only $38.39 million last year,
Microtek can't possibly invest like a Xerox or Canon, which
are aiming at the same objective. So it recently formed joint
ventures with small U.S. and Japanese companies to develop
new products, such as a new kind of printer called a photon
page printer, which uses light to print. Another joint
venture will work on an optical "mouse" for computer control.
Yet another will develop software for processing images and
technology that compresses the data of images into smaller
space.
   Acer, Taiwan's premier personal computer maker, is taking
a similar tack. With sales of slightly less than $1 billion a
year, Acer can easily be muscled by competitors and
suppliers. So it teamed with National Semiconductor to
co-design and sell devices to build processors for personal
computers. It joined Texas Instruments to build dynamic
random access memory chips so neither company is at the mercy
of the Japanese and Koreans, who control most of the world's
chip supply. Acer is also buying companies in the U.S. and
Europe to expand its sales network.
   A steady stream of merger and acquisition specialists
troop into the office of Mr. Shih, the CEO. Their proposals
now sit in a foot-high stack on his desk. "Merger and
acquisition activity is on the increase," says Alvin H. Tong,
executive vice president of Acer and a former IBM executive.
"People are starting to realize that we have money."
   That's good, because Taiwan still needs a lot of outside
help. "They don't have the sophistication to be a player in
the world market," says Mr. Wiemer of TSMC, the chip maker.
It doesn't help that few people outside Taiwan have ever
heard of any Taiwanese company -- and even inside Taiwan only
about 35 companies say they have recognizable brand names.
   Acer, which shipped about 400,000 personal computers
around the world last year, is probably the best known name
of all the Taiwanese companies. But even then, maybe a few
thousand Americans and Europeans recognize it. Mr. Shih,
Acer's founder, changed the name in 1988 from the
undistinctive Multitech in hopes of building recognition.
"The big limitation is brand recognition and marketing
expertise," he says.
   That said, there is an air of optimism now in Taiwan.
"Every industrialized country has encountered these problems
and overcome them. I don't think that we will have any reason
not to overcome them, too," says Yang Shih-Chien, an economic
ministry official. "Maybe it is more cost-effective to solve
all the problems at the same time."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NMK
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. said that on
June 30 it will redeem 640,000 of its 960,000 shares
outstanding of 10.75% preferred stock at $25 each, plus
accrued dividends. The utility said stock of record May 18
will be redeemed, as part of a program to reduce average cost
of capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Travel Logged
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   When vacationers come home,
   Little protects
   Their friends from suffering
   Slide effects.
   -- Gail Cooke.
   ---
   Courting Path
                                                                                                       

   To court before marriage
   Was a matter of course,
   But now, after marriage,
   It's to court for divorce.
   -- Mimi Kay.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Applause recorder: clap-trap.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Humana Inc. Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HUM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Humana Inc. said it has agreed to buy
Prime Health Management Services Inc., a health-maintenance
organization. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The sale is subject to a definitive agreement and
regulatory approvals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prime Health has about 80,000 members in Missouri and
Kansas. Humana operates hospitals and health benefit plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Hughes Unit
   Wins Navy Contract
   For $209.8 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH OLN ML ITT GTE WX UTX GQ T.CAE PC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General
Motors Corp., received a $209.8 million Navy contract for two
communications satellites.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Olin Corp. was given a $69.4 million Army contract for
120mm tank ammunition.
                                                                                                       

   Martin Marietta Corp. got a $60.4 million Navy contract
for shipboard missile-launch equipment.
                                                                                                       

   CAE-Link Corp. was issued a $42.6 million Navy pact for
aircraft trainers.
                                                                                                       

   ITT Corp. won a combined $41.4 million Air Force and Army
contract for aircraft electronics.
                                                                                                       

   GTE Government Systems Corp., a unit of GTE Corp., got a
$19.6 million Army contract for communications equipment
training.
                                                                                                       

   Westinghouse Electric Corp. received a $12.6 million Air
Force pact for long-range search radar.
                                                                                                       

   Vitro Corp. got a $10.9 million Navy contract for British
naval missile-engineering services.
                                                                                                       

   United Technologies Corp. received a $10 million Army
contract for helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   Grumman Corp. was awarded a $10 million Navy contract for
E-2C aircraft.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR WX FNM MCD EUROP FREST J.NCK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated Rail Corp. -- $250 million issue of 9 3/4%
notes, due June 1, 2000, priced at 99.775 to yield 9.785%.
The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 115 basis
points above the Treasury's 10-year note. The size of the
issue was increased from an originally planned $200 million.
Rated single-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
single-A by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Westinghouse Credit Corp. -- $150 million issue of senior
notes, due June 15, 2014, priced late Wednesday at par to
yield 8.85%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread of
27 basis points above the Treasury's four-year note. The
notes may be put back to the company in the fourth, ninth and
14th years. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P,
the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   New Jersey -- $50.9 million certificates of participation,
due Dec. 15, and June 15, 1990-1997, apparently won by a
Dillon Read &amp; Co. group. The certificates, rated single-A-1
by Moody's and double-A by S&amp;P, were priced to yield from
5.90% for bonds due Dec. 15, 1990 to 6.65% for bonds due June
15, 1997. Bonds maturing in 1991 through 1996 mature on June
15 and Dec. 15 of each year.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 22 classes by
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. The offering,
Series 1990-73, is backed by 9% Fannie Mae securities, with a
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.5 years.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   McDonald's Restaurants of Canada Ltd. (U.S. parent) -- 100
million Australian dollars of 15% Eurobonds due June 28,
1995, priced at 101.65, via Deutsche Bank Capital Markets
Ltd. Fees 2. Guaranteed by McDonald's Corp.
   Credit d'Equipment de Petites et Moyennes Enterprises
(France) -- One billion French francs of 10% Eurobonds due
June 28, 1995, priced at 101.60, via lead manager Credit
Commercial de France. Guaranteed by the Republic of France.
   State Bank of South Australia (Australia) -- 100 million
Australian dollars of 5% Eurobonds due June 28, 2000, priced
at 102, via Hambros Bank Ltd. Guaranteed by the State of
South Australia.
   ESOP Finance Trust (Special-purpose vehicle) -- $173.8
million of 9.35% Eurobonds due June 27, 1995, priced at
100.25, via lead manager Goldman Sachs International Ltd.
Guaranteed by Exxon Corp., and backed by loans under
company's employee stock ownership plan.
   Monte Dei Paschi Di Siena, London (Italy) -- 10 billion
yen of 6.9% depositary notes due September 27, 1993, priced
at 100 7/8, via lead manager Yamaichi International Ltd.
   Nippon Credit Bank Curacao Finance NV (Netherlands) $130
million 10% Eurobond, priced at 102 and due July 5, 2000, via
lead manager Nippon Credit International Ltd. Call July 5,
1993. Guaranteed by Nippon Credit Bank.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ESOP FINANCE TRUST's 9.35% Eurobonds due June 27, 1995,
are not guaranteed by Exxon Corp. In Friday's list of New
Securities Issues, it was incorrectly stated that the bonds
are guaranteed by Exxon.
   (WSJ June 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Halsey Taylor Co.
   To Replace Certain
   Contaminated Coolers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   SCT
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Halsey Taylor Co. agreed to replace certain
water coolers that had lead-contaminated tanks, but only if
the owners provide the company with test results from a
qualified laboratory.
   The Consumer Product Safety Commission, which negotiated
the consent agreement with the company, said the tests can
cost as much as $30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, the Environmental Protection Agency said six
models of Halsey Taylor coolers made before 1979 may have
lead-lined tanks that could affect the drinking water in
them. Ingestion of lead can cause severe health problems,
particularly for children. Children who ingest lead can
suffer mental retardation and growth impairment. Lead also
damages fetuses when it's ingested by pregnant women.
   Vernon Hills, Ill.-based Halsey Taylor, a major
manufacturer of water coolers, is a division of Scotsman
Industries Inc. In agreeing to the order, it didn't
acknowledge that its coolers were contaminated.
   Under the CPSC program, customers may choose to be repaid
a portion of the cost of the machine, based on its age.
   Under its agreement with the consumer agency, Halsey
Taylor will notify all daycare centers with more than 10
children, as well as public and private schools, colleges,
and boys and girls clubs of its replacement program. Water
cooler owners who wish to participate in the program can get
further information by calling a toll-free number, (800)
635-2358.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hot Streak:
   Warner Bros.' Success
   At Box Office Feeds
   Its Global Ambitions
   ---
   Deals for Distribution Rights
   Are Central to Its Plans
   To Entertain the World
   ---
   `Batman': Hard Act to Follow
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- Tomorrow night a galaxy of stars and
movie moguls will be heading down the freeway to the Burbank
Studios for a black-tie wingding thrown by Warner Bros.
   Ronald Reagan, the star of more Warner movies than any
other actor now living, is supposed to be there, among the
many honored guests. Impresarios Steven Spielberg, David
Wolper and Jack Haley Jr. will fill two sound stages with
hundreds of singers, dancers and actors, who will do their
stuff for the thousand invited. And, as a finale to this
talent-intensive affair, the studio's water tower, covered at
the moment by a tarp, will, with great fanfare, be undraped
to display the famous WB logo -- white initials on a blue
shield -- which identifies every company property from Bugs
Bunny cartoons to the movie "Batman." Now the emblem will be
visible for miles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After two decades of sharing the place with Columbia
Pictures, Warner is reclaiming the entire 140-acre sprawl,
originally acquired by the founding Warner brothers -- Harry,
Albert, Sam and Jack -- in 1928. This celebration of success
will also be a final, triumphant rebuke to Columbia's new
parent, Sony Corp., forced to vacate the premises as partial
settlement of the $1 billion breach of contract suit Warner
filed against the Japanese electronics giant for luring away
"Batman" producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters last year.
   The Warner Bros. chairman, Robert Daly, and president,
Terry Semel, have much to celebrate this weekend. While the
Guber-Peters team must start from scratch at struggling
Columbia, Warner has just enjoyed one full year as the
box-office king of the movie business, thanks not only to the
caped crusader but to "Lethal Weapon II" and "Driving Miss
Daisy." Now that it has digested its 1987 purchase of
Lorimar-Telepictures Corp., Warner has also become a leader
in TV production and syndication, another gold mine for the
company.
   But when the party is over, Warner Bros., for all its
recent flashy success, will have to face certain tough
realities. The studio is a unit of the highly leveraged giant
created by the merger last year of Warner Communications Inc.
and Time Inc. Record profit at Warner Bros. can hardly stem
its parent's losses, which amounted to nearly $1 billion in
1989. Time Warner doesn't expect to report a profit for
another two or three years.
   And the studio's hot streak has barely registered on Wall
Street, where Time Warner shares have suffered from
skittishness about the company's $11 billion debt and the
looming prospect of federal regulation in its cable
television business. Though the stock has rallied to its
current $105.875, it recently had traded at half its 52-week
high of $182.75.
   Warner Bros. itself can't yet count on the success of its
plan to back Pathe Communications Inc.'s $1.2 billion
purchase of MGM/UA Entertainmnent Co. Warner has agreed to
guarantee a $650 million loan to Pathe in return for
distribution rights to the MGM/UA film library, but Pathe
must still come up with another $400 million or more to close
the deal. This is a mixed blessing for Time Warner. Standard
&amp; Poor's has the company's long-term public debt on its
CreditWatch list, having concluded that the arrangement with
Pathe could increase Time Warner's "already substantial
financial risk."
   Still, given the explosion in global demand for
American-made TV programs and movies, Warner Bros. is in
position to become the foremost distributor of filmed
entertainment in the world. The studio says the merger hasn't
had any effect on its plans: It can expand without dipping
into Time Warner's resources, without significant risks and
without diminishing its own cash flow.
   If all that's true, Warner Bros. will bolster Time
Warner's claim that crushing debt won't keep it from becoming
a global media and entertainment colossus. With the studio's
reputation and its library of movies and TV shows as a lure,
Time Warner is looking for expansion capital from outside.
According to Time Warner's chairman, Steven J. Ross, the
company is discussing joint ventures, partnerships, and even
the sale of minority stakes in Warner Bros. and other units.
   "We've been inundated with proposals from companies all
over the world who would like to be partners in our various
businesses," Mr. Ross says. But he says Time Warner has the
cash flow to cover its debt payments, so would-be partners
must bring something to the party -- like access to an
overseas movie or TV distribution operation.
   Currently the most prolific of Hollywood's seven major
studios, releasing 20 to 25 movies annually, Warner Bros.
aims to nearly double its output by acquiring distribution
rights to films produced by others in the U.S. and elsewhere.
Not only did the company get real estate from Sony in its
settlement of the Guber-Peters matter, it also made a deal to
distribute all of Columbia's movies to cable TV. Warner
already distributes all of Walt Disney Co.'s movies outside
the U.S.
   The MGM/UA transaction would give Warner's high-volume
distribution strategy yet another boost. Warner -- which
already distributes United Artists movies on videocassette
overseas -- would get a 15% fee for distributing the 1,000
existing United Artists movies and any new films produced by
Pathe in all markets world-wide. And the film library would
be collateral: Should Pathe default on its loan, Warner could
end up owning films valued at $1.2 billion for about half
price.
   Quite apart from the Pathe arrangement, says Mr. Semel,
"there are plenty of big and small independent producers who
need . . . help in marketing and distribution." Warner is the
only U.S. studio that fully controls all of its own
distribution operations world-wide. And, says Mr. Daly, "the
more {movies} we service through that organization, the
better off we are."
   Warner's voracious appetite for movie rights impresses and
worries observers. "Warner knows that software is king," says
Sumner Redstone, chairman of theater chain National
Amusements Inc., which has an 84% stake in Viacom Inc. He
thinks Warner may yet be challenged on antitrust grounds by
other studios, "but I don't think that will stop them."
   Mr. Redstone and other Warner watchers agree that the
studio has one particular advantage in realizing its plans: a
stable executive team in an industry in which constant
management turnover is the rule. Mr. Daly, 53, and Mr. Semel,
47, have together run Warner Bros. for nearly a decade, with
the support of Mr. Ross through good times and bad. Planning
requires continuity, he says, and a willingness to make
short-term sacrifices for the sake of the long haul. "Bob and
Terry . . . know they are going to be around for a long
time," says Mr. Ross.
   Warner decided to sacrifice the short term with the
purchase of Lorimar. Write-offs of some of Lorimar's troubled
operations forced the studio to restate its $203 million 1988
operating income as an $82 million loss. But Messrs. Daly and
Semel knew Lorimar was strong in the one business Warner
hadn't been able to crack: first-run TV syndication, the sale
of programs directly to TV stations. Warner and Lorimar,
merged, became the world's largest distributor of TV
programming, licensing over 13,000 hours of shows in more
than 100 countries and in a dozen languages.
   With the likes of "Murphy Brown," "China Beach," "Life
Goes On," "Full House," and "The Hogan Family," Warner will
have about 20 series on prime-time television in the fall.
And Warner continues to milk profits from Bugs Bunny and
other Looney Tunes characters, sold to TV and otherwise
licensed and merchandised. In collaboration with Mr.
Spielberg, Warner is gestating "Tiny Toons," a new generation
of characters (Buster and Babs Bunny, for instance).
   Meanwhile, back in the movie business, hitting a grand
slam like "Batman" was a fresh experience for the Daly-Semel
regime. But Warner Bros. had hit enough "singles and
doubles," as Mr. Daly calls them, to rank it first at the box
office four years in the past 10. While Warner enjoys its
current pre-eminence, the studio knows it will be difficult
to match a year in which "Batman" alone grossed more than
$250 million in the U.S. Mr. Daly insists the company would
be satisfied merely to be "consistently profitable."
   Warner learned the pitfalls of bankrolling too many movies
a decade ago, adds Mr. Semel, when it put up money for movies
produced by Orion Pictures and the Ladd Co. "That was a hard
business to be in -- we were like the bank, footing the bill
for three different companies," Mr. Semel says. "Ten years
later we are saying, why bother having two or three different
labels of films that we fully finance? What we'd really like
to do is make the movies every year that we really believe
in, and finance as many of those as we care to or can, then
take on these servicing or distribution deals."
   Even when it helps finance production of a movie, Warner
is known for cutting deals that limit its risk. Messrs. Daly
and Semel say they will occasionally acquire a movie
expecting it to lose money at the box office, if, for
example, their international home-video executives believe it
can turn a dollar in that market with the aid of publicity
from a theatrical release.
   That strategy has definitely produced some box-office
dogs. Last year Warner Bros. released 18 less than memorable
films, including 10 clinkers inherited from Lorimar. So it
wasn't all "Tango and Cash" and "National Lampoon's Christmas
Vacation," two of its hits last year. That doesn't mean they
lost money. "We may have 10 movies that add up to nothing
from a domestic theatrical standpoint, but we can make it up
in all the other ancillary markets," Mr. Daly says.
   "Driving Miss Daisy" is a case of underestimating the
potential of a film -- and cleaning up in the process.
Producers Darryl and Lili Zanuck were rejected by every other
studio they approached when they said they wanted to make a
$12 million movie based on the play about an elderly Southern
Jew and her black chauffeur. Warner persuaded the moviemakers
to prune their budget back to $7.5 million, and agreed to put
up $5 million of that for the domestic film rights. "We saw
it at the time as a good little movie for America, but we
were concerned about the potential overseas," Mr. Semel says.
British producer Jake Eberts agreed to put up the rest of the
budget in return for the foreign rights.
   To everyone's astonishment, the film was a hit in its
early, limited release. That spurred Warner to put the movie
into more theaters and to throw its famous marketing muscle
behind it. In the end, Warner spent almost three times as
much to market and expand the release of the movie as it did
to produce it. The tactic paid off. "Driving Miss Daisy" has
sold more than $100 million in tickets so far and is still
going strong after winning Academy Awards for best picture
and best actress.
   While Warner has a reputation for being a tough
negotiator, it can also throw some money around when it wants
to. It has a fleet of planes and helicopters and a house in
Acapulco that it puts at the disposal of stars, producers and
executives. And the autonomy and job security Mr. Daly and
Mr. Semel evidently enjoy enable them to take the long view
with creative types that Mr. Ross of Time Warner takes with
them. Thus they get high marks for loyalty and patience.
"They are as supportive in failure as they are in success,"
says Mr. Spielberg, whose Amblin Entertainment has put out
hits ("Gremlins") and misses ("Empire of the Sun") for
Warner. "There have been thin moments when they have stood by
us when other companies might have been quick to move on."
   Clint Eastwood, for example, has made his last 19 movies
at Warner, without anything resembling an exclusive contract.
Warner produced Mr. Eastwood's successful "Dirty Harry"
movies but also backs him in less-commercial efforts like
"Bird" and his current "White Hunter, Black Heart." Says Mr.
Eastwood: "Like any studio, they like to make movies that
make money. But I've never found them resistant to long-shot
projects that might not be commercial now but that they might
be proud to have in their library 10 or 20 years from now."
   Mr. Eastwood is an asset Warner appreciates. Though he has
never produced a blockbuster, his action films do respectable
business in the U.S. and overseas, and are profitable because
he brings them in on time and under budget. He is getting
rather long in the tooth (yesterday was his 60th birthday) to
appeal as an action hero to young moviegoers. Perhaps for
that reason, Warner is pairing him with the youthful Charlie
Sheen in a new movie, "The Rookie," betting the chemistry
might be similar to the Dustin Hoffman-Tom Cruise pairing
that made a hit of "Rainman."
   Warner does have strong contractual relationships with a
range of Hollywood talent: Richard Donner, who directed the
two "Lethal Weapon" movies; comedians Chevy Chase and Dan
Aykroyd; and former Columbia chief David Puttnam, who made
"Chariots of Fire" and "The Killing Fields." Still, Hollywood
rivals bet the loss of Messrs. Guber and Peters will hurt
Warner's output, and they note the company has lost out in
recent efforts to make long-term deals with hot producers.
   For example, Warner was one of the studios competing for
the services of James Brooks, who had produced "Terms of
Endearment" and "War of the Roses." He took the highest bid,
from Messrs. Guber and Peters at Columbia. And even after
their experience with "Driving Miss Daisy," the Zanucks
decided to move their production company to Paramount, where
they have a longstanding relationship with studio boss Frank
Mancuso. David Geffen's movie company, long with Warner
exclusively, will terminate that arrangement at the end of
this year.
   Messrs. Daly and Semel say there are few producers in
Hollywood who won't work for Warner Bros. for the right price
and in the right project. Even when talent goes elsewhere,
Mr. Daly insists, they don't burn their bridges. Mr. Geffen,
for example, who recently sold his record company to MCA
Inc., is among the richest people in Hollywood. He says he
doesn't need the money that an exclusive arrangement can
bring and doesn't like to be tied down, unable to make a
movie he wants to make for a rival studio. But he says he
will continue to make movies at Warner "because I have a good
relationship with them and they are gracious and easy to deal
with."
   Warner executives currently play down the loss of Mr.
Guber and Mr. Peters, noting that the two made only one or
two movies a year for Warner -- and none that came close to
the success of their movie "Batman," to which Warner owns all
sequel rights. (In the settlement with Sony, Warner won
assets it values at more than $600 million, which just might
be more than Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters could have earned for
Warner Bros. over the life of the contract they broke.)
   Mr. Daly and Mr. Semel did very well personally in the
Time-Warner merger, thanks to Warner's stock and option
plans. They reportedly have cashed in their chits for about
$50 million apiece. Power is more heady in Hollywood than
money. Still, some people wonder whether with all their
money, these two will be inclined to work their exhausting
schedules. In addition to running the studio, Mr. Daly is
leading Hollywood's fight against the networks in Washington
over rerun rights; Mr. Semel recently held business meetings
in six Eastern European countries and hit the Cannes film
festival while also negotiating with Pathe over MGM/UA.
   Mr. Daly dismisses the idea that he and Mr. Semel don't
need to work so hard anymore: "If we were the kind of people
who wanted to retire and play golf, we wouldn't have been
here in the first place."
   ---
                     Leader of the Pack
                                                                                                       

 Domestic market share, through May 20
                                                                                                       

 DISTRIBUTOR                NO. MOVIES           SHARES
                                                                                                       

 Warner Bros.                  10                 18.6%
                                                                                                       

 Walt Disney Co.                7                 15.2
                                                                                                       

 MCA (Universal)               10                 13.3
                                                                                                       

 Paramount                      8                 12.8
                                                                                                       

 New Line                       6                 10.8
                                                                                                       

 Tri-Star                      12                  9.5
                                                                                                       

 Fox                            7                  5.3
                                                                                                       

 Orion                         11                  4.9
                                                                                                       

 Columbia                       5                  2.6
                                                                                                       

 Triumph                        7                  2.2
                                                                                                       

 Miramax                        7                  1.7
                                                                                                       

 MGM/UA                         9                  1.6

 Source: Variety
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Modern Artists Forget Their History
   ----
   By Richard Grenier
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   A great cry has been raised by the contemporary art world
that the tiniest infringement of total freedom exerts a
crippling effect on an artist's creative imagination.
   It's a cry that would be silly if it weren't so rabid, as
any art historian should know that none of the titans of past
centuries -- neither Michelangelo nor Rembrandt nor El Greco
nor Shakespeare -- was ever free to insult and/or belittle
the fundamental beliefs of his church and people. Nor until
modern times did many of them even want to.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The only significant event in the reign of England's King
John was the signing of the Magna Carta. Viewed by
Shakespeare as impairing the power of the Tudor monarchy, he
omitted it entirely from his "King John." A principle feature
of the Battle of Agincourt was the slaughter of French
prisoners and wounded by English soldiers. Shakespeare barely
hinted at it in his "Henry V." Two earth-shaking events of
14th-century England were Wat Tyler's Peasant Rebellion, when
rebels took London and beheaded the Archbishop of Canterbury,
and Wycliffe's fiery theological heresies. Chaucer's
"Canterbury Tales," a supposedly all-embracing tapestry of
medieval life, mentions them nowhere.
   Yet, despite these political inhibitions, Shakespeare and
Chaucer managed to produce works generally thought to have
artistic merit. As every schoolchild should know, the female
roles in Shakespeare were played by boys, as the Elizabethans
considered it indecent for women to exhibit themselves on the
stage. So at the Globe theater Romeo had to declare his
passionate love for Juliet to a 14-year-old boy. Somehow he
managed.
   Cervantes, unlike the image of him evoked by Broadway's
"Man of La Mancha," never had a word to say against the
Spanish Inquisition. Far from a dissident spirit "dreaming
the impossible dream," he fought as a Spanish officer against
the infidel Turk at Lepanto, one of the greatest naval
battles in history. Spain's most illustrious playwright, Lope
de Vega, sailed to conquer England in no less a venture than
the Spanish Armada.
   Michelangelo, closer in temperament to some artists of
today, quarreled with his principal patron, Pope Julius II.
Considering himself a sculptor, Michelangelo had little
interest in painting, but the pope had means of inducement
and Michelangelo, under protest, relented. The result of this
tyrannical coercion was the Sistine Chapel.
   Although there had been earlier flareups (Florence's
Savonarola, who carried out the original "Bonfire of the
Vanities"), the censorial spirit made a massive entry into
the arts with Oliver Cromwell. His Puritans, considering the
theater the "devil's workshop," shut it down entirely.
(Cromwell also banned as a pagan holiday Christmas, which
somehow survived.)
   But theatrical censorship in the modern sense was
introduced in England in the 18th century by Sir Robert
Walpole, the country's first prime minister. Much nettled at
the barbed satires of a young dramatist named Henry Fielding,
Walpole endowed the Lord Chamberlain with strict powers of
censorship, both political and moral, which he retained for
some 250 years, doing no noticeable damage to the works of
Sheridan, Goldsmith, George Bernard Shaw, or Oscar Wilde.
   For his part, Henry Fielding took to the novel, wrote "Tom
Jones" and, entirely unembittered by Walpole's attack -- a
lawyer as well as a writer -- became England's first police
magistrate. A strong law-and-order man who thought the
government was indulging criminals, Fielding organized the
"Fleet Street Runners," which became London's police force.
   A sea change took place in the West's artistic communities
in the late 18th and 19th centuries, writers and artists,
beginning with the Romantics, becoming by fits and starts
"adversarial."
   But the great artistic hullabaloos in France, where in
this period the art world became firmly centered, are often
misrepresented by modern activists seeking martyrs. Although
censorship existed, the Impressionists were not condemned for
offenses to decency but, briefly, for violation of artistic
conventions -- and not by the state but by the day's art
establishment.
   What were these Impressionists doing painting ordinary,
vulgar people? In bourgeois apartments? In the open air? In
such garish colors? The brouhaha did the Impressionists far
more good than harm, and Claude Monet's ascent was such that
he became a regular Sunday dinner companion of French Premier
Georges Clemenceau. Vincent van Gogh, whose "Portrait of
Doctor Gachet" was just sold at Sotheby's for $82.5 million,
could hardly have been condemned, as almost nobody had heard
of him. In his lifetime he sold only one painting.
   As for political dissent, when painter Gustave Courbet
sided with the Communards in the abortive Paris Commune of
1871, he was brought swiftly to justice by the Third
Republic. When Jean-Louis Barrault, director of France's
national Odeon Theater, took the side of student rebels in
1968 he was as swiftly sacked by Culture Minister Andre
Malraux of the Fifth Republic.
   Attempts by America's current art establishment to obtain
absolute immunity for publicly funded "cutting edge" artworks
are doubly specious, as the cutting-edge artistic "rebellion"
of our day is in no way comparable to the past's great
stylistic upheavals. There are now, simply, no artistic
canons left against which to rebel.
   Painter Robert Rauschenberg talks of the necessity of
shock to create a "new social awareness," and Roy
Lichtenstein of "suffering the sophomoric to achieve the
sublime." But artistic rebellion today is empty, driven for
meaning to a shabby assemblage of hand-me-down radical
political cliches. As a means of achieving the sublime it is
not likely to have impressed Julius II or Lorenzo de Medici.
   ---
   Mr. Grenier is a columnist for the Washington Times and
author of "Capturing the Culture," out in July from
University Press of America.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   Vincent van Gogh's "Portrait of Doctor Gachet" was
recently sold at Christie's. That information was misstated
in "Modern Artists Forget Their History," an article on
Friday's editorial page.
   (WSJ June 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seeks to Tighten
   Rules on Members' Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In the wake of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s
collapse, the New York Stock Exchange is tightening up its
rules regarding member firms' and floor traders' capital.
   The Big Board has proposed a rule requiring written
notification within 24 hours of any transaction between a
broker-dealer and its parent that reduces broker capital by
20% or more.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Drexel collapsed in February, it was disclosed that
its parent company, Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc., had
been raiding the broker-dealer's capital to stay afloat after
the parent became unable to get short-term financing. The
Drexel situation disturbed regulators.
   The Big Board now also wants its specialists, or dealers
on the floor of the exchange who are assigned to make markets
in individual stocks, to notify the exchange in writing
within 24 hours when their net liquid assets drop by 20% or
more.
   The rule changes have been filed for approval with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Schoolyard Arms Control
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Protests are taking a new turn at the high-school level,
notably one last Friday at Eagle Rock High School in Los
Angeles. This walkout was in favor of tougher discipline
policies. "No more weapons]" the students chanted. After a
classmate was stabbed last week, they demanded that the
school board expel those who bring weapons to school. Later
Friday afternoon, another student was stabbed just off the
campus, now beset with gang violence after years of relative
calm. Alas, the city school board earlier this month
rejected, 6 to 1, a proposal to expel automatically anyone
caught with a weapon at school. The majority called the
measure too unwieldy and punitive. In Los Angeles as in many
parts of the nation, it may take some form of voucher or
choice mechanism to get insensate school officials to
recognize the real world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nichols Won't Pay
   Interest, Will Weigh
   Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   NCL
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- S.E. Nichols Inc. said it won't make a $1.3
million interest payment due Friday, and will instead use a
30-day grace period to evaluate its options, including filing
for federal bankruptcy-law protection.
   The discount retail chain had disclosed its financial
difficulties, and the possibility of a bankruptcy court
filing, on May 4, when it posted a loss of $37.2 million, or
$7.90 a share, for its fiscal year ended Feb. 3. Nichols
reported revenue of $214.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those results included a fourth-quarter charge of $27
million related to its current shift to a deep-discounting
strategy.
   More recent cash-flow problems led to yesterday's
announcement, however, and James Herlihy, Nichols chief
financial officer, said the chain "needs to make some
decisions soon." He added that he doesn't yet know whether
the decisions will merely enable Nichols to make its interest
payment, or whether they will affect the company's entire
operations.
   "We felt (bankruptcy court) is a possibility, but I can't
rate it on a scale of 1 to 10," he said.
   The June 1 payment is due on a series of 14 7/8% first
senior subordinated debentures, of which there are $18.4
million outstanding, Mr. Herlihy said.
   Nichols also has $10.5 million of a 15% series of
debentures outstanding, with a payment of about $700,000 due
Sept. 1. Mr. Herlihy said the company may soon make an
announcement on the status of that payment.
   Nichols shares stood at 94 cents yesterday on the American
Stock Exchange, the price at which they closed in Wednesday
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Timken Begins $1 Billion Spending Plan
   In Bid to Stave Off Overseas Competitors
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TKR U.BTR
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANTON, Ohio -- Timken Co., trying to stem the wave of
offshore competitors, is launching a $1 billion capital
spending program.
   The ambitious plan, to be completed by 1995, will more
than double the 91-year-old company's investment in plant and
equipment. But it's unclear whether the program will reap
dividends or help Timken surge ahead of the five larger
Japanese, Swedish and West German competitors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Indeed, Timken's most recent big capital project --
construction of a nearly $500 million specialty steel mill --
has yet to pay off. The mill contributed to Timken's sizable
losses from steel operations in 1985 and 1986 and has yet to
earn a satisfactory profit.
   Most of the $1 billion of planned capital investment is
going to build "21st Century" bearings factories that can
compete throughout the world, as well as modernize existing
facilities. "The bearings business has to be seen as a global
industry," says Peter J. Ashton, executive vice president,
bearings. More than a quarter of Timken's own sales last year
were made outside the U.S., thanks to plants in Australia,
Brazil, France, Britain and South Africa.
   Timken chose the massive $1 billion investment over a more
modest and slower upgrade of plants to produce sharp
improvements in productivity and quality. That difference may
determine whether Timken is a leader or a marginally
profitable also-ran in the world bearings industry. Timken
spent a total of just $180 million on its bearings plants
from 1983 to 1988. The company has been holding its own so
far, industry analysts say, but competition from larger
competitors is intensifying.
   The current investment plan assumes that the 1990s will be
kinder to cyclical smokestack companies than the past decade.
The 1980s began with back-to-back recessions, followed by
four years of the overvalued dollar. Timken's most recent
good earnings came in 1981 when the company earned $4.50 a
share. In 1989, which included a lengthy fourth-quarter
strike the company earned $55.3 million, or $1.88 a share.
Company officials said 1990 earnings will be higher but
wouldn't be specific.
   Timken executives were reminded this past week that
there's a risk in concentrating exclusively on long-term
growth. The stock spurted briefly in active trading following
a televised report that Timken was a takeover target of BTR
PLC, a big British concern. Timken officials refused to
comment on the report, and the stock activity died down.
   Some economists think the 1990s will be more favorable to
capital goods suppliers as the U.S., Europe, Japan and the
Soviet Union are forced to make huge investments in roads,
airports, and sewer systems. That investment should create
demand for bulldozers and other big machines, each of which
uses hundreds of bearings. At the same time, factories are
being rebuilt with intricate machinery, all moving with
friction-reducing bearings.
   The tapered roller bearing, which is still the company's
main product, resists extreme pressures from any direction.
As such, the bearings are used wherever heavy loads and side
pressure combine to put stress on the bearings, including car
and truck wheels, construction machinery and factory
equipment.
   The $1 billion spending plan is especially ambitious for
Timken, which has been controlled by the Timken family since
Henry H. Timken invented the tapered roller bearing back
before the turn of the century. W.R. Timken Jr., the current
chairman, is a great-grandson of the founder. Joseph F. Toot
Jr., Timken's president, was married to Mr. Timken's sister.
Family members still vote 19% of the stock, and an employee
savings plan owns an additional 5.5%.
   The company, whose spartan executive offices are at the
front of Timken's old bearings factory, is extremely
conservative. Management has kept Timken's debt to a minimum,
usually less than 5% of total capital. Moreover, executives
only slowly expanded business, resisting the urge to
diversify through acquisitions that caused problems for many
other industrial companies. Sales in 1989 were only 20%
higher than a decade earlier.
   But Timken isn't mired in the past. The company was one of
the first to switch to a business jet from propeller-driven
planes. Management refuses to slash research and development
spending even when incurring losses; last year's outlay of
$37.4 million is high for a smokestack company. The company
is credited with advances both in metallurgy and
manufacturing techniques that increased the life of its
bearings severalfold.
   Timken also took a gamble a few years back to build the
new Faircrest steel mill, which produces alloy steels used in
Timken bearings. Specialty steel also accounts for nearly
one-third of the company's $1.5 billion of annual sales. The
mill was completed ahead of schedule and below budget, and is
regarded as one of the most technologically advanced in the
country.
   But the timing of the construction was off. The dollar
soared while the mill was being built, inviting in foreign
steel at low prices, depressing U.S. exports and crippling
many industries that use steel. That combination created a
steel surplus that drove down prices. While conditions have
improved, Timken executives complain that prices for the
alloy steel bars that the mill produces remain depressed.
   "Timken is one of the companies with very long planning
horizons that are rebuilding this country," says Ronald
Petrie, machinery and manufacturing analyst with McDonald &amp;
Co., Cleveland. "They're not as concerned about quarterly
earnings gains as with the long-term growth of the company."
   He forecasts net of $2.50 a share for 1990 and $4 a share
for 1991, assuming that the economies of the U.S., Western
Europe and Asian and the Pacific region continue to show
gradual improvement.
   Earlier this week, Timken completed the $185 million
purchase of MPB Corp., Keene, N.H., moving the smokestack
concern into the precision aircraft bearings business.
Besides opening another segment of the world bearings market,
buying MPB offers an opportunity for transfer of technology
in precision manufacturing and specialty materials -- such as
high temperature ceramics -- that will strengthen Timken's
position in industrial markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Auto Firms Plan
   Output This Week
   Of 121,895 Vehicles
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC TOYOY NSANY J.MZD SBRU J.IZM J.MOT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The 10 major U.S. auto makers planned to build
121,895 cars this week, nearly unchanged from 121,995 a year
ago.
   All car assembly plants for the major domestic auto makers
are scheduled to operate next week, with several working
overtime.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Motors Corp. said it has scheduled Saturday
overtime at plants in Hamtramck, Lansing and Orion, Mich.,
and Lordstown, Ohio.
   Ford Motor Co. plans overtime at its Kansas City, Mo.,
Louisville, Ky., and Twin Cities truck plants.
   Chrysler Corp. said it has scheduled overtime at its
Belvidere, Ill., Sterling Heights, Mich., and St. Louis II
assembly plants.
   ---
           This    Last   Yr. Ago   -Yr. to Date-       %
           Week-e  Week-r   Week    1990     1989      Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM        56,995  63,097  57,175 1,106,052 1,547,023  - 29
 Ford      27,109  28,764  27,530   627,858   825,124  - 24
 Chrysler  16,200  16,174  18,387   285,799   447,145  - 36
 Honda      7,600   8,947   5,996   189,040   167,600  + 13
 Nissan     1,256   1,597   2,185    43,646    50,209  - 13
 Nummi-f    4,200   4,335   3,410    90,236    86,634  +  4
 Mazda      2,246   1,937   3,533    74,865   102,944  - 27
 Diam.Star  2,376   2,978   1,250    60,999    20,227  +202
 Toyota     3,541   4,419   2,529    94,673    38,201  +148
 Suba-Isuz    372     369     0       8,222      0       d
 TOTAL    121,895 132,617 121,995 2,581,390 3,285,107  - 21
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Dollar Gains
   On Move to Resolve Impasse
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian dollar strengthened yesterday on
news that Prime Minister Brian Mulroney will convene a
weekend meeting to address Canada's constitutional impasse.
   The Canadian currency rose in Toronto to 85.30 U.S. cents
from 85 U.S. cents Wednesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mulroney summoned the country's 10 provincial premiers
to Ottawa Sunday for negotiations to overcome the
constitutional deadlock. Financial markets interpreted the
announcement as a sign of possible progress toward a
settlement.
   The impasse has renewed demands from some in Quebec for
independence for their largely French-speaking province and
has unsettled Canada's markets.
   The Ottawa meeting follows weeks of intense negotiations
between the federal government and individual provinces that
have narrowed but failed to settle the differences. The
dispute involves proposed constitutional amendments that
which would recognize Quebec as a "distinct society" within
Canada. The accord would also extend new powers to the
provinces.
   Edward Neufeld, executive vice president of the Royal Bank
of Canada, estimated that political uncertainties have pushed
up short-term Canadian interest rates by at least a full
percentage point.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rembrandt Work Fails
   To Stir Christie's Bidders
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BID U.CHR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Art-buying fever was chilly at Christie's
International PLC's auction house, as Rembrandt van Rijn's
"Saint Peter Repentant" failed to find a buyer.
   Bidding stopped at $9.5 million for the 17th-century
masterwork, which had, until recently, hung in the
Metropolitan Museum of Art on loan from its owner. The piece
had been expected to sell for $10 million to $15 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, 43% of the 149 works offered did not sell. The
auction raised $8.1 million, vs. pre-sale expectations of $23
million to $33 million.
   The mediocre results of the Old Masters auction appear to
dash hopes that that type of artwork will be the next "hot"
market now that prices for Impressionist and Modern paintings
seem to be leveling off, based on recent auction results. Art
dealers said concerns about authenticity of many Old Master
paintings are keeping collectors from that slightly more
affordable sector of the market.
   The top lot of the Christie's auction was Pieter Brueghel
the Younger's, "A Peasant Wedding Feast." The colorful 1603
scene sold for $1.4 million, vs. a pre-sale estimate of $1.5
to $2 million.
   Sotheby's Holdings Inc.'s Old Masters paintings sale is
scheduled for today. Up for sale are two views of Venice by
Il Canaletto. The pair is expected to bring about $10
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Slate Signs Up Frankston;
   Software Creators Reunite
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LOTS
</CO>
<LP>
   SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Slate Corp., a software start-up
concern, said it hired software developer Robert Frankston
from Lotus Development Corp., in an action that reunites the
creators of VisiCalc, one of the first successful
personal-computer software programs.
   At Slate, Mr. Frankston will be working again with Daniel
Bricklin, the co-developer of VisiCalc. The two started
Software Arts in Mr. Frankston's house in Arlington, Mass.,
in 1979, and developed VisiCalc, the first spreadsheet. The
program helped get business people to start buying Apple
Computer Inc. personal computers, expanding the market beyond
hobbyists. It was later superseded by Lotus Development's
spreadsheet, 1-2-3.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Slate is developing "pen-based software applications" for
a new class of computers that let users enter data by writing
on a screen with a stylus, rather than typing with a
keyboard. People in the industry say Slate is working on
software for note-pad computers that GO Corp., based in
Foster City, Calif., is expected to introduce later this
year.
   Mr. Frankston, 40 years old, had been working on network
computer software at Lotus. He said his title at Slate hasn't
been determined. He added that he will work with Mr.
Bricklin, a Slate co-founder and vice president, in Slate's
Watertown, Mass., offices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Christopher Conte
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV'S GLITTER seems sure to fade further once the
summit ends.
   This week's superpower meeting may be the last in which
the Soviet leader holds undiluted power. He soon may have to
dump his prime minister, Nikolai Ryzhkov, as a scapegoat for
his widely criticized economic-reform plan. Already,
opponents are gunning for the post, with a view toward
sharing power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conservatives could have a candidate in fiery young
Leningrad party chief Boris Gidaspov, but many bet a
successor would come from among reformers. Contenders include
Moscow Mayor Gavriil Popov and Leningrad radical Anatolii
Sobchak. While Gorbachev's political reform plans are still
expected to prevail at July's Communist congress, his
weakened domestic clout threatens his party grip.
   White House officials worry that Yeltsin even could
challenge Gorbachev's control of foreign policy.
                                                                                                       

   BUDGET TALKS resume next week, but insiders expect little
progress.
   Negotiators plan only a general survey of the entire
federal budget, and no hard bargaining is likely. Texas Sen.
Gramm describes the early sessions as "mind-numbing." Sununu
attends every session, but says little and reviews unrelated
paperwork. Without a crisis to prompt action, frets House
Budget Chairman Panetta, the talks could drag on.
   Democrats want a five-year deficit-reduction package; the
longer perspective makes a cut in capital gains taxes less
attractive. Most negotiators lean toward excluding thrift
cleanup costs and the Social Security surplus from new
deficit calculations. Participants eye next week's California
gas-tax referendum for clues on whether voters are willing to
pay higher taxes.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH WIELDS the veto weapon effectively -- so far.
   He nixed 11 bills in his first 16 months -- more than
Presidents Carter and Reagan -- and Congress has yet to
override him. He outbluffs Congress by using the veto weapon
even against popular legislation, forcing lawmakers to strip
unwanted provisions. Aides warn that he won't be afraid to
torpedo a child-care bill he deems too costly.
   But some veto threats start to sound hollow. The
administration backed away from a threat to kill the civil
rights bill, and its fulminations on the Clean Air bill
aren't believed. The White House fails to carry out a plan to
issue a line-item veto as a test of presidential authority.
   Parental-leave legislation remains veto bait, but Bush's
threat to ax cabinet status for the Environmental Protection
Agency isn't taken seriously.
                                                                                                       

   BUREAUCRATIC JOCKEYING between the White House and
governors is slowing work on new education goals. The
governors and the administration can't agree on how to set up
a bipartisan commission to measure progress toward achieving
the goals. At issue is how much influence the White House
will have.
                                                                                                       

   GREENSPAN WORRIES that the credit crunch will spread
beyond real estate to other business loans, even though it
doesn't show up in overall bank lending data. "The anecdotal
evidence is so extraordinarily large," he says. The Treasury
ponders issuing a statement to show it is monitoring the
situation, but it worries about causing undue alarm or a
regulatory easing.
                                                                                                       

   DEFENSE GAP: Defense chief Cheney completes his high-level
reviews of weapons systems and still refuses to seek major
weapons cuts. Lawmakers widely agree sharper reductions are
needed. But after his latest reassessment, Cheney continues
to champion Star Wars, the Army's scout helicopter, and the
Navy's Seawolf submarine.
                                                                                                       

   MOMENTUM BUILDS to force a House vote on a constitutional
amendment to balance the budget. Backers of a petition to
force the amendment out of committee say they had 153
signatures when they filed the petition last week, and they
expect many more. They need 218 signatures.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS' PROSPECTS brighten in gubernatorial races.
   Strategists believe former Sen. Chiles, the decided
favorite in the Florida Democratic primary, can beat
Republican Gov. Martinez. Polls show Texan Ann Richards
gaining on gaffe-prone Clayton Williams, whose new handlers
make him less available to reporters. California Republicans
are uneasy; they worry especially that stylish Dianne
Feinstein will face staid Sen. Williams in the fall.
   The GOP fails to find strong challengers to Democratic
incumbents in New York and Maryland, is still looking in
Tennessee and has given up in Nevada. But it takes heart at
embarrassing flaps surrounding Democratic candidate
Celebrezze in Ohio. Republicans target Arkansas Gov. Clinton,
who won only 54% of the vote in his primary.
   Meanwhile, Democrats grow more confident they'll capture
state houses in Maine, Rhode Island and Kansas, all currently
Republican bastions.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Fly America: Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady, Trade Ambassador Hills and Commerce Secretary
Mosbacher took the Concorde back from a trade meeting in
Paris to make the state dinner for Gorbachev last night;
Agriculture Secretary Yeutter, who also attended the dinner,
left early and flew back on Pan Am. . . . Arguing for better
vocational education, Texas gubernatorial candidate Williams
says many students drop out of school "because they are bored
with Shakespeare."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Palto Alto's Cold War
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   We thought the most fascinating part of Mikhail
Gorbachev's itinerary would be his trip to the Hoover
Institution on War, Revolution and Peace. Alas, Mr. Gorbachev
has canceled this stop on his trip, substituting a 30-minute
chat with some Hoover scholars along with other Stanford
professors and students.
   The Hoover visit would have been an apt gesture, if only
because founder Herbert Hoover's best work was directing the
American Relief Administration in the Soviet Union after
World War I. He helped reconstruct the Russian economy, and
it would be perfectly appropriate for Mr. Gorbachev to tour
the unique Soviet memorabilia in Hoover's archives, and to
express his nation's appreciation for Mr. Hoover's
generosity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, of course, he could get a lot of useful advice on
his economic problems, from people who were onto the flaws of
the Soviet system while glasnost and perestroika were but
gleams in his eye. Even Mr. Gorbachev might learn something,
for example, from Hoover Fellow Judy Shelton, author of the
1989 book, "The Coming Soviet Crash." Milton Friedman is
always both instructive and entertaining, former Secretary of
State George Shultz has the benefit of vast experience, and
various other Hoover scholars have been working the details
of Soviet economic reform.
   The reasons for Mr. Gorbachev's cancellation remain hazy,
but perhaps he's had a crash course in the intrigues of
American academic politics. Back in 1961, Mr. Hoover wrote
that the "left-wing faculty in Stanford University is
constantly conspiring to get control of the Hoover
Institution." And it seems that in the eyes of the Stanford
faculty Mr. Gorbachev's agreement to visit Hoover put him in
a class with Benedict Arnold.
   "Dear Mr. President," political science Professor John
Manley wrote in a public letter to Mr. Gorbachev last week,
"Please know that the Hoover Institution, whose mission was
defined by Herbert Hoover as `exposing the evils of the
doctrines of Karl Marx,' is using your visit to Stanford to
discredit socialism, and to make it appear that, with
socialism's failure, you are coming to them for advice."
   Mr. Manley warned that they will "laugh at you, socialism,
and the Soviet Union." Worse yet, "They will also score a
victory over those of us at Stanford who have fought for
years to sever connections between the university and the
conservative think tank.
   "It would help greatly if you were to denounce Hoover's
cynical manipulation of your visit here," Mr. Manley pleaded.
"I and other dissenters at Stanford will not be invited to
any of the private events." Whatever Mr. Gorbachev may have
concluded about the merits of this, he's a good enough
politician to recognize he has little to win by stepping into
snake pits.
   Mr. Manley speaks for the same Stanford that two years ago
decided that in drawing a curriculum there was no special
value to the ideas -- individual worth and responsibility,
for example -- that now energize Eastern Europe. At Stanford
and elsewhere, the academic mind-set continues to reflect the
Vietnam-era mentality of America as pillager of the world.
Yet Eastern Europe and even Russia itself are now striving to
emulate the American economy and join Western culture.
   History is rapidly disproving this liberal academic
mind-set. Liberal academics, protected by tenure, will be the
last to know. They certainly will not honor the likes of the
Hoover scholars for being right, for this would admit their
own errors. Long after the Cold War is truly gone from
East-West relations, it will linger in the groves of our
prestige campuses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Modulaire
   Chief Is Charged
   In Trading Case
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
charged the former chairman and chief executive officer of
Modulaire Industries with insider trading in the company's
1987 acquisition by Waste Management Inc.
   Other defendants charged by the SEC included the wife and
son of Modulaire's president, David Wailes. All defendants,
including former Chairman Joseph Behar, agreed to settle the
case without admitting or denying guilt and will pay a total
of more than $330,000 in penalties and disgorgement of
profit. Mr. Wailes wasn't charged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC said that on May 7, 1987, Mr. Behar and Mr. Wailes
agreed to have the San Francisco-based supplier of modular
structures acquired by Waste Management at $16 a share. The
stock was selling at about $7 each. After the announcement of
the deal before the market opened on May 11, the share price
jumped to more than $15.
   On May 8, Deborah Castellucci bought 5,400 Modulaire
shares based on nonpublic information given to her by Mr.
Behar, the SEC said. She had been hired by Modulaire two
years earlier to devise a pension plan for the company.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Wailes had been keeping his wife, Adrienne,
apprised of the progress of negotiations, the SEC said; about
8:32 a.m., May 8, he called her from his office. Mrs. Wailes
then began calling friends and relatives "in rapid succession
to tip them to buy Modulaire before the acquisition was
announced," according to the complaint.
   The SEC said Mrs. Wailes called: Dorothy Carter, whose
husband, Donald, bought 4,300 shares; Mary Alice Graves, who
bought 750 shares, and Christopher Scott, who bought 4,200
shares but canceled his purchases before settlement. Dorothy
Carter then spoke to her son-in-law Jon Treder to pass along
the tip, the SEC said. He bought 1,500 shares and his father,
who wasn't charged, bought 750, the agency said.
   The Wailes' son, Deven, who lived with his parents, also
found out about the takeover from his mother and bought 5,000
shares, although he also canceled the order before
settlement.
   Under their settlement agreements, Mr. Behar will disgorge
$43,200, which amounts to Ms. Castellucci's profit. Ms.
Castellucci and Mr. Behar also will each pay a penalty of
$43,200.
   Mrs. Wailes will pay a penalty of $78,130 representing the
profit of the people she allegedly tipped. The Carters will
disgorge and pay a penalty totaling $81,675, including Mr.
Treder's profit. Mr. Treder will pay $30,525 in profit and
penalty, including his father's profit. Ms. Graves will pay a
total $12,375 in disgorgement and penalty.
   Christopher Scott and Deven Wailes have agreed not to
violate securities laws in the future.
   Mr. Behar's attorney, Kurt Mueller, said that by settling,
his client "is neither admitting nor denying guilt. In fact,
he does not admit it." He also said Mr. Behar agreed to
settle because it would cost "far more to litigate this case
than to settle it, not to mention the grief that litigation
would cause."
   Ted Phillips, attorney for Ms. Castellucci, declined to
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lengthy Slump
   In Commercial
   Realty Is Seen
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The commercial real estate market, overbuilt in all
segments during the 1980s, will remain in a recession for the
next five years, according to a survey of 400 real estate
executives.
   The survey results, to be released Monday by the
accounting firm of Ernst &amp; Young, paint a particularly
pessimistic picture of office developments and investment
returns in the New York market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nationwide, office rents are expected to rise just 2.2% to
2.4% during the first half of the 1990s, in contrast to a
projected inflation rate of about 4.8%.
   "Office {investment} has been the worst-performing sector
for the past two years, and it looks like that's going to
continue to be the worst-performing sector for the next five
years," said Michael L. Evans, national director of Ernst &amp;
Young Real Estate Advisory Services.
   The real estate executives surveyed by Ernst &amp; Young
earlier this year were asked to assess the future markets for
office, warehouse, retail and apartment developments. The
majority of the respondents said value appreciation in all
four categories will lag behind the projected inflation rate,
although apartments and warehouses will come closest to
matching it with projected rent appreciations of 4.5% and
4.1%, respectively.
   Mr. Evans, who led the analysis of the survey results,
said he was struck most by the respondents' negative
assessment of the New York City market and their optimism
about markets in the Southwest, particularly Houston and
Dallas.
   "Clearly Manhattan is at the bottom of the list," he said.
"New York could have some very significant problems."
   Almost one-third of the survey respondents, or 28.6%,
ranked New York as the most overvalued market, followed by
Los Angeles, at 13.8%.
   Houston and Dallas led the list of cities with the most
potential for real estate investment, with positive
assessments by 9.3% and 8.9%, respectively, of the
respondents.
   "It is confirmed that Houston and Dallas are coming back,"
Mr. Evans said. "It's not bottom-fishing. The economics are
there. There was an indication {in the survey} that Houston
and Dallas have reached the place where rents justify the
investment."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. Firms Plunk Down Cash in East Bloc
   ---
   Moves Are Chiefly Marketing,
   Joint Manufacturing
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP GM EK DOW XRX AXP U.RKX PG
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- As change sweeps East Europe, many of America's
biggest companies have been debating how to tap a potential
market of 140 million people.
   Talk now is turning to action.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In recent weeks, nearly a dozen American corporations have
announced multimillion-dollar investment programs in the East
bloc. Some of America's biggest companies are involved,
including General Motors Corp., Dow Chemical Co., Eastman
Kodak Co., S.C. Johnson &amp; Son Inc. and Xerox Corp.
   The projects chiefly are of two types: marketing ventures
-- with or without local partners -- to establish domestic
sales organizations, or more-ambitious joint ventures for
local manufacturing.
   The opening of Eastern Europe "is a major, significant
move," says Edwin Buehlmann, American Express Co.'s senior
vice president, Eastern Europe. The financial-services
company already markets dollar-denominated charge cards in
several East bloc countries and plans to spend $2 million
more this year to open travel centers in Budapest, Prague,
Warsaw and East Berlin. General Motors is investing more than
$150 million in the region and last Friday announced an East
German car-making venture and its second Hungarian production
investment. GM's strategy is to gain "a foothold in the
market," says spokesman Ron Theis.
   The best barometer of U.S. investment objectives is the
Washington-based Overseas Private Investment Corp., a U.S.
agency that provides political-risk insurance to U.S.
companies abroad. James Hall, a spokesman, says there has
been "an explosion" in new registrations for East bloc
investments, primarily in Hungary and Poland. OPIC is now
processing insurance requests for 100 investment projects
valued at a total of $1.5 billion, up from 45 projects valued
at $500 million at the end of 1989, Mr. Hall says. OPIC also
has received feelers for an additional $500 million in
investments, he says.
   Of course, pitfalls abound. Enthusiasm about inexpensive
East bloc labor is tempered by problems of supply, quality
and currency convertibility. Instability in such areas as
Romania and the Soviet republics places a big question mark
over the safety of investments. Some executives, mindful of
previous disappointments in China, believe it may be years
before Eastern Europe becomes a lucrative market.
   Nevertheless, many companies are investing now in order
not to miss an opening. "The initial, few large deals were
opportunistic. Now, you are seeing the results of people
having done some market research, and acting to fulfill a
strategic plan," says Colin Berry, a London-based director at
investment bankers Morgan Grenfell Group PLC. He has seen
particular East bloc interest among telecommunications
companies and such hotel chains as Marriott, Hyatt and
Intercontinental.
   Three sorts of U.S. investors dominate East European
activity. The first is the U.S. multinational, more than 40
of which joined an OPIC investment mission to Hungary and
Poland last month, including Olin Corp., Marathon Oil Co.,
Warnaco and TRW Inc. The second category is ethnic, companies
led by people who have East European family ties. The third
category is small or medium-sized businesses that find
special expertise, as well as cost advantages, in East
Europe.
   An example of the latter category is Erie Scientific Co.,
a Portsmouth, N.H., maker of laboratory glass that opened a
microscope-slide venture in Budapest in March. Frank
Jellinek, president, says Erie cut its average wage costs 90%
from a comparable unit it operates in West Germany, with no
loss in quality because of the skills of Erie's Hungarian
glassmaking joint-venture partner. The venture took less than
six months to organize and was profitable in its first
quarter; Erie plans to double the size of the $1 million
investment.
   Major recent U.S. investments include:
   -- General Motors is investing more than $150 million in
two Hungarian ventures to make engines, wiring assemblies and
vehicles. The auto maker also said last Friday it plans to
start building Opel models in East Germany this year. The
East German operation, a joint venture with Automobilwerke
Eisenach, is the first step in GM's plan to increase European
capacity by 25% by the mid-1990s.
   -- S.C. Johnson, the Racine, Wis., consumer-products
company, is spending "tens of millions" of dollars on
expanding its East bloc sales and manufacturing efforts, says
Gianni Montezemolo, vice president for new markets. Johnson's
biggest project is a planned manufacturing joint venture in
the Ukraine, with about 500 employees, to supply the Soviet
and East European markets with such brand-name products as
Pledge and Raid.
   Johnson has several East bloc sales offices and has been
importing its products from factories in Holland for 20
years. But the company concluded that Eastern Europe "is a
big market. You need to manufacture locally," says Mr.
Montezemolo.
   The company, along with other East bloc manufacturers,
faces tough problems including quality control, absenteeism
and differing working practices. At Johnson, plans call for
additional training for new workers. The company is already
working to instill Western working practices. For example,
after months of grappling with inefficient responses to phone
calls or telexes by Soviet staff, Johnson "made a rule that
whenever we send a communication, they have to acknowledge
it, even if is to say that nothing has happened," says Mr.
Montezemolo.
   -- Dow Chemical, Midland, Mich., is spending $16 million
to build a plastic-foam insulation plant adjacent to an
existing chemical plant on Hungary's Lake Balaton, about 60
miles outside Budapest. The plant, a joint venture with
Hungary's state chemical company Nitrokemia and Chemolimpex,
the state chemical-marketing organization, is scheduled to
come on stream in the first or second quarter next year, says
William E. Cornelius, Dow's director of trade policy.
   Dow's plans for a $1 billion Soviet plastics plant have
been stalled by recent political uncertainty in the Soviet
Union. Some Western experts say Moscow increasingly wants big
projects to be based in the Russian republic, rather than in
independence-seeking outlying republics. In the meantime, Dow
is content to focus on beefing up local staff in its East
bloc sales and marketing arms. Its East European sales
currently total $300 million annually.
   -- Among other companies, Xerox's U.K.-based Rank Xerox
office-equipment affiliate expects to spend about #11 million
($18.7 million) over the next 18 months boosting sales and
service operations in Eastern Europe. The company sees sales
growing to #200 million annually in five years from #50
million, a growth rate that won't be seen "anywhere else in
the world," says David Thompson, Rank Xerox's executive
director.
   Eastman Kodak has set up Hungarian and Polish
film-processing works and is expanding such operations in the
Soviet Union. And consumer-products maker Procter &amp; Gamble
Co. is trying to set up local marketing operations.
   ---
                   Here Come the Americans
                                                                                                       

        U.S. Investment in Eastern Europe measured by
         Registrations for OPIC investment insurance
                                                                                                       

   1988                             $0
                                                                                                       

   1989                             $500 million
                                                                                                       

   1990*                            $1.5 billion
                                                                                                       

   *To date
                                                                                                       

   Source: Overseas Private Investment Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nissan Motor Co.:
   Annual Pretax Profit Rose
   66% on Record Sales Level
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nissan Motor Co. said consolidated pretax profit for the
year ended March 31 rose 66% to 333.11 billion yen ($2.2
billion) from 200.82 billion yen a year earlier, and sales
surged 17% to a record 5.645 trillion yen from 4.812 trillion
yen.
   Net income also set a record, 116.01 billion yen, up 1.2%
from 114.63 billion yen a year earlier. Per-share net was
46.25 yen, down from 46.27 yen because of an increase in
shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nissan also posted record unconsolidated pretax profit of
184.27 billion yen, up 19% from 154.77 billion yen. Net rose
34% to 85.377 billion yen from 63.61 billion yen, and
per-share earnings increased to 34.03 yen from 25.68 yen.
Unconsolidated sales increased 12% to a record 4.006 trillion
yen from 3.58 trillion yen.
   Nissan vehicle sales rose 5.7% to 2,372,000 from
1,978,000. Demand exceeded production capacity, an official
said, but conceded that the U.S. operations' profit was
"worse than mediocre," because of weakness in that market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Mulheren Ex-Aide
   Provides Details
   Of Illegal Trades
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A former partner of defendant John A. Mulheren Jr. said he
had several conversations with Mr. Mulheren about illegal
securities trades that Mr. Mulheren did with Ivan F. Boesky,
the convicted former stock speculator.
   Edward McCarthy, a former general partner and chief
financial officer of Mr. Mulheren's defunct firm, Jamie
Securities Co., provided details that indicated for the first
time that Mr. Mulheren may have known that Mr. Boesky needed
to do illegal securities trades to evade net capital
requirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mulheren is charged with 41 counts of conspiracy,
securities fraud and keeping false records in connection with
his dealings with Mr. Boesky.
   Testifying under a grant of immunity from prosecution, Mr.
McCarthy said Mr. Mulheren talked to him about trades with
Mr. Boesky in shares of Unocal Corp. in June or July of 1985.
He said Mr. Mulheren asked him to keep the Unocal holdings
"separate on the daily accounting sheets" because "it was
Ivan's." Mr. Mulheren is accused of buying Unocal and other
securities from Mr. Boesky's company with the understanding
that those securities would later be repurchased by Mr.
Boesky.
   Mr. McCarthy said that in the late summer and early autumn
of 1985, Mr. Mulheren "asked me if we had enough buying power
to buy three or four large positions" from Mr. Boesky because
"Boesky has a capital problem." Mr. McCarthy said that after
he advised Mr. Mulheren that Jamie had enough money, Jamie
purchased four different securities from Mr. Boesky with the
understanding that those securities would later be sold back.
   In October 1985, Mr. Mulheren "asked me how much money we
were up or down" from the securities held for Mr. Boesky, Mr.
McCarthy said. Mr. McCarthy said that he later told Mr.
Mulheren that Jamie had a profit of about $500,000 from the
securities.
   Soon after, Mr. Mulheren told Mr. McCarthy that "Ivan
wanted his money back." Mr. McCarthy said he responded,
"Let's send him a check," and the two then laughed about it.
He said Jamie decided it would inflate brokerage bills it
paid to Mr. Boesky's trading company in late 1985.
   Mr. McCarthy corroborated much of the testimony provided
earlier this week by Michael Davidoff, a former key aide to
Mr. Boesky. Mr. McCarthy, who works for New York-based Dreman
Value Management Inc., a money management firm, is scheduled
to continue his testimony on Monday.
   Neither Mr. McCarthy nor Mr. Davidoff appeared to help the
government's case against Leonard DeStefano, a 34-year-old
former trading assistant who worked for Mr. Mulheren. Mr.
DeStefano is accused of inflating the brokerage bills and
keeping score of how much Mr. Boesky was owed as a result of
the allegedly illegal trades. Both witnesses said they had no
knowledge that Mr. DeStefano ever knew that he was being
asked to inflate the bills to compensate for money owed Mr.
Boesky from illegal trades.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farm Prices
   Post 2% Increase
   For Last Month
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Agricultural prices in May rose 2% from the
previous month as strong demand for pork and tight supplies
sent hog prices soaring to their second-highest level ever,
the Agriculture Department said.
   Hog prices hit $60.50 per 100 pounds in May, up $6.70 from
April and up $18.90 from a year earlier, the department said.
The record high of $62.10 came in August 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The surge in prices received by hog producers portend a
15% jump in retail prices for bacon and other pork products
by year end, economists said. Retail pork prices in the first
four months of the year were already up 9% from the
year-before period.
   The near-record prices reflect, among other things, a 15%
drop in pork imports and a 26% jump in U.S. pork exports
during the first quarter, a 25% decline in cold storage of
pork from a year ago and a slight slowdown in hog
slaughtering.
   "I can remember only one other time in the last 25 years
when we had these many price factors go positive for higher
prices at one time," said Glenn Grimes, a University of
Missouri agricultural economist and consultant to the
National Pork Producers Council.
   As a result, prices for barrows and gilts rose $7 to
$61.20 per 100 pounds in May, while sows rose $2.90 to $51.60
per 100 pounds, the department said.
   "The probabilities are very high for hog prices to stay
very strong through at least August," said Mr. Grimes. "We
think the odds are high that retail prices will go up
somewhere in the range of 15%."
   Overall farm prices in May were up 3.4% from last year,
according to the department. Beef cattle prices averaged
$74.30 per 100 pounds, down 30 cents from April. Prices for
steers and heifers were also down 30 cents, while cows rose
50 cents.
   Corn prices averaged $2.66 per bushel in May, up 15 cents,
and sorghum grain averaged $4.10 per 100 pounds, up 21 cents.
Barley prices slipped one cent in May to $2.21 per bushel,
while oats were unchanged at $1.44 per bushel, the department
said.
   Egg prices averaged 51.2 cents per dozen, down 13 cents
from April, the department said. Broiler prices rose two
cents per pound in May to 35.2 cents, and turkeys edged up
1.2 cents per pound to 38.2 cents.
   Milk prices averaged $13.20 per 100 pounds in May, down 20
cents from the previous month, but up 90 cents from a year
earlier, the department said. Fruit prices, led by oranges
and grapefruits, climbed 3.6% in May, while vegetable prices,
led by lettuce and tomatoes, rose 3.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Daniel Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DAN
</CO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Daniel Industries Inc. said its directors
approved a plan under which shareholders would be allowed to
acquire new preferred stock in the event any group or
individual acquires more than 20% of the company.
   The producer of oil field equipment said that the plan
wasn't adopted in response to any specific takeover attempt
and that it wasn't aware of any such effort.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Inflation Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   ROME -- Italy's consumer price inflation rate eased to
5.7% in May, from 5.8% in April, the Bank of Italy's governor
Carlo A. Ciampi said in his annual address to shareholders.
   The inflation was slightly below expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Italy's consumer price index rose 5.7% in May from a year
earlier; it was up 0.3% in May from April, the state
statistical institute Istat reported in Milan.
   Istat said the index registered 105.1 in May, compared
with 104.8 in April and with 104.4 in March.
   The index (1989 equals 100) isn't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Developing Asian-Pacific Stock Markets
   Show Fast Growth, Strong Performance
   ----
   By Russel G. Todd
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Developing stock markets in the Asian-Pacific
region grew faster and performed better than established
markets over the past five years, according to the
International Finance Corp.'s latest survey of emerging
equity markets.
   The report also shows that manufacturing and financial
stocks dominate trading in the region's emerging markets, and
that some of these markets are among the most active and
volatile in the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new edition of the IFC's annual emerging-market fact
book shows that the region's developing exchanges have turned
in impressive results over the period. The IFC Asia index,
which tracks stocks in Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan and
Thailand, shot up 558.4% from the end of 1984 to the end of
1989.
   By comparison, Standard &amp; Poor's index of 500 U.S. stocks
rose 251.9% in the period. The Europe, Australia and Far East
index, which is calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital
International Perspective and covers developed markets
outside the U.S., rose 474.1%. (All the indexes are
calculated in terms of dollars and are expressed in terms of
total return, including stock-price rises and dividend
payments.)
   The IFC, the finance arm of the World Bank, maintains one
of the largest data bases on emerging stock markets. The
organization also helps develop and underwrite international
investment in emerging markets; in Asia, it has been
instrumental in launching numerous single-country mutual
funds, such as the Korea Fund, listed on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   The advance of Asian-Pacific emerging markets during the
past half-decade has been even more impressive in terms of
the growth in capitalization. The combined capitalization of
seven developing markets -- India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand -- jumped 850%,
to $485.24 billion. The capitalization of the region's
developed markets -- Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia
and New Zealand -- rose 338%, to $4.66 trillion.
   The giant Tokyo market accounted for much of the developed
markets' increase. Its capitalization jumped 363%, to $4.4
trillion, though losses in 1990 have trimmed the gain. The
value of shares on the Singapore market rose 225%, to $35.9
billion. Market capitalization in Australia and Hong Kong
each jumped about 125%, to $136.6 billion and $77.5 billion,
respectively. New Zealand's market value grew the least,
rising 53.9%, to $13.5 billion.
   Among the developing markets, Taiwan's capitalization
skyrocketed 2,172%, to $237 billion. The much smaller
Indonesian market jumped nearly as much, rising 2,049%, to
$2.51 billion; most of the increase came in 1989 as the
Jakarta market was opened to more foreign investment.
   The capitalization of three other emerging markets each
rose more than 1,200% during the five years: South Korea, to
$140.95 billion; the Philippines, to $11.97 billion; and
Thailand, to $25.65 billion. Capitalization of the Malaysian
market rose 145.5%, to $39.84 billion, while that of India
rose 90%, to $27.32 billion.
   Emerging markets in the region also outpaced developed
markets in terms of new listings. Combined listings on the
five developed markets grew 12.9% during the five-year
period, to 4,016 issues. New Zealand's market was the only
one that lost issues over the five-year period; in 1985, 317
issues were listed, but that figure fell 23.7%, to 242
issues, at the end of 1989.
   Among the seven developing equity markets, new listings
jumped 40.4%, bringing the total to 7,438 issues. The number
is distorted by India's estimated 6,000 listed issues at the
end of 1989; foreigners currently are barred from investing
in Indian shares.
   Three markets that have attracted growing foreign
investment -- Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand -- had mixed
results in their efforts to bring new issues to market. In
the five-year period, the number of issues on the Bangkok
exchange rose 75%, to 175; in neighboring Malaysia, listed
issues climbed only 13.1%, to 251 companies. Listings on
Indonesia's market jumped 154% in 1989 alone. The market had
only 24 listed issues from 1985 through 1988, but a further
37 companies were listed last year as the government
encouraged the market to expand.
   The number of listed companies in South Korea grew 83%, to
626, while Taiwan's listings rose 42.5%, to 181. In the
Philippines, the number of listed shares rose just 4.3%, to
144.
   According to the IFC report, financial and manufacturing
shares dominate the region's emerging exchanges. At the end
of 1989, a broad sector that includes banks, real-estate and
insurance shares accounted for 44.8% of combined
capitalization; bank shares alone accounted for 27.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Humana to Redeem Debt Issue
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HUM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Humana Inc., which owns hospitals and
operates health-benefit plans, said it will redeem on July 2
all of its 8.5% convertible subordinated debentures, due Aug.
15, 2009, at a price of $1,042.50 each, plus accrued
interest. Slightly more than $199.9 million of the debentures
are outstanding.
   The redemption will save the company about $17 million a
year in interest costs, Humana said. Assuming full
conversion, Humana said its per-share earnings won't be
affected, because the company has included the effect of
equivalent shares in its results since the debentures were
issued in 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Privatization, Venezuelan Style
   ----
   By Carlos Ball
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARACAS -- Perhaps the most famous hotel in this city is
known for its beautiful white tower on top of the Avila
Mountain overlooking the valley of Caracas. However, the
hotel -- connected to the city only by cable car -- does have
a problem: It has stood empty for more than a quarter of a
century, a constant reminder of the virtues of government
planning.
   The last military dictator of Venezuela, Gen. Marcos Perez
Jimenez (no kin of the current president, Carlos Andres
Perez), was responsible for getting the state involved in
many grandiose investment projects. The most infamous of
these include the disastrously inefficient iron and steel
complexes, the nationalized telephone company (formerly
British-owned) and a chain of hotels that has been losing
money for more than 30 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, in keeping with world trends, President Perez has
announced intentions to "privatize" hotels and and other
state holdings. But even though practically everyone is
convinced of the inefficiency of state-run enterprises, there
are ominous signs that genuine privatization may not be just
around the corner. Start with the example of the state
telephone company.
   The state takeover of the telephone company was perhaps
the most tragic and costly nationalization project, in terms
of slowing down economic development. During working hours it
is practically impossible to call Valencia, the main
industrial city, just 100 miles to the southwest of the
capital. According to a World Bank study leaked to the
Venezuelan press last month, less than 50% of all local calls
are completed, while only 30.4% of intercity and 20.6% of
international calls, in turn, get through. That means that
you have to dial an average of five times before reaching
your overseas number. In some areas of the capital, you
automatically get a busy signal even if the person you are
calling is not using the phone. The obsolete exchanges in
those areas simply cannot handle the volume.
   To get a new phone is a difficult task indeed, requiring a
combination of money, patience and shrewdness. There are four
ways to get a phone installed in Venezuela: (1) Place an ad
in the local newspaper, offering to pay $1,000 or more for a
number; (2) stop the first phone-company truck you see in the
street and negotiate with the crew; (3) get a cellular phone
and pay outrageous rates; (4) fill out an application and
wait from one to five years, visiting the phone office
periodically to replace lost forms.
   There is, of course, a fifth way, but this one requires
you to be a member, in good standing, of the "nomenklatura":
Just call the Communications minister or the president's
private secretary and you will have a telephone within days.
And, if you are important enough, tapping is added at no
extra cost.
   In 1988 -- the last year for which figures are available
-- the Venezuelan Telephone Co. (CANTV) lost $22 million on
revenues of $210 million. In all, CANTV would seem an
excellent candidate for privatization.
   However, two recent public announcements spell trouble for
privatization efforts: (1) CANTV's president proudly
disclosed that a decade-old debt with AT&amp;T had been paid and
soon Venezuelans in the U.S. will be able to call home
collect (they can now do so); (2) a telephone-union official
said that the company would be privatized "over my dead
body."
   The CTV, Venezuela's equivalent of the AFL/CIO, is the
backbone of President Perez's ruling party, Democratic
Action. In the face of growing dissension between government
officials and party officials over economic policy, it is
extremely important for both groups to enjoy union support.
Thus, telephone privatization may well have to take a back
seat to politics for some time.
   The hotel-privatization plan is a very different matter.
It has the enthusiastic backing of the CTV, ruling party
members and the executive branch of government. Only the
political opposition, the independent unions and the
Federation of Tourism Chambers are against the deal.
   However, the plan can be described as "privatization" only
in a surrealist, corporatist sense, conforming to the
traditional Latin American "menage a trois": big government,
big business and big unions. Crony capitalism, by another
name.
   In 1987, a "privatization" law was passed. And while not a
single company has been sold in three years, it allows for
creative new ways to bleed the country. This law allows the
sale of state assets without public bid, if labor groups,
unions or cooperatives buy at least 30% of the company or
assets being sold by the government.
   Under such a convenient law, a deal to sell three of the
state-owned hotels came to the surface last fall. The hotels
in question are three of the better ones: the Barquisimeto
Hilton, the Melia Caribe and the Melia Puerto La Cruz. The
purchaser is Traemel, a joint venture of the Spanish group
Melia (49%), a CTV labor-federation subsidiary (40%) and
Inversiones 42309 (11%). (Since the registry has run out of
corporate names, new companies often choose a number as an
official name.)
   Inversiones 42309 was incorporated 15 months ago with a
$600 capitalization, and it is owned by one of the principal
partners of the local Baker &amp; McKenzie law firm, the reported
deal-maker. The terms were very sweet indeed, even by
standards applied to friends of the party: 10% down, a
three-year grace period, and 20 years to pay at an 8%-9% rate
of interest, when recent rates in Venezuela have fluctuated
between 31% and 48% (in face of last year's 81% inflation and
a 30% estimate for the current year).
   After intense public criticism of the deal, the government
ordered a new appraisal of the hotels and is demanding
payment in cash. However, union participation must remain at
the same level. Traemel has the right of first refusal or
must come up with the money by June 30. Melia, the Spanish
connection, already has offered to lend the union its share
of the purchasing price, supposedly to be paid back from
future profits.
   This means that Melia is buying 49%, but paying for 89% of
the deal, which can be explained either by Melia's deep love
for labor unions, or by the fact that it is getting such a
good bargain for its share that it wants to avoid the highly
inconvenient alternative of a public bid. Any criticism of
the deal is rejected outright as anti-labor. But, of course,
no common laborer is going to benefit from this or has any
chance of staying at one of the three luxury hotels; it is
only the union bosses who will be able to afford bigger
yachts.
   This is privatization, Venezuelan style.
   ---
   Mr. Ball is a Venezuelan journalist and director of
Cedice, a Caracas free-market think tank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 298,183
metric tons in the week ended last Saturday, up 0.7% from
296,125 tons in the preceding week but down 2.4% from 305,438
tons a year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.6 pounds. For this
year through last Saturday, output totaled 5,823,782 metric
tons, down 11% from 6,530,509 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   And Away We Go
   To the Moon, Alice]
   Any Bright Ideas?
   ---
   NASA Would Like to Hear
   Far-Out Flight Strategies,
   But You Won't Get Rich
   ----
   By Bob Davis
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5F
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Space nuts take note: The National
Aeronautics and Space Administration is looking for new ideas
to get to Mars.
   But it isn't paying for them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The space agency said it would spend $4.5 million to
canvass the public, aerospace companies and students for
innovative technologies to send astronauts to the moon again
and off to Mars. NASA Administrator Richard Truly said he
planned to write letters this month to universities and
professional societies asking them to make suggestions. He
even plans to set up an 800 number to field proposals.
   "We're trying to look at the big picture, big strategy and
big technologies," said Arnold Aldrich, NASA's exploration
chief. But he said he won't pay now for the suggestions, even
if they eventually result in new spaceships. The payoff would
come in contracts to formally study or build space equipment
-- which won't be awarded for several years, if then.
   NASA is reaching out for proposals at the behest of Vice
President Dan Quayle, who heads the National Space Council
and who directed the agency to "cast our net widely" in
searching for new space technology. The initiative also might
drum up interest in President Bush's plan to send astronauts
to Mars within 30 years, which so far has drawn yawns from
the public and derision from Congress.
   The space agency could certainly use some help. Its plan
to explore the moon and Mars comes with a $500 billion price
tag, making it a political non-starter. But the alternatives
proposed so far -- launching rockets from the ocean, placing
inflatable space stations in orbit -- have seemed kind of
silly and naive.
   Of course, with space exploration, imagination is crucial.
Yesterday, for instance, the Commerce Department released a
report chiding big aerospace concerns for lacking vision and
failing to invest in commercial space ventures. "Larger U.S.
companies could lose critical know-how to foreign competitors
as small, entrepreneurial U.S. companies turn overseas for
corporate support," the report warned.
   For its part, NASA is trying to branch out from its usual
reliance on big contractors to come up with space hardware.
At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Truly appointed former
Apollo astronaut Thomas Stafford to head a panel that would
review outside suggestions, along with government studies,
and make recommendations for the design of the exploration
program and the technologies to emphasize.
   High on NASA's most-wanted list are proposals for new
propulsion technologies. Using conventional rockets, a flight
to Mars would take a year -- enough time without gravity to
incapacitate an astronaut. Mr. Aldrich said he expected Mr.
Stafford's panel to recommend nuclear power to speed the
flight. Some inventors have proposed using exotic lasers and
even anti-matter engines.
   Said Mr. Stafford: "I think we'll be inundated" with
suggestions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tyco Laboratories Inc. Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   TYC T
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   EXETER, N.H. -- Tyco Laboratories Inc. said its Simplex
Wire &amp; Cable Co. unit received a contract valued at $42
million from American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s Federal
Systems unit to make undersea fiberoptic cables for the Navy.
   Under terms, Simplex, in Newington, N.H., will make cables
that will be used by the Navy for oceanographic research,
Tyco said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tyco makes fire protection/flow control systems,
electrical and electronic parts and packaging materials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   U.S. Booksellers, Heading to Convention,
   See Strong Sales and More Best Sellers
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Publishers and bookstore owners heading to the annual
convention of the American Booksellers Association, which
starts today in Las Vegas, predict strong sales this fall and
plentiful best sellers after a year that was disappointing
for many.
   "Our sales were soft for most of last year, but I think
you're going to see a pretty upbeat community of booksellers
and publishers," says Ronald Jaffe, senior marketing director
for the Waldenbooks unit of K mart Corp. "It's like night and
day. Our sales are terrific right now, and from what we've
seen about new books coming out this fall, we're very
excited."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think the doom and gloom has receded," says Brigitte
Weeks, editor in chief of Time Warner Inc.'s Book-of-theMonth
Club. "People are feeling more secure, and there are going to
be some really big books this fall, including new novels by
Jean Auel and Colleen McCullough. There are some really
classy, important books coming out, too, from authors like
John Updike and Gabriel Garcia Marquez."
   At this annual gathering, hundreds of publishers of all
sizes tout their forthcoming books to thousands of bookstore
owners, hoping to boost sales for the fall season, the
biggest in publishing. "We use this as a forum, to find out
what kind of season to look forward to," says Bernard Rath,
executive director of the association. Although many New York
publishers complained that their high-brow industry is
meeting in a low-brow town, attendance is expected to be
about 25,000, says Mr. Rath, slightly ahead of last year's
convention in Washington, D.C.
   The association recently said bookstore sales jumped 63%
between 1982 and 1987, and sales reportedly rose about 11% in
1989. However, a recent report by the American Association of
Publishers showed only a 4.1% increase in sales of adult
hardcover books in the first quarter of 1990. Various surveys
predict that growth will be better than that in the next few
years, but not as strong as during the boom years of the
mid-1980s.
   Despite a consensus among publishing executives that this
fall will bring more blockbusters than last year's
disappointing lineup, there are still some jitters in the
industry after tumultuous times. During the past six months,
several big publishers took substantial write-downs against
earnings, several small publishers were put up for sale and
an earlier wave of big mergers was followed by consolidation
and staff cuts at many houses. At the same time, growth of
the big bookstore chains was slowing down.
   "I'd say the mood is optimistic but far from euphoria,"
says David Godine, a small, independent publisher based in
Boston. "You can't look around and say this industry is in
terrific shape."
   "We're fairly bullish as we head into the summer, but I'm
cautious," says Jack Hoeft, president of Bantam Doubleday
Dell Publishing Group, a unit of Bertelsmann AG. The
company's Doubleday unit had an especially difficult year in
1989 -- racking up losses, switching top management and
cutting back the list of titles sharply. "The cautious part
is because I'm getting some reports from customers that the
bookselling market in general is still pretty soft," says Mr.
Hoeft.
   "It has been a sobering time, but there is an optimism
again," says Joni Evans, publisher of Random House, which is
owned by the Newhouse family's Advance Publications Inc. "We
all feel a bit like Gorbachev: Things are better, but at any
moment, they could take a wrong turn." Ms. Evans said that,
as part of a new conservatism in publishing, "the bubble has
definitely burst on advances."
   Allan Lang, an agent and consultant, adds, "Sales and
marketing and editorial departments are being trimmed all
over the industry. Publishers aren't publishing fewer titles,
but they are publishing smaller initial print runs and paying
for fewer author tours."
   Nevertheless, booksellers and publishers are ready to
celebrate in Las Vegas, with dozens of author lunches and
lavish cocktail parties at local casinos and mansions. "The
mood will definitely be good: This is always a happy
convention," says Mr. Lang. "Publishers are eternal
optimists, or they couldn't remain sane in this business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   In Indonesia District,
   The Deceased Often
   Take It With Them
   ---
   Toraja Funerals Lure Tourists
   With Lavish Festivities,
   But Can Bankrupt Hosts
   ----
   By Richard Borsuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   SADAAN, Indonesia -- The funeral of Mantigi, owner of a
bus company in this scenic section of Sulawesi, is fittingly
embellished by a fleet of minibuses parked at the field where
his rites will be held.
   Emerging from the vehicles aren't Mr. Mantigi's relatives
or friends -- they are present already -- but rather a gaggle
of camera-toting, middle-aged European tourists whose
ignorance of the deceased doesn't damp their desire to join
his bier party.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We couldn't visit Sulawesi without going to a funeral," a
French woman says. "There's nothing like it in Europe."
   There's nothing like Toraja, a hilly district offering
breathtaking panoramas and bizarre traditions for celebrating
death. Life in this area is intriguing, but death is a
cabaret that draws an ever-growing crowd. Mortuary tourism,
as one scholar calls it, is alive and thriving.
   Strangers didn't need to call Mr. Mantigi's bus company to
get the schedule of his rites. Staff in local hotels spread
the word to guests. There's also a bulletin board outside the
tourist office in Rantepao, the district capital, listing the
week's funerals -- and sometimes the number of buffaloes
slated for slaughter.
   The buffalo is far more than a beast of burden to Toraja's
350,000 residents. Beyond playing a central role in seeing
someone off to the Land of Souls, the animal often functions
as the local currency and key indicator of social status.
   At Mr. Mantigi's rites, some buffalo meat will be set
aside for his future nourishment. Much will be distributed to
funeral guests under a complex allocation system reflecting
the recipient's social standing.
   The richer the deceased, the more buffaloes get
slaughtered; about 40 shuffle off for Mr. Mantigi. As the
cost of a prize buffalo can reach two million rupiah
($1,100), the ceremonies can easily wipe out family savings.
In a province with per capita income of about $300, it's not
uncommon for funerals to cost more than $25,000. The 1978
funeral of a nobleman -- traditional Toraja society was made
up of nobles, commoners and slaves -- cost more than
$200,000.
   Slavery has long been abolished, but keen competition
among families to throw bigger feasts is chaining many
Torajans to a lifetime of debt. Neighbors help out at funeral
time by contributing buffaloes, knowing that the expensive
favor must be returned.
   The death fests are only one of an elaborate series of
steps most Torajans follow over months or even years to mark
the departure of a family member. Some ceremonies are
private, and allow relatives to express grief. But at the
Mantigi gathering, there's no sign of mourning or
bereavement.
   For the foreigners, though, there's a notable loss of
enthusiasm when blood spurts and the buffaloes lay dying in
the grass, emitting pitiable sounds. Hardly any of the
tourists train their cameras on the sight. The French woman
has found that weavings sold nearby are more to her taste.
But she can't browse for long, as her group has realized it's
time to head for burial sites inside cliffs about 15
kilometers away.
   By pulling out early, they miss most of the party. Meat is
distributed, potent palm wine flows freely, bullfights begin
and Mr. Mantigi officially loses his status as one among the
living. In Toraja, a deceased person isn't considered truly
dead until the buffaloes are slaughtered.
   These days, foreigners are one small reason funerals are
so costly. The presence of visitors from afar gives status to
the deceased's family, which wants to flaunt wealth --
whether it has some or not -- through a big feast.
   Government officials worry that local attention to social
standing will destroy the finances of many Torajans. The
governor of South Sulawesi province, Achmad Amiruddin, says
some families are "overdoing" the funerals. "Traditionally,
even the higher-class people were asked to bring only 24
carabao. Now it's hundreds. It's a waste, done for show," the
governor says. Mr. Amiruddin has tried, so far without
success, to get village headmen to limit the number of
buffaloes killed. "They told me that as long as the old
generation is around, it's tough to change," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mestek Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MESTEK Inc. (Pittsburgh) -- A. Warne Boyce, president of
Microbac Laboratories, was elected a director of this maker
of heating and ventilation products. He succeeds Francis B.
Nimick Jr., who wasn't nominated for re-election to the
board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Urcarco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CARS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   URCARCO Inc. said it completed an offering of five million
common shares at $19.875 each, more than 2.5 times the
company's initial stock offering price last November. The
Fort Worth, Texas, high-flying operator of used-car lots said
it will use the proceeds to buy cars for inventory, to expand
its business, reduce debt and for general corporate purposes.
Urcarco had about 25.6 million shares outstanding before the
offering. It went public at $11 a share late last year and
has since paid a 3-for-2 stock split. Yesterday, in national
over-the-counter trading, the stock was the second most
active issue on volume of 3.3 million shares; it closed at
$20.625, up 75 cents. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. led
the underwriting group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Car-Rental Firms Leave Drivers Dazed
   By Rip-Offs, Options, Misleading Ads
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
INSURANCE (INS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rent a car and you may get taken for a ride. Despite
recent reform efforts, the car-rental industry is still
riddled with questionable tactics and outright rip-offs. Even
established outfits run misleading ads, spring mysterious,
last-minute surcharges on customers, and arm-twist people
into buying such options as car-rental insurance that they
don't want -- or need. Individually, most of these tactics
don't involve big money. But on a national scale, the
consumer abuse is huge: For car-rental insurance alone,
travelers may waste an estimated $1 billion a year. "The
potential for getting ripped off by some of these companies
is almost legendary," says Monte Belote, administrative
director for the Florida Consumer Action Network, a consumer
lobby group. Even rental-car officials concede that growing
competition has led to some shoddy practices -- and that the
industry's image is sinking fast. One Florida restaurant
chain, in fact, runs commercials lampooning rental-car firms.
(The car is cheap, but the keys are extra, the commercial
says, while the restaurant doesn't even charge extra for
baked potatoes.) Some rental companies are trying harder --
to clean up their act. Hertz Corp. has campaigned heavily on
state bills to ban car-rental insurance. And Alamo Rent A Car
gives people a precalculated bill before they rent. The
National Association of Attorneys General has also tried to
step in, by issuing advertising guidelines for the industry a
year ago. But it hasn't been enough -- as a recent renting
spree disclosed. A reporter for this newspaper spent three
days in Florida -- the world's largest individual car-rental
market -- studying car rentals. "The industry's reputation in
a place like Florida is lousy," concedes Frank Olson,
chairman of Hertz. Here's a look at some of the biggest
problems:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   RATE TACTICS
                                                                                                       

   Superior Rent A Car isn't a household name, but it's big
enough to run full-page ads in the Miami Yellow Pages. So
bargain hunters notice Superior's $69-a-week rate. Problem
is, the rate applies only to cars with manual transmissions.
Such tactics are nothing new, but they seem to be growing
with the proliferation of smaller firms. One outfit, American
International Rent-A-Car, quoted a rate of $15 a day over the
phone; that turned out to be good only if you drive fewer
than 25 miles a day. (Drive farther, and you pay 25 cents for
each extra mile, or $26 a day for unlimited mileage.) And
some agencies offered rock-bottom rates for cars that didn't
have air conditioning. "We're talking 90-degree weather and
no AC," says Jordan Courtney, of Duxbury, Mass., after
sweltering for a week in Key West. "It was terrible."
                                                                                                       

   WAIVE THIS FEE
                                                                                                       

   Consumer groups say most people probably don't need to
spend $8 to $12 a day for the "collision damage waiver,"
which is essentially an agreement that you won't be charged
for damage. People's own insurance policies or their credit
cards usually cover such damage. But car-rental companies
manage to get as many as a third of their customers to buy
the waiver, through coaxing, scare tactics and outright
deception. At the Thrifty Car Rental counter in Miami,
travelers who refused the waiver were asked to sign a special
statement (which Thrifty says it has since yanked), agreeing
to pay for any damage "including the full market value of the
car." One rental agent from Dollar Rent A Car was even
blunter: He handed this reporter a contract with the "accept"
box already circled. "Just initial for the waiver here," he
said, without any explanation. (Dollar says that violated
company policy.) And at Exchange Car Rental, Keith Johnson
says he bought the waiver after an agent threatened to put a
$1,000 block on his credit card. "Basically, I had to take
it," says Mr. Johnson, of Woodlands Hills, Calif. "They
sounded so convincing." Convincing maybe, but dead wrong.
Credit-card companies say they don't allow car-rental firms
to take such credit blocks. Exchange, which is under new
ownership, says it stopped that practice last week. Contrary
to what most car-rental firms were telling people at the
counter, the waiver doesn't cover "everything." Dollar, for
instance, says it voids its waiver in Florida if the car is
stolen. The waiver at several other companies didn't cover
glass or tire damage. And according to the National
Association of Attorneys General, some companies canceled the
waiver protection if the driver had taken any drugs,
including aspirin.
                                                                                                       

   EXTRA CHARGES
                                                                                                       

   Car-rental firms keep dreaming up fees that annoy and
mystify people. National Car Rental charged $10 a day to rent
a baby seat (which only cost $50 to buy). Budget Rent a Car
in Miami wanted $8 extra just to let another person drive the
car, and another $7 a day for each driver under 25 years old.
Last year, some outfits imposed a special fee for Latin
American visitors -- because they supposedly had bad driving
records. Most large car-rental firms are also getting into
the liability-insurance business. They used to give each
customer hundreds of thousands of dollars of
liability-insurance coverage in case customers were sued for
a death or injury. Today, most car renters get only a
fraction of that protection unless they spend an extra $4 to
$6 a day for added coverage. These fees have a way of adding
up shockingly fast. Allen Taylor, for example, recently
walked out of an Alamo rental plaza in Tampa with a slightly
dazed look. He had rented a car for a base rate of $179 for
two weeks -- but wound up paying almost twice that after
buying the liability insurance, gasoline and tax. "I know
they explain all these fees, but it's all so confusing," says
Mr. Taylor, a sales manager from Canada.
                                                                                                       

   WASTING GASOLINE
                                                                                                       

   Many car-rental agencies give drivers a full tank of
gasoline and tell them to return it full. But Dollar and some
others give Florida renters half a tank -- and charge them
about $10 for it. The renters are then supposed to return the
car as empty as possible, because they don't get any credit
for unused fuel. The car-rental agency can then resell any
remaining gasoline to the next customer. Dollar argues that
renters prefer this method, because they don't have to bother
refilling the tank. But George McPeck, an engineer from
Venezuela, was determined to leave his rental with "only the
gas fumes in the tank." But he ended up disappointed that a
few gallons were still left when he returned the car. "It's
not as easy wasting gas as you'd think," he says.
                                                                                                       

   CORPORATE BARGAINS?
                                                                                                       

   Each year, hundreds of companies negotiate special
corporate rates from rental-car firms. But there wasn't
anything special about the $41-a-day corporate rate that
Hertz, Avis and National quoted to this reporter. Customers
without corporate rates were paying 25% less. How can that
be? The major car-rental firms point out that corporate rates
often include free insurance, mileage and other perks. But
even they concede that some promotional rates are better. (In
fact, the corporate rate in Florida didn't include free
mileage, while the discount rates did.) The best answer,
consumer experts say, is just to ask for the lower of the two
rates. That's not always easy. A National agent in Miami
refused to give this reporter the promotional rate, insisting
that the corporate rate was mandatory for employees at some
companies. "Your company has negotiated it that way," she
said. A National spokesman concedes that comment wasn't true.
                                                                                                       

   RATE OF RETURN
                                                                                                       

   At the airport rental-car counter in Miami, Robert Woods
has just learned that National is charging him a full extra
day because he kept the car a few hours past deadline. "I was
told I could bring it back anytime today," he says loudly,
demanding to see a manager. A few years ago, Mr. Woods, a
railroad conductor, mightn't have had this problem. But
car-rental companies have become a lot more hard-nosed about
return times, and now operate on a 24-hour-clock basis.
Worse, some now levy extra-day rates that are higher than
their promotional rates. National, for example, charged Mr.
Woods $39 for the extra day, more than 25% above the best
discount rate that day.
                                                                                                       

   CHECK FOR SCRATCHES
                                                                                                       

   Savvy renters who decline the waiver always inspect the
car right away; otherwise, they can be held responsible for
the slightest damage. And when we say slightest, we mean
slightest. When this reporter returned an Alamo car in Tampa,
an employee noticed a scratch on the trunk. The scratch
wasn't big enough to show up on three Polaroid pictures that
Alamo took, but the rental agency, which says it carefully
records the condition of its cars, insisted that the car was
damaged. "Trust me, it probably won't cost you much," an
Alamo agent said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Storage Technology
   To Retire $210 Million
   Of 13.5% Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   STK
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Colo. -- Storage Technology Corp. said it will
retire its $210 million outstanding of 13.5% senior
debentures due in 1996, saving about $25 million a year in
interest.
   The maker of data storage devices said it will redeem
debentures of record June 11 for 104.48% of par. The company
issued about $285 million of the bonds, along with stock and
cash, when it emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings in
1987. It has been trying for about a year to find ways to
retire the high-cost debt. This year, it has redeemed $34
million of the debentures and bought about $40 million of
them on the open market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result of the planned redemption, Storage Technology
said it will record an extraordinary second-quarter charge of
about $4.6 million. In the second quarter last year, it had
net income of $4.4 million, or 17 cents a share, on revenue
of $163.8 million.
   The company said it will pay for the redemption with
proceeds from a stock offering in March and a recently
completed offering of 8% convertible subordinated debentures
due 2015.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Advest Group Inc.
   Taps Allen Weintraub
   For Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ADV WNEWS BRO
</CO>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- Advest Group Inc. named Allen
Weintraub, 55 years old, chief executive officer, effective
Oct. 1. Mr. Weintraub, currently president, will succeed
Anthony A. LaCroix, 61, who has announced plans to retire at
that time.
   Mr. LaCroix will continue as chairman of the financial
services company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Weintraub is also president of Advest Inc., a
broker/dealer subsidiary. Mr. Weintraub will become chief
executive of Advest Inc.
   Arnold E. Amstutz, 53, will become president of Advest
Group, succeeding Mr. Weintraub. Mr. Amstutz is currently
senior executive vice president. Grant W. Kurtz, 48, will
succeed Mr. Weintraub as president of Advest Inc. He is
currently senior executive vice president and national sales
manager of Advest Group.
   The parent company also said Eli Broad, chairman and chief
executive of Broad Inc., resigned as director because of
"extensive commitments." Jay S. Wintrob, senior vice
president of Broad Inc., was named to succeed Mr. Broad as a
director. Broad Inc. holds a 8.3% stake in Advest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush, Gorbachev Fail to Settle Differences
   Over Germany on the First Day of Summit
   ---
   New Dispute Concerning
   Trade Treaty, Lithuania
   Threatens Grain Deal
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev failed to settle deep differences over Germany on
the opening day of their summit meeting, and a new superpower
dispute emerged that threatens to torpedo a lucrative
U.S.-Soviet grain deal.
   As the summit opened yesterday, Soviet negotiators hinted
they might not sign the five-year pact to buy American grain,
apparently in an effort to get President Bush to sign a new
U.S.-Soviet trade treaty. Mr. Bush has said he is reluctant
to sign the new trade treaty because of Moscow's continuing
resistance to Lithuanian independence. Both agreements were
negotiated earlier and await only the leaders' signatures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late yesterday, U.S. officials said the chances of signing
either treaty were poor -- unless Messrs. Bush and Gorbachev
themselves can break the logjam by this afternoon. The
president said trade would be on the agenda today.
   The grain and trade dispute was carried out behind the
scenes of the summit and wasn't referred to by either leader
or their spokesmen. The public focus of the summit's first
day was a spirited debate the two leaders held on the more
important matter of German unification and whether a united
Germany should join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   Mr. Gorbachev caused a stir by suggesting the session had
produced progress on the German issue, and the two presidents
issued a statement saying they had assigned Secretary of
State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze to discuss the matter further.
   But American officials close to the session said neither
side put forward any fresh schemes for resolving the German
problem. They said Mr. Gorbachev repeated earlier suggestions
that a united Germany could belong to both NATO and the
Warsaw Pact and that full German sovereignty be deferred. Mr.
Bush repeated U.S. assurances, already conveyed by Mr. Baker,
that NATO will change into a more political grouping and that
the West will support a cut in German armed forces in later
negotiations.
   In addition, the Soviets delivered a letter to the Bush
administration repeating a proposal that the 35-nation
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe be
transformed into a full-blown security system that might
replace NATO. The U.S. has repeatedly rejected that idea.
   The U.S. officials said the decision to ask the two
foreign ministers to discuss Germany further was a
face-saving measure adopted to imply that more progress was
possible. But the two presidents conceded Germany wouldn't be
settled at this summit, and no Baker-Shevardnadze meetings
specifically on Germany were scheduled as of last night. Mr.
Bush plans to call West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl today
to reassure him that no deals were cut.
   On the trade issue, American officials said Mr.
Shevardnadze and other top Gorbachev aides emphasized
repeatedly in yesterday's meetings that a signed trade treaty
was of special political importance to Moscow, even though it
wouldn't result in an early expansion of trade.
   The trade pact would be a valuable political symbol for
Mr. Gorbachev, who needs to demonstrate at home that he can
improve economic relations with the West. But failure to
conclude the pending five-year grain deal would have a much
greater immediate economic impact, casting doubt on whether
U.S. farmers will be able to sell Moscow 10 million metric
tons or more of grain annually, as planned.
   Today, the two superpower leaders are expected to sign a
raft of other treaties and agreements. The most important of
these is a statement setting out the major elements of a
strategic nuclear-arms control pact to be signed later this
year and establishing goals for a further nuclear-arms treaty
to be negotiated, starting immediately thereafter.
   In addition, the two leaders will sign treaties to slash
into their chemical-weapons arsenals and set up rules for
verifying curbs on nuclear testing. Other officials will sign
accords increasing air and maritime links and student
exchanges.
   Right from the summit's opening, Mr. Bush coupled progress
in superpower relations to the U.S. plea that Moscow start
negotiating an independence deal with Lithuania.
   "The agreements we've reached cannot cause us to lose
sight of some of the differences that remain," he told Mr.
Gorbachev minutes after greeting the Soviet leader on the
White House lawn. "Lithuania is one such issue. We believe
that good-faith dialogue between the Soviet leaders and
representatives of the Baltic peoples is the proper approach,
and we hope to see that process go forward."
   Mr. Gorbachev appeared bitter about Lithuania's decision
to declare independence from the U.S.S.R. At a Soviet Embassy
luncheon, he told a group of U.S. intellectuals and film
stars: "Only in Lithuania, they can overnight decide a
question about seceding from the Soviet Union, and after that
they are at a loss what to do, and we are at a loss what to
do."
   The Soviets badly want better trade ties with the U.S.
"It's quite unnatural that we, being almost the two biggest
powers in the world with a huge economic and scientific and
technical potential are having so little in trade and
cooperation," said Arkady Maslennikov, President Gorbachev's
spokesman.
   The Soviets are arguing that their Lithuanian policy is an
internal Soviet matter and therefore shouldn't interfere with
U.S.-Soviet cooperation. Beyond that, they are asserting
that, contrary to U.S. charges, the Kremlin isn't blocking
Lithuania from seceding from the Soviet Union but only
insisting that it do so through the slow process outlined in
Soviet law.
   Those arguments aren't enough to satisfy the U.S. Yet Mr.
Bush has enough sympathy for Mr. Gorbachev's position that he
has tried to prevent it from disrupting superpower
cooperation on broader political and arms-control matters.
But Mr. Gorbachev, by balking on the grain agreement, appears
to be trying to demonstrate that a failure to cooperate on
economic matters can harm the U.S. as well as the Soviet
Union.
   U.S. officials believe Moscow has chosen to use the grain
deal as a weapon because the Soviet harvest has been good and
U.S. farmers can be expected to press Washington to save the
deal by signing the trade pact.
   Even if the trade agreement were to be signed, it would be
more of a political prize than an economic one for the
beleaguered Mr. Gorbachev. Administration officials say
President Bush could sign the pact but refrain from sending
it to the Senate, which has warned that it won't be ratified
until the Lithuania crisis is settled.
   What's more, the treaty merely would establish the legal
framework to permit increased trade. Unless it is accompanied
by the granting to the Soviets of most-favored nation tariff
treatment, it will have little impact.
   However, Mr. Bush won't grant such treatment to Moscow
until the Soviet Legislature gives final passage to a
liberalized emigration bill. The bill was supposed to come to
a vote yesterday in Moscow, but has been removed from the
Soviet legislative calendar, and U.S. officials don't expect
it to be passed during the summit, despite continuing rumors
to the contrary.
   The grain accord, which is to take effect Jan. 1, would
increase the minimum amount of U.S. wheat, feed grains,
soybeans and other commodities that Soviets would buy from
the U.S. each year and would give the Soviets greater
flexibility in their purchases.
   Among other things, the new deal calls for an 11% rise in
Soviet purchases to 10 million metric tons of grain a year
from about nine million currently; of this amount, at least
four million tons would have to be wheat and another four
million tons would have to be corn and other feed grains. For
the first time since the inaugural 1973 agreement, barley and
sorghum grain would count as feed grains.
   In addition, the new accord would allow the Soviets to buy
as much as 14 million tons of grain a year without having to
clear it with U.S. officials beforehand. The previous limit
was 12 million tons.
   The Soviet Union is the largest foreign market for U.S.
grain.
   Bush administration officials said that even if a grain
agreement isn't signed at this summit, it could be completed
later this summer if the impasse over Lithuania and the
broader trade treaty is broken.
   ---
   Bruce Ingersoll contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Gorbachev's New Flack Arrives Late
   But With Predecessor's Humor Intact
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Arkady Maslennikov, the new Soviet
presidential spokesman, arrived 20 minutes late for his first
summit news briefing here, armed with an excuse that he
thought the international press corps would appreciate.
   "The road to hell is paved with good intentions," he said
in heavily accented but fluent English. "I was trying to get
more information to be more specific than my counterpart"
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, who had already begun
the joint briefing. Mr. Maslennikov paused and added: "I
overheard him on radio, and actually I have almost nothing to
add."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 58-year-old former Pravda reporter whom Soviet
President Mikhail Gorbachev plucked from relative obscurity
last April has the same ready humor that made his
predecessor, Gennadi Gerasimov, a familiar and likable figure
to the U.S. public. But Mr. Maslennikov, in his American
media debut, made clear that he will be a more cautious
spokesman.
   U.S. officials say that on occasion Mr. Gerasimov,
currently the Foreign Ministry spokesman, had a tendency to
state policy positions on his own, without first checking
with superiors. Sometimes these assertions proved to be off
base. Mr. Maslennikov doesn't get out in front of his boss.
Asked yesterday if Mr. Gorbachev arrived in Washington with
new proposals on the vexing issue of German unification, Mr.
Maslennikov said: "It's better to have a kind of suspension .
. . and wait until they start discussing the problem." And
when asked to respond to comments by President Bush about
Lithuania, the Soviet spokesman said: "Probably you want to
hear our president's reaction."
   Mr. Maslennikov, who was educated as an economist, met his
new boss in 1984 when Mr. Gorbachev, then the secretary of
the Communist Party's Central Committee, was on an official
visit to London. The trip produced rave reviews in the
international press for Mr. Gorbachev. Mr. Maslennikov, who
then was based in London for Pravda, had a reputation there
for having extremely close ties to leftist British unions and
for occasionally writing anti-American diatribes.
   But times have changed, and so, apparently, has Mr.
Maslennikov. Now, friends say, he is plugged into Mr.
Gorbachev's new thinking. "He likes Chinese food and
pro-American policies," says Tomas Kolesnechenko, Pravda's
Moscow-based political correspondent, who is in Washington
covering the superpower summit.
   Mr. Maslennikov displayed some of that thinking yesterday
when he noted that the Soviet Union "had several decades of
attempts to impose somebody's conception, somebody's will, on
another. And we have now heaps of weapons we don't know what
to do with."
   Mr. Maslennikov's appointment caught foreign journalists
in Moscow by surprise -- an announcement was released by the
Soviet news agency Tass inviting reporters to a briefing by
"Presidential press secretary A. Maslennikov." Mr.
Maslennikov may have been saving his wit for an American
audience. In Moscow, some journalists find his briefings
interesting, but he is seen as a gray bureaucrat.
   Some Americans, though, prefer this all-business style to
the cavalier attitude often displayed by Mr. Gerasimov.
During a meeting last December, "I found him to be highly
efficient, quite approachable and lacking the arrogance one
had encountered in the previous Soviet spokesman," Jerry
Strober, spokesman for the National Conference on Soviet
Jewry, says of the new spokesman.
   Mr. Strober says that during a conversation, Mr.
Maslennikov bluntly predicted that once Moscow passes an
emigration bill, more than four million Soviets would apply
to leave the Soviet Union.
   Mr. Maslennikov, meanwhile, seems pleased with his initial
encounter with the U.S. press. "It was very good, very
lively," he said. "I'm delighted to hear so many questions
that express a desire to go into such detail."
   ---
   Elisabeth Rubinfien in Moscow contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Farmer Bros. Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FARM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARMER BROS. Co., a Torrance, Calif., producer and
distributor of coffee and coffee-related products, said it
increased its quarterly cash dividend 17% to 35 cents a
common share from 30 cents, payable Aug. 6 to stock of record
July 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saks's Prospective Buyers Plan to Trim
   Retailer's Corporate Staff Nearly 25%
   ----
   By George Anders and Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Saks Fifth Avenue's prospective new owner has
spelled out plans to slash the retailer's headquarters staff
by nearly 25% -- much to the surprise of top management.
   The proposed job cuts, which would affect 270 of Saks's
1,100 corporate staffers, are disclosed in a confidential set
of projections that Investcorp International Inc. is
circulating among major international banks. At least a dozen
of those institutions are expected to join Investcorp's three
lead banks in financing the Saks acquisition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, Investcorp, a partnership of primarily Arab
investors, agreed to buy Saks from B.A.T Industries PLC for
$1.6 billion. The acquisition is expected to be completed in
early July.
   Investcorp -- which won out over a management-led bid for
Saks -- has said that it wants to keep the retailer's current
management, led by Chairman Melvin Jacobs. However, in an
interview yesterday, Mr. Jacobs said no such agreement has
been reached.
   In a separate interview, Robert Glaser, a partner at
Investcorp, insisted that "no decisions have been taken at
the present time to make any specific reductions in Saks's
staffing levels."
   Mr. Glaser said he has shared several studies of the
company with Saks's management. "We have asked them to review
these studies in detail over the next several months and to
develop management's own suggestions and program to operate
Saks under our new joint ownership," he said.
   Executives at Saks, however, expressed surprise at
learning that Investcorp may want to lay off 270 of the
staff. The 45-store chain employs about 12,000 people
nationwide.
   "I don't know what plans you are talking about," Mr.
Jacobs said. "We're in a transition stage at this time. We
will develop a business plan with Investcorp that
incorporates their objectives along with our own objectives.
That will happen over time after the actual closing of the
transaction."
   Mr. Jacobs said that while Investcorp has expressed a
desire for Saks management to stay in place, new contracts
haven't yet been signed, nor have the two sides reached
agreement on how much equity the Saks team will be allowed to
invest.
   "I'm sure Investcorp has financial plans which they've
prepared for themselves and their investors," Mr. Jacobs
said. "Those plans will have to be meshed with our business
plans, and that will be done over time. We will arrive at a
business plan that incorporates both sets of objectives."
   Paul Leblang, senior vice president of marketing at Saks,
described the Saks corporate staff as "lean." However, he
said: "There is always pressure on expenses and payroll. We
have over the years tried to be lean, but you can always
challenge or question almost anything."
   People who have seen the Investcorp projections say they
believe the cutbacks would occur over a year or two, partly
through attrition and partly by layoffs. The job losses are
expected to be centered in the credit-card and administrative
areas.
   Investcorp's bank memo also projected a business downturn
at Saks this year but rosy results afterward. It predicted
that earnings before interest, taxes and amortization will
fall to $95 million this year from $111 million in 1989 but
will surge to $147 million next year.
   Investcorp already has three lead banks committed to
provide the full $775 million that it plans to borrow --
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co., Chemical Banking Corp. and
Bankers Trust New York Corp. This month, the three lead banks
have begun seeking as many as 25 other banks to join them in
a syndicate that would divide up the loan more broadly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kollmorgen Appears
   Winner in Proxy War
   Waged by Vernitron
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL X.VER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIMSBURY, Conn. -- Kollmorgen Corp., a maker of motors and
electro-optical instruments, appears to have won a proxy
fight for control of the board waged by hostile suitor
Vernitron Corp.
   But Vernitron said that Kollmorgen won the fight only
because of the votes from some convertible preferred stock
Kollmorgen sold to an investor group in March. The vote was
held yesterday at the annual meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vernitron's chairman and chief executive officer, Stephen
Bershad, has said the company would drop the battle if it
lost the proxy fight. But Mr. Bershad said yesterday that
Vernitron is "evaluating all (its) options," and will
continue the litigation pending between the two companies.
   Vernitron, a closely held Deer Park, N.Y., manufacturer of
motors and controls, that has pursued Kollmorgen for 17
months, now holds 6% of that company.
   At one point, the companies had a definitive agreement
under which Vernitron would pay $25 a share, or $320 million,
for Kollmorgen. Vernitron withdrew from the transaction a
week before it was to close, citing "adverse changes" in
Kollmorgen that it didn't expect. The transaction's collapse
led the companies to sue each other. Since then, Kollmorgen
has announced it would restructure, a move that includes
sales of assets.
   Most recently, Vernitron proposed to buy the 94% it
doesn't own of the now-smaller Kollmorgen. Vernitron said it
would pay $15 a share in cash, or in a unit consisting of one
common share of the merged Kollmorgen-Vernitron plus a share
of the proceeds from a sale of Kollmorgen's electro-optical
business. Vernitron would pay cash for as much as 50% of the
shares on a pro-rata basis.
   "The fact is that the majority of the common shareholders
appear to have voted for at least four of our directors," Mr.
Bershad said. "If you take out the preferred and the shares
owned by (Kollmorgen) management and their families, then
they didn't get many votes at all. And for them to consider
that an endorsement of any of their policies is to
misconstrue the facts."
   John Youngblood, Kollmorgen's chairman and chief
executive, said that the company is pleased that shareholders
"have spoken so clearly and decisively." He added that
Kollmorgen is "confident that without the continued
disruption of Vernitron's activities," the company's
restructuring will benefit all shareholders.
   Mr. Bershad said, "I would like to see some form of
combination. Whether that's possible, I don't know."
   Final results of the balloting will be available in about
a week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Agency Examines
   Safety of Rear Seats
   In Chrysler Minivans
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration is investigating complaints that rear seats in
1986-89 Chrysler minivans may collapse and eject passengers
during accidents.
   The agency on May 7 began a preliminary evaluation, its
lowest-level investigation, of the vans after receiving six
complaints alleging that the seats had failed in three
accidents, resulting in four injuries and the death of a
two-year-old Pennsylvania boy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investigation, which was made public by the Center for
Auto Safety and confirmed by the NHTSA, covers Dodge Caravans
and Plymouth Voyagers. The Center for Auto Safety, a consumer
group, said that one million minivans were covered by the
inquiry, but NHTSA couldn't confirm the number.
   According to the Center for Auto Safety, the two-year boy
in Washington County, Pa., was killed when the seat in his
mother's 1987 Plymouth Voyager collapsed backward in an
accident. The child reportedly was thrown from the van into a
creek 35 feet away, where he died of hypothermia.
   A Chrysler spokesman said the auto maker is aware of the
investigation. "We don't have a problem with our seats, which
comply with federal standards. And we are cooperating with
NHTSA in its investigation," the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Price Waterhouse
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PRICE WATERHOUSE (New York) -- Thomas H. Chamberlain was
appointed chief financial officer, a new post at the
accounting firm. Mr. Chamberlain, previously vice chairman in
charge of the New York Metro Region, is succeeded by James J.
Schiro, previously national managing partner of mergers and
acquisitions. Mr. Schiro also was named to the firm's
management committee. Mr. Chamberlain joined Price Waterhouse
in 1960 and was named a partner in 1971; Mr. Schiro joined
the firm in 1967 and became a partner in 1979. Both
executives now are part of the management committee, a
15-member group that manages the firm's policies and
objectives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hanson Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HAN SCO
</CO>
<LP>
   HANSON INDUSTRIES (New York) -- This U.S. arm of Hanson
PLC, the British industrial company, named John H. Wimberly
vice president for its building products group. Mr. Wimberly
succeeds William D. Henderson, who becomes president and
chief operating officer of Smith Corona Corp., effective July
1. Smith Corona is 47.9%-owned by Hanson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Invacare Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IVCR
</CO>
<LP>
   INVACARE Corp. (Elyria, Ohio) -- Gerald B. Blouch,
executive vice president and chief financial officer, Inacomp
Computer Centers, was named chief financial officer of this
maker of home health care equipment, a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commonwealth Edison Is Ordered to Pay
   Over $300 Million in Customer Refunds
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CWE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Illinois Supreme Court ordered Commonwealth Edison Co.
to refund more than $300 million the Chicago utility
collected under an earlier rate increase designed to pay for
three nuclear plants.
   The court also ordered the utility to roll back current
rates to 1988 levels, an action that will cost Commonwealth
about $235 million in revenue annually.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was the second time in six months the court dealt the
utility a major blow. In December, it ruled Commonwealth
couldn't implement a $245 million rate increase scheduled for
1990.
   The latest order obligates Commonwealth to refund the
approximately $285 million it received under the 1989
increase -- as well as the funds collected to date in 1990.
   The state court found that when the Illinois Commerce
Commission agreed to the rate rises, it "went beyond the
scope of its authority." The court also said the commission's
approval of the rise, which was designed to end a fight
between the utility and various public-interest groups,
represented an "illegal settlement."
   The court remanded the case to the ICC for further
proceedings, including a determination of the exact amounts
to be refunded, and the mechanism for issuing funds to
customers.
   Commonwealth said it hasn't taken any reserve to cover the
refund; an official said the company hasn't yet determined
whether it will take a charge to this year's earnings, or
possibly restate 1989 earnings, or a combination of both.
While the company said it is "committed to protecting our
dividends at current levels," and doesn't currently envision
trimming its payouts, the official said a final determination
won't be made until next month's board meeting.
   Because "it doesn't appear that the legal case has much
life {left} in it," the spokesman said, the utility is
"unlikely" to appeal the matter further. He added, "We're
turning our attention to other avenues of rate relief."
   Commonwealth in April asked state regulators for about
$982 million in rate rises, although it doesn't expect a
response before March 1991. Among the options the company
will now consider, the spokesman said, is a request for an
"emergency interim rate relief" while that request goes
forward, under legal provisions established to help
financially troubled utilities.
   Commonwealth remains mired in regulatory problems
associated with its costly nuclear buildup, under which it
built a total of 12 nuclear plants that now provide 83% of
the utility's generating capacity.
   Its latest request covers expenses associated with its
three newest plants. In addition, it is appealing an August
1989 state court order to repay customers about $250 million
in costs deemed "unreasonable" related to a fourth nuclear
plant.
   Prudential-Bache analyst Barry Abramson said that the
court's order "does create more short-term financial pressure
on the company," but "doesn't alter the longterm financial
picture" for it.
   He thinks the company could "justify the need for the
capacity" for at least a majority of the newest units to
regulators, eventually.
   Aiding such a request, he notes, is the fact that
Commonwealth is "surrounded within a small radius by a dozen
utilities that are going to be impacted by clean-air
legislation," and might find it cheaper to buy Commonwealth's
excess capacity, than to refit their own coal-burning plants.
   Taking into account the rollback and assuming the company
takes a charge in the current year for the refund, Mr.
Abramson is cutting his earnings projection for Commonwealth
to about $1.80 a share from $3.05. But he noted that until
the new plants get some kind of rate coverage, 1990 earnings
"aren't reflective of the company's true earning power."
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Commonwealth shares closed off $1.25, at $31.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse
   Will Buy Back
   20 Million Shares
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   WX EMR SNS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp. said it will buy
back as many as 20 million common shares, or roughly 7% of
its shares outstanding in the next 12 to 18 months.
   The broadcasting, financial services and power generation
concern also said directors voted to exempt Westinghouse from
the protection of Pennsylvania's anti-takeover law that went
into effect on April 27. The move apparently is aimed at
making Westinghouse stock more attractive to institutional
investors even though the large company isn't considered a
likely takeover target.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Westinghouse said it sold its combustion
control business to Rosemount Analytical Inc., of
Minneapolis. Terms weren't disclosed. Rosemount is a unit of
Emerson Electric Co., of St. Louis, Mo., a maker of
measurement, control, analytical and valve products.
   Westinghouse also said it is part of a consortium that was
awarded a $358 million contract to build a coal-fired power
generating unit for Old Dominion Electric Cooperative and
Virgina Power. Other members of the consortium are Combustion
Engineering Inc., H.B. Zachry Co. and Black &amp; Veatch
Engineers-Architects.
   The contract calls for a 393-megawatt pulverized coal unit
to be built at the Clover Power Station in Halifax County,
Va.
   Westinghouse stock rose $1.375 to close at $38.375 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Analysts who follow the company said the announced
buy-back of more than $700 million of stock all but ends
speculation that Westinghouse might want to launch a bid for
Sundstrand Corp., an aerospace-parts concern based in
Rockford, Ill.
   Westinghouse's top officials have declined to comment
specifically on the Sundstrand rumor. But in a story in this
newspaper earlier this week, the officials cast doubt on
whether Westinghouse would undertake a more than $2 billion
acquisition that would dilute earnings.
   Sundstrand on Wednesday tumbled $4.25. Yesterday the stock
closed at $74, down 12.5 cents in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange.
   Westinghouse said it considers its stock an attractive
investment. Initial funding for the buy-back will come from
existing cash, internally generated funds or through the
issuance of short-term debt.
   Separately, the company said it is negotiating a contract
to build and operate a waste-to-energy plant in Waukesha,
Wis.
   The plant will process as many as 600 tons of municipal
solid waste daily to fuel a 20-megawatt power plant. Power
from the plant will be sold to Wisconsin Electric Power Co.
Construction will begin next year with commercial operation
scheduled to begin in early 1994.
   Waukesha County will finance the plant with project
revenue bonds, Westinghouse said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   ABC Sets Stage for Battle Royal
   With Plan for Setting Ad Rates
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB FREST SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Setting the stage for a big battle with advertisers,
Capital Cities/ABC announced a new plan for setting ad rates
that virtually factor out recent declines in audience
ratings.
   Under the complex plan, ABC is attempting to limit the
audience guarantees it usually promises advertisers. With
audience levels shrinking, the networks have been forced to
make good on those guarantees by giving advertisers free
commercial time. Under the new plan, a falling audience level
will no longer in itself ensure that an advertiser gets free
time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal immediately drew fire from advertisers and ad
agency executives. "This is unconscionable, it's a ridiculous
proposal. You're going to have a lot of resistance to this,"
said Steven Sternberg, a vice president at ad agency Bozell.
   With its plan, ABC is attempting to save itself money
while transforming the business of buying television ad time
-- a leap all three networks are hoping to make this season
following another year of disappointing ratings. Typically,
the networks guarantee advertisers that their programs will
reach a certain number of viewers. If the ratings fall below
the levels guaranteed by the networks, the networks must make
up the difference with additional free commercial time,
called "makegoods."
   The problem the networks have with the traditional system
is that this TV season, according to A.C. Nielsen, viewers
have been deserting the networks in droves. In the first half
of this year alone, TV executives estimate the value of
makegoods at the three networks reached $150 million to $200
million.
   The networks insist that decline is just plain wrong, and
blame a bug in Nielsen's measurement system, which was
changed from a diary method to a people meter system three
years ago. ABC's plan, which compares current ratings with an
average of the three previous years, attempts to factor out
the declining overall audience. "We shouldn't be responsible
for their measurement problem," says John Abbattista, an ABC
vice president. "We're trying to get this yolk off our
shoulder that Nielsen has put on it due to the inconsistency
in their measurement."
   But advertisers aren't buying the plan. While the networks
insist Nielsen's measurement system is faulty and largely to
blame for the shrinking audience, the advertisers contend
Nielsen's figures are just fine. And they say the plan has
virtually no upside for them, basically taking away from them
the eyeballs that they paid for -- and deserve. "The declines
in the first quarter are real, they aren't phony," says
Bozell's Mr. Sternberg.
   The other two major networks are expected to follow with
plans of their own to change the longstanding practice of
guarantees, while neutralizing the Nielsen declines. NBC
executives couldn't be reached, but at third-ranked CBS,
Jerry Dominus, a senior vice president, said: "We certainly
aren't happy just accepting the existing system, so we're
looking for something that would be more representative of
true performance. I'm not sure we know what it is yet." Fox's
fledgling network, meanwhile, has said it will stick with the
standard guarantee system.
   The mishmash of different approaches promises to wreak
havoc when the so-called upfront buying spree, during which
advertisers buy ad time for the fall season, kicks off in the
next few weeks. Advertisers and agencies say they'll deal
with the mess largely by ignoring it, and by attempting to
negotiate separate deals on their own terms.
   "As far as I'm concerned, everything in the network
business is essentially open to discussion," says Philip
Guarascio, executive director of advertising for General
Motors, perhaps the largest prime-time advertiser. He adds
that if ABC or any other network changes the terms of buying
ad time, "then those terms have to be offset in another way .
. . a prudent advertiser will seek some compensation. It's as
simple as that."
   ABC's complex plan is based on the fact that, after 15
years of steady increases, the number of homes using TV as
measured by Nielsen began declining in 1987. ABC contends
that, since Nielsen has been unable to adequately explain
that decline, ABC shouldn't be held accountable for it. The
new plan attempts to factor out the decline altogether. ABC
is "trying to take responsibility for the underdelivery if
it's attributable to our program performance," but not for
shortfalls that result from Nielsen's "measurement problem,"
says ABC's Mr. Abbattista.
   The plan calls for ABC to offer the standard guarantee of
a certain number of viewers in a particular age group
watching a program. Where it differs from past years, though,
is that it uses a calculation involving the number of people
using TV. If the number in a given month differs from the
average of that figure for the previous three years,
adjustments are made accordingly.
   Under the plan, for example, if the number of people using
TV declines from the average of the previous years, ABC won't
have to offer makegoods to an advertiser unless a particular
TV program's ratings shortfall is bigger than the decline in
people using TV. So, if an advertiser buys time on
"thirtysomething" and the show's rating is 5% below the
guarantee, but the people-using-TV figure is off 6% from
previous years, the advertiser gets nothing.
   ABC's plan attempts to offer an upside to advertisers,
too. If the people-using-TV figure increases above the
previous years' average, for example, ABC will offer
makegoods to advertisers in some cases. But advertisers
scoffed at that part of the plan, saying the people-using-TV
figure, which has been trending steadily downward, is
unlikely to climb above the three-year average. "There's no
doubt" the measurement won't increase, claims Bozell's Mr.
Sternberg. ABC "knows that's not going to happen."
   Bozell, among other ad agencies, has studied Nielsen's
system and concluded -- not surprisingly -- that the audience
declines it shows are accurate. The American Association of
Advertising Agencies last week came up with the same
conclusion following a two-year review. A spokeswoman for
Nielsen, meanwhile, said, "We've examined our system and
found no evidence that the system is contributing to declines
in viewing. Ultimately, it's the buyers of advertising that
will have to decide the validity of ABC's proposal."
   ---
                                                                                                       

   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   PRAVDA AD: The Twin Cities Gorbachev Visit Committee, a
group coordinating the Soviet leader's brief stay in
Minnesota this Sunday, has taken out an ad in Pravda with the
headline "Welcome." The ad, which was created by
Minneapolis's Campbell-Mithun-Esty agency, also features a
Russian translation. The copy at the bottom of the ad: "Thank
you, Mr. Gorbachev, for visiting our state."
Campbell-Mithun-Esty, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, said the
ad is the first U.S.-produced ad to appear in Pravda.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Commercial Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FCLR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- First Commercial Corp. said it
completed the purchase of ABT Bancshares Corp. for about one
million common shares, valued at about $18.9 million.
   First Commercial, a bank holding company with about 7.8
million shares outstanding before the transaction, said the
acquisition will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
Closely held ABT, based in Hot Springs, is the parent of
Arkansas Bank &amp; Trust Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the transaction, First Commercial said Cecil W.
Cupp Jr., chairman of ABT, will become a member of First
Commercial's executive committee and a director of First
Commercial, increasing its board size to 21 members.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN LATAM TAXES FORGN LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
RAILROADS (RAI)
AIRLINES (AIR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A LOAN FROM SOUTH KOREA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   South Korea is considering making a $4 billion loan to the
Soviet Union, news reports in Seoul said.
   The Hankook Ilbo newspaper, quoting unidentified
government sources, said the Soviet Union has requested $5
billion at low interest rates, but South Korea wants to offer
$4 billion in government and bank loans. The Chosun Ilbo
newspaper didn't give any figures but said the government is
considering extending loans to help the Soviet Union make
payments for purchases of South Korean goods.
   The loan reports came as South Korean President Roh Tae
Woo prepared to meet Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in San
Francisco on Monday and South Korea's Samsung Group signed an
agreement with Soviet authorities to cooperate in various
telecommunications projects including high-definition
television.
   A report by the South Korean news agency Yonhap said South
Korean companies doing business with the Soviet Union, China
and other communist nations are faltering due to delayed
payments and a worsening business environment.
                                                                                                       

   TAX CHANGE FOR FRANCE?
                                                                                                       

   The French government is studying the possibility of
increasing taxes on long-term capital gains by corporations,
Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy indicated. Asked whether
he favored a uniform corporate-tax rate of 33% for reinvested
profits and long-term capital gains, Mr. Beregovoy said "that
might not be a bad idea." French businesses are now taxed at
a rate of slightly less than 20% on most long-term capital
gains.
                                                                                                       

   NORTH PACIFIC DISPUTE
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union has lodged protests with the North Korean
and Japanese embassies in Moscow over salmon poaching in the
north Pacific, Soviet diplomatic sources said. In its protest
to the Japanese Embassy, the Soviet Foreign Ministry
expressed "deep displeasure" with what it called continued
cases of "malicious poaching," the sources said. They said
one protest came over the recent seizure of six Japanese
fishing boats in Soviet-claimed waters off the island of
Sakhalin in the north Pacific.
                                                                                                       

   SAVING FUEL IN CUBA
                                                                                                       

   Cuba's communist government is introducing fuel-saving
measures in 45 major industrial companies to reduce
consumption of oil, most of which is imported from the Soviet
Union. The official Communist Party daily Granma said the
measures would initially save 150,000 tons of oil a year.
Cuba imports annually nearly 13 million tons of oil from the
Soviets, but President Fidel Castro has warned Cubans to be
prepared in case events in the Soviet Union lead to a cutting
off of the fuel lifeline.
                                                                                                       

   TV VIOLENCE IN AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                       

   The Australian government moved to reduce the violence
shown on television, particularly in news programs. Transport
and Communications Minister Kim Beazley said he supported a
recommendation in an Australian Broadcasting Tribunal report
on television violence that the television industry draw up a
uniform code on how to treat violence. The report said there
was widespread worry about the repetition of violent images,
close-ups of blood and intrusion on grieving people.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET-TURKISH MEDICAL ACCORD
                                                                                                       

   Turkey and the Soviet Union signed an agreement calling
for the exchange of medical experts and Soviet purchases of
medical equipment and drugs from Turkey. Under the agreement,
the Soviet Union would buy $200 million of medicine and
medical equipment from Turkey during the next two years.
Turkey also planned to open a credit line of $500 million to
the Soviets for construction of health facilities in that
country.
                                                                                                       

   WHO VS. SMOKING PARENTS
                                                                                                       

   Stepping up its campaign against tobacco use, the World
Health Organization warned that parents who smoke put their
children's health at risk.
   Smokers' children have more respiratory infections than
those whose parents do not smoke, WHO said in a report
marking its annual World No-Tobacco Day yesterday. Studies
showed that a child living at home with tobacco-addicted
parents was exposed to exhaled smoke equivalent to 80
cigarettes a year, or the nicotine of a quarter of a
cigarette per day, the WHO report said.
   "In some developed countries, if all women stopped
smoking, fetal and infant deaths would drop by approximately
10%," the United Nations agency said.
   Juan Roberto Menchaca, the Cuban physician who is head of
the agency's tobacco program and who is credited with
persuading President Fidel Castro to give up his Havana
cigars, said the number of people who smoked was dropping
annually by 1.1% in industrialized countries but increasing
by 2.1% in the developing world. "This is due in part to
advertising aimed at the young," Dr. Menchaca said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Train traffic throughout Belgium yesterday was disrupted
by the start of a two-day engine drivers' strike. Air-traffic
controllers at Brussels' international airport were set to
start intermittent strikes today. . . . Blessing the Rome
stadium where the World Cup soccer final will be played, Pope
John Paul II noted that modern sport was threatened by "an
obsessive search for wealth, commercialization, doping and
other forms of fraud and violence."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Armstrong World Industries Inc.:
   Company Buys About 75%
   Of Stake Sold by Belzbergs
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Armstrong World Industries Inc. disclosed that it bought
about three-fourths of the 11.7% Armstrong stake sold
Wednesday by the Belzberg family of Canada.
   The Belzbergs, who owned 4.8 million shares in Armstrong
through various affiliates, sold their entire block of shares
to Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. late Wednesday at $35.75 a share,
about $1.625 a share below the prevailing market price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lancaster, Pa.-based Armstrong said it purchased about 3.7
million shares through Goldman. The company added that
Goldman indicated "a broad cross-section of buyers" were
interested in purchasing the other 1.1 million shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Destruction of U.S., Soviet Stockpiles
   Of Chemical Arms Is Many Years Away
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST RTN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Despite the expected completion this week of
a long-awaited U.S.-Soviet chemical-weapons treaty, it will
be many years before the superpowers are able to safely
destroy their vast inventories of poison gas.
   President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev are
expected to sign the pact with considerable fanfare today,
even though neither country has put into operation a
full-scale plant able to eliminate thousands of tons of toxic
mustard gas, rockets filled with nerve agents or other deadly
chemical arms. Both Washington and Moscow have found
developing new technology and starting up such disposal
plants to be substantially more difficult, time-consuming and
expensive than they anticipated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The expected agreement would end chemical-weapons
production by both superpowers and set a timetable for
destroying most stocks of poison gas over 12 years. The
Soviets are believed to have 50,000 tons of poison gas; the
U.S. has about 30,000 tons, including 500,000 rockets filled
with nerve gas and other 1960-era weapons.
   The first U.S. disposal facility, a $240-million
incinerator built on tiny Johnston Island in the middle of
the Pacific, is months behind schedule. Beset by contractor
problems, computer glitches and a string of broken promises
to Congress about when operations would begin, the plant
still doesn't have all the necessary environmental and safety
approvals. Once operational tests do start, probably in the
next few weeks, it will take more than a year to begin
routine operation.
   In the Soviet Union, the outlook is bleaker. Public
concern over potential health hazards has blocked operation
of the Kremlin's solitary chemical-weapons disposal plant in
Chapayevsk, south of Moscow. "At the moment, the Russians
simply have no existing technology to comply" with provisions
in the agreement to begin disposal efforts by 1992, says
Elisa Harris, a chemical-arms expert at the Brookings
Institution in Washington.
   Soviet officials will depend on the Defense Department and
American scientists for technical help; a high-level
delegation of Soviet army chemical-warfare experts is
scheduled to arrive in Moscow barely five days after the
summit ends.
   "We don't yet have a destruction program," Sergei
Batsanov, the top Soviet chemical-arms negotiator,
acknowledged to reporters in Geneva during a break in the
talks in April. "We look to our American counterparts in this
respect."
   Then there is the question of cost. The Pentagon, which
has spent $1.1 billion in the past five years to protect and
plan for the eventual destruction of the aging U.S.
stockpile, wants an additional $430 million this year.
Raytheon Co. and Bechtel Group Inc. already have large
engineering contracts; they consider chemical-weapons
destruction a major growth area.
   But environmental groups and congressional critics are
bound to oppose the latest budget request. They say the
military hasn't provided all the safeguards and information
it promised.
   And it's still going to cost an estimated $3 billion to
build, operate and arrange for Soviet inspection of eight
additional disposal facilities planned for the U.S. by the
late 1990s. The Pentagon already is 18 months behind its
original timetable for carrying out that master plan -- and
four years behind the schedule many in Congress hoped it
would achieve.
   The Johnston Island facility, for all its sophisticated
metal-shearing machinery, explosion-resistant bunkers and a
remote-controlled incinerator designed to burn toxic
chemicals at 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit, is slated to destroy
only about 6% of the Pentagon's chemical-weapons arsenal.
Even its staunchest supporters concede that the
first-of-its-kind plant, operated by a unit of Raytheon, has
a troubled history.
   "We had equipment problems and we had software problems,"
says Army Col. Eric Azuma, a top program manager. Raytheon
and the Army are still working out the details of emergency
procedures. Start-up will begin very slowly and cautiously,
Col. Azuma says, because "if we have a small hiccup at the
plant, it's going to be known" by the whole world.
   Progress at Johnston Island is likely to play an important
role in U.S.-West German relations. The Bush administration
has promised that by July, it will start removing from West
Germany some 100,000 artillery shells filled with deadly
nerve gas. Those weapons are supposed to go to the
mid-Pacific island for destruction.
   Packed in 5,000 airtight steel containers, the shells will
be trucked by a secret route to Miesau, West Germany, put on
a closely guarded train and then placed in the holds of
specially outfitted U.S. vessels for the long ocean voyage.
The elaborate plan includes decoy trucks to fool terrorists,
as well as a U.S. Navy escort at sea. Delays in removing the
chemical weapons would be a political blow to Chancellor
Helmut Kohl, who faces intense domestic pressure to get the
shells off West German soil.
   But many other governments around the world also are
keenly interested in the fate of the Johnston Island plant.
If an international agreement outlawing chemical arms is
finished in the next few years, "there are a dozen or so
other countries that will face problems in destroying their
stocks," predicts Brookings' Ms. Harris.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Charged
   With Violating
   Decree on Bells
   ---
   Indictment Says Unit Sold
   MCI Services Prohibited
   Under 1982 Legal Accord
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal grand jury here indicted Nynex
Corp. on one count of criminal contempt for violating the
consent decree that broke up the Bell System, the first case
charging a violation of the decree, the Justice Department
said.
   The department said Nynex willfully provided information
services through its Telco Research Corp. unit, a small
software company based in Knoxville, Tenn. Specifically,
Telco Research provided MCI Communications Corp. with a
service that allowed MCI to gain access to Telco Research
computer facilities and obtain information on the cheapest
way to configure telecommunications networks for customers.
The department said the service was illegally provided
between April 11, 1986, and February 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Nynex spokesman said the company believes there is no
violation of the consent decree, and that the charge is
without merit. Nynex, he said, had discontinued the
arrangement with MCI early in 1987 "to eliminate any policy
question." Indeed the company said that in May 1986 it had
called the activity to the Justice Department's attention to
avoid any possible problems.
   Besides, the spokesman said, Telco's revenue from the
operation was a minuscule part of Nynex's business and that
it was "clearly ludicrous" to believe that Nynex would
willfully risk a criminal charge over the revenue. He
estimated the revenue amounted to "less than 2% of the annual
revenue of Telco Research and less than 1/1000 of 1% of Nynex
revenue overall" in 1986.
   The Justice Department investigation began in late 1986
after Scott Rafferty, a lawyer who was hired by Nynex to head
up Telco's consulting operation, questioned Telco's
compliance with the consent decree. Mr. Rafferty, who was
dismissed by the company when it folded the consulting
operation, complained to the Justice Department late in 1986,
alleging violations of the consent decree's ban on providing
information services.
   Apparently some within Nynex weren't completely confident
that all of Telco's activities clearly fell within the bounds
of the consent decree. In a November 1986 memo written
shortly after Telco officials decided to withdraw from the
consulting business and fired Mr. Rafferty, Barbara Morris, a
Nynex lobbyist and wife of Rep. Norman Lent (R., N.Y.), wrote
that Mr. Rafferty had questioned a corporate lawyer about
whether the activities were legal.
   The lawyer, Ms. Morris wrote, "told Scott they were but
told me he's not so sure. . . . There was room for
interpretation and Nynex interpreted in its own favor. A
close look by someone else could result in different
conclusion."
   Mr. Rafferty has filed suit against the company, including
a recent action under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations law.
   The Telco matter was investigated by a special Justice
Department task force set up to examine allegations of
illegal activities by the Baby Bells. Constance Robinson, who
heads the task force, said her unit is investigating other
companies for decree violations. She declined to elaborate
but said, "We think it is important that consent decrees are
enforced."
   The consent decree, which was signed in 1982, bars Nynex
and the six other regional Baby Bell telephone companies from
providing information services, which generally allow
customers to obtain computer-based information over the
telephone lines. "A court order is the law and companies
bound by a decree are not free to deliberately or recklessly
disregard that decree," said James F. Rill, head of the
Antitrust Division. He called the Bell decree "the most
significant antitrust consent decree of recent decades" and
said the companies "must take all steps necessary to ensure
that they comply with the decree."
   The department said there isn't a maximum penalty under
the criminal statute used in the Nynex case.
   The case is to go to trial before Judge Harold Greene, the
federal district court judge who oversees the consent decree.
   For Nynex, the indictment was a second major blow from
Washington. Earlier this year, the Federal Communications
Commission proposed a record $1.2 million fine against the
company and rebates to customers for alleged overcharges by a
Nynex supply subsidiary to the company's two telephone units.
Nynex is contesting the proposed fine. The FCC action already
had given some lawmakers pause as they consider legislation
that would free the Baby Bells from consent-decree
restrictions that bar them from providing information
services, manufacturing telecommunications equipment and
entering the long-distance business.
   Opponents of freeing the Bells are likely to use the
indictment to bolster arguments that the Baby Bells have the
incentive and the inclination to break antitrust laws.
   The Nynex spokesman emphasized that the indictment and the
FCC proceeding aren't related and that the company is
confident lawmakers won't let the charges cloud their
decisions on the future of telecommunications policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Judge Approves Sale
   Of PTL TV Network
   To Morris Cerullo
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   COLUMBIA, S.C. -- A federal bankruptcy judge approved the
sale of the PTL television network for $7 million to Morris
Cerullo World Evangelism, a San Diego-based ministry.
   Morris Cerullo's ministry, which has operations in Canada,
Mexico, Brazil, Britain and the Philippines, among other
sites, also has made a $45 million offer for the balance of
PTL's assets, including 2,200 acres of land, and a hotel and
theme park.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PTL's founder, Jim Bakker, was convicted of numerous
federal fraud charges in connection with the operations.
   Morris Cerullo World Evangelism said it intends to operate
the complex, known as Heritage Village Church and Missionary
Fellowship Inc., as a family resort. The TV network, it said,
will be run as a 24-hour-a-day, family-oriented, global
satellite network.
   Dennis Shedd, a court-appointed trustee for the PTL
ministry, said the bankruptcy court is expected to consider
the offer for the balance of the estate in about a month,
after proper notice is given to the parties.
   The sale of the network is subject to the approval of the
license transfer by the Federal Communications Commission.
The trustee said the buyer placed $7 million in escrow to
cover the purchase.
   A rival bidder, Oral Roberts University, had offered about
$6.3 million to $6.45 million for the TV network, which
includes production facilities and a satellite lease, Mr.
Shedd said. He added that only Morris Cerullo had made an
offer for the balance of the failed religious empire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rioting in West Africa's Gabon Disrupts
   Oil Output; U.S. Refiners Feel Impact
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5F
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC F.AQU RD SC AN EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rioting that disrupted oil output in recent days from the
tiny OPEC nation of Gabon has caused some ripple effects on
U.S. refiners who import West African crudes.
   The interruption in production has had little impact on
world oil markets because Gabon is the smallest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, with
recent output of only about 260,000 barrels a day. Output
also appears to be slowly resuming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the disruption is being felt by three major oil
companies that account for the bulk of Gabon's production:
Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine, the Royal Dutch/Shell Group
and Amoco Corp. Gabon's crude is particularly attractive
because it yields more gasoline per barrel than some other
world crudes.
   Industry sources said the most significant impact has been
on the French state-controlled Elf group, which had been
producing about 101,000 barrels a day in Gabon, a former
French colony.
   Last weekend, Elf confirmed it had cut output and
withdrawn many employees because of the civil unrest and
violence in the province of Ogooue Maritime and its capital
Port Gentil, Gabon's main port. Some oil-company employees,
including several from Elf, were held hostage there for a
while.
   Elf didn't fully shut down in Gabon because its facilities
must be kept at minimal operating levels to prevent clogging
of pipelines by the waxy, high paraffin-content crudes. Since
then, Elf said its Gabon unit has resumed production, and
Loik Le Floch-Prigent, Elf's president, told Paris analysts
that the interruption of production in Gabon shouldn't have
any noticeable effect on 1990 results.
   Elf's resumption of output followed an ultimatum by Gabon
president Omar Bongo that the oil company return to full
production or have its operations turned over to other
companies.
   It isn't clear when oil loadings from Port Gentil will be
back to normal. But earlier this week Elf's president said
that the company's output would be restored to normal in 48
to 72 hours. Also, according to Dow Jones International
Petroleum Report, buyers of Gabonese crude from the Shell
group, which operates the large Rabi-Kounga field, said they
had been told cargoes scheduled to load in early June from
Gamba, the second-largest oil port, would be delayed by only
one day.
   The Shell group had evacuated non-essential staff and
families of expatriates from Gabon last weekend. But the
group reported a majority of its expatriate employees, about
130, remained in Gabon. Still, according to some reports,
total oil output in Gabon fell as low as 50,000 barrels a
day.
   Although average Gabonese output for May probably topped
the country's official OPEC quota of 197,000 barrels a day,
the Oil Daily's Energy Compass estimated that physical
production losses are approaching a total of one million
barrels.
   "A drop in the ocean as far as world oil supplies are
concerned, the disruption to oil output and exports from
riot-torn Gabon could, nonetheless, make some small impact on
the relatively tight market in light West African crudes
which are mostly destined for the U.S.," the London-based
publication reported.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ECI Environmental Inc.:
   Asbestos Cleanup Company
   Says Third-Period Net Fell
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ECI
</CO>
<LP>
   ECI Environmental Inc., a San Leandro, Calif., asbestos
cleanup firm, said that cost overruns and a decline in new
projects probably depressed fiscal third quarter net income.
   The company estimated net at about $180,000, or four cents
a share, for the quarter ended yesterday, down from $672,000,
or 19 cents a share, the year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ECI estimated that third-period revenue ranged between
$5.6 million and $6 million, compared with $5.5 million the
year earlier.
   The company said that a drop in new projects from San
Francisco commercial high-rise owners and high development
costs in its Southern California operations probably also
will hurt fourth-quarter net, causing it to trail the $1.9
million of a year earlier.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the American Stock
Exchange, ECI common plunged $2.125 a share to close at $4.75
each on volume of 33,600 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Hoffmann-La Roche Will Widen
   Use of Experimental AIDS Drug
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.HR
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   After seven months of concerted pressure from AIDS
activists, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. has agreed to expand access
to its experimental drug dideoxycytidine (DDC).
   The plan, approved yesterday by the Food and Drug
Administration, allows expanded access in the form of an
"open-label safety study," which means that recipients will
be carefully monitored for safety and toxicity of the drug.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement is "purely a result of activism, of our
pressing and begging," said Jesse Dobson, a San Francisco
member of Act Up, an AIDS activist group. The program, set to
begin on June 25, is a port of last resort for people who
can't take other antiviral drugs.
   Roche, based in Nutley, N.J., is a U.S. unit of the Swiss
pharmaceutical giant, Roche Holding Ltd.
   Despite a tough, adversarial tone in the negotiations
between activists, the company and the FDA,, Roche's
assistant director of public policy, Paul Oestreicher, said
yesterday, "We think this is good news."
   Eligible patients will include people with AIDS and
advanced AIDS-related complex (ARC), who either can't
tolerate or failed to improve while taking the drug AZT made
by Britain's Wellcome PLC, or DDI made by Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. Roche estimates 1,000 to 2,000 people may fall
into this category.
   Some activists criticized the plan as too restrictive.
"The way they've planned it, as a last resort for people
who've failed AZT and DDI, it's guaranteed to help almost no
one. These patients are all but unrecoverable," complained
Martin Delaney of Project Inform, a San Francisco activist
group.
   However Roche says the caution is necessary due to DDC's
past history of toxicity -- a painful neuropathy or nerve
damage to the feet.
   "It's a balance between safety concerns and compassion,"
said Whaijen Soo, director of the clinical virology program
at Roche. Admission, he said, will be expanded gradually from
50 patients in the first month, to 200 patients in the first
16 weeks. Thus, he said he hopes to limit the drug's main
toxic side effects.
   "This is a very sick population," he explained. "In
addition, they have been primed with two other toxic drugs,
AZT and DDI," a fact that he said might magnify DDC's
toxicity. Moreover, Roche's move follows an uproar over
expanded access of the drug DDI to very sick patients whose
death rate prompted renewed scrutiny of such giveaway
programs in academia and in the U.S. Congress.
   Thus, only doctors who have experience in the use of DDC
will be allowed to administer the drug at first, followed by
doctors with experience in treating AIDS. Only when four
months of safety data are collected on the first 100 patients
will the program be opened up to all eligible patients.
   Pressure to open up DDC's distribution began last
November, when James Driscoll, a San Francisco activist,
began trying to help two friends who were among a group of 20
patients at this city's Ralph K. Davies Hospital. "They
failed AZT and DDI, and have advanced AIDS," he explained,
orchestrating a media campaign and eliciting intervention
from the local Roman Catholic archdiocese.
   Meanwhile, studies of DDC's effectiveness had been under
way for months, and its dose has been slashed to one-sixth of
the original level to bring toxicity under control. When
first tested, Dr. Soo said, patients received an average
daily dose of 12 milligrams, and "Everybody at that dose
would develop painful peripheral neuropathy." Occasionally
the tingling pain and numbness was intense, irreversible, and
required heavy narcotics to control the pain.
   Now, the average dose is two milligrams a day, and
incidence of neuropathy has shrunk to about 10%. "It is also
milder and reversible, if you detect it early," Dr. Soo said.
   However, he said doctors should remain vigilant, watchful
for early signs of toxicity. "That's why we wanted to start
with experienced physicians, to balance the enthusiasm of the
patients," he explained. He offered a sobering case history
to underscore his point.
   "We have a flight attendant {taking the two milligram
dose} who developed early signs of neuropathy -- tingling in
the soles of his feet," Dr. Soo said. "He should have told
his physician right away, but he decided to hide it. He
continued to work, walking and standing. Unfortunately, the
condition progressed and now he requires narcotics. Now the
condition will be more difficult to reverse."
   Activists like Mr. Dobson acknowledge desperate patients
may try to minimize side effects "when they know they're on
their last antiviral."
   Still, he contended, "Whether DDC does {some good} for
patients is less an issue than the fact that they're in a
desperate place, and should be allowed to take this risk. It
is a risk we acknowledge."
   Roche has one of the highest profiles of any major
corporation in the field of AIDS drug development. In
addition to DDC, its AIDS portfolio includes experimental
drugs to inhibit the viral TAT gene and the viral protease,
an enzyme that is part of the AIDS virus. It also has a major
stake in AIDS diagnostics using the PCR or gene-amplification
technology. Through its proposed merger with Genentech Inc.
of South San Francisco, Roche may gain control of yet another
therapeutic drug known as CD4.
   "Roche is going to be a very big player in AIDS," Mr.
Dobson said. "That's why we want to be in their board room
when they talk to the FDA."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Asset Investors Corp.:
   Bank Loan Pact Renewed
   With Credit Line Reduced
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AIC FBS
</CO>
<LP>
   Asset Investors Corp., a Denver-based real estate
investment trust, said it renewed its bank loan agreement
with First Bank of Minneapolis, reducing its credit line to a
maximum of $30 million from $60 million.
   The unit of First Bank System Inc. of Minneapolis said
that it will be allowed to borrow as much as $30 million but
this amount will decline by $5 million each quarter, and that
the agreement will mature next May 31. The previous agreement
expired yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Asset Investors, which invests in collateralized mortgage
obligations and other mortgage-related assets, said it has
$16.7 million outstanding on its bank credit line and $24.8
million in short-term borrowings through repurchase
agreements with investment banking firms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Co. Gets
   Order by China
   For 33 Aircraft
   ---
   Value Is Put at $2 Billion;
   Chinese Take Options
   For an Additional 36
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   BA FREST UTX F.CFM GE U.RR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   China's Civil Aviation Administration ordered 33 Boeing
Co. airplanes valued at $2 billion and took options on 36
others, marking the second big booking for the world's No. 1
jet maker in the past week.
   "It seems like the good orders just won't stop," said
Jerry Cantwell, an aerospace analyst who follows
Seattle-based Boeing for Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. "It seems
like the stock won't stop going up either."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Indeed, Boeing shares closed in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange yesterday at $82.375, up 37.5 cents.
   The stock had climbed more than a point earlier in the
day, but it fell back as the entire market retreated. Mr.
Cantwell noted that details of the Chinese order weren't
disclosed until just minutes before the final bell, meaning
the Big Board might not have had time to react to the latest
good news. Boeing's high for the past 52 weeks is $82.75,
reached last week.
   The firm orders consist of five 747-400 four-engine
jumbo-jets, which cost about $130 million apiece; one
747-200F freighter; four 767 wide-bodies; 10 757
narrow-bodies; and 13 737-300 twinjets.
   The aviation authority oversees the purchasing of planes
for China's airlines, and the aircraft ordered will be used
by Air China, Guangzhou CAAC, China Southwest Airlines and
other carriers.
   The agency has picked PW4000 engines, a new, powerful
model made by United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney
unit, to propel the 747-400s and 767s. And a Pratt &amp; Whitney
JT9D-7R4G2 will be used on the freighter. That order is
valued at about $250 million.
   Rolls-Royce engines were tapped for the 757s, and engines
made by CFM International, a joint venture of General
Electric Co. and Snecma of France, will be used on the
737-300s.
   Although Boeing has, as a matter of policy, ceased
providing delivery dates for its planes, Pratt &amp; Whitney said
the first aircraft will begin being shipped to Air China in
the first quarter of 1992. That is earlier than when many
other Boeing customers are set to receive their jets, and
there has even been some speculation that Boeing earlier this
week lost a Mexicana Airlines order to rival Airbus Industrie
because its delivery schedule is stretched so far.
   Boeing has been negotiating seriously with the Chinese for
the past eight months, and the company said the purchase of
the 69-plane package had nothing to do with President Bush's
decision last week to renew most-favored trade status with
that country. Outside experts concurred, explaining that such
a designation is designed to give China low tariffs on its
exports to the U.S.
   It wasn't immediately clear how many other companies were
in the running for the Chinese order. McDonnell Douglas Corp.
has a good relationship with the nation, whose airlines have
ordered MD-11 tri-jets in the past and which actually
assembles some MD-80s in Shanghai.
   A spokesman at McDonnell Douglas's transport aircraft
division in Long Beach, Calif., said he didn't know whether
the firm had actively bid against Boeing for the latest
order. But one source said the company may not have been "in
a particular campaign on this one."
   Boeing, for its part, stressed its own longstanding
relationship with the Chinese. Since 1972, the nation has
purchased 101 Boeing airplanes, including three additional
757s last October.
   The company's orders for the year for all models now stand
at 187 valued at about $16.2 billion. Only a week ago, Japan
Airlines ordered 20 747-400s valued at $3.1 billion and
placed options for 34 others.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd.:
   Canadian Concern Cancels
   Shares, Warrants Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AEAGF
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., Toronto, canceled its plan to
offer 40 million Canadian dollars (US$34 million) in common
shares and share-purchase warrants, citing recent declines in
prices of gold and the company's shares. In national
over-the-counter trading yesterday, Agnico shares closed at
$7, up 37.5 cents.
   The offering price wouldn't reflect Agnico's value, the
company said, noting it will rely for now on its own
resources to finance the early stages of a planned
three-year, C$32 million exploration and development program.
Agnico said it is considering other means of raising funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offering was opposed by Jacques Forget, a Montreal
businessman who owns about 3% of Agnico and had notified it
that he intended to ask a court to block the issue. Agnico
said its cancellation of the offering, which was to be priced
soon, wasn't related to Mr. Forget's actions. Mr. Forget said
that the injunction isn't needed now, but that he still
opposes Agnico's management and will continue to try to
establish a holder group to pursue a takeover bid for Agnico,
which wouldn't comment on Mr. Forget's plan to change
management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Blue Chips Ease Amid Wariness,
   But Broader Market Edges Up
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks eased yesterday as the closing bell
approached, with investors backing away from the market ahead
of today's economic reports for May. But while blue-chip
stocks ended lower, the broader market held onto fractional
gains.
   U.S. employment figures for May will be released at 8:30
a.m. EDT today, and the purchasing managers report for the
month also is to come out. Both reports will be scanned for
signs of continued softening in the economy, adding credence
to the theory that inflation is under control and interest
rates have peaked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After sharp gains in the stock market last month, however,
many market players turned cautious yesterday. Any sharp
deviation in the data from expectations could spark a round
of profit-taking, analysts said.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 1.90 points to
2876.66. The blue-chip index opened lower, as traders reacted
to weaker prices overseas. While the DJIA soon recovered, the
day's gains evaporated late in the session.
   Tonka crashed early, losing more than 30% of its value
with a 3-point decline to 7. Trading in the issue opened
late, as sellers rushed to dump the stock after the company's
announcement late Wednesday that it expects to report a
"significant loss" for the second quarter, on lower sales.
The company also said the loss could result in violations of
some covenants in its bank loan agreement.
   Meanwhile, the broader market ended higher, with Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index inching ahead to yet another
all-time high. The index has climbed nearly 10% from its
late-April low, yesterday adding 0.37 point to 361.23.
   The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.19
point to 196.94, while the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
added 0.31 point to 335.98.
   Though the market's altitude is making some investors
queasy, Guy W. Courtney, senior vice president of David A.
Noyes, is undaunted. "I'm not nervous at all," he said. "This
market has got plenty of upside left in it."
   Advancing issues led decliners, 801 to 682, and 534 stocks
ended unchanged. Big Board volume totaled about 165.7 million
shares, down from Wednesday's robust 199.5 million shares.
Yesterday's volume was bloated by a huge block of Armstrong
World Industries and dividend-related trading in Texas
Utilities and other stocks, however.
   Steven A. Kroll, president of SLH Asset Management,
Shearson Lehman Hutton's money management operation, said
that while the market paused ahead of today's data, stocks
won't begin "a new leg of the bull market" until the Federal
Reserve has eased credit. Until then, Mr. Kroll believes,
stock prices will remain locked in a trading range with a
ceiling at about the 2900 level on the Dow industrials.
   Many market watchers expect today's employment report to
show a strong increase in job growth for May, with the
nation's nonfarm payroll having increased by 253,000
employees. This anticipated increase includes newly hired
census workers, however, meaning that actual job growth is
estimated to have been a more modest 135,000.
   Stronger job growth could cue some investors to sell
stocks. Edward J. Laux, head of block trading at Kidder
Peabody, said the DJIA could drop 70 to 100 points if the
number is disappointing. As for any gains, Mr. Laux sees room
for only about a 30-point move by the Dow industrials.
   Among the blue chips, Procter &amp; Gamble rose 5/8 to 82 5/8
yesterday. Morgan Stanley has repeated its buy recommendation
on the stock.
   International Business Machines eased 7/8 to 120. The
stock opened lower, following weakness in Europe because of
concerns that Hitachi of Japan will soon unveil a mainframe
computer that will be faster than IBM's competing models.
Hitachi is scheduled to introduce a mainframe product next
Wednesday.
   Data General added 1 1/4, or 11.5%, to 12 1/8. The company
said Smith Barney, Harris Upham raised its rating on the
stock, after analysts met with Data General executives
Wednesday, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report.
   But L.A. Gear continued to tumble, closing off 4 3/8 at 39
1/4, on volume of more than 2.2 million shares. Profit-taking
has hit the issue since Kidder Peabody cut its rating on the
stock earlier this week, citing the recent sharp rise in the
shares' price. The stock lost 20% so far this week.
   Philip Morris led the most-active list, on volume of more
than 2.7 million shares. The stock eased 3/8 to 42 1/8.
   Westinghouse Electric jumped 1 3/8 to 36 3/8. The company
said it will begin a buy-back of as many as 20 million common
shares in the next 12 to 18 months. Westinghouse has about
294 million shares outstanding. Separately, Westinghouse's
board voted to exempt the company from coverage under a
recently passed Pennsylvania anti-takeover statute.
   Armco rose 7/8 to 8 3/4, after Goldman Sachs upgraded its
rating on the stock, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   Ashland Oil dropped 1 1/4 to 38 3/8, after the company was
ordered to pay $10.3 million in damages to residents near its
Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery. The residents had sued Ashland,
complaining that emissions from the plant had damaged their
health and property. Ashland said it plans to appeal the
award.
   Pfizer gained 2 1/4 to 65 7/8. A judge dismissed all
claims against the company in a lawsuit stemming from the
sale of faulty heart valves marketed by Pfizer. A consumer
group brought the suit in March, seeking to require Pfizer
and Shiley, maker of the valves, to communicate directly with
all recipients of the valves.
   Commonwealth Edison slid 1 1/4 to 31 1/2. The Illinois
Supreme Court has ruled that the utility should refund more
than $300 million to customers. The revenues were collected
under a rate increase awarded by the Illinois Commerce
Commission. In its ruling, the court said the commission
acted without jurisdiction.
   First Bank Systems dropped 1 to 14 1/2. The company said
it will sell 12.6 million newly issued shares in a private
placement to an investment group. M/A-Com rose 1/2 to 5 1/4,
after it definitively agreed to sell its government systems
unit to Titan Corp. Titan closed unchanged at 2 3/8.
   Air Products &amp; Chemicals rose 5/8 to 56 3/4. The company
said it agreed to sell its polyvinyl chloride buisness to a
unit of Pacific Western Extruded Plastics for an undisclosed
amount.
   Florida Progress eased 1/2 to 36 3/8, on volume of 1.1
million shares; much of the trading took place on the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
   Analysts identified Hasbro, the largest U.S. toy maker, as
a likely bidder for Tyco Toys, which said Wednesday it
received an unsolicited acquisition approach from a party
that wasn't identified. Tyco declined to elaborate yesterday.
Hasbro wouldn't comment on the report, though an official
said the company remains interested in potential
acquisitions. Tyco shares jumped 2 3/4 to 27 3/8 in national
over-the-counter trading, with more than 1.3 million shares
changing hands. Hasbro's shares also advanced on heavy
volume, closing up 3/8 at 21 1/4 in American Stock Exchange
trading of 617,900 shares. Paul Valentine, an analyst with
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., said that Tyco "may be trying to put
itself into play," and that the stock "has had a great run"
since going public at $6 in 1986.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.15
point to 363.06. Amex volume totaled about 15.9 million
shares, down slightly from 16.3 million shares a day earlier.
Advancing stocks led those retreating, 291 to 269, and 264
issues were unchanged.
   Thermo Process Systems fell 1 to 13 1/2. Yesterday's
"Heard on the Street" column in The Wall Street Journal said
the stock is getting pricey, after appreciating 72% since the
start of 1989.
   Heritage Media added 1/2 to 5 3/8. Donaldson Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy"
recommendation, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report.
   Brown Group gained 2 1/2 to 27 1/8. The company reported
first-quarter net income of 51 cents a share, up from 42
cents a year earlier.
   Sanifill surged 1 1/2 to 19 3/8, after Tucker Anthony
raised its earnings estimates for the company and repeated a
"strong buy" rating on the stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Prices Tumble in Wake of Inventory Report
   As Rally Spurred by Gasoline Market Collapses
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil prices plunged as a gasoline-fed rally collapsed in
the wake of an industry report of increased petroleum
inventories.
   Although the report by the American Petroleum Institute,
released late Wednesday, involved only U.S. inventories,
prices of crude oil and fuels fell world-wide in hectic
trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In European markets, spot prices of North Sea and Middle
East crudes were down 45 cents to 80 cents a barrel. On the
International Petroleum Exchange in London, futures prices of
Brent blend crude were 28 cents to 51 cents a barrel lower.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, U.S. crude oil for July
delivery dropped 68 cents to settle at $17.40 a barrel.
August crude was down 60 cents to $18.04.
   But the sharpest fall of all was in U.S. gasoline, which
had ignited the rally that swept through world petroleum
markets earlier this week. In the U.S. futures market, the
June contract for unleaded gasoline fell 2.98 cents a gallon
in its last day of trading to settle at 63.89 cents. The July
gasoline futures price was down the limit of two cents a
gallon to 61.26 cents.
   Despite the sharp decline in gasoline futures, industry
analysts maintained that the major factor in this week's
pricing reversal is the continuing concern over swollen
supplies of crude oil.
   "The market is going to maintain its downward momentum,
and the pressure is {from} the crude overhang," said Peter
Gignoux, manager of Shearson Lehman Hutton's international
energy desk in London.
   It has been evident for some weeks that the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries has been producing too much
oil. So far, OPEC hasn't made much progress in its early-May
agreement to reduce output as much as one million barrels a
day from the previously indicated April level of 23.5 million
barrels a day.
   The latest assessments by monitors of OPEC output suggest
that May production was down some from April -- but only
modestly. The OPEC Listener estimated yesterday that May
production was "certainly no lower than 23 million barrels a
day" and most likely in the range of 23.2 million barrels a
day. "This {June} will be the real test month to show whether
OPEC's `medicine' is working," the New York-based
industry-analysis service reported.
   But even though OPEC production may be declining, oil from
the previous high production levels will continue to flow
into the major consuming regions for some weeks. As a result,
U.S. crude oil inventories may continue to increase. And
yesterday's sell-off was triggered by the American Petroleum
Institute's latest report, which showed inventories of
gasoline and crude oil rose last week by 1.1 million barrels
and 2.1 million barrels, respectively.
   Still, there are some industry analysts who look for crude
inventory levels to quit rising soon. They note that U.S.
refineries are expanding operations after maintenance
shutdowns and will be using more crude oil to refine the
gasoline to meet seasonal needs.
   "By September, crude oil inventories should be at a
significant lower level," said Robert Boslego, a Winchester,
Mass., consultant.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices were lower. The July delivery ended
with a decline of 0.65 cent a pound at $1.1085.
Price-depressants included economic indicators that continue
to show a slowing U.S. economy and expectations that London
Metal Exchange copper inventories Friday will show an
increase of 2,000 tons to 3,000 tons, said Fred Demler,
metals economist for PaineWebber. He noted that statistics
just released by the American Bureau of Metal Statistics, a
private organization, were largely bullish, but contain a
bearish undertone. Production of mined copper has declined,
due to lower output in Peru, Chile and Bougainville, Papua
New Guinea. Mine production of copper in March was down 5%
from a year before, after having gained 5% in January and
February, he said. World-wide deliveries of copper by
producers to consumers in the first quarter rose 8% from a
year earlier, but Mr. Demler said that stepped-up pace isn't
likely to continue. Producers' stocks outside the U.S. have
declined, but the drop is being offset by a growth of
inventories in the hands of U.S. producers, consumers and
both the London Metal Exchange and New York's Commodity
Exchange, he said. The two factors that are supporting copper
prices currently, he said, are concern over the labor
negotiations of the two remaining major U.S. copper
producers, whose contracts end on June 30, and the low level
of world supplies.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices eased. The July contract ended down
$25 a metric ton at $1,415. Prices swung over a wide range,
dropping in early trading to as low as $1,383 then recovering
to as high as $1,425 before easing toward the close. Judith
Ganes, analyst for Merrill Lynch, noted that the political
turmoil in the Ivory Coast, the world's leading cocoa
producer, helped boost prices in recent weeks -- but
meanwhile exports from that country moved at an uninterrupted
pace and have continued to climb. But now that dock strikes
possibly may begin today in the Ivory Coast and Brazil, also
a major cocoa-bean grower, prices fell yesterday. "It seems
strange that factors which had nothing really to do with
cocoa pushed prices higher, but now that there are
developments that directly relate to cocoa, prices fall." she
said. "It may be a case of buy the rumor, sell the fact." She
said a report circulated early in the day that a French trade
house had rejected a Soviet request for extension of credit
in connection with a quantity of cocoa beans the firm has
bought for the Soviet Union. "Now the speculation is whether
those beans might be sold on the world market," she said.
"The development might have contributed to the early drop in
the futures prices, but it wasn't a major factor."
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Prices of hog futures contracts
plunged in volatile trading on speculation that the slaughter
will temporarily jump next week, said Charles Levitt, an
analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton, Chicago. A spate of dry
weather in the Midwest is allowing many farmers to plant
crops delayed by unusually heavy rains this spring. Busy in
the fields, many farmers won't have time to bring their hogs
to market this week, so a glut might suddenly develop when
they do. Hog prices were vulnerable to a profit-taking
plunge, because they have been closing in on record high
levels. However, many analysts think that hog prices will
remain high this summer. Hog prices have been strong for
several months because of a tight supply of hogs ready for
slaughter. That is because many farmers were cautious about
expanding their herds last year. Because of tight supplies,
the hog slaughter is slipping instead of rising as it usually
does in the spring. Last week, the number of hogs killed at
federally inspected meat-packing plants dropped 6% from a
year earlier, said Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling
Research Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill. The competition among
meatpackers to find hogs to kill has increased the price of
fattened hogs to 66 cents a pound in some Midwest markets,
just one cent below the record high. What might help keep hog
prices in check this summer is that the supply of alternative
meats, such as beef, is expected to rise. Prices of cattle
futures contracts settled mixed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc.:
   PVC Business to Be Sold
   To Unit of Pacific Western
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   APD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Air Products &amp; Chemicals Inc. said it agreed to sell its
$125 million-a-year polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, business,
where weak pricing has hurt the Allentown, Pa., company's
profit recently.
   Terms weren't disclosed. The company said its earnings
this year won't be materially affected by the sale to the
Pacific Western Resin Co. unit of privately held Pacific
Western Extruded Plastics Co., a Eugene, Ore.-based PVC pipe
maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the divestiture is long overdue and will
improve Air Products' earnings prospects starting in 1991, by
reducing exposure to cyclical commodity chemicals. The PVC
business being sold includes two manufacturing facilities in
Kentucky and Florida, with total annual capacity of 400
million pounds. The deal, which Air Products expects to
complete within two months, after regulatory review, is part
of the company's strategy of shifting resources toward
higher-margin specialty chemicals. PVC represents about half
of the company's $240 million a year in sales of commodity
chemicals. Total chemical sales last year were $976 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Gives New Duties to Miller, Lutz,
   Latest Top Contenders to Succeed Iacocca
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS C UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. has expanded the
duties of two men who apparently become the leading
candidates to succeed Chairman Lee A. Iacocca, although the
timing of the 65-year-old chief executive officer's
retirement remains as ambiguous as ever.
   The moves, which constitute Chrysler's fifth management
restructuring since 1985, came in the wake of Vice Chairman
Gerald Greenwald's abrupt resignation to lead a proposed
employee buy-out of United Airlines. The action divided Mr.
Greenwald's duties between Robert S. Miller Jr. and Robert A.
Lutz.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Miller, 48 years old, becomes vice chairman, a title
he previously held from 1985 to 1988. In addition to
supervising all of Chrysler's financial activities and the
office of the general counsel and secretary, he now adds
responsibility for Chrysler Financial Corp., Chrysler
Technologies and international operations. He will report to
Mr. Iacocca; he previously reported to Mr. Greenwald.
   Mr. Lutz, 58 and president of Chrysler's automotive
operations, assumes responsibility for quality and
productivity, along with Acustar, Chrysler's parts-making
subsidiary. He also will report to Mr. Iacocca. He had
reported to the Office of the Chairman, which consisted of
Mr. Iacocca and Mr. Greenwald but now has been dissolved.
   Succeeding Mr. Miller as chief financial officer and
executive vice president of finance is Jerome B. York, 51 and
previously vice president and controller. Mr. Greenwald's
departure didn't generate much excitement on Wall Street,
even though he's the third top Chrysler official in as many
weeks to announce his resignation. Mr. Greenwald also was
considered Mr. Iacocca's most likely successor. In moderate
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Chrysler
stock fell 25 cents to close at $15.375 a share.
   "The loss {of Mr. Greenwald} isn't changing anything,"
said Philip K. Fricke, an auto analyst with Prudential-Bache
Research. "There's no sign his departure signals a change in
course or anything different in product development."
   Analysts also noted that Chrysler's shares already have
been deeply discounted for bad news. "It would take an
earthquake in Highland Park for the stock to get much lower,"
said Scott Merlis, an auto analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Mr. Greenwald said the United Airlines unions first
approached him about six weeks ago, but he didn't seriously
consider their offer until they assured him that the company
they will own if their buy-out succeeds will be "run in a
normal way" with a majority of "independent directors."
   He made his final decision early Wednesday morning, "after
spending a day and a half privately" with Mr. Iacocca in the
chairman's Tuscany, Italy, villa. The two men then flew back
together on a Chrysler corporate jet.
   Mr. Greenwald held news conferences in Detroit and New
York yesterday, but he didn't disclose much about what he and
Mr. Iacocca discussed. He did say Mr. Iacocca asked him if
"there was uncertainty in my mind" about Mr. Iacocca's plans
to retire, and was such uncertainty "influencing my decision,
and I said absolutely not and we left it at that."
   In response to persistent questioning from reporters about
whether Mr. Iacocca will retire when his contract with
Chrysler expires in October 1991, Mr. Greenwald said:
"Frankly, I really didn't want to get in that close on that
subject with Lee."
   Mr. Greenwald said there's "no operating assumption" among
Chrysler's top executives about when Mr. Iacocca will
actually leave, but he insisted this hasn't created any
problems. "Nobody inside that team is trying to outguess
who's going to go where, when and how. . . . Maybe this is a
little hard for you to believe, but there isn't that kind of
speculation going on inside our company."
   Mr. Greenwald said he sees himself pursuing opportunity
rather than fleeing frustration. "There's been some
speculation that I didn't want to wait for the day when I'd
{become} CEO at Chrysler," Mr. Greenwald said. "That really
didn't enter into it at all. . . . I've always felt if I
performed well that the time would come when I would get the
chance to run Chrysler." However, the prospect of leading the
world's largest employee-owned company "was just too much a
challenge, or a temptation, to say no to."
   People close to Mr. Greenwald, though, say he was growing
impatient because Mr. Iacocca hasn't ever made it clear,
despite his contract, when he'll retire.
   When Mr. Greenwald returned to Chrysler headquarters late
Wednesday afternoon, the buildings were abuzz with rumor.
Officially, Chrysler's spokesmen had been saying since last
Friday that Mr. Greenwald was visiting a sister in
California, and that there was "nothing to" rumors of his
departure.
   Mr. Greenwald apologized for the deception yesterday, but
said it was unavoidable. "It wasn't until 10 days ago that I
took this really seriously," he said.
   ---
   Bradley A. Stertz contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Recreation Centers Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMRC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN RECREATION CENTERS Inc. (Sacramento, Calif.) --
Robert A. Crist, 45-year-old president of this operator of
bowling centers, was named to the additional post of chief
executive officer, succeeding Robert Feuchter, 64, who
remains chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDonnell Helicopter
   Names Gunn President
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MD WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Thomas M. Gunn was named president of
McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Co. He succeeds William P.
Brown, who resigned last month in the wake of the company's
poor financial performance.
   Mr. Gunn, 46 years old, was most recently vice president
of program development at McDonnell Aircraft Co. The
helicopter company, based in Mesa, Ariz., and the aircraft
company, based in St. Louis, are units of McDonnell Douglas
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gunn has held various marketing, strategic planning
and government-affairs posts with other McDonnell Douglas
affiliates since joining the company in 1975. He also holds a
law degree. Mr. Brown, 57, has been a consultant to the
parent company since he resigned.
   Last year, the helicopter company had a $137 million
write-off mainly related to the Apache program, which
accounted for about 80% of the company's revenue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Ashland Ordered to Pay Damages
   For Discharge From Oil Refinery
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk and Wayne E. Green
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH PLA WNEWS FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Ashland Oil Inc. was ordered to pay $10.3 million to four
people who claimed that discharge from the company's
Catlettsburg, Ky., oil refinery hurt the quality of their
lives.
   The verdict by a Kanawha County court jury in Charleston,
W.Va., could be a major blow to the company because it was
the first of what is expected to be many trials involving
nearly 300 plaintiffs. The cases are expected to involve five
plaintiffs at a time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plaintiffs are also seeking damages to pay for health
monitoring costs.
   The Ashland, Ky., oil refiner said it plans to appeal to
the West Virginia Supreme Court.
   Debra L. Hamilton, one of the plaintiffs' attorneys with
the Charleston law firm De Trapano &amp; Jackson, said the case
was unusual because it relied mostly on the testimony of
residents affected by the discharge, which consisted of oily
droplets and white flakey fallout. "Most of these cases boil
down to battles of experts, but this one was told through the
eyes of the residents and inspectors who had to respond to
the complaints," she said.
   The four plaintiffs, ranging in age from 19 to 57, told
jurors that the pollution was foul-smelling, burned their
eyes and throats and caused skin rashes. Some said pollution
damaged automobile paint, aluminum siding and window glass in
mobile homes. Each of the plaintiffs was awarded actual
damages ranging from $320,000 to $350,000 and punitive
damages ranging from $2 million to $2.5 million.
   In the trial, plaintiffs' attorney R. Rodney Jackson
pretended to pour drain cleaner over a three-dimensional map
of the area around the refinery. Referring to Ashland
chairman John R. Hall, Mr. Jackson said, "Here you go, Mr.
Hall, how about a little of that on your house, a little bit
of Drano. Let's see if you'd like to eat this, Mr. Hall."
   Ashland attorneys declined comment. In a statement, the
company said, "Ashland believes numerous errors were made
during the course of the trial which prejudiced Ashland's
ability to defend itself. We believe the jury's verdict was
erroneous and the award was ridiculous."
   An Ashland spokesman contended that Ashland was prevented
from calling as an expert witness a former director of the
Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
   The spokesman said the refinery is in compliance with
clean air standards and that monitors around the community
show the air quality to be good.
   ---
   KANSAS SUPREME COURT limits legal rights of fetus.
   Ruling on a medical malpractice claim, the court held that
a nonviable fetus isn't a "person" under Kansas law and its
parents are barred from bringing a wrongful death damage suit
on its behalf.
   Courts have been struggling in recent years to define the
rights of unborn children to bring civil damage suits. Many
state courts have permitted negligence actions to be brought
on behalf of a viable fetus, one capable of living outside
its mother's womb. But courts have been deciding both ways in
cases where the fetus isn't considered capable of independent
life.
   The Kansas decision "is supported by some states and not
by others," says Dennis Prater, a litigation specialist at
the University of Kansas law school.
   The case was brought by Brenda and Bennie Humes of
Lawrence, Kan., against Dr. Dale Clinton, a local physician.
He had inserted an intrauterine contraceptive device into Ms.
Humes in June 1985, but she became pregnant 14 months later.
She had an abortion after another doctor said continuing the
pregnancy would threaten her life. The fetus was 16 1/2 weeks
old at the time.
   In their suit against Dr. Clinton, the Humes included a
wrongful death claim on behalf of their unborn child. The
trial judge refused to dismiss the claim, but the Kansas
Supreme Court said it was barred by the state's wrongful
death statute.
   "A nonviable fetus is not a distinct entity; rather its
life is an integral part of its mother's life," the court
declared. "Therefore, we find viability an appropriate
condition precedent to liability for wrongful death" under
Kansas law.
   Big awards are at stake in negligence cases against
companies and doctors. If suits on behalf of all fetuses are
authorized, "every pregnant woman who miscarries would have a
potential cause of action," asserts Thomas E. Wright, an
attorney for Davis Wright, Unrein, Hummer &amp; McCallister in
Topeka, counsel for Dr. Clinton.
   John W. McClelland of Wirken &amp; King in Kansas City, Mo.,
counsel for the Humes, says the Kansas Supreme Court has
created an "artificial distinction between what is and is not
a living being."
   ---
   THREE STATES CHALLENGE new Super fund regulations.
   Pennsylvania, New York and Colorado filed petitions for
review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, claiming that the new regulations may lead to
inadequate cleanup of hazardous waste sites, unfair release
of responsible parties from liability and the shifting of
clean-up costs to the states.
   New York cited a pollution abatement plant in Oswego that
was cleaned up by the EPA and then turned over to the state
to operate. New York claims the new EPA regulations make the
state responsible for the full cost, while the Superfund law
requires the state to pay only 10%. The Federal government
and the polluters are responsible for the rest, under the
1986 law.
   Pennsylvania and Colorado contend the new rules are too
vague and could permit admitted polluters like Texas Eastern
Transmission Corp., which buried toxic PCPs in parts of
Pennsylvania, to escape clean-up altogether.
   In the petitions, the three states are asking the court to
beef up the new EPA regulations to make them consistent with
1986 amendments to the federal Superfund law. Earl Salo, an
EPA assistant general counsel, declined to comment until the
EPA reviews the complaints.
   Several states are also expected to contest the new
regulations, said a spokesman for Pennsylvania's Department
of Environmental Resources.
   ---
   KEITH HARING ESTATE sues Playboy for copyright
infringement.
   In a suit filed in federal court in Manhattan, the estate
of the late pop artist accused Playboy Enterprises Ltd. of
reproducing and selling "Bunny" drawings without approval.
Mr. Haring, who died Feb. 16 at the age of 32, drew the bunny
pictures -- which incorporate a bunny head shaped like the
Playboy emblem -- in 1986. The suit said that Mr. Haring sold
Playboy the right to use one of the drawings on the
magazine's January 1987 cover for $5,000. But the suit said
Mr. Haring didn't authorize any other use of the drawings by
Playboy.
   According to the suit, Playboy has arranged for the
drawings to be reproduced as silk screens and sold for $200 a
piece. The suit also names as defendants Special Editions, a
Playboy subsidiary, and American Portfolio, both based in
Parlin, N.J. The suit accused Playboy of claiming to have
ownership rights to the drawings and improperly authorizing
the two New Jersey firms to reproduce them.
   A Playboy spokeswoman said the company commissioned Mr.
Haring to do the drawings as "work for hire." She said that
under the arrangement, the company owns all rights to the
works. The New Jersey firms declined to comment.
   The suit, which seeks unspecified damages, also accuses
Playboy of illegally using the Haring signature and logo to
market the reproductions. The suit asked that the defendants
be ordered to retrieve all copies of the "Bunny" drawings
sold to customers and that all revenue from the sales be held
in escrow.
   Peter Stern, an attorney with the New York law firm of
Berger &amp; Steingut, which represents the Haring estate, said
"the estate is concerned about the impact this wave of
unauthorized paper will have on Haring's legacy and on the
value of his actual work."
   ---
   ATLANTA'S NEW U.S. ATTORNEY is to be Joe D. Whitley.
   Mr. Whitley, who was the acting associate attorney
general, the third-ranking official in the U.S. Justice
Department, until last July, is expected to be named to the
U.S. Attorney's post as early as today. A Justice Department
spokesman confirmed that the department will name Mr. Whitley
to the post on an interim basis today. It is expected that he
will later be nominated by President Bush and put up for
Senate confirmation.
   Mr. Whitley, 39 years old, currently heads the
white-collar criminal defense practice at the Atlanta law
firm of Smith, Gambrell &amp; Russell. He declined to comment. He
was the U.S. Attorney in Macon, Ga., for five years until
early 1987.
   ---
   IMELDA MARCOS'S TRIAL was temporarily halted after she
collapsed.
   Mrs. Marcos, on trial for allegedly stealing $200 million
from the Philippines and illegally hiding the money in the
U.S., slumped at the defense table and began vomiting blood,
her attorneys said. An ambulance took her to the New York
Hospital emergency room.
   Judge John Keenan, in federal court in Manhattan,
instructed the jurors in the case to return to court at noon
Tuesday.
   Mrs. Marcos has hypertension and her blood pressure is
monitored by a device she wears during the trial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Union
   Is Seeking Advice
   On a Possible Bid
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5E
</SO>
<CO>
   X.GRE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- With Greyhound Lines Inc. scrambling to avoid
bankruptcy, its striking employees have enlisted a prominent
investment adviser to organize a union bid to buy the
troubled bus company.
   Brian M. Freeman, who recently guided a proposed union
buy-out of UAL Corp., sent a letter Tuesday to Greyhound
Chairman Fred Currey asking him to discuss a possible
purchase of the strike-hobbled unit of GLI Holding Co. by
Amalgamated Transit Union members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Freeman declined to discuss the union proposal but in
the letter to Mr. Currey, he called " 100% employee
ownership" the only "feasible and practical" means of
assuring the company's long-term viability although he
indicated that new investment by a third party could also be
an acceptable "variant." He indicated the union would proceed
with a proposal regardless of the company's response.
   Saying that the company isn't for sale, Greyhound
officials said they don't plan to discuss the proposal with
Mr. Freeman.
   "We are surprised the group that has brought about the
company's current financial crisis through an unprecedented
wave of violence now proposes to profit from its own criminal
activity by buying the company," said P. Anthony Lannie,
Greyhound executive vice president.
   The ATU, which represents about 9,400 Greyhound employees,
went on strike against the bus company last March 2.
Strike-related violence led to a $55.8 million loss in the
first quarter, compared with a year-earlier $14.4 million
loss.
   Staggered by the losses, Greyhound has missed $5 million
in lease payments due April 30 and a $9.8 million May 15
interest payment on its 13% senior notes due in 1995. The
company has said it may have to file for bankruptcy
protection if it cannot complete a financial restructuring.
   A union buy-out bid would be complicated without the
company's cooperation. A majority of the stock, which is not
publicly traded, is owned or controlled by an investor group
led by Mr. Currey.
   Holders of the company's publicly traded notes are said to
be grumbling over a recent tender offer from the company to
redeem about $191 million in face amount of debt for about
$86 million in cash. Although the tender offer is the
lynchpin of its financial restructuring, Greyhound says it
hasn't found a source to finance it.
   The union, which has held informal discussions with at
least one bondholder, could make a counter offer but some
bondholders questioned whether the ATU could find financing
if the company cannot. "Nobody on the street thinks they'll
get the money," said Robin Rodriguez, chairman of Anglo
American Investors Services Corp., a holder of Greyhound
bonds.
   Mr. Rodriguez said he has hired an attorney and begun
organizing other bondholders with an eye toward forcing
Greyhound into Chapter 11 if the company does not improve its
tender offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Corona Corp.:
   Extension of Trading Halt
   Sought Pending Disclosure
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICRA T.SKZ PDG PLDS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corona Corp. said it requested that a trading halt in its
stock remain in effect until Monday, when it will make a
"material" announcement. Analysts expect the Toronto company
will announce a sweetened offer to increase its interest in
the promising Eskay Creek gold deposit in northwestern
British Columbia.
   Trading also has been halted in Stikine Resources Ltd. and
Prime Resources Group Inc., joint owners of Eskay Creek.
Corona has agreed with Stikine and Prime to acquire 44.6% of
a new company to be formed from the merger of the two
Vancouver-based mineral exploration concerns. Corona owns 20%
of Prime.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a rival move that threatens to block Corona's plan,
Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc. offered 229.5 million
Canadian dollars (US$195.1 million), or C$67.50 a share, for
Stikine. Analysts estimate Corona's offer of a package of
securities, including Corona shares, is roughly equal in
value to the Placer bid. But Placer's offer of cash, with a
stock alternative, is viewed as the more attractive of the
two.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GR Foods Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   PRO
</CO>
<LP>
   WOODBRIDGE, N.J. -- International Proteins Corp., a food
company and owner of the Ground Round restaurant chain,
changed its name to GR Foods Inc., effective today.
   GR Foods, previously traded under American Stock Exchange
symbol PRO, now trades under GRX. The company said there is
no need to exchange existing stock certificates since they
remain valid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Dell Computer Cuts Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DELL
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- Dell Computer Corp., citing competitive
pressures from the computer marketplace, said it cut the
prices on its computers by $50 to $1,100, effective Monday.
   The direct-seller of computer products said the price cuts
affect its laptop computers, and its computers built around
the Intel Corp. 286, 386 and 486 microprocessors. The actual
price changes, however, depend on the computer, the amount of
memory in it and the memory capability of the machine's
hard-disk drive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hertz Note Issue Gets
   Triple-B S&amp;P Rating
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   X.HRZ G.CBK VOLVY F
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it rated a $100
million issue of Hertz Corp. medium-term notes triple-B,
noting that the car-rental company's U.S. rental operations
continue to face competitive pressures.
   "Although commercial pricing is improving gradually,
competition in the leisure market is expected to remain
intense this year," S&amp;P said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report said Hertz's competitive position should be
strengthened over time by fees being imposed on off-airport
renters at some locations and state laws forcing elimination
or advertising disclosure of separate collision damage waiver
charges.
   Hertz was acquired by Park Ridge Corp. at the end of 1987;
Park Ridge is 49%-owned by Ford Motor Co., 26% by Volvo North
America Corp., 20% by Hertz management, and 5% by Commerzbank
AG.
   S&amp;P said, "Hertz's credit strength is limited by the need
to service acquisition debt at Park Ridge, and consolidated
financial measures are weaker than those for Hertz alone.
However, Ford's strategic interest in preserving the
financial health of its largest single customer provides
significant credit support. During 1989, Ford bought $150
million of Hertz subordinated notes, allowing repayment of a
like amount of Park Ridge acquisition bank loans and
increasing Ford's total investment."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Adobe Systems Inc.:
   Firm Sues EFI on Patent
   For Color Printing Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADBE
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adobe Systems Inc., Mountain View, Calif., filed suit
against Electronics for Imaging Inc. in federal court
Wednesday, seeking a court declaration that it hasn't
infringed on an EFI patent for color printing systems.
   In January, EFI accused Adobe of infringing on the patent
and the two software companies began negotiating the dispute.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In response to the suit, EFI, a San Bruno, Calif.-based
firm that develops color printing for desktop publishing,
said it will file a counterclaim, charging Adobe with
infringement. EFI holds the license to the color-printing
patent from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
   EFI contends that Adobe is using the patented process in
its PostScript Level 2 software with color extension. An
Adobe spokesman called EFI's allegations "completely without
merit."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fluor Corp. Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR HM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Corp. said it completed the
purchase for $125 million of a 42.5% interest in Doe Run Co.
from Homestake Mining Co.
   Doe Run, a major lead producer, is now a wholly owned
Fluor subsidiary. Fluor is mainly an engineering and
construction concern. Homestake, based in San Francisco, is a
gold-mining company with interests in the U.S., Australia,
Chile and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Seeks Comment
   On Plan for Holders
   In Foreign Companies
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission voted
to seek comment on a proposal that would make it easier for
U.S. shareholders in foreign companies to take advantage of
tender and exchange offers.
   The proposal was drafted in response to concerns that
bidders for shares of foreign issues sometimes deliberately
exclude U.S. shareholders to avoid the cost of complying with
U.S. disclosure requirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal would allow such offers to proceed without
complying with U.S. requirements if the U.S. securities
holdings constitute a relatively small portion of the entire
transaction.
   The SEC is seeking comment on what the level of U.S.
holdings should be. "This is an area that will become more
and more important as there are more foreign-issued
securities purchased by U.S. investors," said Linda Quinn,
head of the SEC's division of corporation finance. "People
are being substantially affected in the value of their
investments when they get carved out" of exchange and tender
offers, she said. The commission is expected to take public
comments on the proposal for about 120 days.
   The SEC also approved a rule proposed by the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board to require underwriters of
municipal bonds to provide the board with copies of final
official statements on bond issues, and to create a reference
room where the public could obtain copies of official
documents. The commission approved the MSRB proposal by a
vote of 3-1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CHRYSLER NAMED two men to take over the duties of Vice
Chairman Gerald Greenwald, who resigned Wednesday to lead a
proposed employee buy-out of UAL. The two executives, Robert
Miller and Robert Lutz, now appear to be the leading
candidates to eventually succeed Chairman Iacocca.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nynex was indicted on a criminal contempt charge of
providing information services through a unit, a violation of
the 1982 consent decree that broke up the Bell system. It is
the first such case against a Bell firm.
   ---
   BankAmerica won the bidding contest to take over insolvent
Western S&amp;L, Arizona's second-largest thrift. BankAmerica
will pay $81 million, one of the larger premiums federal
regulators have received in liquidating their inventory of
troubled thrifts.
   ---
   Factory orders plunged 2.3% in April, another sign that
manufacturing remains weak. The decline, led by a 4.3% drop
in durable-goods orders, follows two months of increases.
   ---
   Boeing received an order from China for 33 commercial jets
worth $2 billion with options for 36 more. It is Boeing's
second big order in a week.
   ---
   Coca-Cola is scrapping the much-hyped MagiCan promotion
after only three weeks. The $100 million campaign, the
biggest in Coke's history, was hurt by malfunctioning cans
and a barrage of negative publicity.
   ---
   Capital Cities/ABC announced a plan to limit the audience
guarantees it usually promises advertisers.
   ---
   Ashland Oil was ordered to pay $10.3 million to four
people who claimed fallout from a Kentucky oil refinery had
hurt the quality of their
   ---
   Commonwealth Edison was ordered to refund over $300
million from a rate increase designed to pay for three
nuclear plants. The Chicago utility also has to roll back
rates.
   ---
   Stock prices were mixed as investors took profits in
blue-chips and then bought other stocks. The Dow Jones
industrials closed off 1.90, at 2876.66. Bond prices and the
dollar gained.
                                                                                                       

   Oil prices plunged following a report of higher U.S.
petroleum inventories. U.S. gasoline prices, which led the
recent rally, took the sharpest fall.
   ---
   Corporate buy-backs of junk bonds hit a record $2.5
billion in the first quarter and are expected to set highs
for the year. Traders say the trend helped spur the market's
modest rally.
   ---
   Economic leaders from major industrial nations committed
themselves to reaching a multilateral trade accord this year.
But the officials remained divided on cutting farm subsidies.
   ---
   The Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce plans to close most U.S.
operations. The Luxembourg bank is the focus of two new
investigations and is under growing pressure from the Fed.
   ---
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi's long-awaited sale of its Hay Group
consulting unit finally appears imminent, though at a price
far below what the firm wanted.
   ---
   Westinghouse plans to buy back up to 7% of its stock.
Directors also voted to exempt the company from
Pennsylvania's new anti-takeover law.
   ---
   Agriculture prices rose 2% in May as strong demand for
pork and tight supplies sent hog prices soaring to their
second-highest level ever.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speculators Focus on Denmark Bourse
   As EC Unification in '92 Draws Near
   ----
   By Debra Marks
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   COPENHAGEN -- Although not traditionally known as one of
Europe's peppier exchanges, the Danish stock market could be
the scene of some clever bidding ahead of European Community
market unification at the end of 1992.
   But while takeover moves are pushing the Copenhagen bourse
higher, individual investors may find it hard to capitalize
on the speculation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign companies, and especially those of Denmark's
non-EC neighbors to the north, are expected to show
increasing interest in Danish companies in coming years, with
Denmark acting the role of bridgehead into the single
European market, some analysts suggest.
   "Investors are looking strategically at Denmark," said
Claus Anderson, assistant general manager at Bikuben Bors
Borsmaeglerselskab AS, a bank-owned broker and member of the
Copenhagen Stock Exchange. "Swedes, Norwegians and Finns are
very interested in the Danish market as a way into 1992. . .
. "If you can't be there directly, you can be there by buying
Danish companies."
   The bidding already has sent the Danish market motoring
higher. Last year, the 300-stock Copenhagen Stock Index
gained a hearty 33%. It advanced a more modest 10% during the
first four months of this year, held back, market observers
say, by rising Danish interest rates, which are closely
linked with West German ones.
   But Bikuben Bors said he expects prices to rise further
and the rising prices to spur more new listings on the
Copenhagen exchange. While only 31 companies listed their
shares on the exchange during the first half of the 1980s, 72
did so in the second part of the decade.
   "There's no doubt that more companies will come to the
Danish Stock Exchange this year and next as they see the
common market in 1992 as a business opportunity," said
Carsten Nielsen, chief of block trading at Unibors
Borsmaeglerselskab AS in Copenhagen.
   As the only Nordic country belonging to the 12-member
arrangement, Denmark already has attracted more than just a
curious glance from some large Swedish and Norwegian
companies.
   During the past year, Finland's Kemira Oy bought the
fertilizer unit of Superfrost AS; Sweden's Nobel Industrier
Sverige AB bought paint-maker Sadolin Holmblad AS; Norway's
Nora Industrier AS netted Danish Fancy Food Group AS;
Sweden's Hexagon AB bought a slew of small Danish food
companies, and Foervaltnings AB Ratos of Sweden bought Dahl
Invest International AS, a subsidiary of building-products
maker Broedrene Dahl AS.
   A number of strategic alliances have been forged between
Danish concerns and others in Europe, giving small to
medium-sized Danish companies a chance against bigger players
on the post-1992 stage.
   Dutch electronics giant N.V. Philips Gloeilampenfabriken
in May bought a 25% stake in advanced audio-video designer
and manufacturer Bang &amp; Olufson AS for 340 million Danish
kroner ($53.2 million).
   Also, Britain's Blue Circle Industries PLC, a cement
maker, bought a 50% interest in Denmark's only cement maker
Aalborg Portland for 980 million kroner.
   But some say the EC link is tenuous at best. "The euphoria
is a bit overdone," said Claus Gregerson, an institutional
salesman at Stockholm-based brokerage Alfred Berg UK Ltd.
"There's a big tradition for cross-border trade in
Scandinavia but the same doesn't hold for Denmark."
   For stock-market investors, tapping into Danish takeovers
is made difficult by the exchange's makeup. Although Denmark
adopted a screen-based trading system two years ago,
eliminating dealing on the stock-exchange floor, there are
huge obstacles that make quick and easy settlement difficult.
Because of its substantial delivery problems, the Danish
market is "diluting potential foreign interest by having an
inflexible system which keeps a lot of people from thinking
about investing there," said Mr. Gregerson.
   Part of the problem, say some Danish market watchers, is
the inability in practice to deal in short positions or take
up a role similar to the market makers and specialists in
London and New York. Because there are no guaranteed sellers,
getting hold of securities to cover short positions can be
costly, traders note.
   In addition, takeover opportunities among Danish companies
are severely limited because many Danish businesses are
protected by two-tiered share capital, making it virtually
impossible to obtain a controlling interest in a company by
buying up only one class of its stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Laserscope Product
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LSCP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Laserscope said it has received
expanded clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
to market a surgical laser system for all laparoscopic
general surgery.
   The FDA clearance permits use of the company's KTP/532
Surgical Laser Systems for a broad range of laparoscopic
procedures, including gall-bladder removal, appendectomies,
liver biopsies and hernias.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988, Laserscope received FDA approval to market this
same laser system for endoscopic and open surgical
procedures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Increases Slightly as Investors
   Await Unemployment Data; Tyco Up 2 3/4
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   The over-the-counter market stepped timidly toward today's
employment figures.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 0.20 to 458.97, or
0.04%, as advancing stocks narrowly led decliners, 979 to
941. Volume slowed to 157.3 million shares from 169.4 million
Wednesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I imagine some people are sitting back and waiting to see
what the unemployment data is," said William Rothe, managing
director of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Baltimore. The
Labor Department will release data on jobs growth and
unemployment before trading begins this morning.
   "The market seems to be getting tired," Mr. Rothe added,
suggesting that OTC stocks might be due for a rest. However,
Mr. Rothe said that he thinks there remain a number of money
managers on the sidelines with cash to invest in stocks.
   One of the OTC market's more bearish market professional
shares that opinion. Walter Carucci, vice president of Carr
Securities, said, "There's still so much cash on sidelines,
you could almost create a bullish scenario if you want to."
Mr. Carucci said that last week he began to see buying
interest in smaller issues across-the-board "for the first
time in a long time," adding that "our volume has picked up
quite substantially." However, pointing to such economic
troubles as the savings and loan crisis, Mr. Carucci said,
"I'm still very bearish, but would like to be proven wrong."
   Traders said they were kept busy much of the day by a new
issue of Mr. Coffee and a secondary offering of Urcarco.
   The most active stock was Mr. Coffee, which sold an
initial public offering of 4 million shares at $10 each.
Trading under the stock symbol JAVA, more than 4.2 million
shares of the Bedford Heights, Ohio, coffeemaker company said
changed hands and closed unchanged  at 11 1/8. Proceeds from
the offering will be used to reduce debt incurred by Mr.
Coffee in a leveraged buy-out.
   Second on the most-active list was Urcarco, up 3/4 at 20
5/8. A secondary offering of 5 million shares of the Fort
Worth, Texas, retailer of used cars and trucks was priced at
$19.875. Urcarco went public last November at $11 a share.
   Tyco Toys gained 2 3/4 to 27 3/8 on more than 18 times
average volume. The Mt. Laurel, N.J., toy maker said late
Wednesday it received an unsolicited acquisition offer. Tyco
Toys, which didn't identify the possible buyer, said the two
parties have had discussions but gave no assurance that an
agreement will be reached.
   Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said that Hasbro is
rumored to be the suitor among Wall Street analysts and
arbitragers. Hasbro Chief Financial Officer John O'Neill
declined to comment.
   SynOptics Communications added 6 1/4 to 45 1/4 after the
Mountain View, Calif., maker of computer network systems said
late Wednesday that it expects net income for the second
quarter ending June 29 will be about 35% higher than
first-quarter net income of 43 cents a share. SynOptics
earned 26 cents a share in the year-ago second quarter.
However, the company added that although product demand is
strong, it doesn't expect to repeat that growth rate in
future quarters.
   Seagate Technology rose 3/4 to 15 5/8. The Scotts Valley,
Calif., disk-drive maker unveiled its second-generation disk
drive for small computers, such as laptop computers. Shares
of Maxtor, a San Jose, Calif., disk-drive maker, rose 3/8 to
16 3/8 on volume of 1.4 million.
   Software Toolworks jumped 1 5/8 to 22 3/4 on nearly 1.7
million shares after the Chatsworth, Calif., software
developer reported net income for the fourth quarter ended
March 31 of 12 cents a share, including extraordinary items,
up from five cents a year earlier. The company also said that
it signed a letter of intent with Canon Inc. to develop a
software program for use in an IBM-compatible Canon product
to be released later this year.
   Sequent Computer Systems rose 1 1/4 to 31 3/4 and Pyramid
Technology dropped 2 1/4 to 32 3/4 following comments by
Goldman Sachs computer analyst John C. Levinson, according to
DJPIR. Mr. Levinson concluded that American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph might choose the Beaverton, Ore.-based Sequent,
rather than Pyramid, of Mountain View, Calif., to provide a
multiprocessing element for a new version of AT&amp;T's Unix
system, which is slated for release late next year, DJPIR
said. Mr. Levinson wasn't available for comment, but a
Goldman employee confirmed the analyst repeated a
long-standing "buy" opinion on Sequent and removed a "trading
buy" opinion on Pyramid and now rates it a near-term "hold."
   A Sequent official called Mr. Levinson's report
"speculation" and declined to comment on AT&amp;T's intentions,
DJPIR said. AT&amp;T and Pyramid officials weren't available for
comment.
   Occupational Urgent Care Health Systems gained 1 1/4 to 24
1/2. David A. Edelstein, chief financial officer of the
Sacramento, Calif., provider of cost containment and other
health care services, told DJPIR there weren't corporate
developments to explain the move. However, the company's
chairman, James W. Cameron, was scheduled to appear last
night at an informal meeting with portfolio managers arranged
by Hambrecht &amp; Quist, DJPIR reported. Occupational Urgent
Care also is one of several companies scheduled to appear
June 4 at a Morgan Stanley conference on growth stocks.
   Life Technologies fell 3/4 to 15 3/4. Late Wednesday, the
Gaithersburg, Md., developer of life-science products said it
might sell all or part of its diagnostic operations and plans
to cut its participation in the molecular diagnostics
business.
   Chips &amp; Technologies lost 1 1/4 to 19 after the San Jose,
Calif., maker of microcomputer chips said it settled a trade
secrets lawsuit with Elite Microelectronics Inc. The
agreement doesn't involve any payments, but the companies
agreed that a jointly appointed inspector will periodically
review Elite's operations.
   NESB tumbled 7/8 to 1 1/2 after the New London, Conn.,
thrift said that holders of its $50 million long-term senior
notes due June 1, 1995, are seeking immediate repayment
following negotiations to amend the terms of the note
agreements. The thrift said that it's willing to work out an
acceptable agreement, but is uncertain whether negotiations
will resume.
   Washington Scientific Industries fell 1/2 to 6 5/8. The
Minneapolis maker of precision equipment said late Wednesday
that it expects to report a loss for the third quarter ending
June 3 of about 15 cents a share, compared with restated net
income from continuing operations of 18 cents a share a year
earlier.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   LIFE TECHNOLOGIES Inc.'s stock rose 3/4 Thursday to 15
3/4. Friday's OTC Focus column gave an incorrect closing
price.
   (WSJ June 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Expected to Hold Fairly Steady
   In June Then Weaken Over the Summer
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Douglas Appell and Christopher Hill in Tokyo;
   Erik Kirschbaum in Frankfurt, West Germany;
   Nicholas Hastings in London;
   And Brandon Mitchener in New York
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The dollar will hold fairly steady against most major
currencies in June, but will drift lower over the summer
against the yen and fall on a steeper trajectory against the
West German mark, according to a survey of 10 currency
analysts in four trading centers.
   At the end of June, the dollar will be trading at 150.45
yen and 1.6745 marks, according to the average forecast of 10
economists and traders in Tokyo, Frankfurt, London and New
York surveyed by Dow Jones International News Service. But by
the end of August, the dollar is expected to fall to 149.80
yen and 1.6480 marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6965 marks, up from 1.6830 marks late Wednesday, and at
152.10 yen, up from 151.45 yen late Wednesday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6785, down from $1.6950 late Wednesday.
   In Tokyo Friday, the dollar was trading at 152.25 yen soon
after the opening, up from Thursday's Tokyo close of 151.75
yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6933
marks.
   A similar survey a month ago predicted that the dollar
would finish May at 159.20 yen and 1.6980 marks. On March 1,
the survey projected the dollar would be at 148.25 yen and
1.6825 marks at the end of May.
   The analysts also are forecasting that sterling will trade
for $1.6855 after 30 days but slip to $1.6690 after 90 days.
   The 30-day forecasts for the dollar ranged from lows of
141.50 yen and 1.6280 marks and highs of 155.00 yen and
1.7100 marks. Most forecasts, however, were in a range of
148.00 yen to 154.00 yen and 1.6500 marks to 1.6900 marks.
   The 90-day forecasts range from 137.80 yen and 1.5850
marks to 157.00 yen and 1.7500 marks. Most 90-day forecasts
put the dollar between 145.00 yen and 155.00 yen and 1.62
marks and 1.67 marks.
   At the center of attention in June will be the
developments leading to the monetary and economic union of
East and West Germany, scheduled to take effect July 1.
Complications and unforeseen pitfalls along the path to
monetary union will make trading occasionally erratic and
unpredictable in June, analysts said. But most of the those
surveyed feel the mark should emerge strengthened from the
turmoil by the end of the summer.
   "The closer we get to monetary union, the greater the
chances are that we'll see some negative developments for the
mark," said Ernst Pullmann, senior trader at Deutsche
Girozentrale Kommunalebank in Frankfurt. Normally quite
bearish on the dollar, Mr. Pullmann said he sees the dollar
firming to 1.6950 marks at the end of June, but falling to
1.6400 marks at the end of August.
   "There'll definitely be a number of negative headlines
still to come in June," he added. "But after the currency
union . . . I think we'll see a clearly stronger mark."
   Dale Larson, an economist at Bank of America in San
Francisco, said he agreed that the driving force of the
markets in June will be the mark but he foresees a different
outcome. He predicted the dollar would firm to 1.7000 marks
at the end of June and to 1.7200 marks at the end of August,
due to the multitude of problems arising from the German
monetary union.
   But the ceiling for the dollar's gains will be 1.7200
marks, he said, where the West German central bank, having
grown fond of the anti-inflationary effects of a firm mark,
will probably intervene to block any further gains.
   The stronger mark has led to a sharp falloff in West
German import prices; at last count in April they were down
4.3% from a year earlier. That has damped producer prices and
in turn inflation, which has enabled the Bundesbank to relax
its finger on the interest-rate trigger.
   Shigeto Yanase, manager of foreign exchange with Dai-Ichi
Kangyo Bank in Tokyo, agreed that the mark will be the center
of attention over the next few months. He said he sees higher
interest rates in West Germany coming within three months,
which would contrast with steady rates in the U.S. and Japan.
Germany's central position in a unified European market will
continue to add to the mark's luster in foreign-exchange
markets, he said.
   "Germany will be the most powerful economy in that group,"
he said. "They'll have some temporary problems with inflation
and unemployment, but over the long term, Germany will be
very strong. I think we could eventually see a one-to-one
exchange rate between the mark and the dollar."
   But not all experts are bullish about the mark. Masahiro
Sasabe, manager of customer dealing at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
in Tokyo, said he expects Japanese investors' heavy buying of
European currencies against the yen to slow as the outlook on
German unification becomes more sober.
   "They're purchasing a kind of European dream. But now the
actual schedule has been set," Mr. Sasabe said. He expects
downward pressure on the yen to lighten as investors realize
that returns from economic expansion in Europe will be
gradual.
   Kevin Adams, an economist in London at Hoare Govett, a
British unit of Security Pacific National Bank, said he
expects the Bundesbank to refrain from raising its interest
rates, because of the inflationary consequences arising from
reunification with East Germany, until September or October.
As a result, he said, the dollar will likely remain stable
around 1.6700 marks over the next month to 90 days.
   Speculation over the possibility of a Japanese
interest-rate increase also is expected to continue, fueled
by comments from Japanese authorities that they are keeping a
close eye on cost pressures and money-supply growth. However,
Mr. Adams said he expects the yen to remain strong more
because of continued reassessment of Japan's economic
fundamentals rather than any rate action.
   Irwin Kellner, chief dealer at Manufacturers Hanover Trust
in New York, said he believes the dollar is overvalued
against the yen and other Asian currencies, but undervalued
against the mark and other European currencies.
   Mr. Kellner cited trade imbalances and the fact that the
U.S. has recently been running a trade surplus with Europe
while the deficit with Japan remains enormous.
   This situation justifies a firmer dollar against European
currencies and a weaker dollar against the yen, Mr. Kellner
said. By the end of August, he sees the dollar easing to
148.00 yen and firming to 1.7200 marks.
   But Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
in New York, disagreed, saying he expects the dollar to firm
against the yen because he doubts the Bank of Japan will
raise interest rates. "I think the dollar has been oversold
against the yen," said Mr. Hormats.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York yesterday, gold for
current delivery settled at $364.30 an ounce, up 20 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.2 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at $364.20 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wainoco Oil Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WOL
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Wainoco Oil Corp. announced an oil discovery in
La Salle County, Texas, that flowed at a rate of 1,170
barrels a day.
   Wainoco, one of several investors in the well, said that
the Austin Chalk oil discovery was made with a horizontally
drilled well and that it also flowed 470,000 cubic feet of
gas a day. Pinnacle Royalty, the operating company, conducted
a 24-hour test through a 20/64-inch opening.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company put the vertical depth of the well at some
7,400 feet and said it was drilled horizontally 3,088 feet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Child World Posts
   Sharply Wider Losses
   For Fiscal 1st Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CWLD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AVON, Mass. -- Child World Inc., citing a post-Christmas
"out-of-stock" inventory position, reported sharply larger
losses for its fiscal first quarter ended May 5.
   In the latest period, the operator of toy supermarkets
reported a loss of $7.4 million, or 65 cents a share,
compared with a year-ago loss of $5.1 million, or 45 cents a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales in the latest period dropped slightly to $130.1
million from $131.7 million the year earlier.
Comparable-stores sales dropped 7% in the latest quarter.
   The company said it improved its inventory "in-stock"
levels and had a same-store sales gain in April.
   Recently, the company announced that it had retained
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., S.G. Warburg &amp;
Co. and Argosy Group "to explore its financial and strategic
alternatives including the possible sale of the company."
   Previously, it was reported that CNC Holding Corp., owner
of about 82% of the company's stock, and Child World were
considering the sale of all or part of CNC's interest in
Child World. CNC Holding is a private investment group in
Cleveland.
   Yesterday, in national over-the-counter trading, Child
World common closed at $10.375, off 62.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Schering-Plough Corp.:
   Outlays Set on Treatments
   For Various Brain Disorders
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SGP
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Schering-Plough Corp., Madison, N.J., said it will spend
$20 million over the next five years to acquire the rights to
new technology aimed at treating Alzheimer's disease and
other degenerative brain disorders.
   Schering, a pharmaceutical and health products company,
said it will fund projects under way at Cephalon Inc., a
small, research-based company in West Chester, Pa., that is
developing drugs to treat neurological illnesses. The
agreement is expected to help Schering jump into the search
for drugs to fight brain-related disorders, one of the most
attractive and fast-growing research areas in the
pharmaceutical industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Specifically, Schering will get access to two Cephalon
projects designed to develop novel types of drugs against
Alzheimer's disease, a progressive illness that causes
premature senility and death. Cephalon's scientists have
developed several prototype drugs that block the action of an
enzyme in the brain. The enzyme, called clipsin, is involved
in the formation of plaque deposits in the brain that
scientists believe cause the destruction of important nerve
cells.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rockwell's Churchill
   To Quit Presidency
   Of Avionics Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Rockwell International Corp. said
that James L. Churchill, president of Rockwell's avionics
group since 1981, has decided to retire at the end of the
year.
   Mr. Churchill, 60 years old, has held various executive
posts over 21 years at the group, based in Cedar Rapids,
Iowa. During his tenure as president, group sales more than
doubled to $984 million last year from $455 million, Rockwell
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Churchill's duties will be divided between two
executives as part of a realignment that spins off the
group's government division into Rockwell's defense
electronics segment. "This brings all of our defense
electronics under one umbrella," a Rockwell spokesman said.
   John R. Girotto, 52, who will immediately assume most of
Mr. Churchill's duties, was named president of the group's
air transport and general aviation divisions. He was formerly
vice president and general manager of the air transport
division. John A. McLuckey, 50, continues as president of the
defense electronics segment, with additional duties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Bank System
   Is to Sell 16.7%
   To Investor Group
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   FBS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Bank System Inc. agreed to sell a 16.7% stake to an
investor group for $175 million in a move to increase its
capital base and speed the banking concern's recovery.
   At the same time, John F. Grundhofer, First Bank's new
chairman, president and chief executive officer, said that,
following a "thorough review" of the loan portfolio, a $390.6
million reserve for loan losses was "adequate." One of the
big uncertainties hanging over First Bank's depressed stock
price since Mr. Grundhofer was hired four months ago has been
whether he would make another big addition to the reserve
after going through the loan files.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Grundhofer said yesterday that he hopes his positive
review, along with the commitment of a Lazard Freres &amp;
Co.-sponsored investment fund to buy a big stake in First
Bank would begin to re-establish the company's credibility.
   First Bank has been hurt by big bond and loan losses in
recent years, as well as from a management strategy that
didn't emphasize the Minneapolis-based concern's big market
share in consumer banking in the upper Midwest.
   The Lazard fund, Corporate Partners, would put up $145
million, and one of the investors in the fund, the State
Board of Administration of Florida, would put up $30 million.
Together, they would buy 12.6 million newly issued First Bank
common shares at $13.875 each; that price was agreed during a
due-diligence period when First Bank's average price was
$13.50, the company said.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, First Bank common closed at $14.50, off $1, on
volume of 334,200 shares.
   The sale would increase First Bank's shares outstanding to
about 75.4 million from 62.8 million, but because of tax
benefits the company has and its relatively modest profit,
the higher number of shares wouldn't immediately cut into
per-share profit much. "A few cents a share this year," said
Richard A. Zona, chief financial officer, adding: "It will be
more as the earnings pick up."
   First Bank had first-quarter profit of $28.5 million, or
37 cents a share.
   First Bank said Lester Pollack, the Lazard partner who
manages the fund, approached the banking concern about the
investment. Another so-called friendly, minority stake fund
also approached First Bank, but it preferred the terms
offered by Mr. Pollack.
   A public sale of stock didn't seem feasible. "Most of our
investment banking friends were not very optimistic," Mr.
Grundhofer said.
   The private placement of the stock is subject to Federal
Reserve Board approval, which First Bank expects could take
about 45 days.
   As part of the investment, the Lazard fund would designate
a nonvoting "observer" to First Bank's board. The fund
couldn't raise its stake beyond 150% of what it would be
under this investment, couldn't launch a proxy fight, and
couldn't sell more than a 5% stake to another single
investor.
   The investors also would get what Mr. Grundhofer called
"disaster scenario" warrants that would help protect their
investment should First Bank's stock, or its net worth, not
live up to expectations, or should its dividend be cut or
omitted.
   The money will boost First Bank's common equity-to-assets
ratio to 4.8% from 4%, as of March 31, on a pro forma basis.
That will make it a lot easier for the company to expand its
consumer banking business, which is Mr. Grundhofer's
priority. He said the stock sale was better than having to
sell some businesses to raise capital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Storehouse PLC:
   Annual Pretax Profit Rose
   13%, Despite Retailing Ills
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SHS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Storehouse PLC of Britain said pretax profit for the year
ended March 31 rose 13% to #12.8 million ($21.7 million) from
#11.3 million a year earlier, despite widespread setbacks for
the retailer as increased costs and competitive pressures
hurt profit margins.
   Still, the results were below market estimates of #15
million to #25 million. Profit after taxes, less an
extraordinary loss, or profit attributable to shareholders,
plunged to #1.1 million from #58.8 million. Per-share
earnings, including special items, rose 40% to 2.1 pence from
1.5 pence. Profit from retail operations fell 38% to #39.4
million from #63.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An extraordinary loss of #7.4 million in the latest period
resulted from disposal of the Storecard credit-card business
and closure of the Anonymous fashion chain. Year-earlier
results included a #52.8 million one-time gain, mainly from
surplus from the sale of an investment. Sales rose 8.3% to
#1.3 billion from #1.2 billion.
   Storehouse is recommending a final dividend of 2.5 pence a
share, making the total payout five pence, down 43% from 8.8
pence a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal 1990 Rose 25%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KWH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd., the leading shipbuilder in
Japan, posted a 25% increase in unconsolidated pretax profit
for the fiscal year ended March 31 to 17.17 billion yen
($113.4 million) from 13.77 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income rose 55% to 12.35 billion yen, or 9.28 yen a
share, from 7.97 billion yen, or 5.99 yen a share. The
improvement allowed the company to resume its dividend, at
five yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales grew 5.9% to 812.81 billion yen from 767.07 billion
yen, owing to strong growth in the three largest divisions.
Sales rose 8.1% to 236.44 billion yen in the aircraft and
jets division, 23% to 190.67 billion yen in the machinery
unit, and 17% to 151.96 billion yen in consumer products. But
steel structure sales declined 12% to 124.25 billion yen.
Increased attention to profitability continued to buffet the
shipbuilding unit, where sales dropped 19% to 42.17 billion
yen. But shipbuilding orders for the year soared 181%,
reflecting boosted demand for Japanese ships amid rising
prices in competing nations. The company had 153.11 billion
yen in orders at the end of March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH OPENED talks with Gorbachev amid differences over
Germany and trade.
   Meeting in Washington for their second summit, the
president and the Soviet leader held what were described as
"upbeat" discussions, but failed to settle differences over
the future of a united Germany. Soviet negotiators,
meanwhile, indicated that they mightn't sign the five-year
pact to buy U.S. grain, a position apparently tied to Bush's
reluctance to sign a trade treaty because of Moscow's
resistance to Lithuanian independence. Opposing views also
were stated on conventional arms cuts. The two leaders,
however, are expected to sign agreements today to reduce
chemical-weapons production and to establish rules for
verifying nuclear-test limits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet republic of Moldavia's legislature, in a direct
challenge to Gorbachev's leadership, formally recognized
Lithuania's independence declaration.
   ---
   Israel urged the U.S. to end all contacts with the PLO
after seaborne Palestinian guerrillas loyal to a top PLO
official tried to attack crowded beaches on a Jewish holiday.
But Arafat said that the PLO wasn't responsible for
Wednesday's incident near Tel Aviv, and that he hadn't the
authority to take action against the official.
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution to send
a three-member commission to the Israeli-occupied West Bank
and Gaza Strip to recommend ways to protect Palestinians. The
draft had been supported by 14 of the council's 15 members.
   ---
   East German lawmakers voted to give the government broad
authority to seize land, houses and businesses controlled by
members of the old Communist regime. The action freezes the
party's vast holdings a month before the nation merges its
economy with West Germany's and begins transferring state
property to the private sector.
   ---
   The State Department ordered Americans to leave Liberia
because a rebel army is advancing on Monrovia, the capital,
and a U.S. Navy flotilla was sent to the African nation to
assist with the evacuation. The U.N., meanwhile, canceled a
food-aid program following an attack by government forces
Wednesday on a refugee compound.
   ---
   The FDA approved a plan to expand access to the AIDS drug
DDC. Under the plan, the result of talks between Hoffmann-La
Roche and AIDS activists, eligible patients will include
those with AIDS and advanced AIDS-related complex who can't
use two other anti-viral drugs.
   ---
   NASA workers pinpointed a tiny leak in the space shuttle
Columbia's rear compartment, but judged it too small to have
caused the hydrogen leak that delayed Wednesday's scheduled
launch. Space agency officials said the spacecraft's
astronomy mission would be on hold for at least another week
as work to repair the orbiter continues.
   ---
   Imelda Marcos collapsed during her federal racketeering
trial in New York, coughing blood before being rushed by
ambulance to a hospital. Her condition was listed as stable.
The former first lady of the Philippines, 60, who is accused
of helping plunder Manila's treasury, has fallen ill twice in
the last month with high blood pressure.
   ---
   Canada's Mulroney called the country's 10 provincial
premiers to an emergency meeting Sunday in an effort to end a
constitutional deadlock over granting French-speaking Quebec
special status. Three of the provinces oppose the move, which
is part of an accord that must be ratified by June 23.
   ---
   The U.S. has granted political asylum to a Chinese couple
who fled because of Beijing's family-planning laws, their
lawyer said. They are the first known refugees to be granted
sanctuary under an order issued by Bush in November that
established fear of forced abortion as a ground for asylum.
                                                                                                       

   Three Chinese dissidents disappeared after abruptly
canceling a conference in Beijing where they had planned to
make a public appeal for the release of political prisoners.
Friends of rock singer Hou Dejian and two intellectuals said
they had left the Chinese capital on "personal business."
   ---
   A series of aftershocks rattled Romania, Bulgaria and
Soviet Moldavia, sending panicked people into the streets and
damaging more buildings a day after an earthquake left at
least 14 people dead. In Peru, rescuers searched for
survivors of Tuesday's temblor, which killed about 135
people.
   ---
   Died: Abram Shorin, 91, a founder of Topps Co., Monday, in
Miami.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British Gas PLC:
   Fiscal 1990 Net Rose 3%
   On an Historic-Cost Basis
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   BRG T.CGT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Gas PLC reported that net income on an
historic-cost basis for the year ended March 31 rose 3% to
#926 million ($1.57 billion) from #899 million a year
earlier, as gains from exploration and production activities
offset softened demand from the warm European winter.
   The historic-cost net, which values inventories at their
acquisition cost, was slightly below analysts' expectations,
ranging from #930 million to #970 million. On a current-cost
basis, in which inventories are valued at replacement cost,
net rose 9.7% to #680 million from #620 million. Earnings per
share increased 2.4% to 21.7 pence from 21.2 pence. Sales
rose 6% to #7.98 billion from #7.53 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman Robert Evans reiterated the company's commitment
to seeking opportunities beyond its traditional hold on the
domestic market. He cited the potential for British Gas to
develop natural gas reserves and distribution systems in
unserved areas globally. The company is in the midst of a 1.1
billion Canadian dollar (US$935.3 million) friendly takeover
bid for Consumers' Gas Co. of Canada, which is being
contested by a Canadian investor group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Approves Pilot Plan
   For Trading of OTC Stocks
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission voted
to approve a pilot project allowing stock exchanges to trade
some over-the-counter stocks.
   The project, passed by the commission 3-1, is designed to
foster competition in stock trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC approved the plan as a pilot to run about a year
before evaluation.
   Under the plan, exchanges would apply to the SEC for the
right to trade OTC stocks under "unlisted trading
privileges." That would allow the exchanges to trade the
shares without having the issues go through the exchanges'
standard registration or listing requirements.
   "This is one of the steps the commission is taking to
create a national market system," an SEC spokeswoman said.
She added that the action follows a 1975 congressional action
asking the SEC to help create such a system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Post Modest Gains After Weak Start
   Spurred by Rise in Regional Purchasing Indexes
   ----
   By Andrew Bary and Susan Scherreik
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR MZ BLY JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices ended modestly higher in quiet
trading as investors braced for today's release of the May
employment report.
   "It's the calm before the potential storm of the
employment report," said Robert T. Falconer, a senior vice
president at Aubrey G. Lanston &amp; Co. "Everyone is gun-shy."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Surprises in the employment data, considered the most
important of the government's monthly statistics on the
economy, often roil the bond market.
   That was certainly the case when the much
weaker-then-expected April jobs report issued on May 4
ignited a bond market rally that lifted the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond 1 1/2 points, or $15 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount.
   What little activity there was yesterday generally
involved position-squaring, traders and analysts said.
   "There's been a last-minute adjustment of positions in
anticipation of the employment report," said Charles
Lieberman, a managing director at Manufacturers Hanover
Securities Corp.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose more than 1/8
point. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction from its price, eased to 8.57%.
   Bonds got off to a weak start after increases in the
indexes of regional surveys of purchasing managers in Chicago
and Detroit raised speculation that the national survey, also
due out today, would show more strength in the manufacturing
sector of the economy than many economists have forecast.
   Analysts said market participants were especially
concerned about the report by the Purchasing Management
Association of Chicago. Its index of business conditions in
May rose to an unadjusted 56%, compared with 54.2% in April.
On a seasonally adjusted basis, the index was 55.3%, compared
with 50.2% in April.
   "People thought that the surprisingly strong Chicago
purchasing management survey might transfer to the national
figure," said Christopher Rupkey, a financial economist at
Mitsubishi Bank.
   Meanwhile, the Detroit Purchasing Management Association
index rose to 48.8% in May from 45.6% in April.
   The national purchasing agents' survey is closely
monitored by the bond market because, like the jobs report,
it provides one of the first readings of how the economy
performed in a given month.
   After the initial flurry of selling on the regional
reports, "there was no follow-through to the downside," a
dealer of government securities said. As a result, players
who have established short positions, in a bet that prices
would decline further, then covered those shorts, he said.
   A consensus of economists polled by Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report expects an acceleration of employment growth
in May, with nonfarm payrolls seen having increased 253,000,
with a gain of 135,000 seen if census workers hired in the
month are excluded.
   The May civilian unemployment rate is expected to have
been unchanged at 5.4%.
   In April, nonfarm payrolls grew a paltry 64,000, with
payrolls decreasing 14,000 if census workers hired that month
are excluded.
   Meanwhile, the index of the National Association of
Purchasing Management is expected to have declined to 49.5%
in May, according to the average of estimates of economists
surveyed by Capital Markets Report. A reading above 50%
indicates an expanding industrial sector, and a reading below
50% suggests the sector is contracting.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Consolidated Rail Corp., the Philadelphia-based freight
railroad, drew a sell-out crowd when it offered $250 million
of notes.
   The sale of the 10-year notes, which were priced to yield
9.785%, marked the first public debt offering by Conrail
since its recapitalization earlier this year.
   "We were very pleased to get it done at these spreads
without any event-risk protection," said treasurer John
McKelvey.
   Strong investor demand prompted underwriters led by Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. to boost the offering from $200 million.
   About 50 accounts participated in the deal, and investment
bankers said the notes were snapped up primarily by
institutional buyers such as pension funds and mutual funds.
   The noncallable securities were priced at a spread of 1.15
percentage points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Proceeds
from the offering will be used mainly to refinance commercial
paper borrowings incurred in connection with the company's
$1.1 billion self-tender offer.
   Mr. McKelvey said Conrail is likely to tap the market with
at least $500 million more in new debt later this year.
   In trading, most actively traded investment-grade
corporate bonds ended unchanged to slightly stronger.
   In the junk bond market, high-yield bonds of R.H. Macy &amp;
Co. weakened significantly as investor skittishness about the
giant retailer mounted.
   Macy's 14 1/2% senior subordinated debentures due in 1998
were quoted at a bid price of 65, down three points from
Wednesday, while the 14 1/2% subordinated debentures maturing
in 2001 ended at a bid price of 54, after trading as high as
58 Wednesday.
   In the broader high-yield market, junk bonds finished
about 1/4 point higher on light volume.
   Junk bonds of Bally Manufacturing Corp. continued to
strengthen after surging five points Wednesday. Bally's 13
5/8% subordinated debentures, due in 2001, added three points
to close at 61.
   Bally Manufacturing bonds began climbing Wednesday after
the company announced an exchange offer under which
bondholders would receive 57 shares of Bally common stock for
each $1,000 principal amount of debentures tendered.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Slightly firm prices were being quoted for most mortgage
securities.
   The focus of the Government National Mortgage Association
market was a Public Securities Association decision yesterday
afternoon to restrict trading in high-coupon Ginnie Maes with
rates of 11% and higher issued from Jan. 1, 1989, to July 1,
1990, effective in the next session.
   This move is intended to stem the issuance of so-called
live-free mortgages, which have soured the entire $50 billion
market for high-coupon mortgages.
   Certain mortgage originators have been issuing mortgages
to homeowners at above-market rates for refinancing purposes,
agreeing in advance to refinance the mortgages at lower
rates.
   For the investor, the unusually quick prepayment rates
often resulted in losses on the securities they were willing
to pay premiums for in anticipation of prepayments later on.
   Under the reported agreement, the bond trade group has
deemed these high-coupon Ginnie Maes ineligible for delivery
for "to-be-announced" trades, which are standard mortgage
securities trades in which the buyer doesn't know the exact
pool he will receive at settlement.
   Meanwhile, Ginnie Mae President Arthur Hill sent a letter
to mortgage securities market players stating that
high-coupon loans originated with these pre-arranged
refinancing provisions aren't eligible for inclusion in
Ginnie Mae mortgage securities pools effective immediately.
   Ginnie Mae 9 1/2% securities for June delivery were up
3/32 at 98 19/32.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at
101 24/32, up from 101 18/32 on Wednesday. The latest 10-year
notes ended at 101 25/32 to yield 8.59%, compared with 101
22/32 to yield 8.60%.
   Short-term rates were little changed to modestly higher.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was little
changed at 7.76% for a bond-equivalent yield of 8%. The rate
on six-month notes rose to 7.74% to yield 8.15%.
   Yesterday the Treasury sold $10 billion of 52-week bills.
Here are details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                       52-Week Bills
                                                                                                       

   Applications                              $25,562,265,000
   Accepted bids                             $10,008,655,000
   Accepted at low price                                  7%
   Accepted noncompetitively                    $869,020,000
   Average price (Rate)                       92.265 (7.65%)
   High price (Rate)                          92.275 (7.64%)
   Low price (Rate)                           92.255 (7.66%)
   Coupon equivalent                                   8.24%
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated June 7 and mature June 6, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Advancing to mostly unchanged levels after slim declines
on new economic data, municipal bonds were flat to up 1/8
point in thin late trading.
   New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was
unchanged at 98 bid to yield 7.36%.
   Some municipal issues had traded down about 1/8 point
after the release of the Chicago Purchasing Management
Association's index for May, traders said.
   In addition, news that President Bush and Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev may agree on the major elements of a
strategic arms reduction treaty today, buoyed the market,
some traders said.
   In slim new issue dealings, a $50.9 million issue of New
Jersey certificates of participation was won by a Dillon,
Read &amp; Co. group. The bonds were priced to yield from 5.90%
in 1990 to 6.65% in 1997.
   No large municipal issues are expected to be priced today.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Japanese government bonds ended stronger on news that
Japanese wholesale prices declined.
   The Japanese government said wholesale prices fell 0.4% in
the second 10 days of May from the first 10 days. Traders
said most buyers Thursday were dealers.
   The price of Japan's benchmark 10-year government security
rose to 88.14 points to yield 6.94%. (The yield is calculated
in local terms, but it would be 6.56% if calculated by the
semiannual compound measure used in the U.S.)
   In Britain, government bonds ended moderately lower as
speculation faded again about an imminent entry by Britain
into the European Monetary System's exchange rate mechanism.
   Prices had surged Wednesday on renewed speculation that
British authorities were about to make an announcement
concerning the mechanism, which is the European Community's
currency stabilization arrangement. But in comments made on
Wednesday, Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major didn't say
anything regarding the country's entry into the arrangement.
   In Frankfurt, West German Bundesbank President Karl Otto
Poehl also discouraged expectations. He said "Britain can't
and shouldn't participate in the EMS" because of its high
inflation and balance-of-payment problems.
   Britain's 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 fell 9/32 to 99 27/32
to yield 11.76%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Investing in Spinoffs
   Grows Treacherous
   ---
   Popularity of Issues
   Puts End to Bargains
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SPG SCT PRI HON BZ MA OAT SFX KDON MASX YRK SCZ WBN ELJ
CKE
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Say goodbye to the easy-profit days of
investing in corporate spinoffs.
   Bargains used to be a dime a dozen among spinoffs, the
companies that are created when a corporation jettisons part
of its business, giving it away to shareholders in the form
of new stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the dangers of investing in spinoff stocks have risen
sharply in the past year, Wall Street analysts say. One
reason: The game is getting crowded as investors rush in,
driving up prices.
   Investing in spinoffs in the '80s "was like shooting fish
in a barrel," says veteran spinoff follower Charles W.
Neuhauser, an analyst with Legg Mason Wood Walker in
Baltimore. "Almost anything you hit was a winner."
   By contrast, he says, in the past year and a half, most
new spinoffs haven't been "sufficiently undervalued to get me
fired up."
   A Bear Stearns study of 46 spinoffs from 1984 through 1988
found the stocks rose an average of 67% from the day they
were distributed through May 9 of this year. Boosting that
average were such home runs as Kaydon, spun off by Bairnco in
1984, which rose 525%; Masco Industries, part of Masco until
1984, up 358%; and York International, severed by Borg Warner
in 1986, up 297%.
   The drill for investors was simple. Knowing that even the
best spinoff stocks often tend to decline early in their
lives, savvy traders would snap up the shares at bargain
prices, then wait for them to take off.
   "You could have bought most of them and, in general,
outperformed" the overall market, says Bear Stearns analyst
Frederick A. Wise.
   Not any more. "Today, they are coming out at higher
prices," Mr. Wise says. Moreover, "they go down a little
further" for a time after their launch, making it tougher for
investors to pinpoint the best time to buy.
   Among the decliners in Mr. Wise's study -- which excluded
companies formed in the once-in-a-lifetime breakup of the
Bell Systems -- were auto parts maker Schwitzer, off 56%
through yesterday; warehouse retailer Waban, down 51%; and
plumbing supply company Eljer Industries, off 40%. All three
of these spinoffs began trading last year.
   Peter Lynch, the renowned stock-picker who recently
retired, said in his well-known book, "One Up on Wall
Street," that spinoffs "often result in astoundingly
lucrative investments." But is the spinoff party now over,
just as traders are speculating that a wave of spinoffs by
debt-ridden companies is about to break?
   Both Mr. Neuhauser and Mr. Wise (who succeeded him on the
spinoff watch at Bear Stearns) give a cautious "no" to that,
at least for selective, patient buyers.
   "Now that more people have caught on, we're back to Square
One, where you have to look at each one of these stocks
individually," says Mr. Neuhauser.
   No longer does he jump on spinoffs as they come out of the
chute. Mr. Neuhauser now is looking at issues that have been
seasoned for a year or two, time enough for the initial
enthusiasm to have worn off. "Through lack of interest, these
things have sunk down under their own weight {to become}
attractively undervalued," he says of a few of his favorites.
   One of those is Sprague Technologies. Spun off by Penn
Central in August 1987 at 16, the stock traded as high as 20
before the October 1987 market crash. Sprague later plunged
to 4, and it closed yesterday at 5, down 1/8, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   "I think it is worth twice what it's selling for," Mr.
Neuhauser says.
   Another on his list is Scotsman Industries, which was
distributed to Household International shareholders in April
1989 (as were Schwitzer and Eljer). Scotsman, a maker of
refrigeration products, began trading around 13 but fell by
almost half when poor earnings were reported this year. Mr.
Neuhauser labels it "definitely a bargain" at its current
price. It closed unchanged yesterday at 8, also in Big Board
trading.
   Mr. Wise, in reviewing most spinoff stocks issued since
1984, found that more than half of them dropped in their
first month of trading. This pattern might suggest that
people who receive shares in a spinoff should consider a
quick sale. By the end of six months, however, almost
three-quarters of the new stocks had moved above their
initial prices.
   Scott L. Greiper, publisher of Bits &amp; Pieces, a New
York-based research letter that tracks spinoffs for
institutional investors, agrees that the game has become more
difficult. But he still says spinoffs can offer splendid
buying opportunities in their early months.
   He cites this year's formation of Promus by Holiday. The
stock began trading at 30 5/8 in February and fell to 24 1/4
in eight trading days. It then recovered, declined again to
23 1/4 in April and rebounded again, closing yesterday in Big
Board trading at 29 7/8, down 3/8.
   That adds up to some nice returns for buyers who took
advantage of the stock's early weakness. But the best might
be still to come for the stock. Mr. Greiper says that most
spinoffs are "really value plays that take 12 to 18 months to
show their true grit."
   Analyzing infant companies is far from child's play.
Financial data can be sketchy. Their first earnings reports
often don't match inflated expectations, and that can send
shares reeling "to depths unimagined at the time of the
spinoff," Mr. Wise says. He also points out that the spinoff
successes of the 1980s came in an extended bull market that
won't always be there.
   Mr. Neuhauser questions whether a big bulge in spinoffs is
around the corner. He says the spinoffs of the '80s were
often anti-takeover moves, and such moves have become less
necessary with the demise of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and
the slump in the junk bond market.
   About a dozen spinoffs are in the works at the moment,
including ones approved or under consideration by Honeywell,
Bairnco, May Department Stores, Quaker Oats and Santa Fe
Pacific. But the go-ahead on a spinoff can take months from
when it is first proposed, so buying the parent company's
stock when spinoff plans are announced can be dangerous.
Castle &amp; Cooke's stock jumped 3 1/4 on its February
announcement that it planned to spin off its Dole Food unit,
then lost 4 on last month's announcement that it was putting
off the spinoff.
   "I don't even bother with these things until they have
been officially declared," Mr. Neuhauser says. A snarl like
the one at Dole is unusual, he says, but "quite often the
terms and the makeup will change any number of times between
the announcement and the initial distribution."
   ---
                       Downward Spin
                                                                                                       

           How leading spinoff stocks have fared
                                                                                                       

                            First    Yesterday's      %
 1989 SPINOFF (Parent)      Close      Close        Change
                                                                                                       

 Mercury Fin.
   (First Illinois)*       13 7/8      20 3/8         47%
                                                                                                       

 Broad Inc.
   (Kaufman &amp; Broad)        7 1/4       8 3/8         16
                                                                                                       

 Morton Int'l
   (Morton Thiokol)        38 7/8      42 3/4         10
                                                                                                       

 Beckman Instr.
   (SmithKline Beckman)    18 1/4      17 7/8        - 2
                                                                                                       


   (Community Psychiatric) 29 1/8      28            - 4
                                                                                                       

 Tredegar Ind.
   (Ethyl Corp.)           13 1/2      12 5/8        - 6
                                                                                                       

 Matlack
   (RLC)                    7 1/4       6 3/4        - 7
                                                                                                       

 Cray Computer
   (Cray Research)          4 3/4       4 1/4        -11
                                                                                                       

 Yankee Energy
   (Northeast Util.)       22 1/4      19 1/2        -12
                                                                                                       

 Allergan
   (SmithKline Beckman)    23 1/4      17 5/8        -24
                                                                                                       

 Scotsman Ind.
   (Household Intl.)       13 1/8       8            -39
                                                                                                       

 Eljer Ind.
   (Household Intl.)       29 1/8      17 3/8        -40
                                                                                                       

 Waban
   (Zayre#)                17 1/2       8 1/2        -51
                                                                                                       

 Schwitzer
   (Household Intl.)       13 7/8       6 1/8        -56
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

                            First    Yesterday's      %
 1989 SPINOFF (Parent)      Close      Close        Change
                                                                                                       

 Aerovox
   (Cooper Industries)      3 1/2       4 3/8         25%
                                                                                                       

 Momentum Distribution
   (VWR Corp.)             16          18 1/4         14
                                                                                                       

 Promus Cos.
   (Holiday Corp.)         26 7/8      29 7/8         11
                                                                                                       

 Unitrin
   (Teledyne)              31 3/4      31 1/2        - 1
                                                                                                       

 Hillhaven
   (Nat'l Med.
    Enterprises)            1 7/8       1 3/8        -27
                                                                                                       

 Henley Properties
   (Henley Group)          10 1/4       6 1/4        -39
                                                                                                       

   *Adjusted for split
   #Now TJX
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Bear, Stearns & Co.; WSJ
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Carolco Pictures Inc.:
   Tokyo's Pioneer Electronic
   To Acquire a Stake of 10%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC PIO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Carolco Pictures Inc. said a unit of Pioneer Electronic
Corp. of Tokyo agreed to buy a 10% stake in the Los Angeles
movie company and appoint two members to its board.
   Pioneer LDCA will pay $60 million for a new Series C
convertible preferred stock that will pay a 5% yearly
dividend until redeemed. The stock will be convertible into
3.24 million shares of Carolco common stock at $18.50 each, a
considerable premium to Carolco's close at $13 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pioneer LDCA also will buy a warrant entitling it to buy
300,000 Carolco common shares for $18.50 each. The agreement
grants the unit the right of first refusal to world-wide
rights to Carolco titles on laser disk format.
   Peter Hoffman, president and chief executive officer, said
the transaction will help pay down some of the debt incurred
by Mario Kassar, Carolco's chairman, when he bought out his
partner, Andrew Vajna, last fall.
   Carolco also said it signed an agreement with another
Pioneer unit, under which it will license all Japanese rights
to several new Carolco movies including "Terminator II" and
"The Doors."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Polish and Price Cuts at Electronics Show
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MC J.NCL SNE HIT J.AIW
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   When the doors open on the Consumer Electronics Show
tomorrow morning in Chicago, the buyers and dealers that
thrive on the show's razzle-dazzle aren't likely to find much
that's really new, but they will encounter a big marketing
push for refinements of older products, and some sharp
price-cutting.
   Missing will be hot new technologies in the pipeline to
get customers spending big again. "There's no
earth-shattering something that's going to come jumping out
of the back room," says Ed Hearne, national merchandising
manager for home electronics at Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So the buyers who flock to Chicago -- the men and women
who decide what products make it onto store shelves this fall
-- will be looking for incremental changes and resurrected
technologies. They're getting both this weekend in such
gizmos as laser video disk players, smaller camcorders and
bigger televisions with theater-quality sound. "It's mostly
enhancements or refinements to what already exists," says
Michael Fidler, marketing vice president for Pioneer
Electronic Corp.'s U.S. home electronics unit. "The only
breakthroughs will be price breakthroughs."
   Retailers say they expect to see plummeting prices at the
show in products such as cordless telephones, cellular phones
and pocket televisions with flat screens. Facsimile machines
are expected to fall under $400, one buyer says.
   One of the show's hottest technologies, retailers say,
will be a 10-year-old product: the laser-disk player. The
machines, which play movies from 12-inch disks in the same
fashion that compact disk players spin CDs, will be a
top-billed item at several prominent booths. Panasonic Co., a
U.S. unit of the giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Corp.,
plans to show its first laser-disk models, priced at $850 and
$1,400. Denon America Inc., a unit of Japan's Nippon Columbia
Co., says it will unveil its first laser-disk model, meant
for well-heeled videophiles.
   The technology isn't new, but big buyers are excited about
it anyway. After having languished on the market since
Pioneer introduced the first ones in 1980, the laser-disk
player is finally getting a stamp of approval now that
Panasonic has entered the market, says Donald Rothenstein,
senior merchandising manager for electronics at Sharper Image
Corp.
   "Laser disk has been in its infancy for 10 years now,"
says Mr. Rothenstein. "Now it seems to be breaking out of it.
Things are really starting to get interesting." Unit sales of
laser-disk players are expected to jump about 34%, to
215,000, this year, according to the Electronic Industries
Association, a trade group. Pioneer estimates that unit sales
will hit 250,000, and some makers think sales could go as
high as 400,000 units.
   Why such excitement over a gadget many thought was dead
several years ago? For one thing, consumer electronics
companies and retailers have so successfully saturated U.S.
homes with the old bonanza products, such as videocassette
recorders and audio equipment, that little new growth is
expected from those products.
   Laser-disk players also owe their long-awaited day in the
spotlight to the evolution of another old technology: large
screen televisions. With the color television market long
saturated, big Japanese makers are falling over each other to
stretch TV screens ever larger. Mitsubishi Electric Corp.
showed a 120-inch model at an earlier show this year, and
buyers expect even bigger screens to make their debut this
weekend, as well as cheaper models using liquid-crystal
diodes, which create a better picture with a smaller
projector.
   But videotaped movies can be grainy on the bigger screens,
and don't provide great sound either. Laser disks, which use
lasers to read digitally recorded movies, provide a much
clearer picture with compact-disk-quality sound.
   A critical mass of movies on disk has become available
this year, with over 4,000 titles on the market, retailers
say. And the price of players that can handle all five types
of laser disks -- from 3-inch and 5-inch audio disks to the
12-inch video disk -- will fall under a critical threshold
this weekend, they say. Pioneer says it will unveil at the
show a player called the CLD980 with a list price of $500;
Pioneer says it will sell at a "street price" of less than
$399, compared with the $1,000 and more that typical machines
cost last year.
   Backing up the move to laser disks are new technologies to
squeeze better sound out of movies for what the industry
calls "home theaters," essentially large-screen television
sets combined with expensive audio gear. Matsushita will show
a new system that provides theater-quality sound using THX
technology licensed from Lucasfilm Ltd. Matsushita will sell
components that seek to emulate what THX, which dictates how
audio signals are interpreted and where speakers are placed,
does in 500 theaters around the world.
   By backing laser disk, Matsushita is admitting defeat; it
backed another video-disk format in the early 1980s that
failed. But the company plans to fire up another old feud
this weekend, this one with Sony Corp. Matsushita will unveil
a tiny new 1.7-pound camcorder, a camera built into a
recorder. Called the Palmcorder, the $999-to-$1,099 gadget is
an effort by Matsushita to reverse the declining share of the
growing market for camcorders that use cassette-sized tapes
rather than the paperback-sized VHS tapes.
   That's a challenge to the king of the mountain, Sony.
Matsushita's cameras use so-called VHS-C format tapes; Sony's
rival mini-camcorders use the incompatible, 8mm format. "The
mini-camcorders wars have started up again and are heating up
rapidly," says Sharper Image's Mr. Rothenstein. "It's the
ongoing saga of those two battling it out."
   Sony and its followers are winning: 8mm camcorders had a
26% share of the $2.2 billion camcorder market last year vs.
VHS-C's 11%, according to Dealerscope Merchandising, a
consumer electronics trade journal. (The remaining 63% went
to full-sized camcorders.) Industry executives expect 8mm's
share to grow to 35% this year. Stan Baker, vice president of
video merchandising at Good Guys Inc., says about 85% of the
retailer's compact camcorder sales are 8mm machines.
   And Sony is already gloating about at least one powerful
ally who plans to join the 8mm camp at the show. Hitachi Ltd.
is expected to announce its first 8mm camera, which it will
sell alongside its VHS-C format player. "A year ago they were
saying `I'd rather sell my mother than sell 8mm,'" says Mr.
Baker. "It's a nice turnabout for Sony. Eight millimeter is
absolutely the product of choice."
   A different kind of feud, a political one between Japanese
electronics giants and U.S. recording interests, will also
still be simmering. In what has become a standing issue for
consumer shows, many makers will show digital-audio tape
players with no price tags and no firm shipping dates.
   Sony, which announced with much fanfare earlier this year
that it would start selling this summer, still hasn't firmed
up shipment dates. And despite approval earlier this week by
the Japanese government of a new standard that seeks to
prevent rampant copying, Pioneer has decided it isn't
"prudent" to show a DAT player at all, says Pioneer's Mr.
Fidler. "We're not at a point where it is totally resolved
and there are questions of viability of it in terms of
growth."
   A number of Japanese companies have scheduled news
conferences for today and Monday to announce that they plan
to start selling DAT recorders soon. Spokesmen for Matsushita
and Aiwa Co. said they would announce plans to sell the
machines in Japan, and Matsushita said it would sell
Panasonic machines in the U.S. by "late summer." A spokesman
for another major company, who asked not to be identified,
said the company today will announce plans for impending
sales in both countries.
   But the U.S. hasn't approved DAT standards, so the
introduction of the products in this country remains
uncertain. After many years of promises followed by delays,
buyers aren't optimistic that the technology will be
available in the U.S. any time soon. DAT would be an
attractive technology to boost a sagging industry, but only
"if the industry and copyright holders and the government
could get together and get it resolved," says Mr. Hearne of
Sears. "We definitely wouldn't want to get caught in the
middle."
   ---
   Jacob M. Schlesinger contributed to this article.
   ---
                      Small Camcorders
                                                                                                       

           U.S. camcorder unit shipments by format
                                                                                                       

   Betamax ............................   .2%
   8mm ................................ 26.3%
   VHS-C .............................. 11.0%
   VHS ................................ 62.5%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Dealerscope Merchandising
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Landmark Land Pact Is Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LML
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARMEL, Calif. -- Landmark Land Co. said its $60 million
contract to sell resort assets at Carmel Valley Ranch to
American International Golf Resorts Inc. has been terminated.
The sale would have yielded Landmark a $20 million profit.
   The assets included the Carmel Valley Ranch resort, golf
course and tennis club.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Washington Bancorp.
   Names Mason to Be
   Chairman and Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WWBC WNEWS CRFC
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Washington Bancorp. named John J. Mason
chairman and chief executive officer and gave preliminary
approval to a bailout plan for the cash-strapped bank holding
company.
   Mr. Mason, the 51-year-old former chairman of NS&amp;T
Bankshares Inc., owns 6.4% of Washington Bancorp. In
addition, he is one of two lead investors in the company's
planned issue of $45 million in new secured debt, announced
Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Washington Bancorp. also named Michael F. Ryan,
51-year-old former president of NS&amp;T Bank, as president and
chief operating officer. John M. Toups, who served as interim
chairman and chief executive after the January resignation of
Luther H. Hodges Jr., said he will go back into retirement
and remain a director.
   In early May, Washington Bancorp. said it wouldn't be able
to repay about $36.7 million of unsecured commercial paper
obligations because certain credit lines were cut off. The
company has since defaulted on most of that short-term debt.
   As part of the financial revamp plan, virtually all of
Washington Bancorp.'s assets will be pledged to secure the
$45 million in new debt, which will probably have a term of
12 months. In addition, Mr. Toups said the debt buyers will
receive warrants, with anti-dilution protection, to acquire
60% or more of the company's common stock at a "nominal"
price.
   Mr. Mason declined a request for an interview, but in a
statement, the new chairman said he has two immediate goals:
to end Washington Bancorp.'s liquidity crisis and to restore
public confidence in the company's principal subsidiary,
National Bank of Washington.
   Mr. Mason also resigned as a director of Richmond,
Va.-based Crestar Financial Corp. to devote more time to
Washington Bancorp. Crestar hasn't yet decided whether it
will fill the vacancy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Central Bank
   Ends Hopes for Easing
   Of Monetary Policy
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- The Swiss National Bank effectively dashed hopes
that it might ease its restrictive monetary policy this year,
reiterating a commitment to firm interest rates and a strong
Swiss franc.
   The statements at the central bank's annual news
conference came as no surprise to the markets. But the
remarks underscored the Swiss National Bank's intention to
turn a deaf ear to domestic observers who would like to see
rates begin to ease as early as this summer to preclude any
chance of a recession.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Central bank President Markus Lusser, citing continued
inflationary pressures in the robust economy, said "we
therefore see no reason to modify fundamentally the direction
of our monetary policy in the near future."
   He repeated the central bank's forecast that inflation
will fall sharply by the end of the year after reaching an
expected 5.5% annual pace in May. With the help of the strong
franc, the earlier fears of 6% annual rates in the summer
months may be avoided, he added.
   Nevertheless, Hans Meyer, vice president of the central
bank, ruled out the possibility that this will usher in lower
interest rates in the autumn. "I don't see any significant
change for the rest of the year," he said.
   Officials also emphasized the positive contribution to
monetary policy objectives made by the recent strength of the
Swiss franc, which helps to reduce the inflationary impact of
imports.
   "The evolution of the Swiss franc has been a lot more
favorable than we could have hoped for several months ago,"
Mr. Lusser said. He added that he "could live" with a
slightly firmer franc and doesn't see a danger now that the
currency may get too strong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Finger-Snapping Fun
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- "Smoke on the Mountain" and "Forever Plaid,"
two new musical comedies playing off-Broadway, employ the
same happy formula for success: String together a couple of
dozen snazzy songs from a neglected niche of Americana, add a
skeletal plot and a handful of engaging characters. In each
case, the result is finger-snapping, laugh-out-loud fun.
   The more substantial of the two is "Smoke on the
Mountain," which tells the story of the Sanctified Sanders
Singers, a family country gospel choir that's making its
comeback at the first ever Saturday night sing at the Baptist
church in Mount Pleasant, N.C. The time is June 1938.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are 21 rousing numbers: old hymnal standards ("The
Church in the Wildwood" and "Bringing in the Sheaves");
country schlock ("Christian Cowboy" and "I'm Using My Bible
for a Roadmap"); and sweet ballads ("Meet Mother in the
Skies" and "Everyone Home But Me"). The seven cast members
accompany themselves on two dozen instruments both ordinary
-- banjo, piano, guitar -- and kitchen variety -- oatmeal
box, wooden spoons, washboard.
   In between songs, the family "witnesses." Pa Sanders
(Reathel Bean) recounts his skirmish with the devil over
whether to sell beer at his grocerette. Pa's ne'er-do-well
brother Stanley (Dan Manning) tells about his sinful fondness
for liquor. And Ma (Linda Kerns), a bit too sanctimonious for
her own good, launches into Bible-quoting competitions with
the family's host, the earnest Rev. Mervin Oglethorpe (Kevin
Chamberlin). Then there are the three nearly grown children.
Timid Dennis (Robert Olsen), who wants to be a preacher,
practices his sermons on his dog. The family firebrand,
Denise (Jane Potter), announces that there's nothing wrong
with Christians watching movies not made by Disney. The
eldest, June (Connie Ray, who's also the author), can't sing
but spreads the Good Word by translating her family's songs
into sign language.
   ---
   "Forever Plaid" is more loosely organized than "Smoke on
the Mountain" and is much more of a variation on "Name That
Tune." The tunes are the mawkish pop hits of the late '50s
and early '60s ("Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing," "Three
Coins in the Fountain," "Heart and Soul"). They are sung in
unctuous, overweening harmony by "The Four Plaids," four
boy-next-door types who specialize in high school proms and
airport hotel lounges.
   The quartet are graduates of the "Osterizer school of
harmonic theory." They have names like Sparky and Jinx and
say things like "holy cannolli." They wear boss red plaid
dinner jackets with matching cummerbunds and bow ties. Perry
Como is their hero.
   As the Four Plaids, Stan Chandler, David Engel, Jason
Graae and Guy Stroman are adorable teen angels. They also are
delicious hams, and accompany their crooning with hilarious
bits of business as they try their amateurish best to be
suave.
   One of the funniest numbers is the early Beatles hit -- "I
Wanna Hold Your Hand," which, in their saccharine rendition,
becomes, "I Want to Hold Your Hand, Yes Sirree Bob." Another
is a spoof of "The Ed Sullivan Show," the Sunday-night
television staple 30 years ago. In a frenetic three minutes
and 11 seconds, they parody one of Ed's really big shows,
playing such guests as clapping seals, acrobats, jugglers,
fire eaters, Charlie McCarthy and Edgar Bergen, and the
Mexican mouse who always begged Ed for a good-night kiss.
   Off-Broadway theaters aren't normally notable for the
refreshments they offer at intermission. About the best you
usually can hope for is a cup of coffee and a day-old cookie
wrapped in cellophane. But both "Forever Plaid" and "Smoke on
the Mountain" are unique in this respect. "Forever Plaid" is
playing at Steve McGraw's, an Upper West Side bistro that
offers a dinner-theater package, a staple of the suburbs, but
not common in Manhattan. Over at Lamb's Theater, where "Smoke
on the Mountain" is playing, intermission brings the
atmosphere of a church social. Ethel and Harold Bakewell,
imported from Danville, Ohio, sell homemade sweet potato and
chess pies and peach cobbler and tell you to help yourselves
to coffee or lemonade.
   A word about Lamb's Theatre: A national historical
landmark, it was built at the turn of the century in the
neo-Georgian style and used as a club until 1975, when it was
bought by the Manhattan Church of the Nazarene. Besides
operating two theaters there, the church uses the building
for worship and for social services for the needy of the
Times Square area.
   ---
   The Ensemble Studio Theatre's annual marathon of one-act
plays is in full swing. A dozen plays -- culled from more
than 1,000 submissions -- are divided among three series,
running through June 17 and including offerings by David
Mamet, Joyce Carol Oates and John Ford Noonan.
   My favorite on the current bill, which ends Sunday, is
Shel Silverstein's "Hamlet." It's a merry monologue in verse
delivered by a jive-talking, middle-aged black man (Melvin
Van Peebles), who, with a cigar as his only prop, gleefully
recounts the tragic tale.
   In Mr. Silverstein's marvelous invention, the ghost of
Hamlet's father wears a tattoo that says "Gertrude Forever,"
and the adulterous queen herself has cellulite and varicose
veins and is going through a midlife crisis. The actor who's
putting on the play within the play demands limo service and
his name above the title. Hamlet's beloved Ophelia is a sassy
social climber who brags she has "got the dude writin' poetry
and talkin' 'bout the moon." Fortinbras sums it all up when
he comes in just before the final curtain and surveys the
bloody scene: "You got a punctured king and a poisoned
queen/And a dead sweet prince on the mezzanine."
   Yes, Shakespeare speaks a universal tongue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shell Canada Sets
   Revamp With Cuts
   In Jobs, Big Charge
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   T.SHC RD SC
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Shell Canada Ltd., facing shrinking
earnings and hefty spending plans, said it will restructure
its oil refining, marketing and chemical businesses, which
last year generated 87% of the company's 4.92 billion
Canadian dollars (US$4.17 billion) in revenue.
   The reorganization will mainly affect the company's
downstream, or refining and marketing, business, the company
said, and will result in the elimination of about 800 jobs,
or about 11% of the full-time staff, by the end of 1991. The
cuts also will result in a second-quarter net charge against
earnings of about C$25 million, or about 22 Canadian cents a
share. In the 1989 second quarter, Shell Canada earned C$60
million, or 54 Canadian cents a share, on revenue of C$1.21
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shell Canada, the third-largest petroleum refiner and
marketer in Canada with 16% of the national market, said it
"will also undertake a staged divestment of underperforming
assets," including company-owned service stations and
distribution facilities. It didn't say how much it expects to
raise from the asset sales.
   About one-third of Shell Canada's 3,500 service stations
are company-owned, a spokesman said, and the company intends
to sell an unspecified number of these to independent
operators, who run the bulk of the stations. Some
distribution facilities and other plants also will be sold,
he said, though the company's four oil refineries will be
retained.
   The corporate makeover includes realigning the downstream
business, which is organized on a regional basis, into four
separate businesses, all based in Calgary. These will include
retail operations, commercial and industrial sales, private
brands, and manufacturing and trading. Shell Canada's styrene
and polypropylene plants, which make up its chemicals arm,
will remain intact as a fifth division.
   Shell Canada, which is 78.2%-owned by Royal Dutch/Shell
Group, an Anglo-Dutch concern, said the moves "will
contribute to achieving significant, sustained improvement in
earnings and return on investment." It didn't offer specific
estimates, but the company previously said it aims ultimately
to double last year's dismal 4.4% rate of return on
investment in its downstream arm.
   Such an improvement would effectively boost downstream
profit to about C$150 million annually, using current asset
figures, up from C$79 million last year.
   "You can't continue in a business in the modern world,
especially in Canada, with its {high} interest rates being
what they are, with a 4% return on investment," the spokesman
said. "That's what is driving this {restructuring}."
   Investors and analysts didn't show much enthusiasm for the
restructuring announcement, which followed earlier statements
by the company that it was considering such a move. In
Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Shell Canada shares
closed at C$38.125, down 12.5 Canadian cents, and just
slightly above its 52-week low of C$37.50.
   "In many respects, the company is walking away from its
downstream problems, instead of fixing them," said David
Stenason, an analyst with Levesque, Beaubien Geffrion Inc. He
said the company has trailed its competitors in upgrading
refineries and improving underground storage tanks at retail
stations, and faces about C$3.5 billion of capital outlays
through 1994, largely in its upstream, or oil and gas
exploration and production, operations.
   Mr. Stenason estimated that Shell Canada will generate
cash flow -- earnings plus depreciation allowances -- of
about C$550 million this year, or about C$200 million less
than its capital spending requirements, forcing it to take on
additional debt. He sees debt rising to about 30% of
capitalization within 18 months, up from 20% now.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Meyer Will Leave Rockefeller Fund
   To Oversee Harvard's Endowment
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9B
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Jack R. Meyer, the Rockefeller Foundation
treasurer picked to oversee Harvard University's $5 billion
endowment, is careful not to confuse his investing skills
with the bull stock market.
   When Mr. Meyer joined the Rockefeller Foundation in 1983,
a decade of inflation had cut the real value of the
foundation's assets in half. In the following seven years,
the foundation's assets more than doubled to $2.1 billion,
even while the foundation gave away $500 million in grants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Meyer attributes that record to "a lot of good luck
and a little skill" during history's greatest bull market
run. But Mr. Meyer also did far better than other
institutional investors during the run-up: the foundation
earned an average of 19.5% a year on its assets in the five
years ended Dec. 31, compared with 16% a year for the average
institutional fund during that period.
   As expected, the 45-year-old Mr. Meyer was named to become
president of Harvard Management Co., the investment arm that
manages Harvard's endowment, the biggest of any private
university in the U.S.
   He will assume the post Sept. 1, succeeding Walter Cabot,
who has been Harvard Management's president since its
formation in 1974. Mr. Cabot will remain with Harvard
Management "on a part-time advisory kind of role in the
private placement area," according to Harvard University
Treasurer D. Ronald Daniel.
   Mr. Daniel rejected speculation that Mr. Cabot, who missed
several months of work in 1989 because of a heart attack, was
being forced from his post following subpar investment
returns last year, when the Harvard endowment missed much of
the stock market's 31.7% increase. "If he had not had that
heart attack, he would still be there" as president, Mr.
Daniel said of Mr. Cabot.
   Mr. Meyer has a reputation as an aggressive money manager
who led the Rockefeller Foundation into areas such as short
selling and index arbitrage. He said he is leaving the
foundation for the professional opportunity offered by
Harvard Management, which has more than double the assets and
15 times the investment staff of the Rockefeller Foundation.
   "Harvard Management is not broken, so it isn't my job to
fix it," said Mr. Meyer. "It's clear they didn't have a good
1989, but they are solidly in the first quartile {of returns
for institutional investors} over the last five years," he
said.
   Harvard Management was a pioneer among big institutions in
nontraditional investments, spending more than $1 billion, or
20% of the overall fund, on such areas as venture capital,
oil wells and leveraged buy-outs. Its $70 million commitment
to the buy-out fund of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., is the
largest by any endowment.
   These private investments, whose true value can be
difficult to determine, have been controversial. "I'm pretty
uneasy about having 20% of the endowment in illiquid
investments," said money manager John Train, a Harvard
alumnus whose book, "The New Money Masters," includes a
chapter on Harvard Management.
   Mr. Daniel said Harvard Management looked at hundreds of
candidates for its presidency before a list of four finalists
was prepared. The job is considered one of the most
prestigious in the money-management industry. Among those
turning down a request to apply was Peter Lynch, the famed
portfolio manager who is retiring from Boston-based Fidelity
Investments.
   Mr. Meyer, a graduate of Denison University and Harvard
Business School, was New York City deputy comptroller before
joining the Rockefeller Foundation. His duties included
overseeing $20 billion of city pension funds.
   Previously, he worked at the Wall Street firms of Lionel
D. Edie &amp; Co. and Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Factory Orders
   Dropped in April
   After Two Gains
   ---
   Decline of 2.3% Was Linked
   To 4.3% Fall in Bookings
   For New Durable Goods
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Factory orders fell sharply in April after
two months of growth, the Commerce Department reported, a new
sign of weakness in U.S. manufacturing.
   Pushed down by a 4.3% plunge in durable-goods bookings,
orders for manufactured goods fell 2.3% in April, after
increasing 4% in March and 1.8% in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The drop in durable-goods orders centered in
transportation equipment, especially motor vehicle and
aircraft. Transportation-equipment orders fell 14.7% in
April, to $31.68 billion, following a 24.1% surge in March.
   Economists said the factory-orders report is just another
indication that the manufacturing sector is fairly sluggish,
specifically in the automobile industry.
   "What this report reflects is a continuing softness in the
manufacturing sector, with a concentrated weakness in the
auto industry," said Roger E. Brinner, chief economist at
DRI/McGraw-Hill.
   Agreeing with Mr. Brinner, Priscilla Trumbull, industry
analyst at WEFA Group, said the "auto and aircraft sectors
are showing some bumpy patterns . . . which mean that
manufacturing is not really sliding, but it is not growing
either."
   While many economists agreed that the April figures
reflect a problem in the automobile industry, they said the
drop in aircraft bookings simply means orders were slow in
that particular month. The aircraft industry has been one of
the few strong spots in U.S. manufacturing.
   "Aircraft orders will definitely bounce back . . . within
the next month," said Mr. Brinner. "The only real problem at
this point is a problem in the automobile industry, and this
is nothing new."
   The April report said overall factory orders totaled
$235.60 billion.
   While most analysts focused on the steep decline in
durable-goods orders -- which was slightly more than an
earlier government estimate of 4.1%-nondurable-goods orders
also failed to improve. They were about unchanged in April at
$112.2 billion.
   Durable goods are products such as computers, cars and
other big-ticket items expected to last at least three years.
   Economists said they wouldn't be surprised if the
sluggishness in manufacturing led to a further increase in
unemployment.
   "Unemployment will be somewhat shaky. . . . We definitely
will see some continued layoffs, especially in the defense
industry. But I don't think we will see widespread
unemployment," said Ms. Trumbull.
   Ms. Trumbull said she expects a small increase in factory
orders throughout the rest of the year.
   Manufacturers' inventories edged up 0.1% to $372.28
billion in April, following a 0.4% drop in March and a 0.3%
decline in February.
   April shipments decreased 1.2% to $234.35 billion,
following increases of 1.2% in March and 3.4% in February.
Unfilled orders inched up 0.2% to $517.68 billion, following
a 0.7% rise in March and a 0.5% decline in February.
   All the figures are adjusted for seasonal variations.
                                                                                                       

                     FACTORY ORDERS
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for
manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                              April        March
                               1990         1990    %Chg.
                                                                                                       

 All industries              235.60      241.07    - 2.3
   Durable goods             123.39      128.87    - 4.3
   Nondurable goods          112.22      112.20    + 1.1
                                                                                                       

 Capital goods industries     44.91       48.91    +11.7
   Nondefense                 36.87       40.89    +13.3
   Defense                     8.04        8.02    + 4.5
                                                                                                       

   Total shipments           234.35      237.30    - 1.2
                                                                                                       

   Inventories               372.28      371.75    + 0.1
                                                                                                       

   Backlog of orders         517.68      516.43    + 0.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Suggests
   Home Loan Banks
   Cut Payouts to S&amp;Ls
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury Department recommended that the
Federal Home Loan Bank system consider reducing the dividend
payments it makes to savings and loans because the system may
face some losses on advances to insolvent thrifts.
   Thrift industry groups immediately criticized the
suggestion, arguing that the dividend payments are important
to the struggling industry's earnings. Last year, the home
loan banks paid about $800 million to $900 million in
dividends to solvent thrifts, Martin Regalia, an economist
with the National Council of Savings Institutions estimated,
while those thrifts overall had losses of $86 million for the
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Clearly the dividends are an important contribution to
keeping the industry healthy," he said. The government is in
the process of closing and selling off hundreds of insolvent
savings and loans. To obtain advances from the home loan
banks, thrifts are required to buy stock in the banks, which,
in turn, pay dividends back to the thrifts.
   The Treasury's suggestion came in a study of
government-sponsored enterprises. Though the home loan banks
haven't lost money on an advance to any thrift, the
department said that "certain banks have exposure to failed
and failing thrifts." The study suggested reducing the
dividend payments to increase the home loan banks' capital or
for establishing a "modest" loan-loss reserve.
   A spokesman for the Federal Housing Finance Board, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development agency that
oversees the home loan bank system, said the need to increase
retained earnings has to be balanced "against the need to
maintain a market rate of return on members' invested
capital."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900601-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900601-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Federal Bancorp
   Says Regulators Curb
   Its Lending Activities
</HL>
<DATE>
06/01/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FFS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   PONTIAC, Mich. -- First Federal Bancorp Inc. said the
federal Office of Thrift Supervision has placed strict limits
on the thrift's lending operations because of its inability
to meet new capital requirements.
   First Federal said a group of investors whom it identified
only as current shareholders has offered to infuse $40
million in cash into the company. In return, it said, the
investors want newly issued First Federal shares. The
transaction is designed to enable First Federal's operating
units to meet the federal capital requirements, the thrift
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the transaction would "significantly dilute"
current holders' stakes, the company said. First Federal has
3.5 million shares outstanding. The company's stock closed at
$2.25 a share, up 12.5 cents, in American Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday.
   First Federal said it will continue to explore ways to
improve its capital position, including the possibilities
offered by the cash infusion.
   The restrictions imposed by regulators bar First Federal
from increasing its assets and forbid it to sell or pledge
assets or to make any new loans or investments without prior
U.S. approval. But First Federal may use assets to maintain
adequate liquidity for current obligations, and it may make
certain consumer and home loans.
   The restrictions apply to First Federal's chief operating
subsidiaries, First Federal Savings Bank &amp; Trust, based in
Pontiac, and Citizens Federal Savings Bank, Jacksonville,
Fla.
   Federal authorities imposed the restrictions Wednesday
after First Federal failed to meet new U.S. guidelines for
thrifts' ratios of capital to assets.
   In the quarter ended March 31, First Federal had a loss of
$15.2 million, or $4.20 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
