<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speaking of Business:
   U.S. Unions Did Too Well for Themselves
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   Labor unions used to be big news in the U.S. Every other
week or so, it seemed, some major union was threatening to
disrupt a large segment of the economy by pulling its workers
out on strike. Labor leaders showed up on "Meet the Press,"
"Good Morning America" and other programs to tell the public
just what was in store for them.
   Unions haven't disappeared. Every now and then they even
get into the newspapers when they strike some company such as
Eastern Airlines or the Greyhound bus line. But the planes
keep flying and the buses keep running and no one pays a lot
of attention. Unions do break into the local news
occasionally, arguing with school boards about wages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The crux of the matter is that union members are simply a
smaller share of the work force. Between 1970 and 1987, the
percentage of U.S. nonagricultural workers who were members
of unions fell from 31% to 17%, a sharp drop by any
reckoning. Only Japan had a decline that was even remotely
comparable: Its union membership in the same period fell from
35% to 28%. In other major industrial countries membership at
the worst declined only slightly; in most nations it rose.
   David Blanchflower of Dartmouth and Richard Freeman of
Harvard ponder this disparity in a new National Bureau of
Economic Research working paper. Their key finding is that
U.S. unions have a much greater effect on wages than do
unions in other industrial countries. This difference, they
argue, gives U.S. employers a greater incentive to oppose
unions.
   Union membership has little effect on wages in Japan --
except for women, who seem to fare better if they belong to
unions. Japanese unions participate in a "spring wage
offensive" that more or less sets wage patterns for all
workers, unionized or not.
   In "Trading Places," a best-selling book about America's
competitive problems with Japan, Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr.
suggests that the industry-wide structure of many U.S. unions
gave them a power that Japanese unions, organized on a
company or enterprise basis, did not possess. U.S. unions, in
his view, had a natural adversarial relationship with
management, while Japanese unions had a greater incentive to
work with management.
   American unions built up their strength in the first two
decades after World War II. The U.S. had a highly productive
industrial establishment, undamaged by war, and it could sell
anything it could make at almost whatever price it wanted to
charge. High demand made industrial peace a priority, and
industry was willing to pay for it with large wage increases.
   During the same period, many other industrial countries
were slowly rebuilding factories, trying to become
competitive in international markets. There was little
incentive for union truculence, and certainly no incentive
for companies to hand unions huge wage increases.
Management-union cooperation may not have begun during this
period, but in many countries it surely was encouraged.
   In the 1970s, however, the situation changed for
everybody. Two large oil-price shocks imposed major cost
increases on industry. All of a sudden the atmosphere for
unions changed. Management everywhere had an increased
incentive to resist large union wage demands, but nowhere was
that incentive as great as in the U.S.
   As Profs. Blanchflower and Freeman remark, there has been
a tendency to blame the decline of the unions on specific
events, such as President Reagan's breaking the air-traffic
controllers union, or on the stodginess, incompetence or, in
a few cases, outright criminality of labor leaders. But the
authors are convinced that the chief factor is what unions
have done on the wage front. The big wage demands may have
been justified in the 1950s and 1960s, but not in the 1970s
and 1980s. In recent years they have become a major obstacle
to the development of unionism in the U.S.
   If you can earn more money by joining a union, why not do
it? Well, workers are smarter than they sometimes are
believed to be. Companies in increasing numbers were moving
from union to nonunion areas, and what good is a high union
wage if you don't have a job?
   Employers, moreover, began to use the rights they had
under labor law but had seldom utilized. Eastern planes are
still flying and Greyhound buses are running because
management chose to hire replacements for strikers. As union
density has decreased, public attitudes have changed, making
it easier for management to stand up to unions. For most of
the public, "scab" no longer is a dirty word.
   If unions continue merely to do their thing, demanding big
wage increases and battling management, their future is
likely to be all downhill. Pockets of unionism will exist in
a few older industries and the public sector, but few other
places.
   The authors suggest that unions might try some new ideas.
In many European countries, workers often are union members
even in plants where their unions do not have bargaining
rights. To keep such members, unions must provide services,
such as low-interest credit cards, job training and
counseling and access to low-cost legal help. A second
possibility the authors mention is that white-collar and
serviceworker-oriented unions in the public sector might make
a major organizing effort in the private sector. Such an
effort would be based on such issues as working conditions,
job flexibility and fairness in promotion, not primarily on
big pay boosts.
   To make this work at all, it would have to be a two-way
street. A willingness of unions to work for peaceful growth
would have to be met by managements that would listen. In a
number of recent cases, company efforts to boost quality and
productivity have indeed been joint projects by managements
and unions. Properly used, unions can still be an important
communications link in American business.
   That isn't the kind of unionism we've had in recent
decades, but it may not be too late to give it a try.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Stocks Soar 40.85 on Rally
   Sparked by Futures-Related Buying
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A midafternoon rally sparked by
futures-related buying sent the stock market soaring for the
second consecutive session, with the Dow Jones Industrial
Average just barely missing another record high.
   The industrial average, which climbed 30.19 points Monday
in rebounding from a four-session losing streak, rose another
40.85 to 2933.42 -- less than two points short of its
all-time best close of 2935.19, set six sessions earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although broader measures also failed to surpass their
record levels, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index climbed 4.62
to 366.25, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index jumped
2.24 to 199.66 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index gained
4.09 to 340.98
   Some 1,003 issues advanced in Big Board trading, compared
with 545 decliners. Trading was moderate as uncertainty about
this week's round of economic reports and the expiration of
June stock-index futures and options remained a drag on the
market, but Big Board volume improved to 157.1 million shares
from 119.6 million Monday.
   The market's late surge, in which the Dow industrials
jumped more than 36 points in about half an hour and peaked
just above 2940, stood in sharp contrast to its initial
attempt to add to Monday's gains.
   The average barely managed a double-digit rise before the
early buying interest dried up, and stocks spent most of the
session drifting on either side of the previous day's closing
levels before their midafternoon surge.
   Traders cited buy programs resulting from stock-index
arbitrage, which involve the purchase of baskets of stocks
and the sale of index-futures contracts in order to profit
from price differences between them, as the catalyst for the
later move.
   Buying by market players concerned about the possibility
of missing another rally fueled the advance as well. "Those
who are expecting a retreat are getting a little bit uneasy
here, and they're afraid the market's going to run away from
them again," said Michael Metz, a market strategist at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Several stocks included in the Major Market Index, a
measure of 20 blue-chip issues that is designed to mirror the
Dow industrials, rode the wave of index-arbitrage buying to
solid gains. Merck gained 2 5/8 to 83 3/8, Procter &amp; Gamble
jumped 3 1/4 to 84 1/4, General Motors climbed 1 1/8 to 50
1/4, General Electric went up 1 3/8 to 70 1/4, Exxon rose 1
to 48 7/8 and Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing rallied 2 to
85 1/8.
   However, two other blue chips included in the Major Market
Index were left behind in the market's advance: American
Express, which fell 1/4 to 30 3/8, and Eastman Kodak, which
dropped 1/4 to 41 3/8. Both issues had shown strength in
recent sessions.
   This week's round of key economic reports gets under way
today with the release of May retail sales data. The
consensus of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report is calling for sales to be unchanged.
   Tomorrow and Friday will bring the release of May figures
on producer and consumer prices, respectively. Friday also
brings the "triple witching hour," or the quarterly
expiration of index futures and options.
   Oppenheimer's Michael Metz says stocks appear to be "in a
no-win situation" as far as the economic reports are
concerned, as the market's two-day surge indicates that
investors already have factored a favorable outcome into
stock prices.
   "Unless they're astonishingly good," Mr. Metz said, prices
don't appear likely to make another immediate move higher. "I
don't see any great hysteria among undercommitted portfolio
managers to hop aboard," he says.
   Semiconductor stocks were active following news that the
industry's leading indicator, the book-to-bill ratio, climbed
to 1.14-to-1 in May from 1.09-to-1 in April. The reading
indicated that the industry's modest rebound from a sales
slump in the second half of last year continued.
   Advanced Micro Devices rose 1/8 to 9 7/8 in Big Board
composite trading of 2.2 million shares, while Analog Devices
slid 1/8 to 8 1/8 on 1.1 million shares. Among other chip
producers, Motorola rose 1 7/8 to 85 3/8, Texas Instruments
rose 1/8 to 40 1/2, National Semiconductor added 1/4 to 8 1/8
and Cypress Semiconductor rose 1/8 to 14.
   Chase Manhattan dropped 1/2 to 26 after Moody's Investors
Service cut its rating on the company's senior debt
securities as a result of deterioration in Chase's commercial
real-estate portfolio. Analysts told Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report they anticipate that the company will
announce major reductions in its work force and asset sales
in an effort to turn around its sagging earnings. A Chase
spokesman declined to comment.
   Other big city bank issues were mixed in the wake of
Moody's action. Citicorp rose 5/8 to 24 1/8 and BankAmerica
added 1/2 to 32 7/8, while Manufacturers Hanover fell 3/8 to
36 1/2, Bankers Trust New York lost 1/4 to 44 3/8 and J.P.
Morgan fell 1/8 to 38 1/8.
   ITT jumped 3 1/4 to 60 5/8 following news of its plans to
sell a 7% stake in its Alcatel joint venture for $640 million
to its partner in the venture, Generale d'Electricite of
France, and to use the proceeds primarily to buy back its
common shares.
   Kollmorgen rose 1/2 to 11 5/8 in activity highlighted by a
block trade of 646,700 shares, or about 5.9% of its shares
outstanding. The company confirmed that it had "decisively
won" its proxy fight at last month's annual meeting with
Vernitron, its hostile suitor.
   Kay Jewelers fell 1/2 to 8 7/8. This newspaper, in its
"Heard on the Street" column, cited the company as one of
several firms whose stock appears to be performing
considerably better than its bonds.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.99
to 364.31. Volume totaled 11,650,000 shares.
   New Line Cinema added 3/4 to 13 1/4. The company declared
a 5-for-4 stock split.
   Dataram rose 1 1/4 to 17 7/8 after reporting that net
income for the fiscal fourth quarter, ended in April, climbed
61% from a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Fleetwood Enterprises Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FLEETWOOD ENTERPRISES Inc., a Riverside, Calif., producer
of recreational vehicles and manufactured housing, said it
increased its quarterly dividend 11% to 21 cents a share from
19 cents, payable Aug. 8 to stock of record July 6.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Taking Plunge in Foreign Stock Markets
   Can Be Wild but Rewarding Investment
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FORGN FREST COGRA CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Thinking of investing abroad? Fasten your seat
belt.
   Stock-price gyrations in the U.S. in recent years have led
to outcries from investors and prompted inquiries by the New
York Stock Exchange and others -- yet the U.S. has actually
been one of the world's least volatile markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We look very stable when compared with the rest of the
world," says John Markese, executive vice president and
director of research at the American Association of
Individual Investors in Chicago.
   U.S. stock prices have been less volatile over the past
five years than have prices in such major markets as Japan,
West Germany, Britain and France, according to statistics
compiled by Morgan Stanley Capital International, a unit of
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. And in the past 12 months, the U.S.
market has been less volatile than 18 of the 19 other markets
in the firm's survey; only Canada has seen smaller price
moves in that time.
   This shouldn't deter investors from thinking globally,
though. Another set of Morgan Stanley numbers shows that even
though U.S. stock prices now are at near-record levels, most
other stock markets have offered higher returns than the U.S.
since 1985, at least in dollar terms.
   Over the five years ended May 31, the U.S. market ranked
next to last among 18 major world markets in total investment
return, measured in U.S. dollars. Over the past 12 months,
the U.S. market's 16.9% gain pales by comparison with
Austria's 114.6% surge or West Germany's 61.7% increase. Many
investment advisers expect that returns overseas, especially
in Europe, will continue to exceed those in the U.S. over the
next decade.
   Moreover, adding foreign stocks to the mix can actually
reduce the volatility of a portfolio that was invested
exclusively in the U.S. That's because foreign price moves
tend not to closely track those in the U.S.: When stocks in
the U.S. zig, foreign stocks often zag.
   In the 1980s, for example, investors with 70% of their
money in U.S. stocks and 30% in foreign stocks enjoyed both a
higher return and lower overall volatility than investors
with 100% of their money in U.S. stocks, according to Rowe
Price-Fleming International Inc., a joint venture of T. Rowe
Price Associates Inc. in Baltimore and Robert Fleming Group
in London.
   Still, a few foreign markets are so mercurial that even
some professional investment managers now are steering clear.
   One example is Hong Kong, by far the most volatile market
over the past year among the 20 in Morgan Stanley's index.
Hong Kong's investment returns also trail those of most other
markets, reflecting fears about last year's turmoil in China
and what will happen in 1997, when Hong Kong is due to revert
to Chinese control.
   Some money managers think fears about Hong Kong are
exaggerated, but many others remain skeptical. "I personally
am scared," says Maurits E. Edersheim, deputy chairman of
Smith Barney, Harris Upham International Inc. and chairman of
the Fenimore International Fund. "I am scared Mr. Deng
{Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping} will say something about Hong
Kong that could jolt the market overnight." Fenimore doesn't
own any Hong Kong stocks.
   "I wouldn't touch Hong Kong," agrees Claire B. Benenson of
New York, a director of four mutual funds. "It's much too
volatile."
   Several money managers are leery of other countries, such
as Australia, whose stock markets have combined high
volatility with mediocre returns over the past few years.
Australia's market was the fifth most volatile over the past
five years, but its total return ranked fifth lowest.
   Americans who invest overseas need to pay close attention
not only to international stocks but also to currency
markets, says Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs
International, a unit of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   "That's extremely important," he says, because even the
smartest international stock picks can be whipsawed by
unexpected exchange-rate movements. "When you buy foreign
stocks, you're betting that they will go up in their home
market, that their national currency will go up against the
dollar, or both," he says.
   For many individual investors, the easiest way to play the
foreign stocks game is through mutual funds, which offer
professional management and diversification. Some
international funds have turned in dazzling results in recent
years. For example, Fidelity Investments' Fidelity Overseas
fund ranked No. 1 among all types of mutual funds in the five
years ended March 31, according to Lipper Analytical Services
Inc. Its total return was 304%.
   Some investors are turning to global index funds, set up
to replicate broad market indexes spanning many countries.
Index funds have grown increasingly popular in the U.S.
because of their low costs and because they have outperformed
most of their rivals in recent years.
   But the choices are small for those seeking global index
funds. Colonial Group in Boston offers such a fund, which now
holds about 600 non-U.S. stocks. And Vanguard Group recently
announced plans to start a global index fund this month.
   The Vanguard fund offers investors three choices. One
portfolio is designed to match the performance of a Morgan
Stanley index of European stocks. Another is set up to
replicate an index of Asia-Pacific stocks. The third is
supposed to match a broad world-wide index, excluding the
U.S. Each portfolio has a minimum initial investment of
$3,000.
   Investors should also realize that an index doesn't
automatically guarantee broad diversification. Vanguard's
portfolio for the Asia-Pacific region seeks to mimic a Morgan
Stanley index that consists mostly of Japanese stocks. That
would have been a bad choice in this year's first quarter,
when Japanese stocks plunged.
   To reduce its dependence on Japanese stocks, Colonial
International Equity Index Trust switched to a different
Morgan Stanley index based on the size of each nation's
economy, a Colonial portfolio manager says. Nevertheless, the
fund still was hammered in the first quarter by Japan's stock
plunge.
   "There will be periods of underperformance" by index
funds, says Brian S. Mattes, a vice president at Vanguard.
"But the longer period of time you look at, the better they
look."
   How much of an investor's portfolio should be overseas?
"There's no hard and fast formula," says Madelynn Matlock,
director of research at Bartlett &amp; Co., an investment
management firm in Cincinnati. Among the major factors are
the investor's age, how much is to be invested, what the
investor's other holdings are and the person's risk
tolerance.
   For Americans with less than $500,000 to invest, it's
probably wise to limit the plunge into foreign markets to
"about 10% or 15% of their holdings," Mr. Edersheim of Smith
Barney says.
   ---
      Comparing Global Stock Market Risks and Rewards
                                                                                                       

   The first two columns show total investment returns,
measured in U.S. dollars, through May 31. The next two
columns show annualized volatility through May 24; the higher
the number, the greater the volatility.
                                                                                                       

                  INVESTMENT RETURNS         VOLATILITY
                 12 MONTHS   5 YEARS    12 MONTHS    5 YEARS
                                                                                                       

   Australia         9.2%    173.0%       18.8%       25.2%
   Austria         114.6     430.6        27.7        19.8
   Belgium          19.0     471.1        14.3        18.3
   Canada            4.2      80.6         9.7        14.9
   Denmark          49.6     283.9        17.2        31.9
   Finland         -21.9      N.A.        16.9        N.A.
   France           44.1     344.8        16.5        20.3
   Germany          61.7     256.0        21.4        22.8

   Italy            39.7     331.6        14.3        22.6
   Japan           -13.8     309.8        23.4        22.5
   Netherlands      29.4     234.3        14.7        18.3
   New Zealand       5.7      N.A.        25.2        N.A.
   Norway           40.1     286.2        21.8        25.6
   Singapore/
     Malaysia       21.8     129.4        17.8        25.3
   Spain             9.8     411.1        15.8        21.4
   Sweden           27.3     456.5        17.9        19.0
   Switzerland      49.4     236.1        19.2        18.9
   United Kingdom   21.0     186.6        17.3        19.9
   U.S.             16.9%    120.9%       13.4%       19.3%
                                                                                                       

   N.A.=Not Available
   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital International
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pathe Gives Data
   On Financing
   MGM/UA Buy-Out
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM TWX RANKY G.BRT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Pathe Communications Corp. provided new
details of how it proposes to finance its pending $1.2
billion acquisition of MGM/UA Communications Co.
   In an advertisement in some of yesterday's editions of
this newspaper, Pathe disclosed the names of several banks
and European companies that would be advancing money to
Comfinance S.A., a Luxembourg-based affiliate of Pathe
principal Giancarlo Parretti. Comfinance has agreed to
provide about $368 million toward the purchase price and Time
Warner Inc. has agreed to lend another $650 million. Pathe
has already deposited $200 million in cash toward the
acquisition.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pathe said Banque Arabe et Internationale D'Investissement
would provide a $75 million one-week line of credit to
Comfinance and another $10 million credit line to a Pathe
affiliate. The Paris-based bank was created in 1973 with 50%
of its shares held by Arab banks and 50% held by non-Arab
financial institutions. It was one of several banks founded
during the 1970s to act as a conduit for the recycling of
petrodollars amassed by the Arab members of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Last month, state-owned
Banque Nationale de Paris said it would take control of the
troubled bank, which had been hobbled by the steep decline in
world crude oil prices during the latter half of the 1980s
and bad loans in developing countries.
   Another $50 million would come from an advance by
Amsterdam-based PAN-ASS B.V. in connection with a proposed
sale of certain Spanish assets by Comfinance to an affiliate
of PAN-ASS. Other sources of the financing are various asset
sales and $15 million under an existing $80 million credit
line from Credit Lyonnais Bank Nederland B.V., a well-known
entertainment industry lender. Another $91 million would be
advanced to a Pathe affiliate by Deepbridge B.V., Amsterdam.
Details about PAN-ASS and Deepbridge weren't available.
   Pathe also said it was in discussions with at least three
companies about acquiring an equity stake in MGM/UA after the
transaction closes, perhaps providing much-needed production
funds for the new company. They are Rank Laboratories Ltd.,
the film-processing unit of British-based Rank Organisation
PLC; RTL-Plus, a Luxembourg-based television company
39%-owned by West German media giant Bertelsmann AG, and
Cinergi Productions Inc., a Beverly Hills, Calif-based film
company formed by Andrew G. Vajna, a co-founder of Carolco
Pictures Inc. who sold his stake in the company early this
year for more than $100 million.
   The $20-a-share tender offer is scheduled to expire
Friday, but could be extended to June 23.
   MGM/UA shares were unchanged yesterday at $18.875 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Locals Can Pick New Names,
   Like the Grand Ole Grocery Store
   ----
   By Keith L. Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   RENFRO VALLEY, Ky. -- There's an identity crisis brewing
in this quiet backwater town 50 miles south of Lexington.
   The trouble began when a group of well-heeled investors
bought the trademarked and copyrighted property of the late
John Lair, who 51 years ago established the Renfro Valley
Barn Dance, Kentucky's version of the Grand Ole Opry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investors contend that the purchase gives them
exclusive use of the Renfro Valley name for a new $12 million
country-music theme park they're constructing. And to protect
their rights, the investors, Renfro Valley Folks Inc., have
told townspeople that only attractions associated with the
park may continue to use the name Renfro Valley.
   For the four existing businesses in town that already use
the name, that could mean drop it -- or else. The businessmen
say they've received a letter from the investor group
threatening legal action unless they change the name of their
stores and remove paraphernalia that displays the name Renfro
Valley.
   The businessmen, who have consulted a Washington, D.C.,
law firm, are steamed. "They didn't buy the whole valley,
they just bought a piece of it," snaps Willard Collinsworth,
the 64-year-old proprietor of the Renfro Valley Country
Store.
   And his wife, Aline, adds: "I think it's terrible. These
local businessmen have been here for many years, and now
these people are just coming in trying to take over. They
just don't care about the little people."
   Not true, says Ralph Gabbard, president of Renfro Valley
Folks. He contends that the whole town would benefit from the
project -- a 110-acre theme park that would be a sort of
cross between Opryland U.S.A. and Walt Disney World. Most
townspeople support the plan because of the jobs it would
bring.
   And though Mr. Gabbard promises to resolve the dispute in
a "peaceful way," he insists the businessmen are fighting a
losing battle.
   Maybe so. Joe Allen, owner of the Renfro Valley Record
Store, concedes that for the moment all the local businessmen
can do is "wait and worry." But while he initially painted
over the Renfro Valley in his store's name, he has now
restored the original wording.
   "They're multimillionaires. They intend on running us
little independent people out," Mr. Allen says, defiantly
adding: "We can't give in."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Sells West German Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- USX Corp., an oil, gas and steel company,
said it sold a West German auto-parts subsidiary, FHS
Stahlverformung G.m.b.H., to Trustor Automotive of Holland,
an auto parts concern that also has operations in Sweden. The
price wasn't disclosed.
   FHS produces gear-shift levers and assemblies, suspension
parts and other auto parts. It had 1989 sales of about $80
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comair Holdings Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   COMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Comair Holdings Inc. said 160,232 passengers
boarded its Comair Inc. regional airline during May, 20% more
than a year earlier.
   Revenue passenger miles climbed 30% to 32.9 million, the
company said. A revenue passenger mile is a paying passenger
transported one mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Passenger boardings for the first five months of 1990 were
up 29% from a year earlier, the company said, and revenue
passenger miles rose 39%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Backers of HDTV Counterattack
   To Overcome Bush's Opposition
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Proponents of high-definition television,
bloodied from battles with the Bush administration, are
launching a counterattack to promote U.S. development of the
technology.
   As part of that strategy, the House Democratic leadership
plans to unveil a package of legislation as early as this
week to boost U.S. commercial technology, including HDTV. The
bill, according to lawmakers and staffers, would create a
national commission to plot a strategy on HDTV and provide
$50 million in Pentagon funding for the technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, the package earmarks $100 million for a new
Commerce Department program in such advanced technologies as
HDTV, and $200 million in loan guarantees for small
businesses doing high-technology work and for U.S. firms
exporting technology products.
   The technology initiative, put together by House Majority
Leader Richard Gephardt, (D., Mo.), and Rep. Norman Mineta
(D., Calif.), packages a variety of bills and budget
resolutions that have already been introduced, but haven't
become law. For instance, a House-passed bill that encourages
the formation of joint production ventures is part of the
package.
   "If you have seven separate bills, the president can pick
you apart," says Rep. Mineta. "If you have one bill, he may
like six parts, and it will be harder to veto." Nevertheless,
the funding sought in the bill will likely be pared back
because of expected administration opposition and because of
pressure on the appropriations committees to reduce spending.
   Meanwhile, the HDTV counterattack advanced on two other
fronts yesterday. The Office of Technology Assessment, a
research arm of Congress, released a report calling HDTV
crucial for "a number of technologies that will be important
to future generations of computer and communications
equipment." Another report by Lester Thurow, dean of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of
Management, railed at the administration for failing to
invest in HDTV and other commercial technologies.
   "If the administration persists in this attitude," Mr.
Thurow wrote in a report released by Rebuild America, a group
tied to Rep. Mel Levine, (D., Calif.), "the U.S. could be a
second- or third-rate industrial power in the year 2000, and
President Bush will be remembered as the Herbert Hoover of
U.S. industrial competitiveness."
   HDTV refers to a host of new technologies aimed at
producing video displays with super-sharp images and sound.
The first sets are expected to go on sale in Japan next year
and cost at least $5,000. They would be marketed in Europe
after that, and in the U.S. in the mid-1990s. Prices would
surely drop as sales pick up. Offshoots of the technology
would be used to make wall-sized displays and computer
screens.
   The technology also has come to symbolize an increasingly
bitter debate over the proper role of government in nurturing
commercial technology. The administration has taken a
hands-off approach, figuring that U.S. companies should
decide how to invest funds without guidance or money from the
government. But critics consider that view naive, given that
Japanese and European governments are spending heavily to
protect their electronics and other high-tech industries.
   The OTA report and an unpublished study by a Pentagon
manufacturing panel detail the heavy HDTV investment made
abroad. While the U.S. government and industry have probably
spent about $100 million on HDTV research, Japan Broadcasting
Co. and other Japanese government agencies have invested $400
million in HDTV research, and private industry has added
between $670 million and $1.3 billion, the Pentagon report
estimates. Japan Broadcasting has divided HDTV research
projects among Japanese firms, while other government
agencies have provided low-interest loans and tax breaks.
   Moreover, the OTA report says, the Japanese government has
a new $100 million initiative, called the Giant Electronics
Project, to develop a 40-inch video display by 1996 that's
not much thicker than a picture frame. The Pentagon report
estimates that Japanese firms are spending $1.3 billion
developing flat-panel displays of various sizes. Electronics
analysts in the U.S. and abroad consider the development of
big flat panels to be crucial for the success of HDTV because
the bigger picture size shows off the technology's detail.
   In Europe, countries have banded into an HDTV venture
called Eureka Project 95. The first phase of project, which
ended in December, cost $318 million, the OTA report says.
European governments chipped in 40% of the cost.
   Japan has been pushing to get its system adopted as a
world standard, with Europe so far successfully blocking its
attempts. Politics is more important than technology in this
effort. An international technical group organized by the
Soviet Union recently compared Japanese and European systems
for producing HDTV programming. In an interim report, dated
June 4, and provided to this newspaper, the Japanese system
was rated superior "mainly because it was free from
large-area flicker." Further tests are planned. The Soviet
Union organized the test to help it decide which system to
choose.
   In the U.S., meanwhile, the HDTV effort has been
fractured, with the Bush administration repeatedly turning
back efforts to increase funding for research. Congress
recently freed $20 million in additional HDTV funding for the
Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa),
on top of $10 million already approved. But that small
victory has as much to do with pork-barrel politics as with
technology policy.
   Rep. John Murtha, (D., Penn.), chairman of the defense
appropriations subcommittee, pushed for the additional funds
largely to help a small Pittsburgh company, Magnascreen
Corp., congressional staffers say. Magnascreen has already
been awarded a $1 million Darpa contract to produce a
flat-panel TV, and according to Pentagon documents, could win
as much as $9.5 million of the additional funds.
   But turning the U.S. into an HDTV competitor would take
far more money than that. Darpa has said it could use $100
million annually to research flat-panel displays, and the
Pentagon report recommends that level of funding. But the
administration has fought to keep HDTV funding to a fraction
of that, and the Pentagon ousted the Darpa director, Craig
Fields, who lobbied for big increases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Telerate Canada Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- CMQ/Telerate Inc., a provider of real-time
financial information, said it changed its name to Telerate
Canada Inc.
   Jim Davies, chief operating officer of Telerate Canada,
said the company changed its name "to emphasize the close
relationship we have with our parent company."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Telerate Canada was acquired in 1987 by Telerate Inc., a
unit of Dow Jones &amp; Co.
   Toronto-based Telerate Canada provides data on stocks,
bonds, foreign currencies and other markets to Canadian
subscribers. It said it has more than 10,000 terminals
installed in Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Moscow Softens Line on Germany
   ---
   Gorbachev Drops Demand
   For Warsaw Pact Ties,
   Hints at Basis for Accord
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet Union continues to blow hot and cold
on the vexed question of German unity, but some clear signs
of flexibility are emerging from behind the rhetoric.
   Addressing the Soviet parliament, President Mikhail
Gorbachev gave his broadest hint so far that Moscow could
envisage certain conditions under which a united Germany
could be part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mr.
Gorbachev repeated an earlier Soviet formula that Germany
could become an "associate member" of both NATO and the
Warsaw Pact as long as this was done in conjunction with an
overhaul of the two military alliances as part of the German
unification process.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in an apparent change from the earlier Soviet
position, Mr. Gorbachev dropped his insistence on East
Germany remaining part of the Warsaw Pact military structure.
Instead, he said that during a transition period, the West
German army would be subordinated to NATO, while the East
German army would be subject to the new government of a
united Germany -- not to the Warsaw Pact. The new German
government may well disband the East German army. However,
Soviet troops would continue to be stationed on East German
soil during the transition period, Mr. Gorbachev said.
   His comments were presented in a hypothetical way and
don't constitute any major breakthrough in solving the
problem of a future security arrangement for Germany. The
Soviet leader previously has suggested that U.S. and Soviet
troops should remain on German soil, and has frequently
called for major changes to the two military alliances.
   But Soviet officials and Western diplomats said Mr.
Gorbachev's comments are noteworthy because they signal a
strong desire by the Kremlin to work with NATO in the search
of a face-saving security arrangement for Germany. As such,
the comments represent a sharp turn from Moscow's tougher
stance just a few weeks ago, when it rejected German NATO
membership and suggested that German neutrality was the only
feasible option.
   "It's important not to read too much into the content {of
Mr. Gorbachev's remarks}," said one German diplomat. "But the
Soviets are sending a signal to the world that serves its own
function."
   In Washington, President Bush told reporters that the U.S.
hadn't changed its position that a unified Germany should be
in NATO with no conditions. In Brussels, NATO said in a
statement that it would study Gorbachev's speech carefully
but that the idea of duel or associate membership "does not
seem promising."
   The Soviet desire to reach a formula on German security
was underscored at a meeting between Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze and his West German counterpart, Hans-Dietrich
Genscher, in the Soviet town of Brest on Monday. Details of
the more than six hours of talks weren't disclosed. But Mr.
Shevardnadze told a concluding news conference that, "We see
the development of a very favorable setting for a mutually
acceptable settlement of the military-political status of a
future united Germany."
   Following the democratic revolution in East Germany last
fall, Moscow soon realized there was little it could do to
stop German unification. But, as one of the four victorious
World War II powers, it could still drag its feet and disrupt
the unification process. Many Soviet analysts say Moscow
would be unwise to do so because it would risk jeopardizing
relations with the new state from the start.
   But Mr. Gorbachev has been under strong pressure from
high-level Soviet officials, both civilian and military, over
how to handle the security issue. Many say publicly that a
united Germany as part of NATO would be a severe
foreign-policy blow, tantamount to "losing" East Germany.
   "There are numerous signs that NATO is using the new
situation on the continent to pursue its selfish aims,
creating an imbalance of forces," Oleg Baklanov, a senior
Communist Party official, told the Rabochaya Tribuna
newspaper. "Our Western partners would like to proceed from
premises that are advantageous only to them."
   The U.S. and its allies have tried to take such concerns
into account. At a recent NATO meeting in Scotland, U.S.
Secretary of State James Baker offered concessions that are
designed to make German membership of NATO more palatable to
the Soviets. But many in Moscow say that these moves don't go
far enough, and they are seeking to use the German issue as
leverage to bring about a fundamental change to the NATO
alliance.
   "We need a more solid basis {for a future security
arrangement for Germany} than NATO, which is built on
confrontation with the Soviet Union," says Valentin Falin, a
former Soviet ambassador to West Germany who now plays an
important role in formulating Moscow's German policies. He
says Mr. Baker's plans are "generally positive, but so far
they are only ideas."
   Mr. Gorbachev told parliament that, "We can't accept that
the West thinks movement should only come from our side."
   The issue is immensely complicated by the Soviet Union's
love-hate relationship with Germany. Many Soviets are looking
to Germany to provide badly needed economic assistance. There
are already strong rumors in Moscow and elsewhere that Bonn
is considering offering large government credits to the
Soviets, perhaps as the price for accepting East German
membership of NATO.
   But hardliners in the Kremlin also have a potent argument:
World War II, in which more than 20 million Soviets died.
They use the war to warn of the dangers of an enlarged
Germany and press home their arguments for tough terms
concerning a future security arrangement. "We can understand
the Germans, who have waited 45 years {for unity}," Mr. Falin
says. "But we should be aware of worries that the expansion
of Germany is linked with militarism. We must not forget the
lessons of the past."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Appeals Panel
   Negates SEC's
   Rule on Voting
   ---
   Agency Exceeded Its Powers
   By Having Firms Adopt
   `One Share, One Vote'
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals court panel struck down
the Securities and Exchange Commission's "one share, one
vote" rule, a move that could reshape the way some companies
protect themselves from takeovers.
   The panel, in a 3-0 decision, told the SEC that it had
overstepped its authority under federal securities law and
had entered corporate governance, an area traditionally
determined by state law. The court told the SEC that if the
rule were validated, "the commission would be able to
establish a federal corporate law by using access to the
national capital markets as its enforcement mechanism."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling could encourage more companies to try to create
multiple classes of stock in efforts to help protect
incumbent management. Several lawyers and academics suggested
that the ruling is likely to help boost the role of "white
knights," who are often brought in by management to help fend
off hostile bidders. Those investors could get shares with
enhanced voting rights as part of their stake in a company.
   The SEC, which said it was "disappointed," hasn't decided
whether to appeal the ruling by a panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia in favor of the Business
Roundtable, a group of 200 major corporations. The agency
could appeal either to the full appeals court or to the
Supreme Court. But the agency is likely to ask the exchanges
to adopt uniform voting procedures on their own, amending the
rules that way.
   Even if the appeals court ruling stands, it's unclear how
many companies would be able to get shareholder approval for
multiple classes of stock with unequal voting rights.
Institutional investors have emerged as a substantially more
active group in recent years and aren't likely to placidly
watch corporate managements take steps that could entrench
themselves.
   Dual voting is "clearly the most potent and ultimate
protective device because it does a lot more than prevent
hostile takeovers," said John Pound, finance professor at
Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
"Management is effectively insulated from unwanted changes."
   He said institutional investors, particularly public
employee funds that have been the most active in pressing
shareholder-rights issues, were likely to take a strong stand
against the introduction of new dual stock classes. "I think
this would generate real outrage among those institutions
concerned with good governance issues," he said. "That might
be a real restraint at major companies" tempted to introduce
new stock classes, he added.
   At the time the rule, called 19c4, was enacted by a 4-1
commission vote, 60 New York Stock Exchange companies had
disparate voting rights or planned to introduce them. In
addition, 182 companies on the National Association of
Securities Dealers automated quotation system and 117
American Stock Exchange concerns had such structures,
according to SEC figures.
   While those companies with two classes of stock already in
place were "grandfathered" and allowed to retain those
classes, the SEC rule said that companies couldn't in the
future abolish or reduce shareholder voting rights and remain
on an exchange or Nasdaq.
   By setting up the rule that way, the SEC tried to skirt
state corporate-governance problems because the agency
regulates the exchanges. But the appeals court rejected the
SEC argument, citing a 1977 Supreme Court ruling that said,
"we are reluctant to federalize the substantial portion of
the law of corporations that deals with transactions in
securities."
   The exchanges, led by the Big Board, will be watching the
SEC carefully. The New York exchange pressed the SEC for
rule-making help in 1988 when it was forced to reconsider an
exchange rule that prohibited multiple classes of stock. That
was during the takeover binge of the 1980s when a host of
companies were eager to protect themselves from corporate
raids.
   At the time, the Amex had a more permissive rule allowing
companies to list several classes of shares, and the Nasdaq
didn't have any rule governing the voting structure.
   After the SEC passed its rule, the exchanges adopted
similar rules. If the appeals court decision stands, the
exchanges will be forced to decide how to handle their own
rules.
   The Business Roundtable applauded the ruling. "American
shareholders won an important victory today," said Bruce
Atwater, chairman of the group's corporate governance task
force and chief executive officer of General Mills Inc. "The
court has resoundingly affirmed their right to determine for
themselves what kinds of equities best serve their
interests."
   But some observers said the ruling could hurt
shareholders. "It's hard to justify having national policy on
issues like this made by a handful of individual states at a
time when the capital markets are becoming more
international," said Ronald Gilson, an expert on corporate
governance at Stanford Law School. "The effect of it is to
leave decisions about share voting largely to individual
state law."
   Washington lawyer Richard Phillips said he expected
several companies to seek multiple classes of voting stock
"as the hostile takeover comes back into vogue." But he added
that the SEC certainly would appeal the decision. "No way
they'll leave this one alone," he said.
   SEC market regulation director Richard Ketchum called on
the exchanges to adopt uniform 19c4-type rules. "There's
always been a wide degree of consensus {among the exchanges
and the NASD} that there should be voting rights rules," he
said. "I hope that staring into the vacuum, they will
respond."
   One potential benefactor of the ruling may be "white
knights," investors who are brought in by companies to
protect against hostile bids. In the past few years, those
investors weren't able to demand better voting terms before
making their investments. That could change, said Meredith
Brown, the head of mergers and acquisitions at Debevoise &amp;
Plimpton. "This might open up the possibility of voting
arrangements" favorable to white knights, he said.
   Arthur Fleischer, a takeover lawyer at Fried Frank Harris
Shriver &amp; Jacobson, agreed. "Assuming you can justify it from
a corporate point of view, you are no longer restricted by
19c4 to have a proportional voting test," he said.
   But he added that he thinks the court ruling is "more
symbolic than practical." Except in certain specific cases,
he said, he doubts shareholders would approve multiple
classes.
   ---
   James A. White in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bingo King Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BNGO
</CO>
<LP>
   BINGO KING Co. (Littleton, Colo.) -- Brian E. Baker, the
third-largest stockholder of this bingo equipment maker and
vice president of Norbaker Industries Ltd. of Toronto, was
elected a director, succeeding Edward G. Bradley, who
resigned to pursue other business interests. Leonard A.
Stuart, chairman and chief executive officer, was named to
the additional post of president, also succeeding Mr.
Bradley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Dynamics Gets Job
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   GD F ROK GM GMH RTN TRW
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Dynamics Corp. received a $91.5
million Air Force contract for improvements to the F-16
aircraft.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Aerospace Corp., a unit of Ford Motor Co., got a
$55.2 million Air Force contract for operating the
satellite-control network.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International Corp. received a $49.3 million Air
Force contract for MX missile rocket motors.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp., got a
$29.6 million Navy contract for electronics equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. was awarded a $24.7 million Navy contract for
electronics equipment.
                                                                                                       

   TRW Inc. got a $16.1 million Air Force contract for
satellite components.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Litton Gear Picked by Carriers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT F.AFR F.UTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- Litton Industries Inc. said two
French airlines, UTA and Air France, have selected its new
laser gyro inertial navigation system for their future fleets
of Airbus Industrie A-340 aircraft. Financial terms weren't
disclosed.
   The airlines are scheduled to take delivery of the
aircraft beginning in October 1992, and each of these
jetliners built by the European aircraft consortium will be
equipped with three of the navigation systems, known as
Flagship, and associated equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Panel Aide
   Advises Rebuke
   Of Durenberger
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A special counsel to the Senate ethics
committee recommended that Sen. David Durenberger (R., Minn.)
be denounced by the Senate for "knowingly engaging in
unethical conduct which has brought dishonor and disrepute to
this institution."
   The recommendation, which came in the opening day of
trial-like ethics committee proceedings, means that Mr.
Durenberger, 55 years old, almost certainly has escaped the
stiffest sanction the panel could recommend -- expulsion from
the Senate. Denunciation is the equivalent of a censure, the
next most serious punishment senators can level on a
colleague.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a major rebuke and carries the same weight as a
censure," explained Donald Ritchie, the Senate's associate
historian. "In a collegial body, it's a severe blow."
   In a news release, Mr. Durenberger said, "I feel the
sanction of denouncement, as special counsel recommends, is
harsher than warranted." He added that while he has admitted
some mistakes, "all of my actions were taken in good faith in
an attempt to comply with all laws and rules." Mr.
Durenberger also expressed disappointment that there wasn't
time for him to give his opening statement on the first day
of his Senate hearing.
   After hearing all the evidence in the case, the
bipartisan, six-member ethics committee must decide whether
to approve the recommendation of the special counsel, Robert
Bennett. It then would take a majority of the Senate to
approve a formal denunciation of Mr. Durenberger. The ethics
committee also can recommend to the GOP Senate conference
that Mr. Durenberger be stripped of his seniority and
committee assignments.
   In 1979, Sen. Herman Talmadge (D., Ga.) was denounced by
the Senate for submitting false expense vouchers and failing
to report campaign contributions. Mr. Talmadge lost his
re-election bid in 1980. Mr. Durenberger, who has served in
the Senate for 12 years, doesn't face re-election until 1994.
   At yesterday's hearing, Mr. Bennett gave a scalding
summary of the evidence against Mr. Durenberger. The central
charges involve a book promotion deal for which Sen.
Durenberger received $100,000 in an alleged scheme to
circumvent Senate limits on honoraria, and a condominium
partnership through which Mr. Durenberger may have improperly
received Senate reimbursement for lodging expenses. In both
matters, Mr. Bennett said the senator engaged in a "pattern
of unethical conduct."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Machinery Orders Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese machinery makers received orders valued
at 1.871 trillion yen ($12.1 million) in April, up 16.2% from
a year earlier, supported by strong domestic and overseas
demand, the Economic Planning Agency said.
   On a seasonally adjusted basis, April's machinery orders
rose 18% from March to 2.069 trillion yen. An agency official
said orders remained in an upward trend during April, and
will apparently stay that way for the foreseeable future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Orders from the domestic private sector in April increased
13.3% to 1.19 trillion yen, compared with a year earlier.
With seasonal factors taken into account, orders rose an
adjusted 15.6% from the previous month to 1.197 trillion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong's Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's April trade surplus with the U.S.
widened 16% to 7.17 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$921.3
million) from HK$6.17 billion (US$793.2 million) a year
earlier and was 43% wider than March's surplus of HK$5.01
billion.
   Total exports to the U.S. grew 9% to HK$11.18 billion in
April from HK$10.26 billion a year earlier and 6% from
HK$10.53 billion a month earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Imports from the U.S. in April fell 2% to HK$4.01 billion
from HK$4.09 billion the previous year and 27% from HK$5.52
billion in March. The U.S. is Hong Kong's largest export
market and is second to China in re-exports purchased from
the British colony. Re-exports are goods that are imported
and then shipped abroad again without material change.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Survival Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SURV WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SURVIVAL TECHNOLOGY Inc. (Bethesda, Md.) -- Robert
Herzstein was elected chairman, succeeding Dr. Stanley J.
Sarnoff, the company's late founder, chairman and chief
executive officer. Mr. Herzstein, a 59-year-old Washington
lawyer, has been a director of the company since 1969. He
won't be involved in the company's day-to-day operations, the
company said. The company manufactures and distributes
medical-emergency equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Black &amp; Decker Officers Buck the Bears
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   BDK NCBC TIF FTL
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bucking bearish Wall Street sentiment about
their company and its huge debt burden, officers and
directors at Black &amp; Decker Corp. have been buying its stock,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.
   So far this year, nine insiders at the Towson, Md.,
appliance and power-tool manufacturer have taken advantage of
its depressed stock price to purchase shares. That compares
with only one insider who bought the company's stock in all
of last year, SEC filings show.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chief among the four insiders who bought shares in April
and May: Chairman Nolan D. Archibald. His purchase in May of
20,000 shares for $265,000, or $13.25 a share, more than
tripled his existing holdings. In a telephone interview
yesterday, he predicted that time will show the shares were
"the best investment I ever made."
   Black &amp; Decker shares closed in New York Stock Exchange
trading yesterday at $15.25, up 25 cents. That's way below
the $25.25 high of 1989.
   Mr. Archibald blamed the low price on Wall Street's
"short-term orientation." The stock price fell sharply on
news of the company's acquisition of Emhart Corp. last year,
and has never fully recovered, he said. But "the Street
doesn't understand" how successful the acquisition has been
in making Black &amp; Decker "a less cyclical company, a
higher-margin company not dependent on two product lines," he
said.
   Russell Leavitt, Salomon Brothers Inc. analyst, called the
insider purchases "an encouraging sign." But he added that
"near-term, there are hurdles the company needs to overcome."
He and other analysts fret that Black &amp; Decker's plan to shed
many Emhart assets is going far more slowly than expected,
boosting interest costs. Eventually, they say, it might be
forced to sell assets at fire-sale prices.
   Jerome Fischer, analyst at Value Line Publishing Inc.,
noting that debt is running at 80% of capital, predicted that
"the stock is likely to underperform the market averages"
into 1991. But, "assuming all goes well" with efforts to
reduce debt, record earnings are possible in 1992-1994.
   "The debt is too high," said Mr. Archibald. But he said
the company has undertaken several measures to reduce it,
including a cost-cutting program, a reduction in capital
expenditures and scale-down of inventories. Only one of the
measures -- the planned shedding of some Emhart assets --
hasn't been fully successful yet, he said.
   Some of the bullish insiders have continued to buy even
though the stock price has dropped since their first
purchases. William C. Battle, director and retired chairman
of Fieldcrest Cannon Inc., purchased 2,000 shares at $14
each, on top of a purchase of 1,000 shares in February at
$16.25 a share. He couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   THE TELLER'S WINDOW: In the largest purchase reported to
the SEC last week, Thomas M. Garrott, president of National
Commerce Bancorp, spent $1.6 million on 78,285 shares of the
Memphis-based bank holding company. As shown on the
accompanying Insider Trading Spotlight, a series of purchases
made from May 21 through May 29 increased Mr. Garrott's
holdings in National Commerce by 34%. He now owns 307,016
shares, SEC filings show (see accompanying table -- WSJ June
12, 1990).
   The "marketplace gave me a great buying opportunity," Mr.
Garrott said. Wall Street is penalizing all bank stocks and
"has thrown out the babies with the bath water."
   National Commerce's earnings have been increasing steadily
over the past few years, he said, but the stock price doesn't
reflect it.
   Mr. Garrott's purchase followed those by two other
National Commerce insiders, a director and an officer, who
bought 3,000 and 5,000 shares, respectively, in April and
May, SEC filings show. Those purchases increased their
holdings by 12% and 10%, respectively, according to the
filings.
   All three insiders paid share prices ranging from $20.75
to $22. In over-the-counter trading, National Commerce shares
closed at $22.25, up $1.
   ---
   LAND RUSH: Two vice presidents of Tiffany &amp; Co., the New
York-based jewelry and luxury items retailer, sold the
majority of their shares in May, SEC filings show.
   Robert J. Warren, the company's treasurer and a vice
president, sold 10,000 shares on May 17 for $428,800, or
$42.88 a share. SEC filings show he retains 8,000 shares. Mr.
Warren said he sold the shares to buy real estate.
   John R. Loring, senior vice president and design director,
sold 24,500 shares, retaining 10,000, in three separate sales
on May 22, SEC filings show. The shares sold for prices
ranging from $45.13 to $45.50. He couldn't be reached for
comment, but a spokesman for the company said Mr. Loring also
sold to finance a real-estate investment.
   In New York Stock Exchange Trading, Tiffany stock closed
at $45.50, up $1.25.
   ---
   FRUIT REDUX: In several sales in May, beleaguered William
F. Farley, chairman of Fruit of the Loom Inc., sold 594,800
shares in the company for $8.1 million, filings with the SEC
show. That's substantially more than Mr. Farley had
previously indicated he planned to sell. As reported last
week, according to a "notice of proposed sale" filed with the
SEC on May 15, Mr. Farley planned to sell as much as $3.9
million of Fruit of the Loom stock, or 280,500 shares "ASAP"
(as soon as possible).
   The latest sales come on top of sales in March and April
of $7.3 million of stock in the Chicago-based underwear,
socks and sweat shirt company, SEC filings show. The sales
come at a time when Farley Inc., the highly leveraged holding
company in which Mr. Farley is the majority stockholder, is
tottering under its mountain of debt. Farley Inc. holds a 20%
stake in Fruit of the Loom.
   Mr. Farley declined to comment.
   In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange
yesterday, Fruit of the Loom shares closed at $13.375, up
12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Dance:
   Baryshnikov Repudiated
   ----
   By Dale Harris
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- According to the power press here, American
Ballet Theatre currently is in the process of "reclaiming its
soul." "Soul," of course, has never been easy to define.
However, in this case it probably signifies little more than
the state of bliss in which, according to some, ABT existed
before 1980. That year Mikhail Baryshnikov took over as
director from Lucia Chase and Oliver Smith and, many believe,
betrayed the company's spirit.
   Among those who subscribe to this view of ABT's recent
history, it would appear, are Jane Hermann and Oliver Smith,
the team that supplanted Mr. Baryshnikov last year.
Apparently forgetting that Mr. Baryshnikov was brought in to
rescue ABT from the artistic chaos to which his immediate
predecessors had reduced it, Ms. Hermann and Mr. Smith now
are busy trying to dismantle his accomplishments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To this end, they have repudiated Mr. Baryshnikov's
attempts to create a genuine ensemble in place of what was
essentially a showcase for visiting stars; his efforts to
extend the company's artistic reach by engaging modern-dance
choreographers such as Merce Cunningham, Twyla Tharp, Karole
Armitage and Mark Morris; his partiality for the ballets of
George Balanchine; his determination to place greater
emphasis on classical than on demi-caractere dancing. While
there hasn't been enough time for the new administration to
eradicate all evidence of its predecessor's taste -- the
general outlines of ABT's current season at the Metropolitan
Opera House were devised by Mr. Baryshnikov before his
precipitous departure -- the artistic orientation of Ms.
Hermann and Mr. Smith has begun to manifest itself.
   For one thing, guest artists, abjured for the most part
since 1980, are again very much in evidence. Fernando
Bujones, who left ABT after a disagreement with Mr.
Baryshnikov, returned for "Black Swan," "Giselle" and "The
Sleeping Beauty." In the last, he partnered Ludmila
Semenyaka, flown in from the U.S.S.R. at short notice to
replace an injured Cynthia Gregory. Ekaterina Maximova and
Vladimir Vasiliev, from the Bolshoi, danced a single
"Giselle," and Ms. Maximova also performed Mr. Vasiliev's
brief "Elegie."
   None of these appearances were exactly satisfying: Ms.
Maximova, after all, is 51, and Mr. Vasiliev 50. Mr. Bujones,
though merely 35, also has passed his zenith. As for Ms.
Semenyaka, her dancing is only too clearly characterized by
the unmusicality and technical weaknesses of Leningrad's
Kirov, where she began her career, and the affectations of
Moscow's Bolshoi, where she is the ranking ballerina.
   Whether or not such guests are good for the box office is
far from certain. That they are bad for the company's
artistic standing can hardly be doubted. Not only do they
undermine what remains of the stylistic coherence Mr.
Baryshnikov was trying to instill into ABT, they also serve
to derogate the importance of choreography. Like the old
duumvirate, the new one prefers to promote the cult of
personality over the art of dance. To see the shambles Ms.
Semenyaka made of the text -- not to mention the spirit -- of
"The Sleeping Beauty" should be warning enough of the dire
consequences of casting by publicity value instead of
capability. Ms. Maximova and Mr. Vasiliev are artistically
far superior to Ms. Semenyaka, but they have little to offer
a company in desperate need of aesthetic direction.
   Ms. Maximova and Mr. Vasiliev at least excited the
audience, many of whom, no doubt, remembered the pair from
their days of glory. Ms. Semenyaka, on the other hand, left
the house cold. So, invariably, does the company's newly
engaged premier danseur Faruk Ruzimatov, formerly of the
Kirov Ballet. Mr. Ruzimatov made his New York debut with the
company in "Giselle," followed two weeks later by "Bayadere,
Act II." Both roles cruelly expose his technical weakness.
They also expose his lack of magnetism.
   It's true that the very first sight of him is enough to
produce gasps from the audience, an expectant hush, a round
of applause. But, then, few dancers at ABT have ever adopted
so startlingly tragic a demeanor, kept their mouths so
constantly open, as if in perpetual self-astonishment, or
worn such heavy eye makeup. It's when Mr. Ruzimatov starts to
dance that the enthusiasm dwindles -- as it noticeably did on
both occasions.
   In Balanchine's "Theme and Variations" and, especially,
"Stravinsky Violin Concerto," Mr. Ruzimatov fell even
flatter. The technical demands made by abstract works like
these cannot be finessed by adopting an air of tragic
suffering -- as to some extent they can be in certain
narrative or situational ballets -- and the Soviet dancer was
forced to simplify the steps in a way that sabotaged the
choreographer's patent intentions. In "Stravinsky Violin
Concerto," there was a certain amount of diversion in seeing
someone so completely out of place -- Mr. Ruzimatov danced
this bracingly astringent work as if he were thinking about
the Last Judgment -- but that was hardly enough to save the
performance. The engagement of the ex-Kirov dancer looks all
too symptomatic of the new directors' inability to see where
their priorities lie. Instead of ensuring that the talented
dancers already in the company are properly nurtured, they
prefer to scour the U.S.S.R. for a possible box-office
sensation, whether the dancer in question is good or bad.
   Among those on ABT's regular roster in need of guidance is
Julio Bocca, a premier danseur of remarkable talent but with
little idea of how to put it to proper use. Playing opposite
the touching and musical Alessandra Ferri in "Giselle," he
took fire. Playing in "The Sleeping Beauty" opposite the
callow, unfocused Amanda McKerrow -- another immensely gifted
dancer badly in need of help -- he looked lost, even missing
the crucial cue, announced so thrillingly in Tchaikovsky's
music, that signals the awakening of Aurora and the
restoration of life to the entire kingdom.
   As it happens, the entire production of Petipa's greatest
work looked slack and, like so much seen during the current
season, under-rehearsed. Certainly, in this latter respect
the company is returning all too evidently to the level that
prevailed under Lucia Chase and Oliver Smith, when survival
took precedence over quality. Survival, of course, is not a
negligible consideration. On the other hand, it is hardly a
guarantee of excellence -- and excellence is surely the only
standard a ballet company ought to be aspiring to.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   OHM Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OHM NSCC
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OHM Corp. said it completed the initial public offering of
1.5 million common shares of its asbestos abatement
subsidiary, NSC Corp., at $13.50 a share. OHM continues to
own 73% of the 5,510,000 shares outstanding of NSC, before
exercise of an underwriters' over-allotment option. Proceeds
from the offering will be used to repay certain bank debt of
NSC, OHM said. Oppenheimer &amp; Co. and Raymond James &amp;
Associates Inc. managed the underwriting. NSC is a regional
provider of asbestos abatement services, primarily for
commercial, industrial and institutional properties in the
northeastern part of the country. OHM of Findlay, Ohio,
provides environmental analysis and remediation services in
the U.S. and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   HRE Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HRE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HRE PROPERTIES said trustees of the New York-based real
estate investment trust, as expected, restored the quarterly
dividend to its regular level of 45 cents a share, after a
one-time cut to 25 cents in the previous quarter because of
costs of HRE's defense against a takeover attempt by
Kimco-Orentreich Group. The latest dividend is payable July
20 to stock of record June 29. Separately, HRE reported that
net income for its second quarter ended April 30 fell 12% to
$1.1 million, or 20 cents a share, from $1.2 million, or 21
cents a share, a year earlier. The results included gains of
$162,000 in the latest quarter and $121,000 in the
year-earlier period, both from sales of properties. At April
30, the average number of shares outstanding fell to 5.4
million from about six million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LIO
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LIONEL Corp. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. cut the rating on
the New York-based toy retailer's $59 million of subordinated
debt to triple-C-plus from single-B-plus. The credit-rating
company removed the issue from its CreditWatch list, where it
had been placed Feb. 20. Lionel declined comment on the
rating action. The downgrade stems from a weakening operating
and financial position at the toy retailer, plus "diminishing
prospects for a significant recovery," S&amp;P said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Power Generation Pacts
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE C.KEP
</CO>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co. said its power
generation business received three contracts totaling $246.5
million for power plant equipment.
   The contracts include sale of a 927-megawatt power plant
for more than $200 million to Korea Electric Power Co.; a
$35.5 million contract for gas turbines to Indiana Municipal
Power Agency; and an $11 million contract for a gas and steam
turbine unit to Trigen Energy Corp., for a plant in
Uniondale, N.Y.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exxon Natural Gas Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XON AN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Exxon Corp. said a natural gas discovery in
Latimer County, Okla., about 13 miles southwest of Wilburton
tested at rates of about 40 million cubic feet of gas a day
through a one-inch choke with a flowing tubing pressure of
1,470 pounds a square inch.
   The oil and energy company holds a 66% working interest in
the well. Chicago-based oil and energy concern Amoco Corp. is
the other major partner, with 33%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial-Paper Rates
   Rise at Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.177% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.1695% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $406 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.10% to 8.19%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate rose to 8.175% at
its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.1047% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $396 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.15% to 8.189%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Trade Gap
   Eased in Quarter
   To $22.9 Billion
   ---
   Smallest Deficit in 6 Years
   Is Due to Strong Exports
   Of Goods and Services
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Strong exports of goods and services brought
the U.S. trade deficit in the first quarter to its lowest
level in six years, according to new Commerce Department
figures.
   The current-account trade deficit, also called the balance
of payments, was $22.9 billion in the first quarter, down
from a revised $26.7 billion in the fourth quarter of last
year. Analysts say strong growth overseas is boosting
exports, while slow growth in the U.S. is damping imports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a great improvement, much more than we expected,"
said Lawrence Krohn, a senior economist at Shearson Lehman.
"The trade picture this year is going to be a bright one."
   The current account is the broadest measure of U.S. trade,
including goods, services and earnings on investments. In the
first quarter, the U.S. had a deficit in merchandise trade of
$26.4 billion. But that was partly offset by a surplus in
services of $6.3 billion, which was boosted by travel in the
U.S. by Japanese and other foreigners.
   The balance on investment income in the first quarter
showed a slim surplus of $600 million. That means U.S.
companies are still earning slightly more from their
investments overseas than foreign companies are earning in
the U.S. But the rush of foreign investment into the U.S. in
recent years leads many economists to believe that number
will turn negative in the future.
   The U.S. also transferred a net $3.5 billion overseas in
grants and other unilateral payments.
   The relatively good news in the first quarter suggests the
current-account deficit for the year will be under $100
billion for the first time since the early 1980s. But Nigel
Gault, senior economist for Data Resources Inc., Lexington,
Mass., says he doesn't expect much further improvement in the
near future. "I would expect us to average just under $100
billion for the next three years," he said.
   Merchandise exports increased to $96 billion in the first
quarter, a big rise from $91.7 billion in the fourth. Imports
also increased, but by a much smaller ammount, to $122.4
billion from $120.5 billion.
   Receipts from the sale of services to foreigners were
$31.6 billion in the first quarter, up from $30.2 billion in
the fourth. Payments to foreigners for services also rose, to
$25.3 billion from $24.1 billion.
   The income earned by U.S. investments abroad was $31.1
billion in the first quarter, down from $32.6 billion in the
fourth. But U.S. payments to foreign investors also fell, to
$30.4 billion from $32.1 billion in the previous quarter.
   The current-account deficit for all of 1989 was $110.03
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ANDREW W. MELLON FOUNDATION (New York) -- T. Dennis
Sullivan was named financial vice president and chief
financial officer, a new post, effective Sept. 1. Mr.
Sullivan is also president of Princeton University Investment
Co. The Mellon Foundation is a private foundation with assets
of about $1.8 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Ad Agencies Get Out Their Crystal Tubes
   To Predict the Winners of Fall TV Season
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB CBS NWS GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- When the new television season begins this
fall, "Cop Rock" will serve up the bizarre tandem of
cops-and-robbers cum song-and-dance. Now advertising
executives must bet on whether the unlikely musical series
will be a daring breakthrough -- or a silly flop.
   Betting right is the tough part. "Cop Rock" is one of 35
new weekly series that will open in the fall on the three
major networks and their stepsister, Fox Broadcasting Co. Ad
agencies, now bracing to order $4.4 billion of commercials in
the annual summer ritual known as the "up-front market," are
trying to separate the future hits from the likely failures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Choosing what is hot is tricky business in television, but
it will be more troublesome than usual this time around. Ad
executives must comb through more new series than ever, now
that News Corp.'s Fox network is adding a fourth and fifth
night of programming and nine new series. Moreover, in
picking the hits, advertisers previously had a safety net:
Ratings guarantees promised free spots when shows drew puny
audiences. But now the networks are trying to narrow the
scope of the guarantees; NBC yesterday made the latest move
in that direction.
   Sticking with the hit shows from last season is safer, but
much more expensive. In the up-front market, expected to open
this week, a commercial in a new episode of ABC's "Roseanne,"
the No. 1 show last season, could cost $375,000 for 30
seconds -- enough to feed Roseanne's snotty kids until
they're well out of grad school. Spots in an unheralded new
series can go for a mere $60,000, with the outside chance
that the show will break through and draw millions of extra
eyeballs -- free eyeballs -- to sponsors' product-pushing
messages.
   Just one problem: Ad agencies often guess wrong. Last
season, almost no one predicted the surprise success of CBS
Inc.'s real-life series "Rescue: 911." Most forecasters
hadn't expected the fast flop of the Mel Brooks comedy "Nutt
House" on NBC. And most everyone on Madison Avenue had
predicted "Chicken Soup" would be the next big hit, helped by
caustic comic Jackie Mason in the lead and by the time slot
following "Roseanne." But ABC killed it after only a few
weeks.
   The vast majority of new shows die in their first season
on the air. Of 53 new series introduced by NBC, ABC and CBS
in the past year, only 13 were renewed for this fall, says
Steven Sternberg, a vice president at ad agency Bozell Inc.
By that measure, only eight or nine of the 35 new shows
premiering in September will still be on by the first
snowfall.
   So which ones are the keepers? Ad agencies make their
picks by previewing the pilots, analyzing reams of ratings
data and studying the schedule as if it were a chessboard.
But now and then they resort to the fragile ways of gut
instinct and a frequently faulty crystal ball; anyone's guess
can be as good as theirs.
   One of the few certainties is that viewers are more
fidgety-fingered and fickle than ever. The 1990-91 TV season
will be "the year of the remote control," says Susan
Auerbach, a group vice president at media buyer Vitt Media
International Inc. Viewers will flit to and fro and hither
and yon, she says, because they will have so many new shows
to sample, especially half-hour comedies for which they can
quickly get a feel. The zapping makes the "television
environment so erratic, so volatile, that viewing patterns
have become unpredictable," says Betsy Frank, a senior vice
president at Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising.
   Only a few new series are consistently mentioned by ad
executives as possible hits next fall: an ABC clone of its
immensely popular series "America's Funniest Home Videos";
NBC's "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," starring a rap singer named
Wil Smith (of DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince); and
perhaps "Babes," a Fox comedy about three fat sisters sharing
a cramped apartment in New York City. The sisters will follow
spike-haired cartoon kid Bart Simpson on Thursday nights.
   The probable flops are more plentiful and easier to pick
out, ad people say. "Hull St. High" on NBC, a unit of General
Electric Co., depicts students singing and dancing down the
halls of a Los Angeles high school. "That's hokey," says
Thomas Winner, an executive vice president at
Campbell-Mithun-Esty.
   Nor do advertisers hold out much hope for the new NBC
drama that will follow "Hull St." on Sunday nights. "Signs of
Life" will depict illness from the patient's viewpoint. "It's
going to be dead on arrival," says Thomas DeWitt, president
of DeWitt Media Inc., a media-services firm.
   Ad brass also say "The Flash," airing on CBS on Thursdays
opposite "The Cosby Show" on NBC and "The Simpsons" on Fox,
will disappear in a hurry. So might CBS shows "Uncle Buck,"
adapted from the movie of the same name, and "The Green
Machine," about an environmental crisis team.
   But some ad executives cite several shows that could turn
out to be sleepers, catching on unexpectedly. CBS has "WIOU,"
about a local TV newsroom, which Paul Schulman of the
media-buying firm Paul Schulman Co. calls "excellent." NBC
may hit with something called "The Fanelli Boys," about four
grown Italian brothers living with their mama in New York,
says Bozell's Mr. Sternberg.
   Then there's Fox's "True Colors," which takes up the
unusual topic of an interracial marriage. And ABC has "Going
Places," a Friday night comedy about a group of young TV
producers, created by the same team that produces the
network's three other comedies the same night.
   Opinion is split on many other series, such as "Gabriel's
Fire" on ABC, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC Inc. The show,
starring actor James Earl Jones, is about a former "lifer"
who is freed from prison and works for a woman lawyer. Mr.
DeWitt calls the show "a natural" for ABC's Thursday night
lineup and says the competition on NBC, "Cheers," "is ready
to be knocked off." But others say James Earl Jones may be
too intense for a weekly visit into America's living rooms.
   The ad industry is further divided on the chances for "Cop
Rock," made for ABC by respected producer Steven Bochco. Paul
Schulman says, "When you're watching and all of a sudden a
jury bursts into song singing `guilty,' it doesn't fit. You
just can't really enjoy it." Ms. Auerbach of Vitt Media says
interest in "Cop Rock" will wane quickly.
   But DeWitt's Gene DeWitt counters that he expects "Cop
Rock" to work well. He notes that the producer's wife,
Barbara Bosson, who has had roles in previous Bochco shows,
plays the mayor in "Cop Rock." Mr. DeWitt figures it this
way: "I don't think Bochco's going to put his wife in a dud."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plains Giant:
   What Makes ConAgra,
   Once on Brink of Ruin,
   A Wall Street Favorite?
   ---
   Ten Years of Profit Increases,
   Shrewd Food Acquisitions
   Led Up to Beatrice Deal
   ---
   Tornado Spares the Directors
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CAG X.BCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   OMAHA, Neb. -- No doubt about it, ConAgra Inc. isn't a
sexy company. It mills flour, corn and oats, sells fertilizer
and frozen foods, and raises chicken, beef and even the lowly
catfish. Its chairman is a balding, overweight, aw-shucks
kind of guy. Its corporate history is titled, "ConAgra Who?"
   Which is exactly what many people were asking last week
when ConAgra agreed to buy Beatrice Inc. for $1.34 billion,
in a deal that would solidify its position as the nation's
second largest food-processor, behind Philip Morris's Kraft
General Foods.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In fact, its unassuming chairman, Charles M. Harper, has
over the past 16 years quietly built ConAgra into a
food-industry giant with $15 billion in revenue and 10
straight years of earnings increases. A share of ConAgra
bought for $3 in 1974 when Mr. Harper took over would now be
worth -- following stock splits -- $430.
   ConAgra's stock has even gone up since the Beatrice deal
was announced, unlike the usual case, when the acquiring
company declines on the news. That's partly because the
proposed Beatrice acquisition would strengthen ConAgra's
supermarket fare -- notably the frozen-food brands Banquet,
Chun King, Healthy Choice and Kid Cuisine -- with Beatrice's
Hunt's tomato products and Wesson cooking oils. It also would
give ConAgra the strong grocery-store distribution network it
now lacks.
   So far, ConAgra's success has been based on a relentless
quest for new food-business acquisitions, giving the company
enough diversity to protect it from cyclical downturns. By
"operating across the food chain," a favorite saying of Mr.
Harper's, ConAgra has benefited from various trends in the
food business -- even some the company never anticipated.
"We're not smart enough" to specialize in any single food
business, says the chairman.
   For example, ConAgra's commodity trading operations
established an enviable toehold in Eastern Europe, buying
fertilizer from the Soviet Union and selling grain to the
Soviets and other East bloc countries, long before the fall
of Eastern European communism. Analysts say the company is
now positioned to take advantage of the new openness there,
and last fall it began selling poultry to the Soviet Union
and Romania.
   Mr. Harper's modesty belies what is an extremely
aggressive operating style. The 62-year-old chairman, who
also stands six feet, six inches tall, monitors this rapidly
expanding conglomerate with unusual attention to detail.
   Built into the wall behind his desk is a setup resembling
an air traffic controller's work station, with a microphone
jutting out over a computer screen and rows of digital
clocks. This apparatus allows Mr. Harper to beam himself into
ConAgra's many operating units, where each week he grills
operating managers on their progress in meeting targets in
sales, profits and inventories.
   Mr. Harper is one to buck convention in his personal life
as well. He likes to tool around Omaha in a bright red
Corvette complete with a "fuzz-buster" just in case any of
the city's finest should seek to monitor his speed.
   Assimilating Beatrice will pose the second biggest
challenge yet to Mr. Harper's tenure, rivaled only by the
near-bankrupt status he found the company in when he joined
in 1974.
   Assuming the Beatrice deal closes, Mr. Harper, who has
specialized in small acquisitions that let him keep debt
quite low, will lead a company with more debt than its used
to and nearly 16,000 more employees (bringing the total to
70,000).
   The Beatrice deal would also put 15% of the company's
stock in the hands of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., the
leveraged buy-out firm which owned Beatrice -- and which, in
recent years, hasn't hesitated to protect its investments or
pursue a hostile buy-out. KKR says it would treat its ConAgra
stake as a long-term investment.
   Despite the risks, Mr. Harper felt such an acquisition was
vital given the growth-through-acquisition of rivals like
Philip Morris, which have beefed up their distribution
capability and gained valuable control of store shelf space.
The Beatrice acquisition also recoups Mr. Harper's loss when
he was outbid last year for a major acquisition, Holly Farms
Corp., by Tyson Foods Inc.
   For a moment last week, it seemed the Beatrice deal could
be in jeopardy too. Last Thursday morning, halfway through
the ConAgra board meeting called to consider the acquisition,
a tornado warning was issued for Omaha. Mr. Harper
reluctantly halted the meeting and herded the directors into
a stairwell. "Uh oh," thought Robert J. White, a ConAgra vice
president, "here comes an act of God." The tornado, however,
missed Omaha.
   The company hasn't always had such good fortune. It began
in 1919 as Nebraska Consolidated Mills Co., four small mills
that went public in an undersubscribed stock offering that
brought in $840,000. Early forays into consumer goods didn't
work out. Nebraska Consolidated started up the Duncan Hines
cake mix line, but lacking the marketing muscle to take it
national, was forced to sell the brand to Procter &amp; Gamble in
1956.
   In the early 1970s, ConAgra suffered big futures-market
losses when it tried to hedge its soybean-meal inventories,
used to feed broiler chickens. When Mr. Harper became chief
executive in 1974, many on Wall Street didn't think the
company would last very long.
   Mr. Harper had other ideas. The son of a one-time bank
examiner, he grew up in South Bend, Ind., got an engineering
degree and went to work for the Oldsmobile division of
General Motors. After five years, though, he looked at the
many-layered GM organizational chart and grew discouraged. "I
figured I could become CEO of GM when I was 347 years old,"
Mr. Harper says.
   He jumped to Pillsbury Co., helping to modernize plants,
and soon moved up to run several businesses, including a big
poultry operation. Pillsbury sold the business in 1973, and
Mr. Harper, who friends say was at odds with senior
management, was offered a variety of jobs he found less
appealing.
   "Life was not too joyous for him at Pillsbury" after the
sale of the poultry unit, says Seymour Levy, an industrial
psychologist who met Mr. Harper while doing consulting work
for the Minneapolis food company. Mr. Levy introduced Mr.
Harper to another friend who was on the board of ConAgra.
   Once in charge of ConAgra, Mr. Harper quickly sold assets
to reduce its crushing debt load, even while formulating a
goal of widespread diversification.
   Wall Street scoffed. Eric Gleacher, an investment banker
Mr. Harper had hired when he was at Pillsbury, had never
heard of ConAgra at the time, and says he was among those who
didn't expect the company to last long. Securities analysts
weren't interested in the company, so Mr. Harper traveled
from town to town in the Great Plains talking up the company
to individual stockbrokers.
   Mr. Harper soon started buying businesses and trying to
develop new ones. The basic stuff -- such as milling
operations -- worked out fine, but some of the fancier ideas
flopped. Taco Patio, a chain of Mexican fast-food outlets,
bombed. And Bow Wow -- "the dog food dogs ask for by name" --
never took off, despite having the Peanuts comic strip
character Snoopy as its spokesdog.
   Bow Wow did bring one benefit, however. In about 1978, a
dog-food broker in St. Louis told a ConAgra executive that
RCA Corp. wanted to sell Banquet Foods, the big frozen-dinner
company. RCA wanted more than $200 million, which no one was
offering. Mr. Harper decided to bide his time and wait for
the price to drop. In 1980, RCA accepted his $55 million cash
and stock offer.
   Banquet was cheap for a reason. It lacked new products,
and it had a full year's inventory of frozen fried chicken,
much of it on the verge of spoiling. But with a bigger budget
for advertising and for new products, Banquet turned around
quickly, and paid for itself by 1984.
   One early large-scale acquisition that got away from Mr.
Harper was a Wichita meatpacking firm then named MBPXL. In
1978, ConAgra had a signed agreement to acquire the firm in a
stock swap, but Cargill Inc., the big Minneapolis grain
processing firm, swooped in and bought MBPXL, later renamed
Excel. The deal cemented Cargill's No. 2 position in
meatpacking, one which ConAgra has since overtaken.
   The Cargill acquisition scenario replayed itself last year
when Tyson, already bigger in the poultry business than
ConAgra, paid $1.29 billion to outbid ConAgra for Holly
Farms. The loss of that deal infuriated the chief executive,
and to tweak him, ConAgra executives and their spouses all
wore Tyson's corporate colors -- khaki, red and white -- to a
party last fall.
   The events leading up to the Beatrice move began in 1988
when Mr. Harper met Henry Kravis, the deal-maker who at the
time was buying RJR Nabisco Inc. Mr. Kravis needed a
well-regarded executive to run the huge company, and Mr.
Gleacher, then head of mergers and acquisitions at Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co., suggested the ConAgra man. It never reached
the point of an offer, says Mr. Harper. "I thought there had
to be something in it for the ConAgra shareholder," he says.
   But Messrs. Harper and Kravis got along well, and their
needs dovetailed in the Beatrice agreement. Mr. Kravis wanted
a tax-free deal for his investors, one that was at least 50%
stock rather than all cash, which would have been taxable.
That was good for ConAgra, too, which needed to issue stock
anyway to keep its debt-to-equity ratio from going too high
as a result of the purchase. Mr. Gleacher, who now heads his
own firm, put together the deal.
   One concern analysts have about the acquisition is how
ConAgra will fare after Mr. Harper, who plans to step down in
September 1992 at age 65. They credit him not only for his
takeover acumen but for his spirited leadership.
   In 1987, for example, he publicly threatened to move the
company's headquarters to another state unless Nebraska
legislated some big tax breaks. He won, after a nasty
political battle, and sought to mend fences the next year by
performing at an Omaha press-club dinner. Dressed up like
Gen. Patton, he sang to the tune of "America the Beautiful":
   "In Omaha, in Omaha
   That's where we want to be
   You paid the price to keep us here
   Instead of Tennessee."
   ConAgra is using the tax breaks to build a new
headquarters on the edge of downtown here, a sprawling campus
of buildings connected by tunnels.
   Mr. Harper recently elevated Philip B. Fletcher, an
experienced consumer products executive who came to ConAgra
in 1982, after stints at Campbell Soup Co., Heinz, and
Heublein, to the post of president and chief operating
officer. Mr. Harper says he is trying to share his job more
with Mr. Fletcher, 56, who is expected to succeed him.
   In recent years, Mr. Harper "has fought off a tendency to
micro-manage," says Mr. White, the ConAgra vice president. A
heart attack Mr. Harper suffered five years ago "made him
focus on the necessity to not be overinvolved in things," Mr.
White says.
   And the heart attack yielded even more direct benefits for
ConAgra. Once a heavy smoker, big eater and lover of spicy
foods, Mr. Harper changed his habits, forgoing beef and
convalescing on his wife's turkey chili. The experience led
Mr. Harper to launch a line of low-salt, low-calorie frozen
dinners. Now the "Healthy Choice" line is one of ConAgra's
most successful, albeit bland, new products.
   ---
         Buying More Space on the Grocery Shelf
                                                                                                       

   Sales by business segments as a percent of fiscal 1989
$11.3 billion revenue, includes recent Beatrice acquisition
                                                                                                       

          Prepared Foods           45.5%
          Beatrice Acquisition     27.6%
          Basic Food Companies     14.1%
          Trading and Processing   12.2%
          Finance Companies         0.6%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lone Star Technologies
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LSST
</CO>
<LP>
   LONE STAR TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (Dallas) -- David E. Blackwell
was named to the new position of chief operating officer of
the company's Lone Star Steel Co. unit. Mr. Blackwell, 51
years old, previously was president and chief executive
officer of Rouge Steel Co., Dearborn, Mich. Mr. Blackwell
also was named vice chairman of the steel unit's board,
increasing board membership to eight. Lone Star is an
oil-field and financial services company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AHE CANDA EUROP DD JAPAN S.SEB W GE CGP U.MEP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                      CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Electric Capital Corp. -- $250 million of 18-year
8 5/8% notes via Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. Investors have the
option of redeeming the notes at par in six years. The
maturity date is June 15, 2008, and the put date is June 15,
1996. The price paid by investors will be adjusted to result
in a yield 20 basis points above the average yield on the
Treasury's five-year and seven-year notes. The issue is rated
triple-A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp.
   Colorado Interstate Gas Co. -- $180 million of 10% senior
debentures due June 15, 2005, priced at 99.385 to yield
10.08%. The non-callable debentures were priced at a spread
of 160 basis points above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated
Baa-2 by Moody's and triple-B-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be
sold through underwriters led by Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Westvaco Corp. -- $100 million of 9 3/4% debentures due
June 15, 2020, priced at par. The non-callable debentures
were priced at 130 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year
bond. Rated single-A-1 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs
&amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Los Angeles -- $190 million of wastewater system revenue
bonds due June 1, 1991-2007, 2010 and 2020, apparently won by
a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group. The bonds, rated
single-A-1/single-A, were priced for reoffering to yield from
5.90% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2020. Current interest serial bonds
are priced to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.10% in 2007.
There are $20.3 million of 7% bonds priced at 99 1/4 to yield
7.07% in 2010 and $108.8 million of 7.15% term bonds priced
at 98.78 to yield 7.25% in 2020.
   Kentucky Housing Corp. -- $70.4 million of housing bonds,
Series A, due Jan. 1, 2010 and 2016, and Series B, due Jan.
1, 1992-2001, 2005, 2007 and 2021, tentatively priced by a
Bear Stearns &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to 7.80%
in 2021. Series A consists of $9.5 million of 7.40% term
bonds priced at par in 2010. There also is $13.7 million of
7.55% term bonds priced at par due in 2016. Series B current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.20%
in 1992 to 7.10% in 2001. There are $6.1 million of 7.30%
term bonds priced at par due in 2005, $4.1 million of 7.65%
term bonds priced at par due in 2007 and $27.4 million of
7.80% term bonds priced at par due in 2021. Interest on the
Series B bonds will be treated as a preference item in
calculating the federal alternative minimum tax that may be
imposed on certain investors. Series A bonds are not subject
to the alternative minimum tax. The bonds are rated double-A.
   Reedy Creek Improvement District, Fla. -- $70.4 million of
utilities revenue bonds, Series 1990-1, due Oct. 1,
1993-2003, 2010 and 2015, tentatively priced by a Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets group to yield from 6.30% in 1993 to
7.38% in 2015. Current interest serial bonds are priced to
yield from 6.30% in 1993 to 7.15% in 2003. There are $23.9
million of 7 1/4% term bonds priced at 99 1/4 to yield 7.32%
in 2010 and $25.9 million of 7.30% term bonds priced at 99
1/8 to yield 7.38 in 2015. The bonds are insured and
triple-A-rated.
   San Diego Area Local Governments -- $69.6 million of
12-month pooled tax and revenue anticipation notes due June
28, 1991, apparently won by a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
group. The 6.14% notes, backed by a letter of credit from
Fuji Bank Ltd. and rated MIG-1 by Moody's, were priced to
yield 5.90%.
   Indiana Transportation Finance Authority -- $60.7 million
of highway revenue bonds, Series 1990A, due June 1,
1992-2000, and 2015, priced by a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group
to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to 7.25% in 2015. Current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.20%
in 1992 to 6.90% in 2000. There is $36 million of 7.25% term
bonds priced at par and due in 2015. The bonds are rated
conditional single-A-1 by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P.
   West Virginia Housing Development Fund -- $50 million of
housing finance bonds, 1990 Series A, due May 1 and Nov. 1,
1992-2002, 2005 and 2017, priced by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
group at par to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 7.95% in 2017.
Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.40%
in 1992 to 7.50% in 2002. There are $4.5 million of 7.88%
term bonds priced at par due in 2005 and $28.9 million of
7.95% term bonds priced at par due in 2017. The issue is
rated single-A-1/single-A-plus. Interest on the bonds will be
treated as a preference item in calculating the federal
alternative minimum tax.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Eurofima (agency) -- 10 billion Spanish pesetas of 13 3/4%
Eurobonds due June 28, 1995, priced at 100 7/8 to yield
13.96% less fees via Banco Espanol de Credito (Banesto). Fees
1 5/8.
   Du Pont Co. (U.S.) -- 125 billion Italian lire of 12 3/8%
Eurobonds due July 12, 1994, priced at 101.60 to yield 12.38%
less fees via Credito Italiano. Fees 1 5/8.
   Metropolitan Estate Property International N.V. (Japanese
parent) -- 10 billion yen of floating-rate notes due July 5,
1995, priced at 100.10. Coupon 1/4 point above London
interbank offered rate. Callable after third year. Guarantee
by Metropolitan Estate Property Co. Fees 0.20.
   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (Sweden) -- 100 million
Swiss francs of 7 3/8% public bonds due June 29, 1997, priced
at 101 3/4, via Credit Suisse. Fees 2.63.
   American Health Properties Inc. (U.S.) -- 50 million Swiss
francs of 8 1/2% public bonds due July 19, 2000. Each bond
priced at 5,000 francs via S.G. Warburg Soditic. Bonds
convertible from Oct. 19 until July 9, 2000, into fixed
number of American Health Property shares determined by
dividing bond issue price by a fixed Swiss franc-U.S. dollar
rate to be set June 25. Conversion price determined by
American Health Properties market price five business days
before pricing, plus a premium of about 10%. Each bond
unconverted to be redeemed at about $5,000. Fees 1/2% on
coupons, 1/4% on conversions.
   Province of Manitoba (Canada) -- 200 million Swiss francs
of 7 1/4% public bonds due July 17, 2000, priced at 102, via
Union Bank of Switzerland. Fees 2.88.
   Meisei Industrial Co. (Japan) -- 50 million Swiss francs
of 7 3/4% privately placed notes due June 27, 1995, priced at
100 1/2, via Handelsbank NatWest. Guaranteed by Mitsui Taiyo
Kobe Bank. Fees 1.50.
   Bank of Greece (Greece) -- 300 million marks of
floating-rate notes priced at par, due July 10, 1998, via
Dresdner Bank. Coupon 0.35 point above six-month Libor.
Callable after five, six and seven years at par. Fees 2.88.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dolly Parton Never
   Would Have Stood
   This Kind of Abuse
   ---
   The `9 to 5' World Tells Tales
   Of Bad Bosses -- the Jerks,
   Phobics and Simply Sick
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   The winning entry came from Kathy Cole, a secretary at a
television-repair firm in Philadelphia. As she tells it, she
was leaving the office late one afternoon when her boss
called her aside. He gave her the telephone number for his
pager with instructions to call if she should see any
attractive women at the bar where she said she was going for
a drink.
   "He said, `You know my type. Beep me,'" Ms. Cole says. And
her boss was very specific about his type: "Dark-haired,
petite, with an olive complexion, very pretty," Ms. Cole
says. "He said he didn't want to waste any time there if
there wasn't anybody to meet."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As it turned out, Ms. Cole met someone herself and
abandoned the search. But Bruce Prager, her boss and owner of
Budrich Service Co., says he didn't think it inappropriate to
ask an employee to troll for potential dates. He says he
likes to maintain a casual, friendly atmosphere in the
workplace. "I don't feel like I did anything wrong," he says.
"For the relationship I have with my employees, I should be
praised."
   Not in the eyes of 9to5, the National Association of
Working Women -- or Ms. Cole. She entered an account of the
incident in the group's recent National Boss Contest. Mr.
Prager took top honors in a category for bosses considered so
difficult they are "Downright Unbelievable."
   Mr. Prager had stiff competition. Some 400 entries were
submitted to 9to5, an advocacy group for clerical workers
based in Cleveland. Bad-boss nominations accounted for more
than 300. "Some of these people appeared so sick that you
just had to shake your head," says Rep. Patricia Schroeder of
Colorado, one of the contest's judges.
   There was the accounting-firm supervisor who sprayed his
desk with disinfectant whenever a subordinate touched it and
followed workers to the restrooms to time their visits. And
then there was the research scientist who flew into a rage if
his secretary poured coffee above the level of the yellow
flower painted on the side of his cup.
   A hospital office worker complained that her boss refused
to talk to her except through messages sent via personal
computer. Then there was the boss who rebuked a clerk during
her annual performance evaluation for not sitting "in a
posture that would complement her as my supervisor,"
according to the clerk's entry. (That boss merited an
honorable mention.)
   Bosses' insensitivity to family needs topped the list of
complaints. One worker nominated her boss after he balked at
giving her an afternoon off to visit her mother, who had been
hospitalized for a heart attack. "Well, go ahead," the boss
grudgingly said. "But next time you should plan these things
better."
   Many workers also grumbled about having to perform
dangerous or demeaning tasks, or tasks that weren't in their
job descriptions. Mary Neisius, a former art-store clerk,
nominated her former boss after she and several other clerks
were given shovels and asked to fill potholes in the store's
badly rutted parking lot. A seven-ton pile of gravel awaited
them, she says.
   "We all needed Ben Gay the next morning," says Ms.
Neisius, who says she quit in February.
   Vivian Novis, owner of Novis Frame and Art Store in
Colorado Springs, Colo., confirms the incident, but she says
she had asked for volunteers for pothole duty. She says no
one was forced to shovel, no one was injured and no one
complained at the time.
   Many of the entrants demanded that their accounts be kept
confidential for fear they would be fired by an angry boss.
The organization released the names of only those workers who
wished to be interviewed for this article. Marilyn Lynch, a
postal worker from St. Helena, S.C., doesn't mind airing her
case. She is engaged in open warfare with her supervisor
Willard Nash. "He has told me to quit or die," Ms. Lynch
says.
   Ms. Lynch faults Mr. Nash for failing to give her a
promotion she feels she deserved. But she has other
complaints, among them soggy toilet paper. She says Mr. Nash
refused to order new paper for the post-office rest room
after an overflowing toilet had soaked the roll. Three of her
co-workers confirm her complaints.
   Mr. Nash refused to discuss the situation and referred a
reporter's telephone call to a U.S. Postal Service lawyer,
Thomas Pigford. Mr. Pigford says Mr. Nash disputes her
charges. He also adds that Ms. Lynch is regarded by the
Postal Service as a chronic complainer.
   A number of the entries suggest that sexism is alive and
well in the workplace. Becky Bradshaw Bartlett recently filed
a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
against her employer, New York Life Insurance Co. She works
at a branch office in Boulder, Colo.
   Among the incidents that prompted her to file the charge,
she says, was one involving a manager who yelled at her for
failing to serve coffee during a staff meeting, though she
had advised him the office had run out of coffee. "He said,
`I'm telling you right now, when we ask for coffee, you bring
the {expletive deleted} coffee. You squaw, me chief,'" Ms.
Bartlett says.
   The incident is also detailed in her complaint to the
federal agency. A New York Life spokesman declined to comment
on the matter while the complaint is pending.
   Not surprisingly, former bosses were featured prominently
in the nominations. But some workers confessed they are still
toiling for the taskmaster, despite the abuses, including Ms.
Cole, who was asked to size up the bar scene for her boss.
Why don't these workers quit? Age, economic circumstances and
fear they won't find another job leave many trapped, says
Ellen Bravo, associate director of 9to5.
   Some 100 workers did write to 9to5 to praise their bosses.
One "Good Boss": Peter Sander, chairman of the Drama and
Dance Department at Hofstra University. While some managers
might look askance, he won the unflagging loyalty of his
secretary, Ann Noonan, for supporting her and other clerical
workers when they struck the university last fall, demanding
pay raises. Mr. Sander even took Ms. Noonan's mail out to her
while she walked the picket line. "He treats me with
respect," Ms. Noonan says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Company
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GAP
</CO>
<LP>
   GREAT ATLANTIC &amp; PACIFIC TEA Co. (Montvale, N.J.) -- R.
Donald O'Leary becomes corporate vice president of marketing,
succeeding John D. Ryer, who left to pursue other interests,
the food and grocery company said. Mr. O'Leary was previously
a partner in Noll &amp; Co., a retail marketing and media
consulting firm in Red Bank, N.J. He also is a consultant
through his own firm, O'Leary &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corn Estimates
   Expected to Lift
   Futures Prices
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll and Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corn-futures prices are expected to rise today on the
strength of a government estimate of greater corn-export
demand and projections of dwindling corn stockpiles.
   The Agriculture Department boosted its estimate of corn
exports for the marketing year ending Aug. 31 by 50 million
bushels and lowered, in turn, its estimate of corn stockpiles
next September to 1.28 billion bushels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stronger export demand and tighter supplies also are
expected to raise cash-corn prices by five cents into the
range of $2.35 to $2.40 per bushel during the rest of the
marketing year.
   At the same time, the department gave wheat farmers a
double dose of reassuring news, sticking with its May
forecast for the largest winter-wheat crop since 1981 and
boosting its forecast of Soviet wheat buying by one million
tons.
   Government analysts projected a winter-wheat harvest of
2.09 billion bushels, up 44% from last year's drought-damaged
crop. The forecast was almost unchanged from the previous
forecast -- down fewer than five million bushels from last
month.
   Private commodity analysts said they don't expect wheat
prices to change significantly when trading opens today.
   Winter-wheat yields are expected to average 41.2 bushels
per acre. Winter wheat, which is planted in the fall and
harvested in June and July, accounts for 75% of U.S. wheat
production; spring wheat makes up the rest.
   The harvest is just beginning in Kansas, the nation's No.
1 wheat state. The Kansas crop is expected to total 460.2
million bushels, more than double last year's crop.
   The Agriculture Department didn't cut its one-month-old
forecast for an 8.1 billion-bushel corn harvest. However,
private analysts speculate that unusually cold and wet spring
weather may have forced farmers to plant roughly two million
acres fewer than government analysts expected.
   The department would probably reduce its corn-production
estimate if the condition of the emerging crop doesn't
improve markedly. About half of the crop is in fair to poor
condition. The early season situation is the worst in six
years, according to Daniel W. Basse, director of market
research at AgResource Co., Chicago.
   All these factors are expected to keep pressure on corn
prices for the foreseeable future. The department's
projection of a 1.28 billion-bushel stockpile by Sept. 1
would be the smallest since the 1983 drought helped deplete
the nation's stockpile.
   If the 1990 harvest proves mediocre, some analysts
speculate that the stockpile would fall below the one
billion-bushel level by the time farmers begin harvesting the
1991 crop.
   In a separate report on the Soviet Union's grain outlook,
the department stuck with its May prediction that Soviet
grain production will total 215 million tons in 1990. Also
unchanged from a month ago is the department's projection
that the Soviets will import 36 million tons of grain during
the 1990-91 marketing year beginning July 1.
   But department analysts raised their estimate of Soviet
wheat imports by one million tons to 16 million tons, which
would be the largest since 1987-88. At the same time, they
lowered their estimate of Soviet coarse-grain imports by one
million tons to 19 million tons. Rice and miscellaneous
grains will account for the rest of the import total.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   N.V. Philips, Olivetti End Talks Aimed
   At Cooperating in Computer Business
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty and Guy Collins
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG I.OLV
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   N.V. Philips and C. Olivetti &amp; Co. said they had ended
negotiations aimed at cooperating in the computer business.
   Analysts called the failure of the talks another blow to
Philips's flagging restructuring program, particularly
because the Dutch electronics company's unprofitable computer
business is viewed as one of its biggest problem areas. "They
need to do something quickly," said Bill Coleman, an analyst
at James Capel &amp; Co., London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither company would elaborate on the reasons for the
failure of the talks, which were first announced in April.
Industry analysts said they believed Olivetti had been
interested in acquiring control of the Philips computer
division in some form, but had concluded that such an
operation wouldn't make commercial sense at a time when the
industry is facing severe pressure on margins.
   The talks "were probably broken off by Olivetti after
looking at the core Philips business," said Dorian Foyil, an
analyst at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew, London. Analysts also said
there could have been problems concerning the Philips product
range and the potential cost of restructuring its operations.
   A Philips spokesman said the company is discussing
possible cooperation with other companies, but he refused to
elaborate. The company, based in the Netherlands, has been
even more tight-lipped than usual since mid-May, when it
announced a management shake-up under which its president,
Cornelis van der Klugt, agreed to leave the company July 1, a
year earlier than expected. His successor will be Jan Timmer,
who currently heads the consumer electronics division.
   Mr. van der Klugt has favored retaining control of the
computer business, which ranks 11th or 12th in Europe and is
considered by many analysts to be too small and ill-focused
to thrive on its own. At a news conference in March, Mr. van
der Klugt said Philips wanted to find a computer alliance
that would let the Dutch company "be masters in our own
house."
   Thus, some analysts speculated that an obstacle in the
talks with Olivetti might have been Philips's unwillingness
to give up enough control over its computer line.
   It isn't clear whether Mr. Timmer will be more willing to
let go of the computer business than was Mr. van der Klugt.
But a Philips spokesman insisted that computers are "very
important" to the company, adding, "There is no intention to
step out of that business."
   Philips officials have long argued that the computer
division is closely linked to the company's technological
strengths in video screens and optical-storage systems. Some
analysts have argued, however, that Philips would be
well-positioned to market such technology even if it no
longer manufactured computers.
   Philips might provide some hints about its computer
strategy July 2, when shareholders attend an extraordinary
meeting to vote on the recent management changes. Analysts
are eagerly awaiting Mr. Timmer's comments at that meeting.
   He is widely viewed as willing to make tough decisions. "I
think he'll be a man in a hurry," Capel's Mr. Coleman said.
   Olivetti also is expected to continue looking at other
possible alliances. The Italian company's chairman, Carlo De
Benedetti, said recently that it was interested in forging
accords either to acquire technology on a sector-by-sector
basis or to win market share. Company officials have said it
is keeping various options open through contacts in the
industry.
   Olivetti's consolidated net profit last year fell 43% to
202.8 billion lire ($163 million) from 356.2 billion lire in
1988, despite a 7.4% rise in sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP VLO CSN HRS NOBE
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Express Co., offering of about 27 million common
shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bird Medical Technologies Inc., proposed initial offering
of two milion common shares, of which 1.5 million are being
sold by the company and 500,000 by holders, via Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Cincinnati Bell Inc., shelf offering of up to $75 million
of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Harris Corp., shelf offering of up to $200 million of
medium-term notes, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and Salomon
Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Nordstrom Inc., shelf offering of up to $150 million of
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Nordstrom Credit Inc., shelf offering of up to $150
million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Valero Energy Corp., proposed offering of 4.75 million
common shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Salomon
Brothers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler to End
   Joint Venture
   With Renault
   ---
   Mini-Sport Vehicle Project
   Is No Longer Attractive,
   U.S., French Firms Say
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   C F.RNA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. and Renault S.A.
said they agreed to terminate their joint venture to produce
a new mini-sport utility vehicle because the venture "is no
longer economically attractive."
   The U.S. and French auto makers didn't provide much detail
about why they are scrapping the venture, but persons
familiar with the deal say it was plagued with problems and
unanswered questions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of the biggest problems was just how well the little
Jeeps, codenamed "JJ," would sell. When the venture was
established in 1989, Chrysler said U.S. sales might reach
100,000 a year. "Clearly, the way that market is performing,
there is no way it could support that many units," said
Christopher Cedergren, director of competitive assessments at
J.D. Power &amp; Associates, a California market research firm.
   This is partly because of increasing competition from
products such as General Motors Corp.'s Chevrolet Geo
Tracker, Daihatsu Motor Co.'s Rocky, and Suzuki Motor Co.'s
Samurai and Sidekick.
   In addition, consumers seem to prefer larger sport utility
models including Chrysler's Jeep Cherokee and Ford Motor
Co.'s Explorer. As a result, Chrysler isn't the only U.S.
auto maker to rethink plans for little sport utility
vehicles. Mr. Cedergren said Ford scrapped about a year ago a
mini-Jeep-like vehicle codenamed "UW52."
   It isn't clear whether Chrysler will abandon JJ
completely. In a statement, the No. 3 U.S. auto maker said it
"intends to continue" with the project and is "reviewing
various implementation alternatives." But a spokesman said JJ
is "still iffy. . . . We aren't going to build any vehicle we
can't make money on."
   One Chrysler executive said the U.S. auto maker had
recently taken a "fresh business look" at the venture in the
wake of the mid-May resignation of international operations
vice president Michael N. Hammes to take a top job at Black &amp;
Decker Corp.
   Chrysler officials were said to be concerned about several
issues. One involved Chrysler's ceding four key markets to
Renault, including France and Italy. In addition, Chrysler
wanted to build the four-door version first; Renault favored
the two-door.
   The manufacturers budgeted $500 million for the venture
but neither would say how much they've actually spent. The
Chrysler spokesman said Chrysler will reimburse Renault for
expenses incurred during the feasibility study but he
wouldn't be more specific.
   The initial agreement called for JJ to be built in North
America and Europe and sold world-wide, with European
deliveries estimated at 50,000 a year. European production
was to begin in July 1992, with North American output
following about six months later.
   In February, the companies said they had chosen a Renault
factory in Valladolid, Spain, as the European source.
Chrysler hadn't confirmed the North America location, but
Chrysler's Toledo, Ohio, Jeep plant was expected to get the
job.
   A United Auto Workers union spokesman said union members
at the plant ratified a tentative contract Monday that would
keep the plant open until 1997. The contract includes a
commitment from Chrysler that if JJ is built in North
America, it will be built in Toledo. But the tentative
contract is contingent on "a lot of ifs," the UAW spokesman
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Forgotten Domino:
   A Lonely Lao Fight for Freedom
   ----
   By Claudia Rosett
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   {First of two articles}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NAN, Thailand -- "I think that communist rule is at the
end of its century. I want democracy for my people," says
Shoua Xiong. He speaks for what is perhaps the world's most
obscure anti-communist movement, an army of several thousand
guerrillas who are risking their lives to overthrow the
Vietnamese-backed government of Laos.
   The 40-year-old Mr. Xiong hopes that if the West remembers
this forgotten domino of Indochina, it might help his cause.
He is a Lao resistance officer, who has just trekked into
northern Thailand from an area inside Laos that he says is
held by his anti-communist guerrillas. A trim, short man
wearing a light polo shirt and gray slacks, Mr. Xiong
(pronounced "Shong") pauses midway through our conversation
to strip off his shoes and socks. "Restless," he apologizes
in his fluent English. "Too much time in the jungle."
   Mr. Xiong is one of the Hmong tribesmen who in the days of
the Vietnam War fought in Laos under Gen. Vang Pao against
the communist Pathet Lao. He says that when Laos went
communist along with Vietnam and Cambodia in 1975, he was
working as an interpreter for the CIA. He fled with his
family to America, and like some 180,000 other Lao refugees
became a U.S. citizen. Settling in Milwaukee, he worked at
such jobs as carpentry and typewriter repair.
   He knew that back in Laos there were terrible events
taking place. "The brothers and sisters we left behind after
the war, they've been tortured, murdered," says Mr. Xiong.
It's a statement bolstered by human-rights reports and the
flight since 1975 of more than 300,000 refugees -- almost 10%
of the country's 3.5 million people. Vietnamese troops and
advisers, backed by the Soviet Union, helped to entrench the
Pathet Lao regime of Premier Kaysone Phomvihane -- who has
led the Lao Communist Party since its founding in 1955.
   Starting in the late 1970s came reports that along with
the usual communist means of repression, Mr. Kaysone's regime
was using chemical weapons, the infamous "yellow rain," to
kill rebels inside Laos. The resistance was disorganized and
discouraged. The world had not yet witnessed the overthrow of
a communist state. "We thought most of the Free World had
forgot Laos," says a resistance spokesman, Xia Kao Vang.
   Then came the uprisings in Burma in 1988, China last
spring, and finally the collapse last winter of communism in
Eastern Europe. Inspired by these events, the fragmented Lao
resistance got together, and last December declared a
provisional government for a free Laos. Mr. Xiong returned to
Southeast Asia, and now commands some of the guerrilla forces
operating inside Laos. They call themselves the Lao
Liberation Army, or LLA. Most are Hmong, still led by Gen.
Vang Pao.
   Since December the LLA guerrillas have been carrying out
the fiercest attacks on Pathet Lao troops since 1975.
Vientiane has been fighting back hard enough to imply that it
takes the resistance seriously. "The Laos government has made
it a number one priority to try and make an offensive against
the resistance movement," says a Western relief official
based on the Thai side of the Mekong River.
   The government offensive has included heavy shelling along
the border, and air raids against resistance areas both near
the Mekong River and deep inside northern Laos. According to
a number of Western diplomats in Thailand, the government
forces have been using artillery, high explosives and napalm.
Mr. Vang, one of the resistance spokesmen, spreads out a
sheaf of photos showing bomb fragments, burned huts and
scorched bodies. He says they were taken in Laos this January
after an air attack on villages near the old northern capital
of Luang Prabang.
   The resistance says the government also has been using
poison gas. "They are not just using bullets," says Mr.
Xiong. "They are using chemical weapons."
   He adds that thousands of Vietnamese troops remain in
Laos, "some in Lao uniforms." Vientiane has denied this. But
other members of the resistance, as well as observers in
Thailand, say that the People's Army of Vietnam still fields
an estimated 10,000 to 20,000 troops in Laos, and is still
fighting alongside the Pathet Lao. Citing Thai army
intelligence reports, a diplomat in Bangkok says, "There's no
doubt that the PAVN was involved, both air and ground
elements, in pounding the resistance in January."
   Little of this war makes its way into the world news. Lao
resistance tales tend to vanish in the jungles of Thai border
politics, which treats the Lao resistance as one more tool in
the craft of surviving while surrounded by nasty armies in
Burma, Cambodia, Laos -- and the traveling troops of Vietnam.
Guerrillas such as Shoua Xiong serve Thailand as a handy form
of border defense. To that extent, says one Western diplomat,
they get help: "The Thai army is the godfather of the Lao
resistance."
   This diplomat adds, however, that the past year and a half
the Thais have generally pulled back their support for the
Lao resistance, even as it has become more effective. Thai
Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan -- who will visit
President Bush in Washington tomorrow -- has been sparring
with his own country's restive military. Part of the spat
stems from his wish to improve Thailand's relations with its
neighbors, by replacing hostilities with trade. Over the
reported misgivings of some Thai army officers, the Lao
guerrillas have been shunted into a diplomatic no man's land.
They are allowed to operate out of Thailand, provided they do
not make too much noise about their activities and do not
force a showdown between the Thai and Laotian governments.
   So the Lao resistance alternates between trying to
broadcast its new strength and flitting back to semi-secret
safe houses in Thailand or perilous camps inside Laos. On
Dec. 5, in a grand bid for support, resistance members held a
flag-raising ceremony on a hilltop a few miles inside Laos.
There they announced their new provisional government. They
invited along a Bangkok-based reporter, Robert Karniol, who
described the event in the March International Defense
Review. He concluded, "The Lao nationalists are risking
Bangkok's ire and Vientiane's retribution, but they hold that
a range of factors has recently combined to provide them
their first opportunity in 15 years of silent struggle."
   The resistance claims wide support among the people of
Laos. The Lao government in April banned all public rallies,
apparently afraid that anti-government demonstrations might
break out. Resistance spokesmen say they have more than
10,000 guerrilla fighters, and are getting defectors from the
Pathet Lao army. They also say they can call up reserves and
find shelter in villages where the Lao people are sick of
being overtaxed and ordered around by the state. This rings
true, say Western diplomats, one of whom adds that the Pathet
Lao have turned to air strikes against resistance areas
because "in many cases the Laotian army didn't cooperate"
with government orders.
   Laos-watchers in Thailand doubt that on its own the
resistance could soon topple the government. Some diplomats
in Bangkok think the resistance army may be much smaller than
its leaders claim. And its fighters are working with a motley
arsenal that ranges from World War II rifles to AK-47s
captured from the Pathet Lao.
   But it looks like the resistance is also, as one diplomat
says, "in this for the long haul" -- not least for historical
reasons. Politics in Laos tends to split along ethnic lines.
In this war, the basic factions are the highland and the
lowland Lao.
   Most of the resistance fighters are drawn from the Hmong
ethnic minority, a group of highland Lao whose ancestors
immigrated to Laos from southern China about 200 years ago.
They are a tough bunch; back in 1918-22 the Hmong rebelled
with some success against the taxes and conscript labor
imposed by the French colonial government. Their name,
"Hmong," means "free," but they are also known as the "Meo,"
which means "savage." Long before communism mauled Indochina,
the Hmong already had their turf quarrels with the lowland
Lao. These quarrels took on anti-communist overtones when the
Vietnam War spilled over into Laos along the Ho Chi Minh
trail.
   Today, the Hmong still want an end to what one of them
calls "Vietnamese law." Resistance spokesman Xia Kao Vang
says he and his colleagues "want the country to change like
all countries change these days." Mr. Vang comes for an
interview in Bangkok armed with a yellow legal pad on which
he's scribbled the crib note "We need democracy." Like Mr.
Xiong, he explains that the first goal of the resistance is
to get the Vietnamese out of Laos. "Then the Pathet Lao and
we can negotiate," says Mr. Vang.
   This is where the resistance hopes the U.S. might offer
some help. Beyond Thailand's jittery tolerance, and donations
from the Lao diaspora, the Lao guerrillas get little support.
The Reagan-era policy of backing anti-communist guerrillas in
places such as Afghanistan, Nicaragua and Cambodia was never
extended to Laos. Instead, the U.S. shuns all official
contact with the Lao resistance. Washington prefers to
burnish its links to the communist regime in Vientiane. The
idea seems to be that good U.S. relations with Laos might
help lure the neighborhood bully, Vietnam, toward liberal
ways. The official argument is that happy Lao communists
might cooperate in fighting drug traffic and in yielding up
prisoners of war, or their remains. This policy has flopped.
   It's time for the U.S. to rethink its approach to this
resurgent war. Interviewed in Thailand's Ban Vinai refugee
camp near the Mekong River, a Lao resistance general, Xiong
Leng Xiong, asks: "Do you have any help for us? We are in a
hurry to change Laos." Asked what the U.S. government knows
about these outcast freedom fighters, a State Department
officer in Washington lays out the official line, "We're not
interested in knowing."
   ---
   Miss Rosett is editorial page editor of The Asian Wall
Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korea Petroleum Needs
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- South Korea's petroleum demand is expected to
rise 17% to 920,000 barrels a day this year from 788,000
barrels last year, the country's petroleum association
president, Hongsun Chang, said at an oil conference here.
   Mr. Chang, who also is the head of Kukdong Oil Co., said
demand from the country's industrial, transportation,
residential and commercial sectors will gain this year. He
said industrial demand for petroleum product naphtha, which
is a feedstock for petrochemical plants, is expected to grow
18% to 345,000 barrels a day, owing to the increase in South
Korea's ethylene production capacity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gasoline demand from the country's transportation sector,
meanwhile, is expected to grow 25% to 60,000 barrels a day.
Mr. Chang said the country's residential and commercial
sectors also are likely to see an increase of about 15%,
because of the switch from coal to kerosene and diesel oil.
   Mr. Chang predicted South Korea's petroleum demand will
reach 1.35 million barrels a day by 1994, making the country
the sixth-largest importer of oil in the world.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Poland's Diplomats Navigating Obstacle Course
   Between Uniting Germany, Splintering U.S.S.R.
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- "There's too much work here, too much
paperwork," the foreign minister says, crossing his reception
room and taking a seat with his back to a picture of Cossacks
hunting in the snow.
   In striped shirt and bow tie, Krzysztof Skubiszewski is
what Poles call "the genuine prewar article." A scholar of
international law, he has little time for visitors and no
patience for a ministry full of Communist-drilled diplomats.
Visitors he can get rid of; diplomats he's stuck with.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I came to a ministry which was a tool of the Communist
Party," he says. "The personnel were not prepared to follow
everyday activity involved in my policy."
   Among Eastern Europe's new faces, Mr. Skubiszewski's
doesn't shine. A 62-year-old bachelor, he hung back in
academe through Solidarity's revolution. But the dilemmas of
a newly freed Poland suit him; they look as prewar as he
does.
   "We haven't got an easy position between the Soviet giant
and Germany, which soon will become another giant," he says.
"I would like to transform the difficulties of that position
into an asset." Behind in this lonely endeavor, he flees to
his pile of paper.
   Through its years as a "captive nation," Poland starred in
the superpower struggle as the Soviet Union's greatest
foreign policy irritant and the West's greatest hope. Last
year, Solidarity came through, setting the pace for the fall
of the Soviet empire.
   The West has swung its spotlight onto a reuniting Germany.
It gives Solidarity no end of advice on reinventing
capitalism. But at a turning point in Europe's history,
Poland's out-of-shape diplomats have to reinvent foreign
policy on their own.
   Having walked the Moscow line for decades, every one of
Eastern Europe's liberated countries faces the same task: to
find a place for themselves in the new order their
revolutions made possible.
   Diplomats of the European Community, North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, the "four powers" and the two Germanys are
racing up one summit and down the next this year. The foreign
ministries of Hungary, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Romania and
Poland are panting to keep up.
   South of here, the less strategic countries of Russia's
late empire can let the heavy diplomatic traffic roll by. Or,
like Czechoslovakia's president Vaclav Havel, they can toss
around grand designs for universal peace. Poland can't.
   Mr. Skubiszewski's history-laden turf is too vital for
such fancies. A unifying Germany to the west and a
splintering Soviet Union to the east threaten to recreate
Poland's old role as a battered buffer state. Yet its
diplomats have little more hope than in 1939 of throwing real
weight.
   "Poland is too big to say whatever it likes," says
political commentator Kostek Gebert, "but too small and too
weak to have any decided political clout."
   The Foreign Ministry's building in Warsaw seems as drowsy
today as it did before September, when Mr. Skubiszewski moved
in. But upstairs, a few people have begun to work hard.
   Shadowy types at the Communist Party's Central Committee
used to make all the decisions. They took orders from the
Soviets. "They told us their opinion -- but it was understood
as an instruction," says Jerzy Nowak, who has stayed on as
head of policy planning. Lowly foreign ministries didn't get
involved.
   That's over. The Party is through, the Central Committee
vacant. Foreign ministers finally sat in for party chiefs at
a Warsaw Pact meeting this year. The Soviets, accustomed to
speaking first, spoke last. They wanted the Pact to oppose
the West's demand that a unified Germany join NATO. The
others said NATO can have Germany. For the first time, the
Soviet Union was isolated within its own alliance.
   For Poland, taking that stand was new and brave. Up to
now, its security has come from the East. The alternatives
aren't obvious, and the public debate that helps Western
democracies solve their dilemmas has barely begun here.
   The Polish policy establishment consists so far of a tiny
think tank in the Senate. Otherwise, Mr. Skubiszewski
sketches tactics freehand. "There is a group that has the
minister's trust," says Artur Hajnicz, the think tank's head.
"Apart from them, there are a lot of people who cannot be
replaced and cannot be trusted either."
   Of 400 diplomats in the ministry and 600 abroad, nearly
all stayed in the Party until its last gasp in January. A
Solidarity newspaper says a good number moonlighted for the
secret police, and probably still do.
   Yet not one has been dismissed. Poland needs diplomats.
Mr. Skubiszewski has to trust the ones he has to obey his
golden rule: Don't let ideology blur your idea of the
national interest.
   Poland's interest, as he sees it, is to end Europe's split
"into the poor and schizophrenic East, and the rich and
rational West." But on a recent trip to Czechoslovakia, he
watched even that simple hope run into a roadblock.
   Czechoslovakia's president, Vaclav Havel, had called a
summit in Bratislava's hilltop castle to ask whether the
East's freed nations could coordinate their "return to
Europe." When the Poles arrived Mr. Havel threw bear hugs
around his old comrades in dissidence. But when they heard
what he had to say, their spirits fell.
   Mr. Havel read out his list of Eastern Europe's mutual
concerns and never said a word about Germany, Poland's
bugaboo. Nor did he mention Lithuania or the Soviet Union.
Poland, he hinted, might feel more at home with the Baltic
states, not those along the Danube.
   "I have no obsession with Germany," Mr. Skubiszewski said
at day's end. But the Poles left feeling that in
post-communist Europe they would remain caught in their
custom-made cage.
   "Poland is out," says Mr. Gebert, the Polish commentator.
"If Lithuania gets independence, all they'll remember is that
the Poles didn't endorse them; if we did, from Moscow's view
we'd be exporting revolution. On the south, we're blocked by
the new Hapsburgs. And on the German question, we have
absolutely no allies."
   Not that Poland hasn't looked. From the moment they
learned unification talks had been set, its leaders have
sought a say on Germany's war-making powers, and a guarantee
of Poland's western frontier. But at the unity talks, which
have now begun in earnest, it's plain that good relations
with Germany, not Poland, top everyone's list.
   Poland will take part in the round of talks set for July,
and have a say on its border -- but that's all. "It's nothing
like negotiating pressure," Mr. Gebert says. "We don't have
that."
   Now Mr. Skubiszewski has begun to speak of Poland and
Germany finding a "community of interests." The Germans are
happy to start looking. In Warsaw's Foreign Ministry, a few
of the apparatchiks are willing to help.
   "I belong to the old regime," admits the the policy
planning chief, Mr. Nowak. "Some of us were purely cynical.
Some, like me, were pragmatic. I realized that the chances of
pursuing our own interests were limited. I waited 30 years
for this. For the first time in my life I can speak, act and
think -- the Polish way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Granite Construction Gets Job
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   GCCO
</CO>
<LP>
   WATSONVILLE, Calif. -- Granite Construction Inc. said it
received a $33.7 million contract from the Clark County
Department of Aviation to make improvements at McCarran
Airport in Las Vegas, Nev. Work is scheduled to begin in
July, with completion expected in November 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Dutch Anti-Takeover Ploy
   Based on Stock Is Upheld
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ASK N.AHO EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZAANDAM, The Netherlands -- In a case that was viewed as a
challenge to the defensive tactics of Dutch companies, the
District Court in Haarlem has upheld Dutch food retailer
Koninklijke Ahold N.V. in its battle against being taken over
by West German retailer Asko Deutsche Kaufhaus AG.
   At issue was whether Ahold had the right to issue
preferred shares to a friendly foundation with voting rights
equal to those carried by Ahold's common shares. Ahold issued
the preferred shares in August 1989, after it learned that
Asko had surreptitiously accumulated a 13.5% stake in Ahold
without informing the Dutch company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Dutch law, such an issue of preferred shares is
allowed and is routinely implemented as an anti-takeover
defense. In Ahold's situation, the foundation, Stichting
Ahold Continuiteit, was set up in 1973 as a contingency in
case the company was threatened.
   In a broader perspective, however, the case was viewed as
a challenge to the formidable Dutch takeover defenses that
corporations routinely implement.
   An Ahold spokesman said Asko could appeal the decision to
the Court of Appeals in Amsterdam but added that Ahold had no
idea whether they would or not.
   Officials at Asko were unavailable for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   MIT Panel Nominates Vest
   Of Michigan for Presidency
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- The Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's executive committee recommended that Charles M.
Vest, provost of the University of Michigan, be named
president of MIT.
   If his nomination is approved, Mr. Vest, a 48-year-old
specialist in optics and former dean of Michigan's
engineering school, would be MIT's 15th president. He would
succeed Paul E. Gray, who is scheduled to resign in July to
become chairman of MIT's governing board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Vest is MIT's second choice for the prestigious post.
Earlier this year, the committee nominated Philip A. Sharp, a
prominent MIT biologist, to be president, but after a few
days, he withdrew his name from consideration, choosing to
continue his research and teaching.
   The nomination of Mr. Vest is subject to a vote by the
65-member MIT Corp., the school's governing body.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, June 12, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8% near closing
bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 21 to 44 days; 8.10% 45 to 59 days;
8.075% 60 to 89 days; 8.05% 90 to 119 days; 8% 120 to 149
days; 7.95% 150 to 179 days; 7.875% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.21%
30 days; 8.18% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.78% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.25% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.10% 30 days; 8.04% 60 days; 7.99%
90 days; 7.97% 120 days; 7.95% 150 days; 7.89% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 11, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73% 13 weeks; 7.64% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.08%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.01%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.75%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.83%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Housing Starts Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian housing starts rose 2% in May to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 204,000 from an April rate
of 200,000, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp., a federal
agency, said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Mobil's Hefty Ads
   Knowingly Misled
   Public, Suits Claim
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lawsuits filed by seven states contend Mobil Chemical Co.
exploited popular misconceptions by making environmental
claims for Hefty trash bags that it knew were false.
   The actions allege the unit of New York-based Mobil Corp.
claimed Hefty bags are "degradable" to obtain a marketing
advantage, even though documents show company officials knew
the bags wouldn't break down in landfills or help reduce
solid waste.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a myth that degradable products quickly disappear or
provide any benefits to the environment in a landfill -- and
Mobil knew it," says New York Attorney General Robert Abrams.
   Mobil Chemical spokesman Allen Gray says the company
denies the allegations and will fight the lawsuits. "We have
scientific evidence fully substantiating our degradability
claims," Mr. Gray says. The company acknowledges plastic
Hefty bags won't break down fast enough in landfills to make
room for more garbage, but denies that its claims would
mislead consumers.
   As previously reported, a task force of attorneys general
in seven states filed lawsuits to stop Mobil Chemical from
selling or distributing trash bags making degradability
claims. The states are also requesting fines totaling several
million dollars. No hearings have been scheduled, although
two states, New York and Wisconsin, have requested immediate
injunctions. In New York, Mr. Abrams is requesting warning
labels on existing inventory stating that Hefty "provides no
environmental benefit when disposed of in a landfill or
incinerated." State officials say a two-month to three-month
supply of Hefty bags with offending labels exist in several
states, including California. Hefty has about 25% of the
plastic trash bag market.
   The New York lawsuit says Mobil Chemical's marketing
surveys found consumers would respond positively to
"degradable" bags because they believed they would "simply
disappear." Hefty bags contain an additive that makes plastic
break down faster after exposure to sunlight.
   According to statements by Mobil officials included as
exhibits in the lawsuits, however, the company didn't believe
this attribute would help reduce solid waste. "The only time
photodegradability comes into play is when materials are on
the surface of the earth and can be reached by sunlight. If
these materials are buried in a sanitary landfill, then
photodegradability is not a useful additive," a Mobil
official said at a company-sponsored symposium on degradable
plastic and the environment, according to the suit.
   In addition, the suit says degradation can harm the
environment by producing polluting byproducts.
   In response to widespread criticism, Mobil agreed in March
to remove all environmental claims from Hefty packaging. But
the lawsuits complain that existing inventory is still being
sold and that Mobil has taken no steps to warn consumers. Mr.
Gray says new packaging, which makes no environmental claims,
is starting to reach stores and "soon" 25% of the Hefty line
will have it.
   The lawsuits were filed in New York, California, Texas,
Minnesota, Wisconsin, Massachusetts and Washington. They
represent the first actions in a continuing investigation of
products claiming to be degradable, recyclable or otherwise
environmentally friendly.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Fisons Clears FDA Hurdle
   On Approval for Tilade
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FISNY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Fisons PLC said it had obtained a positive
recommendation for approval of its new respiratory drug,
Tilade, from a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel at a June 11 review meeting.
   "We are extremely pleased with this news, which could
result in a full approval in the U.S. in the near future,"
the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDA's panel sought evidence of the drug's efficiency
and safety, which were "adequately demonstrated," according
to Fisons.
   Tilade already has a product licence in the U.K. and other
European countries, including West Germany, France and Italy.
   However, Fisons share price closed at 356 pence ($6), down
11 pence, on the London Stock Exchange.
   Some analysts said recommendation for approval was widely
anticipated and players took profits on the outcome.
   However some analysts noted, more importantly, that the
panel wasn't convinced that Tilade differed substantially
from Fisons's other existing asthma drug, Intal, and
recommended its approval for only three conditions. Fisons
will have to submit more data to obtain marketing approval
for Tilade for more widespread use.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Campeau Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMPEAU Corp. (Toronto) -- Conrad Black, a Toronto
financier and Hollinger Inc. chairman and chief executive
officer, resigned as a director of this real estate and
retailing concern, citing demands on his time, reducing board
membership to 10. Campeau said two new independent directors
will be named in due course. Mr. Black was appointed a
director last September, when Campeau named a new board and
said it would attempt to restructure its U.S. retailing
units, Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores
Corp., which last January sought protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   For High Tech, Diamonds
   May Be a Lab's Best Friend
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Diamonds may become one of the world's most
glittering technologies.
   A report by the National Research Council said that new
ways of making thin coatings of synthetic diamond and other
superhard materials may revolutionize electronics, optics and
machinery. "The ultimate economic impact of this technology
may well outstrip that of high-temperature superconductors,"
said the report, referring to the discovery of a new class of
materials that conduct electricity without resistance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report by the council, an arm of the National Academy
of Sciences, projected a host of uses for diamond technology.
Computer chips made from superhard materials should be able
to function at higher power, speed and temperature than
conventional ones. That could improve the performance of
machinery ranging from spacecraft to supercomputers, the
report predicted.
   The report did not predict when these potential uses would
come into being. "Despite this promise, there are relatively
few applications currently being realized," it cautioned.
That's partly because chemists don't yet understand well
enough exactly how the synthetic diamonds form and grow, and
how to speed up the process.
   John Venables, a former Martin Marietta Corp. scientist
who led the council's study, said he expected it will take
about five years to develop advanced optical coatings and 10
years to develop diamond computer chips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank Earnings Fell 14% in 1st Quarter;
   Real-Estate Problems Are Worsening
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators said first-quarter
earnings at the nation's banks dropped 14% to $6.23 billion
from $7.25 billion a year earlier, and warned that problems
with real-estate loans are increasing in the Midwest and
Northwest, adding to the well-documented woes of the
Northeast.
   The earnings decline was mostly attributable to large
provisions that banks set aside for possible losses on
real-estate loans, said Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman William Seidman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the real-estate situation, the first quarter's
earnings were a rebound from meager net income of $2.1
billion in the fourth quarter of 1989 and a loss of $603
million in the third. "It's not a bad result, given all the
real-estate problems," Mr. Seidman said.
   Results for the first quarter included $5.76 billion set
aside for possible loan losses, an increase of more than $2
billion from the year-earlier quarter. Federally chartered
banks in the Northeast set aside $1.2 billion, more than
triple the provision in the first quarter of 1989. Regulators
have been sweeping through New England banks, pushing them to
take write-downs and provisions for losses.
   The FDIC's report showed that woes from real-estate loans
are becoming a bigger problem for banks throughout the
country. Overall, the percentage of noncurrent real-estate
loans -- those that are 90 days overdue or on which banks
aren't earning interest -- rose in all but 11 states. In
particular, banks in the Midwest and Northwest are joining
those in New England in showing troublesome increases in
noncurrent real-estate loans.
   In Ohio, such loans rose to 2.17% of all real-estate loans
at the end of the first quarter, from 1.89% at the end of
1989. In North Dakota, the figure jumped to 2.38% from 1.78%.
Washington, Montana and Colorado also registered increases,
as well as Utah.
   Meanwhile, noncurrent real-estate loans dropped
significantly in Texas, to 6.76% at the end of the first
quarter from 10.34%. They also fell a bit in Arizona, to
11.18% from 11.8%, though that is still the highest in the
country.
   Regulatory scrutiny of the real-estate situation is sure
to increase, because real-estate loans are currently the
biggest single category of bank lending and continue to show
the fastest growth. Banks ended the first quarter with $770.7
billion in real-estate loans outstanding, up 11% from last
year's first quarter. That increase accounted for about 94%
of total loan growth during that period.
   The FDIC also revised its report of fourth-quarter bank
earnings to reflect restatements made by Northeast banks
because of problems from real-estate loans. The revised net
income of $2.1 billion originally was reported as $2.68
billion. Third-quarter results, originally reported as a $744
million loss, were restated because of other adjustments to
show a $603 million loss.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks Rally
   In Last Hour
   Of Trading
   ---
   Shares Climb 40.85,
   Near Recent Record
   As Bonds Barely Move
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market meandered lazily through much
of yesterday's session, then sprang to life with a
full-fledged rally in the last hour and 20 minutes of
trading.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 40.85 to 2933.42,
less than two points shy of the record set June 4. Trading
was moderately active. Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices
finished modestly lower -- down less than an eighth of a
point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 of face amount -- in sluggish
trading. The dollar gained against the West German mark but
fell against the Japanese yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stock market's late move parted company with bonds,
which barely budged from Monday's levels. Bond investors are
standing pat until the release later this week of economic
data that, they hope, will indicate whether inflation is
under control. The same wait-and-see attitude prevailed in
dollar trading. However, the dollar fell sharply against the
British pound amid speculation that the U.K. currency would
come under the control of the European Monetary System by the
end of this year.
   Kenneth Spence, director of the technical analysis group
at Salomon Brothers, said the thin, narrow-range trading that
characterized the stock market until midafternoon was an
indication that institutional buyers were selectively buying
strong performers. This activity added to the anxiety of
bearish investors who sold borrowed stock after last week's
string of losses in a bet that further declines were in
prospect; they were hoping to replace the borrowed shares
later at cheaper prices.
   But with Monday's 30-point rise in the industrial average
and no evidence early yesterday of a significant, continued
decline, these bearish investors started buying. At the same
time, a form of program trading known as stock-index
arbitrage -- selling futures and buying stock to lock in
profits from fleeting price discrepancies between the two --
added thrust to the market's lift-off.
   Some analysts thought the program trading was the main
factor in the rally. "When you look at the generally light
volume and see bonds doing nothing," said Leo Grohowski,
director of equity portfolio management at Marinvest, "you
first have to think of programs as the reason for the market
bouncing the way it did in a relatively short period."
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose on volume of 157.1 million shares on the
New York Stock Exchange. Advancing issues outnumbered
decliners, 1003 to 545.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices eased. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond rose to 8.45%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6965 marks and 154.55 yen, compared
with 1.6930 marks and 154.77 yen Monday. The dollar fell
against the pound to $1.7035 from $1.6860.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Sun Microsystems Reaches
   Pact With Mentor Graphics
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW HWP MENT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems said that Mentor
Graphics Inc. agreed to purchase $300 million of Sun
computers over the next three years, the first time Mentor
has broken its practice of buying only Hewlett-Packard Co.
machines.
   Mentor, a maker of software used in designing
semiconductors and other electronic parts, announced in
January that it would stop dealing exclusively with
Hewlett-Packard and begin making its software available to
Sun. Mentor buys computers, loads them with Mentor software,
and then resells them under the Mentor nameplate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The union between Sun and Mentor could prove a boon to
both. Mentor's software will now be available on products of
the two largest workstation makers. For Sun, a link with
Mentor's widely used software could spur acceptance of Sun's
so-called SPARC computer architecture, which is different
from Hewlett-Packard's workstation architecture. Sun and
Hewlett-Packard have been battling to establish their
respective architectures as the standard for the workstation
market.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Sun closed at $33,
up $1.375. Mentor closed at $24.25, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Chevron Unveils Gasoline
   Sensitive to Environment
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV ARC
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Chevron Corp. jumped on the environmental
bandwagon, announcing a reformulated blend of unleaded
premium gasoline.
   Chevron's step follows recent product announcements by
other oil companies, including Shell Oil Co.'s April
introduction of a similar unleaded premium gasoline sold at
2,000 stations in nine cities. The trend started with
Atlantic Richfield Co.'s unveiling last August of a cleaner
fuel for older cars; that product is sold mostly in the Los
Angeles market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chevron's Supreme Unleaded is to be offered at 550
stations in Los Angeles and San Diego. Sales began at some
stations yesterday, replacing an existing premium brand. The
San Francisco-based oil company also plans to offer the new
fuel in Houston and Baltimore later this summer. The four
cities are among those the Environmental Protection Agency
said have the most severe air-quality problems.
   Willis J. Price, vice president of Chevron and president
of its Chevron USA unit, said the new gasoline will cost
about two cents more a gallon to produce. He declined to say
if that cost would be passed to consumers.
   Chevron officials said the new gasoline could reduce
hydrocarbon emissions 9% and carbon monoxide emissions 7% --
compared with gasolines currently on the market.
   Chevron also announced a cleaner diesel fuel that will be
available at about 100 outlets in Southern California. The
new diesel product, which will replace the existing
formulation, will cost the company about one cent a gallon
more to produce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $17.2 Billion in Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to pay down about $4.95
billion on the federal debt with the sale Monday of about
$17.2 billion in short-term bills. Maturing bills
outstanding, including 20-day cash management bills, total
$22.14 billion.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills, which will be dated June 21 and will mature
Sept. 20 and Dec. 20, 1990, respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of New York Names Alan Griffith
   To Two Top Positions at Flagship Bank
   ----
   By Robert Guenther and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a surprise move, Bank of New York Co. named
Alan R. Griffith president and chief operating officer of its
flagship bank, ending months of speculation about management
succession at the nation's 13th largest bank.
   Mr. Griffith, who had been senior executive vice president
in charge of special industries lending, was the dark horse
in the race to succeed Peter Herrick, who will be 65 years
old next year. Mr. Herrick was named vice chairman of the
bank and remains president of the holding company until his
retirement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The promotion places Mr. Griffith in line to succeed J.
Carter Bacot, 57, as chairman and chief executive officer of
the holding company. However, Mr. Bacot said in an interview
that it is "premature" to call Mr. Griffith his heir
apparent.
   Mr. Griffith, 48, is a low-key individual who is noted
within the bank for his long hours on the job, his messy
office and the scribbled notes that he sends his bankers for
jobs well-done. "I'm a great believer in positive
reinforcement," he said in an interview.
   As president of Bank of New York, Mr. Griffith will offer
a sharp counterpoint to Mr. Bacot, who is known for his gruff
style.
   The favorite to succeed Mr. Herrick had been Richard D.
Field, whose consumer banking operation contributes more than
30% of the bank's earnings and is expected to grow with
future acquisitions. Other contenders included Newton P.S.
Merrill, head of U.S. commercial banking; Thomas A. Renyi,
who oversaw the 1989 merger of Irving Bank Corp. into Bank of
New York; and Samuel F. Chevalier, who was in line to take
the helm of Irving before the merger.
   Breaking with past tradition of the bank's president
coming from the trust department, Mr. Bacot said that Mr.
Griffith was chosen for "his breadth of experience."
   Under Mr. Griffith's role in special industries lending,
Bank of New York has become a big lender to the media and
entertainment industry. Its $3 billion portfolio of loans in
that industry is one reason that Bank of New York ranks high
on the list of lenders to highly leveraged transactions, such
as leveraged buy-outs or recapitalizations. Investor worries
about those portfolios have been a factor in pushing down
banks' stock prices over the past year.
   "One-third of our highly leveraged loans are to media
companies," Mr. Griffith said. "We underwrite these on a
classic cash flow basis. We don't look to the value of the
assets."
   Though mega-mergers have tailed off since last year, Mr.
Griffith said that there continue to be a surprising number
of smaller restructurings and acquisitions getting financed.
"It continues to be a good business," he said.
   In 1985, Mr. Griffith was put in charge of the special
industries lending sector. During the integration of Irving,
Mr. Griffith acted as credit policy officer, and at various
points in his career he has run one of the bank's leading
midtown retail branches as well as its international banking
business. He worked at Empire Trust Co. when it was bought by
Bank of New York in 1966.
   In the future, Mr. Griffith said he hopes to increase Bank
of New York's share of lending to small and medium-sized
businesses in the New York area. "We're not getting the
market share that we should," he said.
   In addition, the bank holding company named three
executive vice presidents: Gerald L. Hassell, communications,
entertainment and publishing division; Richard Pace, chief
technologist; and Vernon L. Van Hise, deputy head of U.S.
commercial banking. The company also named three senior vice
presidents: Francis Goodell, securities processing systems
division; Frederic A. Helfst, credit division; and Vincent
O'Leary, Southeast commercial banking.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Firm Puts
   Oppenheimer Fund
   Unit on the Block
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Financial distress at British &amp; Commonwealth
Holdings PLC is forcing the sale of its U.S. subsidiary,
Oppenheimer Management Corp., which manages $14 billion in
mutual funds.
   Oppenheimer, which is one of the country's 20 largest
mutual fund companies, manages more than 40 mutual funds sold
largely through financial planners. (The firm isn't related
to Oppenheimer &amp; Co., the U.S. securities firm.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A management group, led by Oppenheimer President Jon S.
Fossel, is putting together a bid for the company. But
British &amp; Commonwealth's investment banker, S.G. Warburg &amp;
Co., said at least 10 companies in Europe and the U.S. have
expressed an interest in acquiring Oppenheimer.
   "Management is one of the potential buyers," said Alistair
Defriez, a corporate finance director with S.G. Warburg in
London. "But it's by no means clear that the management
proposal is the one that will succeed."
   The planned sale, which was first reported in Fund Action,
a mutual fund industry newsletter, is part of a larger effort
by British &amp; Commonwealth to raise $2 billion to pay off
debt. British &amp; Commonwealth, a United Kingdom financial
services group, has been looking to sell assets since April,
when it was forced to write off more than $900 million in
losses at another subsidiary, Atlantic Computers PLC. Earlier
this month, the firm entered "administration," the U.K.
equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Shortly before the 1987 stock market crash, British &amp;
Commonwealth acquired Oppenheimer Management from another
British firm, Mercantile Holdings. "I think, given how well
the company has done, it is likely to be sold at a
substantial gain," said Michael Goldstein, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.
   "I heard {a price for the planned sale of} $150 million,
but that seems like a very low figure to me," said Stanley
Egener, president of New York's Neuberger &amp; Berman Management
Inc. Mr. Egener noted that a purchase price of $150 million
is barely more than 1% of Oppenheimer's assets under
management. "The last few sales I've seen have been closer to
2% than 1%. But who knows what the Brits are doing?" Other
observers put the likely purchase price at closer to $200
million.
   Mr. Egener speculates that if the fund group isn't bought
in a management-led leveraged buy-out, then it will probably
be acquired by a company not currently involved in the fund
industry.
   In terms of mutual fund performance, "they have
consistently scored as being very, very mediocre," said Tyler
Jenks, chief investment analyst with Kanon Bloch Carre &amp; Co.,
a mutual fund research firm in Boston. "But they are getting
better," he added. Kanon Bloch gives high ratings to
Oppenheimer Gold &amp; Special Minerals and Oppenheimer Global
funds.
   The fund business saw a flurry of acquisitions last year.
In 1989, Criterion Group Inc. was bought by Transamerica
Corp., and Keystone Management and Federated Investors were
purchased in management-led leveraged buy-outs. Since the
stock market crash of 1987, many other mutual fund company
acquisitions have been rumored, but few have gone through.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Prosecutors Seek to Bar Milken Testimony
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Frank Allen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SBE BLR FBT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal prosecutors and securities regulators are seeking
to block a scheduled appearance by Michael R. Milken before a
House subcommittee later this summer, government officials
said.
   The House Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee voted
unanimously last month to subpoena Mr. Milken, the former
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. junk bond wizard, and offer him
immunity in exchange for his testimony. A subcommittee
official said Mr. Milken's testimony will likely be held
before Aug. 3, when the House is scheduled to begin recess.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prosecutors are concerned that Mr. Milken's testimony
could interfere with his accord with them in April, when he
pleaded guilty to six felony counts relating to securities
and tax fraud and agreed to pay $600 million in fines and
restitution. Until Mr. Milken is sentenced by U.S. District
Judge Kimba Wood in Manhattan, he has the right to withdraw
his plea agreement and go to trial.
   Government officials said that if the plea bargain
collapses, it would become more difficult for prosecutors to
indict Mr. Milken on expanded charges, because the government
would have to show that new evidence didn't derive from
testimony for which Mr. Milken received immunity.
   SEC officials and prosecutors also worry that Mr. Milken's
testimony prior to sentencing may convince his sentencing
judge to be lenient and might impede the government's
investigation of individuals who were associated with Mr.
Milken.
   As a result of these concerns, the officials said the
Securities and Exchange Commission and prosecutors from the
U.S. attorney's office in New York and the Department of
Justice in Washington, D.C., are seeking to prevent the
subcommittee from calling Mr. Milken to testify before he is
sentenced on Oct. 1.
   Justice Department officials have notified the
subcommittee that they will object to the subpoena. Any
subpoena would have to be approved by a federal judge, and
Justice Department officials could be heard in opposition to
such a subpoena.
   Alan Cohen, chief of the Manhattan U.S. attorney's
office's securities fraud unit, said yesterday "it would be
inappropriate for me to comment" on the dispute. Officials of
the SEC declined to comment.
   Mr. Milken's lawyer for the subcommittee hearings, Stuart
E. Eizenstat, said it's Mr. Milken's "position that if he is
granted full immunity, he will testify and comply with any
subpoena." Mr. Eizenstat, a partner at the Washington law
firm of Powell, Goldstein, Frazer &amp; Murphy, served as
executive director of the White House Domestic Policy Staff
under President Jimmy Carter.
   The subcommittee and the full Energy and Commerce
Committee, which must approve the immunity grant, are headed
by Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.). Mr. Dingell said, "I
assume that the U.S. attorney has dealt with the Milken case
to the fullest extent of his business. If we were informed
that there would be additional criminal proceedings against
Mr. Milken, the subcommittee would be strongly motivated to
respect that position. But if they've completed their work in
the criminal proceedings, there's no reason for the
subcommittee not to proceed."
   Subcommittee officials said that before they hear from Mr.
Milken, they will first take testimony from Fred Carr,
chairman and chief executive officer of First Executive
Corp., and Ivan F. Boesky, the convicted former stock
speculator whose 1986 guilty plea led to the government's
investigation of Drexel and Mr. Milken.
   Mr. Carr is scheduled to testify on Monday and won't be
seeking immunity. Subcommittee officials are negotiating the
terms of Mr. Boesky's testimony and no subpoena has yet been
issued to him.
   ---
   SMITHKLINE SUES Bolar and its former president for fraud.
   The civil racketeering suit, filed in federal district
court in Philadelphia, accuses Bolar Pharmaceutical Co. of
fraudulently obtaining federal regulatory approval for a
generic version of SmithKline Beecham PLC's Dyazide
blood-pressure medicine. Seeking treble damages of
unspecified amount, the suit also names as defendants Schein
Pharmaceutical Inc. and Vitarine Pharmaceuticals Inc.
   Bolar's troubles have been big news since last summer,
when Congress widened its inquiry into how certain
generic-drug companies won U.S. aprovals for their versions
of Dyazide. SmithKline's suit alleges that Bolar and its
former president, Robert Shulman, deliberately deceived
regulators by submitting false testing data that represented
as Bolar's generic product what was actually a batch of
SmithKline's Dyazide.
   Bolar, which is based in Copiague, N.Y., received FDA
approval for marketing its generic drug in August 1987.
SmithKline's Dyazide had annual sales of about $320 million
in 1987. Those sales plunged 52% in 1988 because of the
generic competition, the suit alleges.
   Bolar repeatedly has denied any wrongdoing. A spokeswoman
said the company hasn't seen the suit and couldn't comment.
She added that Bolar's version remains off the market along
with most of its other drugs.
   ---
   JUDGE IN DREXEL CASE will require joint disclosure of
reorganization plans.
   The unusual arrangement ensures that both Drexel Burnham
Lambert Group Inc. and its creditors' committee will be kept
at the starting gate until Nov. 15. Under the judge's
arrangement, which is expected to be finalized this week,
Drexel's and the creditors' respective reorganization plans
wouldn't be disclosed until then.
   In federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan, Judge Howard
Buschman III said that under the agreement, Nov. 15 will also
be the deadline for most claims against Drexel to be filed.
Judge Buschman said a goal of the arrangement will be for
hearings on approving a reorganization plan to begin next
February.
   Ordinarily, a debtor in bankruptcy has a period during
which it can propose a reorganization plan exclusively. After
that period, creditors can propose their own alternatives.
Under the new agreement, however, Drexel, its creditors and
its shareholders' committee will continue to negotiate before
any reorganization plan is unveiled. Drexel filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on
Feb. 13.
   "This is a substantial push for the parties to negotiate
with each other to reach a consensual plan," said Barry
Dichter, of Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft, which represents
the central bank of Portugal, a creditor. "This equalizes the
bargaining position of the creditors with that of the debtor.
. . . The creditors are no longer hostage to the debtor's
exclusive right to propose a plan."
   First City Bancorp., which is head of the creditors'
committee, however, said it isn't optimistic that a
consensual plan can be reached by November. After the hearing
before Judge Buschman, Robert Ladd, an executive vice
president at First City, Texas-Houston, the company's main
banking subsidiary, said, "There's a possibility there would
be a consensual plan. But based on what Drexel presented to
creditors and the creditors' own plan, {the two sides'
proposals} are different in many respects."
   A Drexel spokesman said the company is pleased with the
time frame set forth in the arrangement Judge Buschman
announced. He said the Nov. 15 deadline "is a reasonable one
to put forth a consensual plan that we think will satisfy the
creditors and equity holders."
   ---
   LAWYER SENTENCED to 15 years in Texas drug-smuggling case.
   The penalty against former Miami attorney Hiram Lee Bauman
was stiffer than that imposed on three non-lawyer
co-defendants, who received 12-year prison sentences from
U.S. District Judge Kenneth Hoyt in Houston. All were
convicted of conspiring to import cocaine into the U.S.
between 1981 and 1984. The jury had found Mr. Bauman guilty
of laundering drug profits for clients involved in the
smuggling operation.
   In sentencing Mr. Bauman, Judge Hoyt apparently accepted
the argument of Assistant U.S. Attorney Lawrence Finder that
an attorney should be held to a higher standard of conduct.
"The others were just common criminals," says Mr. Finder.
"Lee Bauman had taken an oath to uphold the Constitution."
The Florida Supreme Court disbarred Mr. Bauman in March for
violating a six-month suspension.
   Ron Guralnick, a Miami attorney who represented Mr.
Bauman, said the conviction would be appealed. He called the
sentence "extremely excessive" and disagreed that attorneys
should be sentenced under a higher standard. "This is a
frightening case," he said.
   ---
   Wayne E. Green and Wade Lambert contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Tandy Unit Unveils Laptop
   With Removable Hard Disk
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A notebook-sized laptop computer with a removable hard
disk drive, the first of its kind, has been introduced by
GRiD Systems Corp., a subsidiary of Fort Worth, Texas-based
Tandy Corp.
   The new computer, the GRiD 1810, has a 20-megabyte disk
drive that can be removed and plugged into another GRiD 1810
or into a personal computer equipped with a special receiver.
The receiver has been developed by Tandy and currently fits
only Tandy and GRiD PCs, but a GRiD spokesman said it
eventually will be adapted for use in any standard MS-DOS
computer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most data transfer between desktop PCs and portables is
now accomplished by copying files onto a floppy disk, which
has limited storage capacity. The GRiD 1810, said company
president Alan Lefkof, not only eliminates that step but
allows the portability of 25 times as much information.
   The new notebook computer weighs 6.7 pounds, is 1.8 inches
high and measures 10.4 inches by 12 inches. The standard
configuration is priced at $2,895 and includes 1 megabyte of
random access memory, an 81-key standard typewriter size
keyboard and either a backlit or reflective screen. A
removable battery lasts more than two hours with normal use.
   The company will start shipping the laptop in July, but
the desktop receiver won't be available until the fall.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Officer Plans to Quit
   If Buy-Out Is Successful
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- UAL Corp.'s Chief Financial Officer John C.
Pope, as expected, said he would resign if the proposed
employee buy-out of United Airlines succeeds.
   United's three unions have made no secret that they want
to oust Mr. Pope, who is second in rank only to Chairman
Stephen M. Wolf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The labor group already picked Chrysler's former vice
chairman Gerald Greenwald to succeed Mr. Wolf, and now is
seeking an airline executive to take over many of Mr. Pope's
duties. Mr. Pope also served as UAL's executive vice
president for marketing.
   Relations between Mr. Pope and UAL's pilot union have been
strained ever since an earlier union-management bid collapsed
last fall. Mr. Pope handled the financing effort for that
bid. When it failed, banks cited Mr. Pope's negotiating
tactics, in part, for their refusal to finance the offer.
   Mr. Pope is the second top executive to announce his
resignation. On Monday, Barry A. Kotar resigned as chief
executive officer of the Covia computerized reservations unit
to take a post with NWA Inc., parent of Northwest Airlines.
The UAL employee group intends to spin off Covia if the $4.38
billion buy-out succeeds.
   Mr. Greenwald, the employees' chairman-designate, visited
UAL headquarters yesterday in an effort to convince most
members of senior management to remain. Mr. Greenwald must
show banks that UAL will have a strong management team under
employee ownership in order to obtain financing for the
offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Premature Babies Benefit
   From Early-On `Education'
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Medical researchers reported that a comprehensive
education program for premature, underweight babies that
begins just after birth can significantly improve the
infants' chances for productive lives.
   The finding, in a major study in today's Journal of the
American Medical Association, has broad implications for
physicians, educators, scientists and lawmakers, as well as
premature newborns and their families.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Specifically, the study found that early educational aid
to help develop language and motor skills, among other
things, leads to higher IQs and fewer behavioral problems by
age three for babies born early and weighing under 5.5
pounds. "We now have convincing evidence that early
intervention for high-risk children can make an important
difference," says Ruby Hearn, vice president at Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation, the principal sponsor of the $33 million
project. "People have been looking for scientific evidence"
that such an approach is effective, she said.
   More than 250,000 babies are born prematurely each year in
the U.S.; particularly vulnerable are those born to mothers
in the inner city and some rural areas, where nutrition and
prenatal care are often inadequate. After piling up huge
medical bills in infancy, such children often place enormous
demands for special education and other services on
communities. Thus, effective measures to mitigate the effects
of premature birth might save money as well as improve lives.
   "The issue of low birth-weight really presents two
challenges," says Woodie Kessel, division director in
maternal and child health bureau of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services. "The primary challenge is to
prevent it. This study addresses another aspect: Given
infants born at risk, what can we do to avoid the
consequences? (The study) demonstrates a very robust effect
in terms of improving the functioning of these kids."
   But it also underscores the potential problems ahead for
such babies: Nearly half of the children in the study who
received only routine medical care had by age three IQ scores
under 85, a level associated with significant learning
problems.
   While scientific evidence linking low birthweight to
long-term problems is sketchy, learning problems do lead to
poor school performance, which predicts other problems in
life, Ms. Hearn says, adding, "It's a scenario that people do
spin out."
   Congress recently revised special education laws and now
requires communities to provide special services to
handicapped children age three and older, and it has
encouraged states to begin such programs at birth for
children who are likely to face learning and behavioral
problems by the time they reach school age.
   "It is clear that society is now beginning to understand
the importance of investing in children," Ms. Hearn says.
"Our study's findings are timely and demonstrate the benefit
of these early intervention services."
   Researchers said the study established that such services
can be provided successfully even in inner cities, where they
are desperately needed, but where disrupted family lives and
other circumstances often make them difficult to render.
While costs of such services haven't been determined yet, the
researchers estimated that the program could be provided for
about $10,000 a year per child. In most cases, public funds
would probably be necessary.
   The study's conclusions are based on a scientifically
designed study of 985 premature infants from birth to age
three at eight U.S. cities. The focus wasn't on the month the
baby was born, but rather on birth weight. One-third of the
babies at each site weighed between 4.4 and 5.5 pounds at
birth. The others weighed under 4.4 pounds. Mothers came from
a broad range of educational, ethnic and economic
backgrounds.
   All of the infants had regular follow-up visits to
pediatricians, but half at each site also participated in an
intensive program of services that started when they were
discharged from the hospital and ended at their third
birthdays.
   For the heavier group of infants, the additional services
resulted in average IQs that were 13.2 points higher than
those of children who had only the follow-up pediatric
visits. For the infants under 4.4 pounds, IQs averaged 6.6
points higher for those with the special services. Moreover,
children who had only the routine follow-up were 2.7 times
more likely to have IQ scores lower than 70, considered the
level of mental retardation.
   "The most significant finding is the tremendous
improvement in cognitive development that those children
experienced," says Ruth T. Gross, director of the Infant
Health and Development Program, which conducted the study
from Stanford University in California.
   In addition, mothers of children with the additional
services reported seeing fewer behavioral problems, including
extreme shyness or over-aggressiveness, than those who had
only the routine visits.
   As part of the services, specially trained teachers
visited homes of the babies weekly during the first year,
teaching parents about growth of their children and how to
assist in their development. "Sometimes, parents treat the
children as if they are more fragile than they actually are,"
Ms. Hearn says, "and don't provide the stimulation they need
to catch up."
   After age one, the children attended daily classes at
child development centers in day-care-like settings. Since
low birthweight children are especially vulnerable to
illness, researchers were concerned that the group sessions
could lead to spread of infection. Special measures were
taken, particularly among staff. "We took every precaution
and had no problems," Dr. Gross said.
   In the child development centers, there was one teacher
for every three children aged 12 to 23 months and one for
every four aged 24 to 36 months. Classes focused on language
and motor skills. "It has to be a high quality child
development center, with a very careful emphasis on health
and safety," Dr. Gross says. "You can't just throw them into
any day-care center and expect all would be well."
   Those receiving special services, especially the
lighter-weight group of infants, did have slightly more minor
health problems than those in the follow-up group,
researchers said. But because they had feared serious health
problems, that finding was considered reassuring.
   Researchers were especially encouraged that 93% of the
subjects of the study participated for the full three years
of the study -- a high retention rate for almost any clinical
trial. Such a high rate, as well as the number of sites,
helped ensure the statistical validity of the results,
researchers said.
   Researchers hope to monitor the progress of the children
involved in the study as they reach school age to determine
whether the special attention at an early age helps boost
academic performance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Delay in `Gone With the Wind' Sequel Sparks Rumors
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX G.BRT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The sequel to "Gone With the Wind" is gone
from the new book lineup -- for now.
   The sequel to the Margaret Mitchell Civil War classic was
supposed to be the big fall book from the Warner Books
division of Time Warner Inc. But Warner has quietly dropped
the book from its fall list, and it canceled a big party
scheduled to promote the sequel at the American Booksellers
Association convention in Las Vegas last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The delay sparked rumors in the gossipy publishing world
that the book is poorly written and needs heavy rewriting.
   Warner Books denies that the book, which has been titled
"Scarlett: the Sequel to Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the
Wind," is in trouble. Laurence Kirshbaum, president of Warner
Books, says the book is merely taking longer than planned and
"it just doesn't make sense to rush it out for fall. It's
only about 40% finished." He also dismisses rumors that the
sequel isn't up to par. "As one of three people who has read
what's done, I can tell you that it's excellent," he says.
   Warner was the winning bidder two years ago at an auction
of the sequel rights by the original author's estate, paying
a whopping $5 million. Mr. Kirshbaum says the company won't
pay the full amount until it accepts the final manuscript,
which is being written by romance novelist Alexandra Ripley.
Ms. Ripley was selected by the executors of the Mitchell
estate to write the sequel.
   "Gone With The Wind" ranks as one of the best-selling
books of all time, with more than 25 million copies sold
since its publication in 1936. Anticipation of the sequel is
high and so are the stakes for Warner Books, which must sell
more than 250,000 copies in hardcover to make a profit.
Warner already sold book club rights to the Literary Guild, a
unit of Bertelsmann AG for a sum that industry executives
estimate is more than $1 million.
   "Even if the manuscript is in real trouble, I'm sure
Warner won't talk about it," says Howard Kaminsky, chairman
of Hearst Corp.'s Trade Book Group. "It's such a big
investment, and they'll want to put the best face on it.
Everybody knows that for the first two weeks it comes out, it
will sell just on curiosity, but word of mouth will have to
carry it from there."
   Ms. Ripley, the author, doesn't have time to discuss her
project, because "she's hard at work," says her agent, Robert
Gottlieb of William Morris. But Mr. Gottlieb says Ms. Ripley
has written "about 1,000 pages" and it's taking so long
because "she wants it to be historically pure. She's been
looking at archives -- letters and newspapers from the
period." Asked about rumors that the plot involves Scarlett
O'Hara having a baby and moving to Ireland, where Rhett
Butler is running guns, Mr. Gottlieb replied: "I can't get
into a discussion about what's in the book, but part of what
you said is accurate."
   A lawyer representing the Mitchell estate in Atlanta, Paul
Anderson, said: "It's my understanding that the book has been
delayed, but I fully expect it to be published. It's a
staggering undertaking, so it wouldn't be surprising if there
were some delays."
   Mr. Anderson said the estate hasn't seen the manuscript
and doesn't have final approval of what is written.
   Asked whether he's worried about "Scarlett" getting bad
reviews or fizzling out after initial sales, Mr. Gottlieb,
the agent, seems unconcerned. Even if the book is less than
wonderful, he avows, "it will still sell a zillion copies.
I'm not worried about the future: I want the book to do well
when it's published."
   And what about the devout fans of "Gone with the Wind"?
Carolyn Roderick, a librarian in Pine Knoll Shores, N.C.,
says she read one of Ms. Ripley's earlier novels as soon as
she heard about the sequel. "I was very disappointed. I
couldn't finish the book, to be honest, and I'd just as soon
she didn't {write the sequel}," she says.
   But will she buy the book, even if it gets lousy reviews?
"Good, bad or indifferent, I'm sure I couldn't resist buying
it," says Ms. Roderick. "But I'll probably wait till it comes
out in paperback."
   Mr. Kirshbaum of Warner Books says he is now hoping to
publish "Scarlett" in hardcover next spring, "in time for
Mother's Day," and he thinks that will work out just fine.
"As Scarlett would say," adds Mr. Kirshbaum, " `Next season
is another season.'"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Sun-Times Cuts Columnist
   On Plagiarism Accusation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Sun-Times dismissed a free-lance
feature columnist who it accused of plagiarizing two stories
from the New York Times.
   Editor and Senior Vice President Dennis A. Britton told
readers in a page 3 "apology to our readers" that columnist
Ken Dychtwald had copied material from two news stories in
the Times. Mr. Dychtwald's Age Wave column on health and
longevity trends is syndicated nationally by King Features
Syndicate, a division of Hearst Corp. The Sun-Times had an
independent contract with the writer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stories in question appeared only in the Sun-Times,
according to a spokeswoman for Mr. Dychtwald.
   Based in Emeryville, Calif., Mr. Dychtwald wrote two
columns on aging in March and April that Mr. Britton said
contained portions of two bylined stories from the Times. Mr.
Britton's letter apologized for a "breach of one of the most
basic tenets of journalism." He also apologized to the two
Times reporters.
   The Sun-Times also published a statement from Mr.
Dychtwald, in which he said that one of the incidents was an
"inadvertent" error by his staff. He said that in the other
instance, he "mistakenly believed" that he needed to cite
only a study referred to in the Times article and not the
Times story itself.
   Mr. Dychtwald and spokesmen for King Features couldn't be
reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Bela's Belles in a Clean Sweep
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Denver -- Before considering women's gymnastics, as we
will in many of the paragraphs to follow, some definitions
are in order. A "senior woman" in the sport is a lass who
will turn 14 years old by Dec. 31, 1991, not the grueling 50
years required for senior status in men's golf. A women's gym
"veteran" is someone who was eligible for the last Olympics,
whenever that was. And any competitor who wouldn't have
passed casting muster as a munchkin for "The Wizard of Oz" is
thought to be quite large in size.
   By these standards, the senior women's all-around title at
the U.S. Gymnastics Championships in Denver Coliseum last
weekend was contested by quite different types. The defending
champ, fetching Floridian Brandy Johnson, was a craggy
Olympic vet of 17 who towered at an even five feet in height.
Her main rival was Kim Zmeskal, a Houstonian of 14 in her
first national senior meet, who, at 4-foot-5 and 72 pounds,
wouldn't have reached Judy Garland's sash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With two rotations to go in Saturday night's optional
exercises, Johnson held a .05-point lead over Zmeskal, but
fell off the balance beam and got a poor, 9.325 score.
Moments later, the pale-eyed Zmeskal flipped and twisted to a
near-perfect, 9.975 vault (two judges gave her "10s") to take
a lead she would not relinquish. Ah, the nervelessness of
youth.
   Before it was over, another kid -- skinny, just-15 Betty
Okino of Elmhurst, Ill. -- would turn in a smashing uneven
bars routine to pass Johnson for the silver medal, and Erica
Stokes, a not-quite-14-year-old with braces from Olathe,
Kan., would come up behind her for fourth.
   "I felt old tonight," said Johnson, whose 10th place in
the Olympic all-around at Seoul was the U.S.'s best, and who
won a silver medal in the vault at the 1989 World
Championships. "Now I know how some of the girls I used to
beat felt."
   Zmeskal, Okino and Stokes completed their weekend haul by
winning a total of six medals in Sunday's individual-event
finals, and their ascent marked nothing less than a
revolution at the top level of American women's gym. We have
this from no less an authority than Bela Karolyi, from whose
Houston gymnastics school the three come.
   Burly Bela, the mustached ex-Romanian, was, as usual,
among the best acts here, glowering at officials,
gesticulating at his charges and enveloping them in hugs when
they succeeded. His personal triumph was made complete by the
victory of pupil Hilary Grivich in the junior women's
division, and by the naming of still another of his products,
red-haired Amy Scherr, 15, to the five-member squad that will
represent the U.S. at next month's Goodwill Games in Seattle,
along with Zmeskal, Okino, Stokes and Sandy Woolsey, 17, of
Tempe, Ariz.
   Despite having coached many of the best U.S. women
gymnasts during his eight years in this land, Karolyi has
been denied national-team coaching assignments, but he
reasoned that the arithmetic of his having four of the five
contestants at Seattle should be clear even to the sport's
honchos, and secure him that post. He glowed over the group's
prospects there and beyond.
   "If even is coming the best Soviet and Romanian girls, our
kids will do well]" declared the circus sport's Papa Bear.
"They are powerful and hungry] They will fight for every 10th
of a point, every hundredth] The public will love them]" His
point about points was well taken in a sport that has taken
pseudo-accurate scoring to new heights.
   U.S. women finished a close fourth in the '88 Olympics, so
they won't have far to go to achieve international glory.
American men fell to 11th place there from first in '84, and,
thus, need a greater boost. And even though optimism is de
rigueur at affairs like these, no one on their side waxed as
bellicose as Bela.
   The men's all-around winner was John Roethlisberger, a U.
of Minnesota sophomore whose coach is his father, Fred, and
whose sister, Marie, was an alternate on the 1984 Olympic
team. He beat Chris Waller, of UCLA, by .4-point, and had
less than a .2-point edge over third- and fourth-placers
Lance Ringnald and Trent Dimas, both of Albuquerque, N.M.
   Roethlisberger's strength is consistency, not flash; 11 of
his 12 scores in the event were between 9.4 and 9.8.
Significantly, though, dad Fred later said John might skip
summer competitition to concentrate on body building and
adding the more-difficult routines international medals
require.
   Much of whatever hope the nationals engendered among the
men centered on the youth of the top finishers in a division
that emphasizes muscle more than elasticity: Roethlisberger,
Ringnald and Dimas all are 19, as is Bill Roth of Temple U.,
whose 10 on the horizontal bar was the first ever posted in a
U.S. national men's meet. That effort was highlighted by a
triple-somersault dismount.
   "We've got good prospects, but a long way to go," summed
up Art Shurlock, the longtime men's coach at UCLA. "A team
sixth at Barcelona {in 1992} would be terrific. Seventh or
eighth is more likely."
   The girls will be looking much higher thanks to a meet
that observers called the best since the one featuring Mary
Lou Retton et al. that preceeded the '84 Games. Zmeskal's
all-around gold was no surprise -- she's been the sport's
cover girl since winning the McDonald's American Cup in March
-- but Okino's second place was because she'd gathered no
such previous luster. Barring injury or untimely growth
spurts, the above-mentioned kids, plus other 13-year-olds
such as Grivich and really tiny (4-foot-4, 60-pound) Shannon
Miller of Edmond, Okla., the seventh-place finisher in the
all-around, will have it out for Olympic berths two years
hence.
   Chances are, they'll still have to contend with Johnson,
even though she'll be an ancient 19. She won individual golds
in vault and floor exercise on Sunday, and opined that her
personal hill had yet to crest. "Shoushounova {Elena, of the
U.S.S.R.} won the all-around at Seoul at 19," she noted.
"Julianne McNamara and Kelly Garrison made our teams when
they were over 20."
   Imagine that]
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Budget Summit May Face
   Acceleration Next Week
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Key players in the budget summit agreed to
try to jumpstart the stalled talks next week in the hopes of
making significant headway before the end of the month.
   House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) told
White House Budget Director Richard Darman and Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady that he will convene negotiators
"night and day or weekends" beginning next Wednesday,
according to Senate Budget Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.),
who was present when they met. The administration officials
and other important congressional negotiators concurred.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Sasser and House Budget Chairman Leon Panetta (D.,
Calif.), said they expect the negotiators finally will begin
discussing deficit-reduction proposals next week. But aides
to Republican negotiators were far less sanguine, saying
there was little new reason to be optimistic about the talks.
   Administration and congressional negotiators have met
twice a week for a month, but so far they have accomplished
little besides studying the federal budget and various
economic scenarios. "We're delighted that there's a mutual
interest in speeding up the process," an administration
official said yesterday.
   Mr. Gephardt told Mr. Darman and Mr. Brady over lunch at
the Capitol that he still is aiming for some sort of
deficit-reduction accord before July 4. Administration
officials are skeptical that can happen. But Sen. Sasser, who
has been more pessimistic than his colleagues about the
budget summit, said yesterday that the odds of an agreement
by that date are "better than 50-50."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP E.ILA AMR FREST LATAM JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   IBERIA-AMERICAN DISPUTE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iberia, Spain's national airline, said it is withdrawing
today from Sabre, the computerized reservation system of AMR
Corp.'s American Airlines unit, despite possible sanctions
from the U.S. Department of Transportation.
   The move may result in a sharp drop in Iberia's U.S. sales
if other U.S. companies ban Iberia from their computerized
reservation systems, Iberia officials said. By pulling out of
Sabre in Spain, Iberia automatically is barred from using the
system in the U.S., forcing the company to seek alternative
sales outlets there, the officials said.
   The dispute broke out late last year after Iberia
announced its decision to withdraw from Sabre to protest what
it called the system's unfair trade practices in Spain. An
Iberia official said Sabre "dumped" its services in Spain by
offering its computers free of charge to all travel agencies
meeting a minimum sales quota on its reservation system.
Iberia's booking company, Savia, charges clients a yearly fee
to rent a computer terminal.
   Iberia officials said the carrier will take its case to
the U.S. courts if it is excluded from other reservation
systems.
                                                                                                       

   ARRESTS IN CAMBODIA
                                                                                                       

   The human-rights group Asia Watch expressed concern over
the arrests in late May of at least six senior government
officials and army officers in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. All are
suspected of trying to form a new political party, Asia Watch
said. "These men were apparently trying to take advantage of
a changed international climate and move Cambodia toward a
multiparty system," said an Asia Watch official. "It looks
like they may have jumped the gun."
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   There were 3,000 registered nurses in Trinidad and Tobago
in 1987; since then, some 1,200 have quit. Registered Nurses
Association spokeswoman Yvonne Pilgrim said the flight of
nurses, attributed to early retirement or better-paying jobs
in North America, has caused a dramatic shortage of nurses in
area hospitals. She made her remarks to explain a one-week
protest by Trinidad nurses last week over working conditions
and salaries.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE'S FAST TRAINS
                                                                                                       

   France plans to spend 190 billion French francs ($33.3
billion) to expand its high-speed-train network 2,200 miles.
Transportation Minister Michel Delebarre said the expansion
would require construction of 400 new engines. The project
requires approval by regional officials, Mr. Delebarre said.
Winegrowers already have protested plans to lay tracks for
the high-speed trains through prized vineyards in southern
France.
                                                                                                       

   FIGHTING PHILIPPINE POVERTY
                                                                                                       

   Philippine President Corazon Aquino launched a movement to
combat poverty and denied it was intended as a political
force to fight for her re-election in 1992. In an
Independence Day speech yesterday, Mrs. Aquino said the
Kabisig ("Arm in Arm") movement was designed to speed up
grass-roots projects aimed at improving living standards. She
said the movement would be spearheaded by cabinet ministers,
provincial governors and mayors and community organizations.
                                                                                                       

   VENICE BOWS OUT
                                                                                                       

   Italy gave in to a world-wide protest and withdrew Venice
as a candidate to be the site of the Expo 2000 world fair.
The decision was announced to parliament by Prime Minister
Giulio Andreotti yesterday. Tomorrow, a Paris-based
organization meets to select the host city for the world
fair; the other two candidates are Hanover, West Germany, and
Toronto. Venice lovers around the world had argued the city
would collapse under the strain of accommodating hordes of
extra tourists if the fair were staged there.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S SAGGING BIRTHRATE
                                                                                                       

   Quoting unnamed cabinet sources, a Japanese news agency
reported that Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto suggested
the trend for Japanese women to obtain higher education is
responsible for the nation's sagging birthrate.
   The agency said the suggestion was part of a cabinet
discussion yesterday about ways to encourage women to bear
more children. Government officials are reportedly alarmed at
statistics showing that Japan's birthrate hit an all-time low
of 1.57 children per woman in 1989, down from 1.66 babies per
woman in 1988.
   Mr. Hashimoto was quoted as suggesting that the government
alter its policy of enabling all students who so desire to
pursue higher education so that Japan won't suffer shortages
in the labor force.
   At a news conference, Chief Cabinet Secretary Misoji
Sakamoto said the government is hoping to reverse the sharp
birthrate decline because otherwise the welfare burden for
Japan's aging society will be difficult to manage.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   More than 180 past Nobel Prize winners have accepted
invitations to celebrate the Nobel Foundation's 90th
anniversary in Sweden and Norway in 1991, the organization
said. They include U.S. economist Milton Friedman, British
author William Golding and Mother Teresa of Calcutta. . . .
The Times of London revised its style guide for the first
time since the 1960s. The newspaper will now permit such
contemporary terms as the title "Ms.," which will be
automatically used in references to U.S. women but only in
special cases for other nationalities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Express
   Seeks $825 Million
   In Share Offering
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH J.NLI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Co. hopes to raise $825
million through a public offering of 27 million new shares,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   As part of the offering, Tokyo-based Nippon Life Insurance
Co., as expected, will acquire about a $300 million stake in
the financial, information and travel services concern,
buying approximately 10 million shares at $30.96 a share or
the public offering price, whichever is lower.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Express said in March it planned a public
offering to help fund its pending acquisition of Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. Analysts had expected American Express to
seek to raise about $750 million. Because the proposed public
offering is bigger than they expected, American Express's
stock could show weakness this morning, analysts said.
   American Express announced plans for the public offering
after it injected more than $1 billion into Shearson -- part
of a plan in which it will acquire all of Shearson's common
it doesn't already own. The move was a reversal for American
Express, which long had wanted to reduce its stake in the
struggling brokerage concern rather than increase it.
   John Keefe, an analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd in New
York, said American Express is basically "undoing
transactions that were laid down in years past." He added,
"They seem to do everything in the most complicated way
possible." As for Shearson's future, "The tough work is still
ahead," Mr. Keefe said.
   Nippon Life already owns four million shares of American
Express's $3.875 convertible exchangeable preferred,
convertible to common at $42.50 a share. After Nippon Life
acquires its 10 million shares, American Express said, it
will control about 4% of the 447 million shares then
outstanding.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
American Express shares closed at $30.375, up 25 cents.
   Nippon Life invested $508 million in Shearson Lehman
cumulative convertible voting preferred stock in April 1987.
As part of its purchase of American Express stock, Nippon
Life also will be granted warrants to purchase additional
Shearson stock at $15 a share.
   The new American Express shares will be sold by a
syndicate headed by Lehman Brothers, a division of Shearson
Lehman Hutton. Co -- managers in the U.S. will include Bear,
Stearns & Co.; Goldman, Sachs & Co.; Kidder, Peabody & Co.;
Lazard Freres; Morgan Stanley Inc.; and Salomon Brothers Inc.
This will be the first major underwriting by Lehman Brothers,
which was recently carved out of Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   Altogether, American Express expects to sell 17.5 million
shares to the public, of which 12.5 million are being offered
domestically. Of the remainder, 3.5 million will be offered
to European investors and 1.5 million to Asian investors.
   For the first quarter, American Express reported a record
loss of $620 million, or $1.50 a share. All of the loss was
attributed to Shearson. In the offering prospectus, the
company says it expects Shearson to return to profitability
in the second quarter.
   ---
   William Power contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Amoco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   AN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMOCO Corp. (Chicago) -- Charles A. Mast was named vice
president of supply of this oil company, succeeding William
J. Montgomery, who retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bizmart Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BZMT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BIZMART Inc. (Arlington, Texas) -- Dean Groussman,
president, chief executive officer and a director of Canadian
Tire Corp., was elected a director of this discount
office-products retailer, increasing board membership to
eight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   NBC Slashes Audience-Size Guarantees
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE DNB IPG SAA OMCM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Broadcasting Co., insisting that its audience
isn't shrinking as much as A.C. Nielsen figures suggest, said
it will slash the audience-size guarantees it makes
advertisers.
   The No. 1 network thus joins rival Capital Cities/ABC,
which did away with traditional audience-size guarantees
earlier this month, in a battle pitting the major networks
against advertisers. The networks all contend that Nielsen's
figures, which showed viewers deserting television in droves
during the first quarter, are inaccurate. Advertisers retort
that the Nielsen numbers, steep audience declines and all,
are perfectly correct.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Millions of dollars are at stake: The networks have
traditionally guaranteed advertisers that their programs will
reach a certain number of viewers. This year, they had to
"make good" on those guarantees by coughing up some $150
million to $200 million of free additional commercial time to
advertisers when the ratings fell in the first quarter. The
networks are attempting to avoid a similar trouncing in the
future by curtailing audience-size guarantees. CBS is
expected to announce its own plan today.
   While advertisers object to any change in audience
guarantees, several said the NBC plan appears to be more
palatable than ABC's proposal. The NBC plan, using a complex
mathematical model, plots out audience levels over the last
eight years, and uses that trend line to predict levels in
the 1990-91 season. If reported audience levels drop below
its projections, NBC won't necessarily have to offer the free
"make-goods" to advertisers.
   Advertisers lauded NBC, a General Electric unit, for using
a trend line, which they said at least acknowledges that
audience levels have been steadily declining. ABC's plan, in
contrast, compares audience levels with an average of the
previous three years -- and the average figure masks the
steadily falling numbers.
   "At least NBC is more realistic than ABC; they are
publicly acknowledging that there is in fact a trend of lower
people-using-television," says Jon Mandel, senior vice
president and director of national broadcast for Grey
Advertising. Adds Lou Schultz, executive media director of ad
agency Lintas, "The NBC plan offers more upside than ABC."
   But Mr. Mandel, along with other ad-agency executives,
still opposes NBC's plan in principle. The NBC plan is "an
unabashed price increase dressed up in smoke and mirrors, and
hidden behind research issues which in fact aren't really
issues," he says. He objects to the fact that NBC is
basically establishing a floor level for the number of people
using television, and if levels fall below that, it likely
won't offer make-goods. "Saying that anything beyond the
trend is the responsibility of the advertiser, when it's the
network that is putting on the programming, is absurd," he
says.
   CBS is expected to follow with its own plan to limit
audience guarantees today. Television executives believe it
will likely follow one of its two competitors' plans,
probably the one it sees as most favorable to advertisers.
David Poltrack, senior vice president of planning and
research, said the network executives would meet this morning
to analyze the NBC plan and decide on what course to follow.
   He added, "Whatever we decide to do, there will now be
some negotiation. My feeling is there would be some
negotiation to try to come up with one approach."
   Ad-agency executives said that, based on their preliminary
calculations, the NBC system appears to be less costly than
ABC's plan. CBS's Mr. Poltrack said his network will be
working through that analysis. If both plans turn out to have
similar costs, he added, "We might say we'll use either one.
That's an option." ABC executives declined comment.
   Unless the networks do come up with a relatively uniform
plan, advertisers will face an unprecedentedly complicated
"upfront" buying spree, when advertisers buy network time for
the fall season. Upfront sales are expected to kick off soon,
but advertisers said they will probably be slowed by the
confusion over the new guarantee plans.
   Ad executives are accustomed to simple price comparisons
when they buy TV time; they know what it costs to reach a
thousand pairs of eyes through CBS, compared with NBC's
costs. But with the different guarantee systems as an added
factor, the cost-per-thousand measure isn't as meaningful:
"We're going to have to put conversions on every single thing
to make it apples-to-apples," says Grey's Mr. Mandel.
   NBC's Larry Hoffner, executive vice president of network
sales, says the network had no choice but to come up with a
plan limiting audience guarantees because of the sharp drop
in audience levels reported by Nielsen. In the first quarter,
following several years of a slow but steady decline in the
number of people using television, that figure suddenly fell
off by 6% to 7% from the year-earlier period.
   "That is a number we haven't seen in the history of
television. It was abnormal," he says. "We're protecting
ouselves against these abnormal changes. We can't get into a
situation where {Nielsen numbers} fluctuate beyond our
wildest dreams."
   ---
   C-M-E Wins Century 21
                                                                                                       

   Century 21 Real Estate Corp., a unit of Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co., pulled its $30 million account from
McCann-Erickson's Los Angeles office and awarded it to
Campbell-Mithun-Esty.
   McCann participated in a review for the big account, but
Phillip Langford, Century 21's director of national
advertising, said yesterday that "we feel Campbell-Mithun has
a better grasp of where we need to be in the future."
   The other agencies in the review included Chiat/Day/Mojo,
BBDO, Young &amp; Rubicam, Tatham-Laird &amp; Kudner, and D'Arcy
Masius Benton &amp; Bowles.
   Mr. Langford said C-M-E, a Saatchi &amp; Saatchi agency, will
develop corporate image advertising that will spotlight the
service offered by its sales agents. Our advertising in the
past has "reflected only that we're big," he said. "I think
we need to emphasize the personal service that a customer
will get in a Century 21 office."
   He added the new campaign won't feature the "Put Your
Trust in No. 1" theme developed by McCann.
   Although the loss to McCann, an Interpublic Group unit,
will certainly be felt, its Los Angeles office has had a
healthy new-business year, having picked up the consolidated
Columbia Pictures and Tri-Star movie business and also a
chunk of ad business from Carnation.
   For Minneapolis-based C-M-E, the account is a major
victory. Century 21 now becomes one of the headquarters
office's largest clients, according to Howard Liszt,
president and chief operating officer. "The quality of
Century 21 and the quality of the {agency} competition makes
the victory a particularly sweet one," he said.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Bill Munsell was named chief operating officer
of Y&amp;R/Sovero, Young &amp; Rubicam's joint venture in Moscow with
Sovero, a Soviet communications company. He recently stepped
down as chairman of Creswell, Munsell, Fultz &amp; Zirbel, a
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, unit of Young &amp; Rubicam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Claims of Allegheny
   International Bought
   By Japonica Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Japonica Partners said it acquired $25.1
million of Allegheny International Inc. senior unsecured
claims from a group of insurance company holders.
   Japonica said that with the latest purchase its debt
holdings would translate into more than 50% ownership under
Allegheny's proposed plan of reorganization, and that the New
York investor group has begun negotiating a "change of
control" agreement with management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But an Allegheny spokesman asserted that "there are no
negotiations regarding a change of control." Moreover, he
added, "Allegheny questions Japonica's calculations" about
how much stock Japonica's debt holdings are actually worth.
Allegheny is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code.
   Japonica and Allegheny have proposed rival reorganization
plans for the company, whose major businesses are Sunbeam and
Oster small appliances. The Allegheny management plan to
exchange stock for creditor claims was voted down by
creditors. However, the company filed suit claiming that
Japonica acted in bad faith in buying up creditor claims with
the intent to vote them against management's reorganization
plan. Japonica countered with a lawsuit of its own. Those
lawsuits are still pending.
   Meanwhile, creditors voted late last week on a plan from
Japonica to pay creditors about $655 million in cash, much of
it borrowed from banks. Results of that vote will be reported
to the bankruptcy court later this month, but several people
involved in the dispute said the Japonica plan was rejected.
   Wilbur Ross, a senior manager for Rothschild Inc., New
York, who represents Allegheny's unsecured creditors, said
that "if our math is right, Japonica would have an absolute
majority of the stock {under Allegheny's reorganization
plan}. Ultimately, control follows ownership." He added,
however, that the exact time and form of the transfer of
control are difficult to predict because the bankruptcy
proceedings have been complicated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields at Banks,
   Brokerage Firms End
   Week Little Changed
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms were little changed in the week
ended yesterday.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold directly by
banks were down slightly. The average yield on a one-year
consumer CD went to 7.87% from 7.93%, while five-year CDs
fell to 8.11% from 8.15%, according to an 18-bank survey by
Banxquote Money Markets, an information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There was no significant move in interest rates, so rates
remained in a holding pattern," said Norberto Mehl, Banxquote
chairman.
   While none of the banks in the survey offered a yield as
high as 9%, investors can still find consumer CDs at some
banks yielding that much or more.
   Average yields on most small-denomination CDs sold by
leading broker-dealers were up slightly. Two-year maturities
were the exception, with the average yield down to 8.30% from
8.35%. Average yields on six-month CDs rose to 8.27% from
8.22%, while average yields on five-year CDs went to 8.51%
from 8.43%, according to Banxquote.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, were
largely unchanged. Average yields on one-year jumbo CDs edged
up to 7.98% from 7.97%, while five-year maturities eased to
8.25% from 8.28%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Straight Talk From IBM Ex-Chairman
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Thomas J. Watson Jr., the famed former chairman of
International Business Machines Corp., does a remarkable
thing in his memoirs: He tells the truth.
   At a time when many prominent executives are churning out
books that exaggerate their importance, Mr. Watson spends
much of the book debunking the myths that have grown up
around him. He disparages his intellect, regrets his temper,
rues his treatment of his family.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Watson, now 76 years old, is widely credited with
producing a brilliant insight that brought IBM into the
computer age in the 1950s. Popular wisdom adds that he first
had to battle his aging father, the company's founder, who
supposedly said there'd never be a market for more than 50
computers. In fact, Watson Jr. says the two never fought over
the issue; the move happened too gradually to produce a big
argument. Mr. Watson -- who has mellowed since he had a heart
attack and retired 20 years ago -- adds that others deserve
at least as much credit for the move as he does and says no
one at IBM grasped 1% of the computer's potential in those
days.
   "Father Son &amp; Co.: My Life at IBM and Beyond" (Bantam, 468
pages, $22.95), cowritten with Peter Petre of Fortune
magazine, also makes a couple of surprising admissions about
IBM. For instance, Mr. Watson says the antitrust suit that
the Justice Department filed in 1969, though fought tooth and
nail by IBM, "had merit. IBM was clearly in a commanding
position in the market, and some of our tactics had been
harsh." He says he was willing to split IBM in half. The suit
was dropped in 1982.
   As refreshing as the candor is, though, Messrs. Watson and
Petre do still another smart thing. They realize that the
world isn't crying out for another history of IBM, so the
memoirs are written as the story of a father and son -- in
this case, a worldbeater of a father and a talented but
haunted son, who loved each other but ended up wrestling over
one of the world's great corporations.
   Mr. Watson, a slow starter, says he was known as "Terrible
Tommy" as a child. He once bought some skunk stink glands and
placed them in his school's ventilation system, forcing the
principal to send everyone home -- "It was my moment of
ultimate triumph," he writes. Mr. Watson double-bogeyed high
school, taking six years to get through. As a young adult,
the pomposity at a dinner party so enraged him that he got a
garden hose and watered everyone down.
   Watson Sr. tried to bring his son along in the business,
but Watson Jr. felt demeaned. He complains that he was once
given a sales territory so plush that he reached his annual
quota on Jan. 2.
   After his time as a pilot in World War II did wonders for
his self-esteem, Mr. Watson started to take on significant
responsibilities. He takes -- and deserves -- credit for
purging IBM of its small-company mentality so it could grow
into the colossus it is today. But his father tested his
mettle at every turn, leading to battles that were "savage,
primeval and unstoppable." After one nasty session, Mr.
Watson stormed off for the airport, but his father followed
him. With a crowd watching on the tarmac, Watson Jr. tore his
arm away from his frail father and bellowed, "Damn you, old
man] Can't you ever leave me alone?"
   Even after Watson Sr. died, the son remained haunted by
his father's presence and by the pressures of running his
burgeoning business in a fast-changing market. Mr. Watson
would argue with his wife and children, then fall into
depressions and sometimes lock himself in his dressing room
at home. His wife, Olive, eventually moved out and hired a
divorce lawyer, before relenting.
   The book's sole problem is that it's about 40 pages too
long. Mr. Watson provides too many particulars about his war
years. For a man who has been prominent as long as Mr. Watson
has, he also does a surprising amount of star-gazing. He
writes breathlessly, for instance, about giving plane rides
to Harry Truman and Jackie Kennedy.
   But Mr. Watson never digresses for long and often comes
back with a snap. He writes overlong, for instance, about
airlifts in the Soviet Union and China during World War II.
But then Mr. Watson volunteers to fly as an observer on a
mission over the Himalayas, and things pick up again. In
horrible weather, they fly so low that comparing the
altimeter to the charts indicates they're flying underground.
Below are the carcasses of planes that didn't make it. They
run into solid fog and Mr. Watson gives up, bracing himself
for the crash. The pilot says, "What the hell? You want to
live forever?"
   My real gripe is with the book's publicity, which is
billing Mr. Watson as "the man Fortune magazine called `the
most successful capitalist in history.'" He ranks right up
there, but let's be fair: That quote comes from the
introduction to a piece Messrs. Watson and Petre wrote three
years ago. My brother and I once did a loving piece in this
newspaper about our mother, but that doesn't mean we quote
The Wall Street Journal as saying she's the greatest mother
who ever lived.
   ---
   Mr. Carroll is a staff reporter for the Journal in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Stamps of Disapproval?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Gone With the Wind" has appeared
   On stamps from Uncle Sam.
   I don't know how you feel, my dear,
   But frankly, I don't give a damn.
   -- Dick Emmons.
   ---
   In-Depths Observation
                                                                                                       

   If you find you've gotten in over your head
   You must try to rise above it,
   And stay right on top of the problem until
   You get to the bottom of it.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Interstate Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS I
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP (Los Angeles) -- John Uithoven,
formerly a senior vice president at this banking concern's
Nevada unit, was named senior vice president in charge of
credit-risk assessment at the parent company. He succeeds
Owen Peters, a vice president, who joins the staff of the
parent company's chief credit officer. Mr. Uithoven is 41.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITT Will Sell 7% of Alcatel Venture
   To Its French Partner for $640 Million
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT F.CIU FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   ITT Corp. said it would sell 7% of Alcatel N.V. to
Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, its partner in the European
telecommunications joint venture, for $640 million.
   The sale will result in a gain of $139 million, which the
company plans to use primarily to buy back its common stock.
The sale is expected to close tomorrow, and the profit will
be reflected in second-quarter results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ITT's shares, which had moved slightly higher in early New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, jumped
several points when the news was released in the middle of
the afternoon. The shares closed up $3.25 at $60.625.
   News of the sale comes one month after ITT indicated it
might be willing to sell some or all of its 37% stake in
Alcatel, which analysts were valuing at between $2.5 billion
and $4 billion. The sale of 7% of Alcatel at $640 million
puts the value of ITT's 37% stake at about $3.4 billion.
   "It's a step in the right direction for ITT," said Theresa
M. Gusman, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc. "It's a clear
indication that ITT is reviewing the value of its assets."
She had been valuing the 37% Alcatel stake at about $3
billion, but now she believes the value could increase
rapidly as Alcatel becomes more profitable.
   Alcatel was formed in 1986. To create it, ITT, a New
York-based conglomerate, sold its European telecommunications
operations to CGE in exchange for $1.3 billion and 37% of the
stock of the newly combined CGE-ITT operations. CGE, a French
telecommunications concern, owned the remaining 63%.
   When Alcatel was created, Wall Street wondered if ITT
would ever recoup its initial investment in this joint
venture. But Alcatel has grown more rapidly than analysts and
ITT's management anticipated.
   "Our Alcatel shares have more than doubled in value in
three years," said Rand V. Araskog, ITT chairman and chief
executive officer. "The sale of 7% allows us to take
advantage, for our shareholders, of a portion of this
increased value, while retaining an ownership, which we feel
will continue to appreciate at an exceptional rate," added
Mr. Araskog, who is also chairman of Alcatel's supervisory
board.
   In the past few years, Alcatel has benefited as the
development of one common European market has intensified.
Alcatel is also poised to profit from the opening of the
Eastern bloc. Mr. Araskog recognizes that the value of ITT's
investment in Alcatel has been enhanced by this rapid
progress.
   A Belgian government official said Alcatel Bell, a unit of
Antwerp-based Alcatel, is close to signing a tentative
agreement to supply digital telephone exchange equipment to
the Soviet Union.
   The official, Willy Vandenberghe, an adviser to the
Belgian trade minister, estimated the value of the project at
one billion European currency units ($1.2 billion). Alcatel
and Soviet authorities are likely to sign a "framework
agreement" on the venture early next month, he added. Further
details, including financing, would be worked out later.
   Mr. Vandenberghe said last week's meeting in Paris of the
Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls
removed a major obstacle to the long-discussed Alcatel
venture with the Soviets. Cocom, which includes
representatives of the U.S. and 16 Western allies, agreed to
loosen limits on exports of computers, telecommunications
equipment and other high-tech products to the East bloc.
   Under the agreement, industry sources said, Alcatel Bell
would first export from Belgium exchange equipment with
capacity for at least 50,000 telephone lines. Later, a joint
venture factory would be set up in the Soviet Union to
produce exchange equipment. In a possible third phase,
another joint venture plant would be built in the Soviet
Union to make sophisticated semiconductors, known as VLSI
chips, to be used in the exchanges.
   Mr. Vandenberghe said Cocom's new guidelines would allow
the early stages of the venture to go ahead, but the question
of transferring the most sophisticated technology involved
would have to be reviewed by Cocom.
   In New York, ITT said retired Gen. Edward C. Meyer, an ITT
director, would join Alcatel's nine-member supervisory board,
succeeding another ITT representative. Robert Burnett,
another ITT director, is already a member of Alcatel's board.
   ITT also said it has established a coordination center,
named ITT Europe N.V., for the European operations of all of
its nine operating units.
   ---
   Bob Hagerty contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDonald's Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MCD
</CO>
<LP>
   MCDONALD'S Corp. (Oak Brook, Ill.) -- David B. Green, 44
years old, formerly vice president, national marketing, at
this fast-food chain, was named senior vice president,
marketing, succeeding Peter A. Nelson, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Lifts Rating
   On American Brands
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OLD GREENWICH, Conn. -- The rating on about $1.7 billion
of American Brands Inc.'s debt was boosted to single-A-3 from
Baa-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
   The rating concern also upgraded a shelf registration of
senior debt of the tobacco, consumer products and insurance
company to preliminary single-A-3 from preliminary Baa-3. And
Moody's confirmed its prime-2 rating on the company's
commercial paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A "more-focused" American Brands "is generating increasing
free cash flow from non-tobacco businesses, while continuing
to benefit from {tobacco} volume and price gains in the
important United Kingdom and U.S. markets," Moody's said.
   Potential impediments to greater cash generation from the
company's tobacco and distilled spirits businesses include
continued declines in per-capita consumption of cigarettes,
Moody's said. A material increase in excise taxes or an
adverse tobacco product-liability judgment are major external
risk factors, Moody's added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   From an April speech by Paul Volcker, chairman of the
National Commission on the Public Service:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Roosevelt was accused of politicizing the executive branch
when (exclusive of ambassadors) he had fewer than 100
presidential appointees. . . . Now there are over 500
positions subject to presidential appointment with Senate
confirmation and another 2,500 "political" appointees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kodak's Sterling Unit
   Plans to Pay $375,000
   To Settle FTC Case
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Sterling Drug Inc. agreed to pay $375,000 in
civil penalties to settle charges that it made false
advertising claims for its Midol brand pain reliever, the
Federal Trade Commission said.
   The commission said the New York-based drug manufacturer,
a unit of Eastman Kodak Co., claimed in advertisements in
1985, 1986 and 1988 that one of the active ingredients in
Midol is a muscle relaxant that relieves menstrual cramps. In
other advertisements that ran in 1986 and for a period after
November 1988, the company claimed the drug relieves all the
symptoms of a condition known as premenstrual syndrome, as
well as menstrual bloating or water retention.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the FTC, the company didn't have reliable
scientific evidence to back the claims. The agency said the
company thus violated a commission order, that became
effective in 1985, prohibiting Sterling and several other
aspirin manufacturers from making baseless therapeutic claims
for their products. Aspirin is a principal ingredient of
Midol, which is sold over the counter.
   Sterling also has agreed not to violate the FTC order in
the future. The company said it believes its claims were
adequately supported, but that it decided to sign the consent
decree rather than fight the FTC in court. It said all the
advertisements questioned by the commission have been
discontinued.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S.-Japan -- Tension Between Partners
   ---
   Strained Alliance:
   U.S., Japan Struggle
   To Redefine Relations
   As Resentment Grows
   ---
   Americans Fear Dominance
   Is Slipping, While Japan
   Fights to Avoid Isolation
   ---
   Six Views of Emerging Gulf
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   {First of a Series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. 7th Fleet is chasing a renegade Japanese nuclear
submarine through the Straits of Moluccas in the Western
Pacific when suddenly the high-tech sub decides to show the
Americans that bigger is not always better. In maneuvers of
unsurpassed skill, it singlehandedly cripples six U.S.
submarines. Captain Umieda, its commander, declares as his
goal "a war for independence" from U.S. domination.
   "Japan hasn't changed a bit since Pearl Harbor," snarls
the commander of the defeated American fleet.
   Sound far-fetched? It's the plot of a comic book called
"Silent Fleet," read today by a quarter-million young
Japanese. The story is pure fantasy, but it is rooted in
sentiments spreading rapidly through the popular culture of
both countries.
   The underlying message: Something is seriously askew in
U.S.-Japan relations.
   The two nations, of course, remain fast allies, and with
each passing year their interests become more closely aligned
and their economies more thoroughly intertwined. But with
each year mutual resentment grows as well.
   Trade disputes are the most visible sign of the problem,
though those disputes are mere surface ripples. Strong
undercurrents of fear and distrust are flowing through the
national psyches. In the U.S., people worry that Japan's
rising economic power is threatening America's future
prosperity and its place in the world. Across the ocean, the
Japanese are torn between pride in their new affluence and
fear that foreign resentment could leave them isolated in an
unfriendly world.
   "There seems to be a race," says James C. Abegglen, a
longtime business consultant in Japan, "between economic
interdependence and political and social antagonism."
   In the past year, that race has become even more intense.
Trade talks between the two nations have evolved into an
extraordinary series of negotiations in which each side is
criticizing the other's internal economic affairs. At the
same time, the political glue that has bound the two allies
-- fear of the Soviet Union -- has been weakened by
communism's new travails. In both countries, some people are
now questioning the very basis of the alliance.
   Is Japan really a threat to the United States? Does its
rapid rise in economic power mean America is on the decline?
And do the Japanese have reason to worry that a resentful
U.S. will turn against them?
   These are questions The Wall Street Journal has been
exploring since the first of this year, in interviews with
hundreds of people ranging from top business and government
leaders on both sides of the Pacific to ranchers in Nebraska
and Judo students in Kyoto. The result is a series of
articles, beginning today.
   The anxiety in America is strikingly demonstrated in a new
Wall Street Journal/NBC poll, which shows that while 63% of
American voters say it is "very important" for the U.S. to be
the leading economic power in the world, 69% believe Japan
has already passed the U.S. Fully 63% say the Japanese have
leaped ahead in science and technology, and 69% feel Japan
invests "too much" in the United States.
   Meanwhile, in a separate poll conducted for the Journal in
Japan, 43% of Japanese say it's time for their government to
develop a foreign policy more independent of the U.S. Only
17% oppose such a move.
   In the years since World War II, Americans have grown
accustomed to the idea of being at the top, and they don't
want to give it up. Virtually all Americans "feel they have
to be the leader of the world," contends Mitsuko Shimomura, a
Japanese journalist who recently did an extensive tour of the
U.S. "They are like missionaries. They really believe there
is nothing better than America in this world."
   The Bush administration's budget director, Richard Darman,
agrees. "If Americans aren't No. 1," he says, "forget it."
   In the end, relations between great nations come down to
relations between human beings. For an understanding of where
U.S.-Japan relations have come from and where they may be
headed, here are six conversations with people at the
forefront of dealings between the two countries.
                                                                                                       

   Mitsuya Goto: The Vanquished

   It was May of 1945, and young Mitsuya Goto sat wide-eyed
on the roof of his ancestral home in Nagoya as more than 500
B-29 bombers roared overhead. Most of the city's inhabitants
had scrambled into air-raid shelters, but the young Goto sat
entranced by the awesome sight.
   "I wasn't afraid," he recalls. "I could see the faces of
the pilots, and I was very impressed. I felt the strength and
the power of the U.S., and the industrial might of a country
that could deploy so many B-29 bombers. I wasn't mad at the
U.S. I was mad at the Japanese government. I said aloud: `My
God, what have we done?'"
   In the years that followed, Mr. Goto came to embody the
postwar attitudes of many Japanese: He was awed by the
superior power of the U.S. and, despite the war's
destruction, embraced his nation's former enemy.
   The young Goto worked on his family's farm in Nagoya, but
he rushed home each evening to listen to Armed Forces Radio,
eagerly mimicking the words of the GI announcers. When his
English was good enough, he applied for a job as a translator
with Gen. Douglas MacArthur's occupation forces. And when the
mother of an American friend offered him a chance to study in
the U.S. he jumped at it, earning a degree from Wabash
College in Crawfordsville, Ind. His commencement speech
focused on the image of a frog in a well. "The frog in the
well," he explains, "doesn't know the existence of great
oceans."
   The quiet, slender man crossed the great oceans many times
over the next forty years, first as a delegate to the
International Labor Organization and then as a special
assistant to the chairman of Nissan Motors. He became one of
Japan's rare breed of "internationalists," working to
solidify friendships with his country's conquerors. His
generation, he explains, "is still fascinated by Americans.
We remember how generous Americans have been."
   But in recent years, as managing director of the Japan
Center for International Exchange, Mr. Goto has watched
attitudes between the two countries take a disturbing turn.
Especially worrisome, he says, is the younger generation of
Japanese, which didn't see the sky-darkening hordes of
bombers overhead. "Some Japanese have become a bit arrogant,"
he says. "I don't like it. The Japanese need to understand
the kind of problems that America has that Japan doesn't."
   There is little alternative, he believes. "We have so much
at stake. We have to remain partners."
   If Mitsuya Goto is the face Japan showed to the U.S. after
World War II, then Edwin Reischauer is the face the U.S.
showed to Japan.
   Born and reared in Japan and married to a Japanese woman,
Mr. Reischauer has lived a life between two cultures. After
starting a Japanese-studies program at Harvard University, he
was named ambassador to Japan by President Kennedy and served
five years in the post. Today, sitting in his retirement home
in San Diego next to a picture of Mount Fuji, he can recite
chapter and verse the major U.S.-Japan scuffles of the
postwar years.
   "The first" he recalls, "was the one surrounding the
security treaty of 1960." A residue of harsh feelings from
the war led many Japanese to oppose their country's decision
to form a close military alliance with the U.S. In 1964, one
dissident even attacked Ambassador Reischauer, driving a
knife into his leg. But the security treaty, which was
designed to counter the spread of communism, became a firm
bond that held the two countries together for three decades.
   Today, Mr. Reischauer argues, the decline of the Soviet
empire is one reason U.S.-Japan relations have become
strained: The common threat is gone. "You unfortunately find
some people have to have an enemy," he says. "We lost the
Soviet Union, so people got excited about the economic
competition" with Japan. For the first time, he says,
relations between the two countries are "getting close to
what you might call a crisis."
   Mr. Reischauer's bicultural background gives him an
unusual understanding of the problems Japanese have in
dealing with the West. There is, for example, Japan's
attention to hierarchy, which leads Japanese to think of
themselves as either subservient or superior to others. "The
Japanese jump immediately from Pax Americana to Pax
Nipponica," he says.
   But he puts most of the blame on the U.S. "We've allowed
our industrial skills not to improve as much as we should,"
he says. "We are in danger of becoming a second, a third
world country.
   "Cleaning up our own problems," he adds, "would be the
quickest way to foster good relations with Japan."
                                                                                                       

   Wataru Hiraizumi: Newly Confident
                                                                                                       

   "When you look back at what the 20th century was all
about," says Wataru Hiraizumi, slowly sucking on a piece of
Swiss candy, "the big problem was not the cold war, but the
question of Germany, Japan and the U.S." And the biggest
problem of the three, he makes clear, is the U.S. "People
don't realize how dangerous the U.S. can be."
   Born in 1929, Mr. Hiraizumi is the son of Kiyoshi
Hiraizumi, a professor of Japanese history who, before the
war, was a passionate nationalist and a believer in the
superiority of Japanese culture. The younger man shared his
father's intellectual pursuits. Now a member of the National
Diet and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, he sits in the
midst of a huge library with titles in Japanese, French,
English and German.
   As he speaks, Mr. Hiraizumi pulls an occasional book off
the shelf, such as a 1937 work called "Forty Years of
American-Japanese Relations," which documents "the decline of
American influence and prestige in the Far East before the
relentless growth of Japanese political and economic power."
   Most political leaders in Japan try to avoid offending
foreign visitors, but Mr. Hiraizumi enjoys being provocative.
"The U.S. is very difficult to deal with," he explains. "It
is an artificial creation. It was created by people who left
their country to create the best nation in the world. You
consider yourselves superior."
   After a pause, he grins and adds: "You have to consider
yourself the best. Otherwise, why don't you go back to Italy?
   "The original sin of your culture is your cult of
individuality. It means you cherish `A' people. But the
important thing is how to organize and discipline and educate
`B,' `C,' `D,' `E' and `F' people. You value A people; we
value B, C, D, E and F people. Who wins?" he asks, and with a
smile suggests the answer.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Hiraizumi believes Japan should be
careful about flexing its muscle and assuming the mantle of
world leadership. "Americans can become very wicked. You
should always try not to anger them," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Robert Mosbacher: Trade Warrior
                                                                                                       

   A needlepoint pillow that used to sit on the sofa in
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher's office read: "Happiness
is Being an American." Lately, he has replaced it with one
slightly less offensive to his foreign guests: "Free Trade
Avenue is a Two-Way Street."
   Mr. Mosbacher is an American -- no apologies. He is also
the Bush administration's leading trade hawk. It is Mr.
Mosbacher who argued in April, unsuccessfully, that the U.S.
should once again cite Japan for unfair actions under the
Trade Reform Act. And it is Mr. Mosbacher who has tried, with
only limited success, to get Washington to provide more aid
to industries fighting Japanese competition.
   "I think the American people are just about filled to the
top with this feeling they've been had," he says.
   When he talks about relations with Japan, the commerce
secretary uses the term "economic security" as if the nation
were under siege. He happily admits to his desire to see
America remain No. 1. "You could be No. 2 or 3 and lose
control over your economic and possibly military security,"
he says. A picture on one wall shows him standing between two
Sumo wrestlers. Nearby hangs a plaque with a quote it
attributes to Vince Lombardi, the legendary football coach:
"Winning is not a sometime thing, it's an all-time thing."
   On at least one occasion the White House has taken him to
task for his hardline views. In response he has learned to
toe the adminstration's line, and even express support for
Secretary of State James Baker's proposal for a "global
partnership" with Japan. But he repeatedly returns to the
idea that Japan is unfair. "You can't be allies," he says,
"with somebody you think is getting to you."
                                                                                                       

   Shunji Taoka: Taking Offense
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Taoka, gaunt-faced writer and editor for the popular
Japanese magazine Aera, sits in a coffee shop in Tokyo and
spins out the following scenario:
   "It is the year 2000. Total American overseas debt is more
than $2 trillion. Annual interest payments are $160 billion,
far exceeding today's trade deficit. The U.S. faces two
solutions. It can default on its debt. Or it can print more
dollars and create inflation.
   "America decides to default. In response, Japan and other
countries refuse to lend any more to the U.S. So, in the
American tradition, your nation loads up its guns, jumps on
its horse, and heads for the bank." Translation: The U.S.
invades Japan.
   Mr. Taoka is quick to say he doesn't believe the
likelihood of such an invasion is high. But he clearly places
it in the realm of possibility.
   "This year is the 30th year of the U.S.-Japan security
treaty," he explains. "There have been three radical
developments in this 30th year." The first is the change in
U.S.-Soviet relations. The second is America's soaring
federal debt and the resulting pressure for defense cuts. And
the third is "rising anti-Japan feeling as a result of
Japanese economic power."
   Together, he argues, these three changes have cut the
foundation out from under the U.S.-Japan security alliance.
   On the coffee shop table, Mr. Taoka lays a copy of the
latest issue of his magazine. The cover story quotes Major
General Henry C. Stackpole, a Marine divisional commander in
Okinawa, as saying that if the U.S. cuts back its forces in
the Pacific, Japan will beef up "what is already a very, very
potent military." The U.S. forces, he said, "are a cap on the
bottle."
   Mr. Taoka finds the "cap on the bottle" image -- and other
recent suggestions that Japanese power needs to be
"contained" -- insulting. "It's like giving a room of your
house to a friend who asks for food, and then money, and then
finally goes to your neighbors and says, `My landlord is a
strange person. I'd better stick around and keep an eye on
him.'"
   Yet for all his resentment of American attitudes, Mr.
Taoka says he, too, is not yet ready for Japan to chart a
course that is independent of the U.S. "It's not necessary
for Japan to become a superpower," he says. "What is the
benefit? Somebody who is satisfied as head of the Chamber of
Commerce doesn't need to become mayor."
                                                                                                       

   Harry Lonsdale: No Colonization
                                                                                                       

   "My hot button is trees," says Harry Lonsdale, eating
salmon in a 30th-floor restaurant overlooking the city of
Portland. "I think we have to preserve our forests." His
proposal for doing that: Stop exporting logs to Japan.
   Flying over Oregon, it's easy to understand why Mr.
Lonsdale feels so strongly. The mountainous state looks like
a patchwork quilt from the air, scarred by rectangular and
trapezoidal bare spots -- the work of loggers. Roughly a
quarter of this timber is exported, mostly to Japan.
   Mr. Lonsdale is a candidate for the U.S. Senate,
challenging incumbent Mark Hatfield. As an environmentalist,
he has opposed cutting trees. But as a politician, he has had
to consider as well the interests of the state's lumber
industry.
   At a time when the U.S. trade deficit with Japan is still
running at $50 billion a year, stopping any U.S. export to
Japan may seem foolhardy. But Mr. Lonsdale has caught on to a
fundamental truth: It's not just whether the U.S. exports
that matters, but what it exports. "Exporting raw materials,"
he says, "is a third-world task." Or worse, the task of a
colony.
   If he could force the Japanese to buy finished wood and
lumber products rather than logs, Mr. Lonsdale figures he
could create more jobs and destroy fewer trees. "In 1980,
Indonesia was shipping raw logs to Japan, and in addition
providing only 1% of Japan's plywood," he notes. "Now they
prohibit raw log exports, and they're shipping 18% of Japan's
plywood."
   Mr. Lonsdale's fears about losing pre-eminence to Japan
recall a prediction made by the late Shigeru Yoshida, who was
Japan's prime minister from 1946 to 1954 and who signed the
security treaty giving the U.S. rights to bases in Japan. At
the time, critics said Mr. Yoshida was going to make Japan a
colony of the U.S. But he took a longer-term view.
   "Just as the United States was once a colony of Great
Britain but is now the stronger of the two," he said, "if
Japan becomes a colony of the United States, it will also
eventually become the stronger."
   ---
                     Public Perceptions
                                                                                                       

                                    U.S.           JAPANESE
                                 RESPONSES         RESPONSES
                                                                                                       

 Which country has the strongest overall economy?
                                                                                                       

 Japan                              69%               43%
 U.S.                               17                50
 Germany                             9                 2
                                                                                                       

 Which country will have the strongest overall economy ten
years from now?
                                                                                                       

 Japan                              41%               31%
 U.S.                               27                41
 Germany                            17                14
                                                                                                       

 How important is it for your country to try to be the
world's leading economic power?
                                                                                                       

 Very important                     63%               26%
 Somewhat important                 31                51
 Not very important                  6                20
                                                                                                       

 Note: Japanese responses are from Wall Street Journal/Nippon
Research
                                                                                                       

 The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
   ---
                  The Wealth of Two Nations
                                                                                                       

                                    VITAL STATISTICS 1989
                                                                                                       

                                    U.S.            JAPAN
                                                                                                       

 Population (in millions)           250.4           123.3

 Gross National Product
  (in billions of dollars)          $5,234          $2,835
                                                                                                       

 Inflation (in percent)             4.8%            2.3%
                                                                                                       

 Interest rates
  (long-term gov't bonds)           8.02%           5.87%
                                                                                                       

 Unemployment (in percent)          5.3%            2.3%
                                                                                                       

 Gross private investment
  (percent of GNP)                  14.8%           25.7%
                                                                                                       

 Savings
  (percent of household
  after-tax income)                 5.4%            16.8%
                                                                                                       

 Per capita GNP                     $20,938         $23,031
                                                                                                       

 Budget deficit (in billions)       $152            $51.5
                                                                                                       

 Trade balance (in billions)        -$50            +$64.3
                                                                                                       

 Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of
Commerce, International Monetary Fund, Japan Economic
Institute
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HomeFed Reports
   Nonperforming
   Assets Rose in May
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   HFD
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- HomeFed Corp., a big and heretofore
apparently fairly healthy thrift, said its nonperforming
assets jumped $81 million in May, on top of a surprise $44
million increase in April.
   HomeFed had said earlier in the year that it hoped to cut
total nonperforming assets to below $400 million by year end.
But the May increase brought HomeFed's nonperforming assets
-- mainly bad loans and repossessed real estate -- to $579
million, or 3.12% of total assets. Moreover, Robert Adelizzi,
president and chief executive officer, said nonperforming
assets would probably rise further in June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consequently, HomeFed will find it "extremely difficult"
to meet the publicly stated objective of trimming
nonperforming asset to below $400 million by year end, Mr.
Adelizzi said.
   HomeFed, boosted by big profits in its real estate
development unit, had been among the industry's better
performers lately. The surge in bad assets underscores the
difficulty even healthier thrifts are having coping with the
broad problems buffeting the S&amp;L industry, primarily as a
result of woebegone real estate markets in Texas, Arizona and
many other areas.
   HomeFed said sour loans accounted for $72 million of the
May increase in nonperforming assets, with the remainder
consisting of foreclosed real estate. The thrift's problem
assets are now approaching the relatively high levels of last
fall, but Mr. Adelizzi said the thrift is more concerned
about its portfolio than it was then because of worries about
the "overbuilt condition of commercial real estate markets
nationally and certain multifamily markets outside of
California."
   He said HomeFed now is conducting a special review of all
its large loans, and said that the rising levels of
nonperforming assets and any additional problems that the
review may unearth could lead to increases in its provisions
for loan losses in the second quarter. HomeFed didn't
disclose what impact that might have on earnings, but any
increase in its provision for loan losses would drag down
HomeFed's results. In the first quarter, HomeFed had net
income of $34.5 million, or $1.62 a share.
   HomeFed has tangible capital of about 5.03% of assets --
one of the better ratios among large thrifts -- and thus can
weather some deterioration in its portfolio. Nonetheless,
May's surge in bad assets clearly troubled Mr. Adelizzi. He
said the thrift was "disappointed" by the increase, adding:
"We did not feel that April's {increase in bad assets} was
indicative of a trend."
   HomeFed announced the jump in bad assets after the market
closed. In New York Stock Exchange trading, its stock
finished at $33.25, down 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board's Trading-Halt Plan Assailed
   ----
   By William Power and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange's new trading-halt
proposal, which would have shut down the Big Board during
last October's "minicrash" and the 1987 crash, drew
complaints from many quarters yesterday.
   Traders, investors and corporate executives all criticized
the proposed halts, recommended after an exchange panel's
six-month study of ways to curb stock-market volatility. The
"four-tier circuit breaker" starts with a one-hour cessation
of trading of stocks, stock-index futures and options when
the Dow Jones Industrial Average moves up or down 100 points,
and goes up to two-hour halts when the Dow moves 300 points
and 400 points. The halts mean that a huge market move late
in the day, like the 190-point drop on Oct. 13, 1989, would
effectively close the exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I would have basically gone for shorter trading halts,"
said James Cloonan, president of the American Association of
Individual Investors and a member of the Big Board panel that
made the recommendations.
   Charles Wohlstetter, who is chairman of Big Board-listed
Contel Corp. and who criticizes the exchange for catering to
big institutional investors, called the proposed trading
halts "wrong and wrongheaded" because historically, "the
strength of the NYSE was that it was a continuous market,
come what may."
   One big institutional investor, J. Thomas Allen, president
of Advanced Investment Management Inc., was equally critical
of the trading halts. "The great thinking is that everybody
can sit back and catch their breath and you can alleviate
panic. We don't think it is academically valid."
   The reaction came as the Big Board's 19-member
"Blue-Ribbon Panel on Market Volatility and Investor
Confidence" yesterday released a 380-page report with eight
recommendations about market volatility, including the
proposed new trading halts. The recommendations, which were
expected, will be reviewed by the Big Board's directors and
management.
   The panel, headed by General Motors Corp. Chairman Roger
B. Smith, was formed to study program trading and
market-structure problems amid an outcry over program trading
after the Oct. 13 stock-market plunge.
   Program trading involves rapid-fire, computer-aided trades
of large baskets of stocks -- in the Big Board's definition,
15 or more stocks valued at $1 million or more. The most
common form of program trading is index arbitrage, in which
large amounts of stocks, futures and options are bought and
sold to profit from price differences in the different
markets.
   Even GM's Mr. Smith said he isn't convinced that long
trading halts are the answer to stock-market gyrations.
   During a news conference yesterday in the exchange's board
room, Mr. Smith said: "Nobody knows if circuit breakers will
stop the market from declining. But they could be a
significant factor for a breathing spell" in the markets.
   John J. Phelan Jr., Big Board chairman, said, "I've been
in markets all my life, and I don't like circuit breakers --
but I have to adjust like everybody else."
   Richard Breeden, chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said he was "extremely pleased" by the Big Board
panel's call for a single regulator for stocks and
stock-index futures. A Treasury Department spokeswoman said,
"The panel's recommendations of four-tier circuit breakers
deserves serious consideration."
   The Big Board never formally halted trading on Oct. 19,
1987, when the Dow plunged a record 508 points. The next day,
known as "Terrible Tuesday," trading virtually ground to a
stop, and the Big Board came within minutes of a trading
halt. But the exchange never ordered a shutdown.
   The Big Board panel's report argues that the circuit
breakers would "give buyers and sellers a chance to catch
their breath and calmly assess their positions during periods
of market stress." The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, a panel
member that dissented from some other parts of the report,
generally approved of the circuit breakers, saying they would
"alleviate the possibility of uncoordination during
substantial market movements."
   Even Mr. Cloonan, the panel member who dislikes trading
halts, agreed that in some drastic situations an exchange
shutdown might help. "There's no sense in having it open if
nobody knows what's happening besides the people standing
around the {trading} post," he said.
   But others, especially big-block traders, maintain that
trading halts can substantially increase risk for everyone
and prevent buyers and sellers from coming together. Trading
halts can also induce panic in a market that otherwise might
fix itself, some say.
   "When you have people with a profit motive transacting in
a free market, at some point prices will stop dropping," said
Mr. Allen of Advanced Investment Management. "Cutting that
person off might hurt the markets, and it definitely adds to
the uncertainty of the institutional market."
   Besides the new trading halts, the Big Board panel's
report, as expected, suggested these steps to deal with
unruly markets: an easing of restrictions on stock buy-backs
by corporations and on options trading by the exchange's
market makers; the introduction of unspecified new products
to shield small investors from rapid price moves on a given
trading day; and improved surveillance for trading abuses
across markets.
   A majority of panel members also endorsed a single federal
regulator for the stock and stock-index futures markets, and
a single regulator to oversee requirements for margin, or
good-faith, money needed to trade stocks and futures.
Dissenting from these last two recommendations were the
Chicago Merc; Merton H. Miller, finance professor at the
University of Chicago; and Mr. Cloonan of the investors'
association.
   Leo Melamed, chairman of the Chicago Merc's executive
committee, complained that most of the panel "didn't review
any facts or evidence on the issue," but instead "simply
mirrored a popular perception that consolidation of
regulation seems desirable."
   Several Wall Street brokerage firms had pulled back from
index arbitrage after the outcry over last October's market
plunge. Critics charged that the stock-market drop was
exacerbated by program trading. Some firms had said privately
they would reconsider their position once the Big Board
report finally came out.
   At yesterday's news conference, Mr. Phelan said it would
be "irresponsible" for brokerage firms to abandon their
pullback from index arbitrage immediately. He said firms
should wait until some of the report's recommendations are in
place, including a provision that any program trading once
the Dow moves 50 points should be "stabilizing." This means
only selling during a rising market, or buying during a
declining market.
   A spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., the most active
program trader on Wall Street so far this year, said: "We
have no plans to enter proprietary index arbitrage," or
program trading for its own account. But the firm continues
to execute program trades for customers. Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.,
the nation's biggest brokerage firm, said it would execute
program trades for itself or for its clients.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH &amp; Co. will continue its policy of refraining
from stock-index arbitrage trading for itself and for its
clients until the firm decides that proper regulations are in
place to address excess volatility. Merrill's position on
stock-index arbitrage, one form of program trading, was
misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ June 14, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McCaw Cellular Communications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MCAWA
</CO>
<LP>
   MCCAW CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (Kirkland, Wash.) --
Tom A. Alberg, 50 years old, formerly a partner at the law
firm of Perkins Coie, was named to the newly created post of
executive vice president for legal and corporate affairs of
this cellular-phone company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PREPAID-TUITION TRUSTS press the IRS in court and in
private for exemption.
   At least a dozen states are working on plans to help
parents finance college costs with prepaid contracts made
while a child is young. Innovator Michigan has amassed over
$350 million from over 40,000 contracts. But backers say the
programs' growth is being stifled by an IRS ruling that the
Michigan Education Trust must pay annual corporate taxes on
its earnings, in addition to the deferred taxes that students
will pay as gains are withdrawn for tuition. So Michigan and
Ohio are taking the offensive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michigan's trust paid its first taxes for fiscal 1988.
Last month, it sued in federal court for a refund on
constitutional and other grounds, arguing it performs an
exempt essential government function for the state.
Meanwhile, the Ohio Tuition Trust is urging the IRS to
reverse itself and rule that the plans are exempt essential
functions and is lobbying the White House and Congress for
support. Ohio hopes to get an IRS ruling by next fall.
   Ohio figures taxes add 10-15% to the price of its tuition
contract.
                                                                                                       

   THE IRS GEARS UP to clamp down on filers that don't give
IDs to banks.
   The 1983 tax act requires financial institutions that make
interest, dividend, and other nonwage payments to report
recipients' Social Security or other identification numbers
to the IRS. Recipients that don't supply numbers are subject
to a 20% withholding tax; payers that don't use due diligence
to get correct numbers are subject to penalty. But in working
out the procedures, the IRS repeatedly has delayed the
enforcement program.
   Now the IRS says it is ready to crack down. It is about to
send to payers lists of customers for which the payers' 1988
reports lacked numbers or had faulty ones. Within 60 days,
payers must certify that they have exercised due diligence.
Later this year, the IRS adds, it will inform payers of
discrepancies on 1989 reports. Then the payers must notify
the customers that the 20% withholding will begin if they
don't supply correct numbers within 30 days.
                                                                                                       

   A BIZARRE VICTORY over the IRS ends with a financial
setback.
   Thomas J. Smith, once an Illinois state tax official
handling liaison with the IRS, won the victory in January
1989. As we reported, he hadn't filed federal returns for two
years. IRS District Director Ira Loeb informed Smith's boss;
Smith later lost his job. He sued the U.S. for illegal
disclosure of taxpayer data. U.S. Judge Mills ruled that Loeb
had ignored procedures meant to protect taxpayer privacy,
making the U.S. liable for damages. The judge scheduled a
further trial to determine the amount.
   Smith sought $6 million in compensatory and punitive
damages. But earlier this year, Judge Mills said the illegal
disclosure didn't cause Smith's discharge and awarded only
$1,000 and certain costs, as prescribed for the federal-law
violation. Smith's lawyer, whose fee was contingent on the
outcome, spent 1,000 hours and $18,735 of his own money on
the case. Now, in a "postscript," the judge says Smith hasn't
met the narrow standard for winning legal fees.
   Further, only a small share of the lawyer's expenses
qualify for recovery.
                                                                                                       

   VISITORS TO CANADA are to get fast rebates of the 7% goods
and services tax due to take effect Jan. 1 if the Canadian
Senate approves. Besides giving rebates by mail, Revenue
Canada will authorize duty-free shops to issue instant cash
rebates of certain hotel and merchandise taxes.
                                                                                                       

   HIDDEN INCOME that the self-employed omit from Schedule C
of personal returns accounts for 40% of the personal tax gap,
the IRS figures. Now it's extending to 1988 and 1989 returns
a special Schedule C audit program that has covered 1983-87
returns reporting receipts exceeding $100,000.
                                                                                                       

   WIPE OUT GRAFFITI, says the California state Senate. It
adopts a bill that would permit the creation of special
districts to tax marking substances and applicators to pay
for the removal of graffiti in public places. The bill goes
next to the state Assembly.
                                                                                                       

   MULTINATIONALS LOBBY to overturn IRS rules on state-tax
deductions.
   States are barred from taxing corporate income earned
beyond their borders, but many use formulas for taxable
income that the IRS says result in taxes attributable to
income from foreign sources. After more than a decade of
wrestling with the issue, the IRS in 1988 proposed rules
requiring multinationals to allocate certain state taxes to
foreign income, thus denying deductions from U.S. income.
Companies say they are caught between state and IRS
positions.
   The companies say the rules increase their costs,
especially in comparison with foreign concerns operating in
the U.S. So they have mounted a lobbying campaign for two
bills -- H.R. 4512, backed by Rep. Thomas (R., Calif.) and
others, and S. 2584, entered by Sen. Boren (D., Okla.) and
others. The bills would let companies allocate all deductions
for state and local income and franchise taxes to U.S.
income. The lobbyists include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and several industry associations.
   The Multistate Tax Commission supports the bills on behalf
of 23 states.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: To pamper the environment, Wisconsin exempts cloth
diapers and diaper services from sales tax, but not
disposable diapers. . . . Texas has no income tax. It adds
other distinctions with new law to reform education
financing: A 15-cent rise to 41 cents a pack gives it the
highest state cigarette levy. Its 6.25% sales tax becomes the
highest in the 15 southern states.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Bill Introduced
   To Give SEC Power
   Over Index Futures
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Two House members introduced legislation
that would switch oversight of stock-index futures to the
Securities and Exchange Commission from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
   The bill was introduced at the administration's request by
Reps. John Dingell (D., Mich.) and Norman Lent (R., N.Y.),
the ranking members of the Energy and Commerce Committee,
which oversees the SEC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill would give the SEC the power to regulate
stock-index futures, which allow investors to bet on the
movement of a basket of stocks without buying the actual
securities. The bill also would create federal regulation of
futures margins, the good-faith money needed to trade.
Currently, margins are set by the commodities exchanges and
can be changed by the CFTC only in an emergency.
   The legislators haven't taken a formal position on the
proposal, a committee spokesman said. The legislation is
supported by SEC Chairman Richard Breeden and Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady, but it is strongly opposed by CFTC
Chairman Wendy Gramm, the futures industry, and members of
the House and Senate agriculture committees.
   In a statement, Mr. Dingell said that the complex
legislation warranted "careful, thorough and detailed
hearings" and that his committee intends to begin the process
as soon as possible.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   What's New in Greenwich Village? Private Property Rights
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Here's what Jerrold Ziman got when he bought a $280,000
four-story house in Manhattan: an 11-by-13-foot
bedroom-kitchen-dining-living room and six years in court. He
made a mistake. He assumed the law would protect his property
rights.
   New York's housing market has long been the standard model
for Econ 101 lessons on how rent control leads to housing
shortages, tenants who can't afford to move and landlords who
can't afford to keep up buildings. Abstract principles are
hard reality for the Ziman family.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Jerrold and Ellen Ziman moved from Los Angeles to New
York with their two young children, they found a small town
house on quaint Minetta Street in Greenwich Village. The
200-year-old house had been divided into small apartments,
and three were occupied by rent-control tenants. The Zimans
planned to make it a one-family home again.
   Their nightmare began soon after they bought the house in
February 1984. At the time, owners could leave the rental
market and evict tenants if they planned to occupy the
property themselves. The Zimans asked the state housing
regulators to start the eviction process.
   But in June 1984, New York changed the rules. A new law
said that tenants who had lived in apartments for more than
20 years could not be evicted just because the owner wanted
to occupy his property. Instead, owners would have to prove
"undue hardship," meaning an annual return of less than 8.5%.
The two tenants in the Ziman house pay regulated monthly
rents of $159 and $180, a fraction of the going market rate
or the $20,000 annual expense of maintaining the rental
units.
   So proving hardship should have been easy, but it wasn't.
It took two audits over several years for bureaucrats in the
rent-control agency eventually to admit the Zimans were
suffering financial hardship. Then the state concocted a
bizarre new argument to deny the eviction request. The Zimans
should lose, the agency argued, because they were motivated
chiefly by the desire to occupy their house, not chiefly by
the bankrupting economic losses.
   Lawyers for the Zimans said this was unconstitutional and
absurd. "They have lost the ability to exclude strangers from
their house, they have been forced to become landlords and
they have been required to bear a hugely disproportionate
share of the costs" of rent control.
   After years of hearings, litigation and appeals, New
York's highest court two weeks ago ruled for the Zimans. A
one-page opinion found "unrefuted evidence of hardship." The
court ruling means the housing agency must begin eviction
proceedings against the tenants, but the agency hasn't acted
yet.
   The Zimans eventually should be able to make a home of
their house, but the cost has been enormous. The family has
lived in what they assumed would be temporary quarters of an
apartment in the house of less than 350 square feet-smaller
than the typical hotel room. In 1986, they got access to
another 350-square feet on another floor, where their
adolescent son now sleeps.
   Mr. Ziman, who jokes that he became a "jailhouse lawyer,"
gave up his career in entertainment for his newly found
specialty, real estate. He has legal bills of $100,000, which
would be much more without voluntary legal help from two
free-market public-interest groups, the Competitive
Enterprise Institute in Washington and the Pacific Legal
Foundation in California. CEI lawyer Sam Kazman, who handled
much of the litigation, calls this case "a small step for the
Zimans, one giant step for Manhattankind."
   Mr. Kazman plans to file a further lawsuit that might
teach bureaucrats a lesson. Recent U.S. Supreme Court cases
say that the Constitution's Fifth Amendment takings clause
entitles people to reimbursement for even temporary takings
of their property through unlawful government action. The
Zimans want payments from New York for the years of lost use
of their house. The state already lost a takings case to
owners of unlawfully regulated single-room-occupancy
buildings.
   Getting housing regulators to think twice about giving
owners the runaround would help many landlords who can't
afford legal help. An Arthur D. Little study in 1985 found
that most landlords owned one building, had incomes of
between $10,000 and $40,000 -- 30% had incomes less than
$20,000 -- and were immigrants. Who else would be naive
enough to invest in residential apartments in New York?
   Tenants tend to be from a different class. Rent-controlled
apartments are mostly in middle- and upper-class
neighborhoods. The Zimans say one of their holdout tenants
goes on an opera tour of Italy every summer. In his recent
book, "The Excluded Americans: Homelessness and Housing
Policies," William Tucker disclosed several regulated sweet
rents in a city where $1,000 is market rent for a standard
one-bedroom apartment:
   Mayor David Dinkins pays $711.99 for a three-bedroom
apartment in a middle-class development. When he was mayor,
Ed Koch paid $411.49 for a one-bedroom apartment in Greenwich
Village. A former housing-court judge, Jay Stuart Dankberg,
paid $75.15 for a two-bedroom near Gramercy Park. Among
apartments overlooking Central Park are those of Manfred
Ohrenstein, Democratic leader in the state Senate ($2,070.67
for 11 rooms); Mia Farrow ($2,272.43 for 11 rooms); and
Alistair Cooke ($1,357.66 for eight rooms).
   Token rents and high costs at the lower end of the market
help explain why some 1,500 units of housing are simply
abandoned in the city every month. State legislators issued a
report in 1987 entitled "Bleak House" of how hyperregulation
causes "hardship for thousands of people every year and in
the most extreme cases directly contributes to displacement
and homelessness."
   An upstate legislator last week introduced a bill that
would end rent control for any family with an income of
$100,000. A vicious circle makes a political solution
unlikely-rent control causes a limited supply of housing
causes higher market prices causes winners in the
rent-control game to dig in their heels.
   Indeed, the Zimans say some of their friends are
ambivalent about their victory because they can't imagine
life without their own rent-controlled apartments. "My
friends in New York just don't understand that a free market
could get them better housing at a better price," Mrs. Ziman,
a pre-school teacher, says.
   Economics aside, Mr. Ziman says he's discovered that rent
control creates a perverse mentality that sounds a lot like
what we recently called Soviet-bloc thinking. "Rent control
makes thieves of normal people," he says. "The city and state
undermine common honesty and integrity by allowing a system
built on a few winners and many losers of their own
property."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Economy Leads Japan -- but for How Long?
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ask Americans what nation has the strongest overall
economy, and they'll tell you Japan. Ask Japanese the same
question, and they'll say the United States.
   Who's right?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By most measures, the U.S. remains the world's economic
powerhouse. Its annual output is nearly twice that of Japan.
And while the Japanese may be the leaders in many important
manufacturing industries, U.S. businesses remain, overall,
the most productive in the world.
   To be sure, the Japanese have in recent years reported a
higher income per person than Americans. But that's a
statistical fluke, due largely to the dollar's decline since
1985. Income in Japan is higher only if the Japanese exchange
all their money for dollars and spend it overseas. If they
spend money in their own country, the advantage is quickly
devoured by exorbitant prices for housing and other goods.
Adjusted for local purchasing power, the average Japanese
earns only three-quarters as much as the average American.
   But while the U.S. remains in the lead, that lead is
rapidly narrowing, and many economists believe it may
disappear over the next decade.
   Hisao Kanamori, chairman of the Japan Center for Economic
Research, is one of the leading Japanese optimists. Sitting
in his corner office in downtown Tokyo, a pipe in his hand,
he confidently predicts Japan will grow at roughly a 5%
annual rate during the 1990s, while the U.S. grows at about a
3% rate. The result: By the year 2000, Japan will have an
economy roughly the same size as America's, and its
per-person income will be nearly double that in the U.S.
   That's a stunning prediction, but it isn't without reason.
Many economists see savings and investment as the engines of
future growth, and in both areas the Japanese continue to
beat the U.S. hands down. Last year, for instance, Japanese
households saved nearly 17% of their after-tax income,
compared to just over 5% in the U.S. And Japanese businesses
had gross investment equalling 26% of the nation's output,
compared with 15% in the U.S.
   Moreover, Japan's edge in many high-tech industries will
help fuel its growth in the coming decade, Mr. Kanamori says.
"The things that Japan is strong at are the things of the
1990s," he notes.
   Official estimates put Japanese growth over the next 10
years considerably lower. And lately, in the wake of turmoil
in the Tokyo stock market, some commentators have begun to
argue that the Japanese miracle is over. "My perception is
that Japan is now at its peak in terms of industrial power,"
says Akira Kojima, an editorial writer for the Nihon Keizai
Shimbun, the major Japanese business daily.
   Eager to calm American fears, Japanese government
officials also push the notion that Japan has peaked --
especially when they are speaking to overseas visitors. The
savings rate is slowly declining, they say, and young people
lack the vigorous work ethic of their elders. Moreover, a
rapidly aging population will be a drag on the economy in the
coming years.
   "The Japanese days are over," says Tadashi Nakamae, an
economic consultant who is among the most pessimistic. He
says Japanese manufacturers will soon find they have
"invested too much," and as a result face excess capacity.
And they won't be able to sell their products overseas, he
says, without competing with their own overseas subsidiaries.
   Mr. Kanamori dismisses such concerns. "The government's
position is too conservative," he says. "The government is
always too conservative." As for the problem of an aging
population, the 66-year-old economist says that can be eased
by letting people work longer.
   If history is any guide, Japan's anxiety over its economic
future may prove one of its great strengths. The Japanese
have always worried that their economic strength is a fragile
blossom, ready to blow away with the wind. As a result,
they've worked harder to preserve it.
   During the oil-price spikes of the 1970s, for instance,
the Japanese fretted that their oil-dependent economy had met
its match. But the oil crisis only prompted them to make
their manufacturing industries more fuel-efficient.
   And when the yen rose sharply in the mid-1980s, making it
harder for the Japanese to sell their exports around the
world, they again worried about the beating their
manufacturers would take. But in the end, after cost-cutting
and new productivity campaigns, the Japanese emerged stronger
than ever.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   `New Thinking' on SDI
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   When Ronald Reagan promised to share strategic defense
technology with the Soviet Union, the skeptics said he was
crazy. Well, maybe the Soviets will once again prove that the
Gipper was crazy like a fox.
   At the recent Washington summit, the Soviet Union for the
first time agreed to talk about "the relationship between
strategic offensive and defensive arms." Those talks would
include "reductions in strategic offensive arms and
development of new technologies," according to a joint
U.S.-Soviet statement. This may not sound like much, but
several U.S. officials think it's a conceptual breakthrough.
The Soviets wanted the U.S. to commit to arms control beyond
START-I, and in return the Soviets finally agreed to talk
about strategic defense outside the narrow confines of the
1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other words, "new thinking" continues to spread to the
animist religion of nuclear deterrence. For years that faith
has said that defending against nuclear weapons is heresy;
only "offensive" systems can keep the peace by threatening to
blow up everyone equally. Apart from its moral problems, that
doctrine has suffered under the development of advanced new
technology, symbolized by the U.S. SDI program. Now even many
Soviets are challenging that orthodoxy.
   Keith Payne, president of the National Institute for
Public Policy, has been keeping track of a remarkable new
strategic debate in the Soviet Union. Freed by glasnost,
strategists are emerging who think the U.S.S.R. needs its own
SDI.
   In the December 1989 issue of Soviet Military Review,
Mikhail Aleksandrov of the Soviet Foreign Ministry says that
anti-nuclear defenses "may, far from leading to
destabilization, result in a better model of strategic
stability than the one we have." Ronald Reagan liked to make
the same point.
   In March 1989, another Foreign Ministry official, Ednan
Agayev, even questioned the value of the ABM Treaty. He
wrote, "in order to get to the truth it is necessary to call
everything in question. And hasn't the present `offensive
deterrence' been long ripe for that? The only modern
deterrence is defensive."
   Even the Soviet military has joined the debate. In the
March 23, 1990, issue of Sovetskaya Rossiya, Maj. Gen. V.
Belous writes, "We should hardly deny the possibility of
reasonable compromises in the future and development of
defenses for U.S. and U.S.S.R. territory against accidental
missile launches or blackmail attempts and threats made by
third countries." General Belous knows that missiles from
Iraq or some future Republic of Armenia could reach Moscow
long before they'll have the range to hit Manhattan. (Defense
Secretary Cheney said Monday that by the year 2000, 15
countries will produce ballistic missiles, including Iraq,
Iran, Syria, Libya and North Korea.)
   This "new thinking" is hardly a consensus yet, and it's
possible to make too much of one summit statement. Official
Soviet negotiators still say they won't accept a U.S. space
defense. But negotiators are always the last to know. More
open minds in Moscow seem to understand that the technology
is moving, that they've so far failed to kill SDI, and so why
not cooperate so that both sides can have defenses?
   It may also be that the Soviets pay more attention to
SDI's technical progress than the Washington press corps
does. The pace of SDI tests is picking up, with boffo
results. Two SDI satellites are currently in orbit testing
lasers in the atmosphere and bouncing them off mirrors in
space and back to Hawaii. In January, the HEDI ground-to-air
missile interceptor made its first successful test. In April,
a laser radar proved that it could distinguish a decoy from a
real missile in microseconds.
   Sometime this summer, the Pentagon plans its first flight
test of a "brilliant pebble," the small interceptor that
might someday be deployed by the hundreds in space. Every new
development in electronics -- Hitachi just announced a
prototype computer chip with 64 million bits -- makes it
easier for SDI scientists to pack more computing power onto a
pebble-like satellite for less money. Because they'd float in
earth orbit, pebbles could also just as easily protect the
Soviet Union as the U.S.
   The enemy of this progress now is old thinking in both the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. Secretary Cheney had to fight colleagues
(Brent Scowcroft) to get the U.S. even to argue at the summit
for the new defense language. Many in Congress want to raid
SDI to build more tanks and planes, though research spending
is far more useful in peacetime. Old thinking dies hard, but
on SDI its days are numbered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Has a History of Tense Trade-Off With Japan
   ----
   By Urban G. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- To understand what is happening in U.S.-Japan
relations today, it helps to look back to the late 1940s and
early 1950s, the waning days of the U.S. occupation.
   The U.S. was obsessed with a hot war against Communist
forces in Korea and a cold war against communism world-wide.
Japan was obsessed with rebuilding its economy and regaining
its sovereignty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In return for granting Japan its sovereignty, the U.S.
wanted base rights and a mutual-security agreement with its
former enemy. This horrified Japan's left-wingers, who wanted
their country to pursue "unarmed neutrality." The right wing
was willing to ally with the U.S. and even to rebuild Japan's
military to help the U.S. in Asia, but balked at the idea of
U.S. bases on Japanese soil.
   Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida set the course that Japan
has basically followed since. He accepted the U.S. bases, but
once the occupation ended he did everything he could to
resist Washington's urgings to rapidly rebuild the Japanese
military. He was accused in Japan of being a member of the
"pro-Anglo-American clique," but rejoined: "It would be more
correct to speak of `the clique that makes use of Britain and
the United States.'"
   Mr. Yoshida calculated that American bases and a sort of
"dependent independence" were the unavoidable price of
sovereignty. But he distrusted the Japanese military and
didn't think Japan could afford a military buildup. He wanted
his country to concentrate on industrial might.
   The U.S., seeing Japan as the key to its military position
in Asia, was eager to encourage this industrial buildup. It
sent advisers to Japan to help control inflation and improve
product quality, and it welcomed Japanese exports.
   Within years, Japan's economy was booming. By the early
1960s, some Japanese economic advisers were confident that
Japan could eventually become completely self-sufficient in
manufactured goods. When Caterpillar Inc. started a joint
venture in Japan with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. in the
mid-1960s, it was startled to find that the Japanese could
build a factory twice as fast as Americans and use the plant
to make products of the highest quality.
   "When we first came here we thought that everything we
were doing in the U.S. had to be right," says Keith Johnson,
a Caterpillar man who worked on the joint venture's startup
and now runs it. "We learned in a hurry that wasn't right."
   Through the 1950s and 1960s, most of the strains on
U.S.-Japan relations were political. Pacifism was popular in
postwar Japan; the U.S.-Japan security treaty was a sore
point. Satuski Eda, an opposition-party member of the
Japanese Diet, vividly remembers leading fellow students from
Tokyo University in demonstrations against the treaty's
renewal in 1960. Riots forced President Eisenhower to cancel
a planned trip to Japan. "At the time," says Mr. Eda, "some
strong criticism existed in Japan against the U.S."
   By the early 1970s, political frictions were easing but
economic tensions were building. A spat had developed over
textiles, the first of many nasty trade clashes that would
punctuate U.S.-Japan relations for the next 20 years. Steel,
autos, machine tools, semiconductors -- again and again, the
U.S. and Japan went to the mat.
   Yet in most cases the U.S. was willing to accept Japanese
concessions that stopped far short of damaging Japan's
economic interests. Japan was still first and foremost a
security partner, and, to Washington, it wasn't worth
endangering the relationship for mere economic gain. Now,
with the Cold War over, that logic no longer holds. "These
days, power is defined more in economic terms than in
military terms," says Sen. Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat.
The Japanese are "trying to gain as much economic power as
they can. If we don't get with it, they might."
   Now voices on both sides are suggesting the relationship
between the U.S. and Japan needs to be rethought. The two
governments are groping for an alternative to military
security that would keep the two countries close -- hence the
Bush administration's "global partnership" rhetoric. But
public opinion on both sides seems ready for more daring
alternatives.
   In the Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, half of all
registered American voters said Japan should stake out a
foreign policy that is independent of the U.S. More and more
Japanese agree, though most still want a close relationship
with the U.S. Asked to name their nation's closest ally, 79%
of the Japanese responding to a Wall Street Journal-Nippon
Research poll picked the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Canada: Unity in Diversity
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   David Frum may be one of the most arrogant Canada pundits
I have ever encountered ("Canada? Who'd Want It?" editorial
page, May 17). Not only does his article assume that the
imminent dissolution of Canada is an issue for American
public policy, but also by citing that many Canadians feel
they are Quebecois or British Columbian or Ontarian first and
Canadian second it intimates that our political culture is
somehow deficient -- or, at least, inferior to that of the
U.S.
   As a Canadian who was born in Alberta and who grew up in
Europe, Canada (Ontario and Quebec) and the U.S., I may have
a bias of my own in saying that what makes Canada different
and, dare I say it, exciting, is this very diversity Mr. Frum
so impugns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Our political culture is no less paradoxical than that of
the U.S.: The national government has no "right" to spend any
transfer payments in economically depressed regions without
the support of the other wealthier provinces or states, but
only the national government can effect macroeconomic policy.
In Canada as in the U.S., the government is an arbiter of the
"national" interest. I haven't yet come across any government
that is seen as objective in that role. It seems that the
best we can hope for is consistency.
   Canada is all about nationalism. Our patriotism and
identity are not at issue; why should the U.S. government not
continue to support Canadian unity? This is not a U.S.
public-policy issue. It is a slander on one of the most
healthily vibrant political cultures in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.
   If the political pendulum were to swing Quebec out of
confederation, it would be politically disabling, but I have
more faith in Canada than does Mr. Frum. Only a vocal
minority of Canadians, with the possible exception of the
Quebecois given current realities, would actually take
separatism to a reality. Even in Quebec, where separatist
sentiments are as much a part of Canada's 20th-century
history as foreign-policy parochialism has been of America's,
I have a feeling an accommodation is required that transcends
Meech Lake-Quebec will never separate, as such. Besides, as
the U.S. becomes evermore a flagging economic power with a
reputation for reactionism and impotency on the world
political stage, who'd want it?
   Joseph R. Sexsmith
   Toronto
   ---
   Mr. Frum's comments about Manitoba are not representative
of the structure or performance of the province's diversified
economy, which has an annual output exceeding $24 billion,
well-developed manufacturing and service sectors, and
abundant natural resources. The primary sector, including
agriculture, mining and hydroelectric power production,
constitutes 13% of real gross domestic product (GDP),
marginally above the 12% national share. This belies the
author's characterization of Manitoba as an economically
depressed farming province.
   Manitoba's economic growth in nominal dollars virtually
matched the national average in the 1980s. In the past two
years, growth in nonresidential investment spending has been
a particularly strong indicator of business confidence in the
province.
   Clayton Manness
   Minister of Finance
   Province of Manitoba
   Winnipeg, Manitoba
   ---
   Mr. Frum correctly notes that Ontario, with one-third of
the nation's population, is deeply committed to national
unity. He goes on, however to call Premier David Peterson's
Liberal government "among the most profligate in the
developed world," citing Ontario's spending on social
programs as proof.
   Mr. Frum fails to note that Ontario's social programs have
been delivered for the past two years within the context of a
balanced budget. In fact, what Ontario's experience proves is
that good government can deliver a high level of services
while maintaining fiscal discipline and promoting economic
development. This combination of fiscal responsibility and
social responsiveness marks a record of prudence, not
profligacy.
   Joan Sutton Straus
   Agent General
   Government of Ontario -- Canada
   New York
   ---
   I very much enjoyed Mr. Frum's article. I have only one
question. If Canada goes out of business, can we have its
national anthem?
   Ronald S. Moening
   Toldeo, Ohio
   ---
   Mr. Frum is one of these brash youngsters who go down to
New York City and discover red suspenders. For instance, he
supports an assertion that Quebec is the most statist place
in North America, on the basis of three dubious facts. The
Quebec electric utility is state owned, as it is in most
other Canadian provinces and in several areas of the U.S.
(e.g., Tennessee Valley Authority). Second, the province's
technology industry, especially aerospace, is said to "depend
on government funding." Where did he get that? The biggest
aerospace employers in Quebec, accounting for most of the
jobs in the sector, are Pratt &amp; Whitney, which makes small
turbine engines; Canadair, an aircraft manufacturer that
derives 90% of its revenue from civilian markets, mostly
abroad; Rolls-Royce, which has a big engine-rehaul plant in
Montreal; and CAE, which makes flight simulators for the
civilian transport industry. Indeed, one can make a good case
that the Quebec aerospace industry depends less on government
business than that of New England or Southern California.
   Using carefully selected "facts" Mr. Frum then goes on to
paint a catastrophic picture of Quebec language laws. This is
just like an old friend of mine who used to argue, over a 1
a.m. beer, that the U.S. was a police state because
Pittsburgh policemen were fat and wore their guns on their
hips, police could knock on your door at 11 p.m., and eight
of the nine Supreme Court Justices were white.
   Mr. Frum's flippancy also does a disservice to Atlantic
Canada and Western Canada with the same type of flimsy
arguments. That Canada has constitutional travails is
undoubtedly correct, but it remains a very civil society,
with less poverty than in the U.S., and a higher growth rate
than the U.S. for the past decade. Moreover, any
English-speaking person is free to walk safely, day and
night, in any French-speaking neighborhood of any Canadian
city, or of any neighborhood for that matter.
   Marcel Cote
   Ottawa
   ---
   Mr. Frum says that Ontarians "note that the world's
richest countries -- Sweden, Switzerland, Austria -- tend to
be compact and homogeneous places, not . . . federal states .
. ." Switzerland is a particularly poor example for a
"homogeneous state." It has four official languages: French,
German, Italian, and Romansch. The Catholic and Protestant
population is divided about evenly. The Swiss Federation
consists of 20 full cantons and six half-cantons, which have
a great deal of autonomy. In short, Canada has less diversity
within its borders than Switzerland.
   Joseph Itiel
   San Francisco
   ---
   Manitoba and Saskatchewan have indeed, in the past,
sometimes voted for provincial governments led by the New
Democratic Party (meaning "socialist" to your correspondent).
At present, Saskatchewan has a majority Conservative Party
government, while Manitoba has a minority Conservative
government.
   More generally, the tone of the article is highly
prejudicial to anything that is Canadian. Fully 5% of
Quebec's GDP may indeed be generated by Hydro Quebec ("one
giant state-owned company"). But Mr. Frum fails to mention
that Hydro Quebec is among the lowest-cost
electricity-generating companies in North America, with
export contracts guaranteeing power supplies for various
Northeastern states of the U.S. into the next century. He
gleefully lists the "dying industries" of Quebec, without
mentioning the automotive, forest-based, aluminum, mining and
other sectors.
   Jacques Singer
   Toronto
   ---
   Mr. Frum omits any mention of "North of Sixty" (the vast
area above the 60th parallel, North America's resource-rich
"Siberia," the Yukon and the Northwest Territories, loaded
with minerals, timber, wildlife, fish and water (and of
course, the mosquito and black-fly hordes, guardians of these
jewels).
   The writer needs to think beyond today's social problems,
beyond short-term bottom lines and to think of tomorrow and
our fatally diminishing natural (read: industrial) resources.
Disregarding almost 40% of Canadian geography suggests a
rather poor grasp of the subject or of trying to make a point
by tailoring economic fact to fit the neat journalistic theme
of this article: a blasting drumbeat of negativisms.
   J.B. Shaeffer
   Cranberry Lake, N.Y.
   ---
   A far more sensible question is, "Who wouldn't want a
huge, rich land lightly populated with well-educated people?"
Addition of Canada to the Union has been a universal desire
of U.S. patriots from the time of Benjamin Franklin, who in
1775 served on a commission that tried to persuade Quebec to
join the Revolution. Walt Whitman wrote glowingly of the
possibilities of one great land without borders.
   Is Mr. Frum a Canadian nationalist parading as a Yank to
work mischief from within a U.S. publication of wide
circulation? It is clearly in the U.S.'s national interest
that Canada join the Union. If Canada breaks up, most or all
of its pieces would apply for statehood, and statehood would
be granted, since polls of public opinion have consistently
demonstrated that between two-thirds and three-fourths of
Yanks favor welcoming Canada into the Union, as Mr. Frum
surely knows -- though he conveniently omits such statistics.
   L. Craig Schoonmaker
   Chairman
   Expansionist Party of the U.S.
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BUSINESS &amp; RACE
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hispanic Businesses
   Suffer Flat Sales
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FOR THE 500 largest Hispanic-owned businesses, sales
barely grew in 1989 and, at $8.35 billion, remain below the
record of $8.7 billion set in 1985, according to the annual
survey and ranking by Hispanic Business magazine.
   Food-and-drink-related companies continue to dominate the
top spots. Bacardi Imports of Miami, with $500 million in
sales, and Goya Foods Inc. of Secaucus, N.J., with $320
million, were the top two, as they have been since the
listing began in 1983.
   The list is featured each June by the Santa Barbara,
Calif., magazine. It's the only comprehensive look at
Hispanic business, but self-reported data make conclusions
difficult. Turnover on the list is high; some 121 companies
disappeared from the list this year. Only five of the 500
companies are publicly traded.
   The magazine attributes most of the weakness in Hispanic
businesses to the sluggish economy. Some companies absent
from the list have folded. Joseph Wells, research editor,
suspects others declined to disclose sales to avoid reporting
a drop in revenue.
   One problem with the survey, is that some businesses don't
want to be identified as Latino-owned, Mr. Wells says. "They
don't consider it a major asset."
                                                                                                       

   Black Businesses Bond
   With a City -- but Slowly
                                                                                                       

   RESEARCH SHOWS that black mayors deliver for black-owned
businesses. But the rumble over who will manage and sell New
York City's general obligation bonds shows the process isn't
smooth.
   Last Friday, Mayor David Dinkins and Comptroller Elizabeth
Holtzman named five large Wall Street firms senior managers
of New York's general obligation bond program. Some 30 firms,
including eight owned by minorities or women, were in the
running for slots on the syndicate. At least two such firms,
emboldened by the election of the city's first black mayor,
asked to be considered for a senior manager position.
   WR Lazard &amp; Co., one of only two minority firms ever to
co-manage a New York city issue, was one of these
disappointed hopefuls. "We thought it would be a good pat on
the back for us for doing a good job for the city," says
Wardell Lazard, president.
   However, Sally Hernandez Pinero, deputy mayor for finance,
says the senior managerships shouldn't be the litmus test of
the city's intentions for minority firms. The city plans to
give plenty of business to minority businesses, she says. In
fact, also on Friday, Grigsby Branford &amp; Powell, a
black-owned firm, and Artemis Capital Group, owned by women,
were named co-senior managers of an equipment financing
program.
   Some Wall Street types aren't so keen on the city's
efforts. The Bond Buyer newspaper recently questioned both
the prudence of spreading the wealth and the competence of
minority firms.
   Ms. Hernandez Pinero responds: "For a long time the same
people had a lock on the business. Why don't they cry
favoritism when it goes the other way?"
                                                                                                       

   Pride Swells Market,
   Markup, for Black Art
                                                                                                       

   BLACK professionals are satisfying "the need to celebrate
ourselves," by investing in black art, says George Walters,
who runs the Design Masters Intergroup Galleries in New York.
   Mr. Walters organized a partnership to purchase a limited
edition of 120 lithographs by painter Jacob Lawrence last
January. He is selling the prints for $3,500 each, with an
unusual two-year guarantee to buy them back for at least the
same price paid. Mr. Walters is making a similar offer to
buyers of signed works by the late Romare Bearden.
   "Not only have we jumped into the market for the sale of
black art, but we're supporting the market," Mr. Walters
says. Last December, 130 paintings by black modern artists
were sold in Washington, D.C., for $6 million, a record for
such a collection.
   Modern masters of black themes, such as Mr. Lawrence,
Vincent Smith and the late Charles White, have been valued by
white collectors for years, but only recently have they
become the rage for blacks with money to spend on art.
Washington art consultant Deborah Donelson says some pieces
by black artists that her clients acquired for $3,000 in 1983
are now worth $30,000.
   "It wasn't too long ago that you could meet a black person
with money and they'd have no images on their walls at all,"
says Mr. Walters. "That's changed."
                                                                                                       

   M.B.A. Programs Add
   Reality to Curriculum
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS SCHOOLS are trying new ways to make getting an
M.B.A. more meaningful for minorities.
   A Wharton School program, for example, sent a team of
mostly minority students on three trips to St. Croix, in the
Caribbean, this spring to help rebuild small businesses hurt
by hurricane Hugo.
   And last month, Columbia University's business school
awarded M.B.A.s to the first five graduates of its Corporate
Executive Fellows program, which takes working minority
professionals and enrolls them in a three-stage plan for an
advanced degree.
   The recent group of graduates began by attending classes
from May through December 1988. But then, in January of 1989,
each participant was paired with a senior corporate executive
for a nine-month internship at major corporations including
Equitable Insurance Co. and Citicorp. Mentor executives
supervised the students in staff assignments and provided
performance feedback.
   The participants then returned to Columbia full time in
September to complete their degrees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Maxwell Communication Corp.:
   Macmillan Unit Buys 51%
   Of Israeli Publisher Keter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Macmillan Inc., a New York-based unit of Maxwell
Communication Corp. in London said it acquired 51% of an
Israeli publisher and bookseller, Keter Publishing House Ltd.
Terms weren't disclosed, but a spokesman for Macmillan said
Keter Publishing has annual sales of between $12 million and
$15 million.
   A spokesman said Keter, a major Israeli publisher, also
owns about 34 bookstores in Israel. It is 75%-owned by Clal
Ltd. of Israel, which will maintain a 24% interest in Keter.
Macmillan said that most of Keter's books are published in
Hebrew, but more will now be translated into English and
distributed by Macmillan in the U.S. The spokesman said
Maxwell is negotiating to buy additional publishing
properties in Israel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merc Trial Hears
   Of Special Dealing
   For Top Official
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A former Chicago Mercantile Exchange member
testified in federal court that orders from the trading firm
of exchange head Leo Melamed were given special handling in
the Merc's Swiss franc futures trading pit, which at times
forced local traders to illegally take losses on trades.
   Former Merc member William Walsh testified at the trial
here of three Merc Swiss franc futures traders charged with
fraud. He said that when he executed Swiss franc futures
orders from Mr. Melamed's firm, Dellsher Investment Co., on
an equal footing with trades from other member firms, Mr.
Melamed's son, Jordan Melamed, would call and complain to
members of Mr. Walsh's broker group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Futures exchanges, which regulate their markets, are also
controlled by executives and board members who often trade
actively in their exchanges' trading pits. In light of the
federal investigation of futures trading fraud that surfaced
here last year, futures-exchange critics say the exchanges
leave themselves open to conflict-of-interest charges when
executives profit from trades made in the markets they
regulate.
   No officials from the Merc or the Chicago Board of Trade
have been implicated in the federal probe, which last year
resulted in 48 individuals being indicted on fraud charges,
including the Swiss franc futures traders on trial: Robert
Mosky, Danny Scheck and David Zatz.
   Mr. Melamed, chairman of the Merc's executive committee,
said through an exchange spokesman that the allegations were
"complete and utter nonsense." Jordan Melamed couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Mr. Walsh, who pleaded guilty to reduced charges and is
cooperating with the government, said illegal trades were
made by himself and many other traders in the Merc's Swiss
franc futures pit on a regular basis. But he was unable in
several hours of testimony to cite a single, specific
instance where any of the three defendants made an illegal
trade.
   Mr. Walsh said that Mr. Mosky, a Swiss franc futures
broker, tended to "work the orders a little harder" when they
came into the pit from Dellsher, Mr. Melamed's firm. Mr.
Mosky would "squeeze" or "hold back orders" from Dellsher to
try and get the best price, even if a price change in the
market should have triggered the immediate execution of the
order, Mr. Walsh said.
   But if the market price changed so that Mr. Mosky couldn't
execute the order at the price specified by Dellsher, he
would pressure a local trader in the pit to make the trade
with him at the price Dellsher wanted, allegedly in violation
of commodity trading laws, Mr. Walsh testified. That left the
local with a trading loss equal to the difference between
that price and the market price for Swiss franc futures at
the time, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Ends Mixed as Sterling Rises
   On Report of U.K. Timetable for EMS
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sterling rose following a report that the U.K.
Treasury favors making Britain a full member of the European
Monetary System as early as September or October. The dollar
ended trading mixed.
   The report in the London Financial Times, which quoted
senior figures involved in government discussions on the
topic, also said the British government would strive to
negotiate a relatively high EMS entry level for the pound.
The Financial Times didn't specify a level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A wide EMS trading range that would allow fluctuations of
as much as 6% rather than the standard 2.25% is an additional
goal of U.K. authorities, according to the report. Market
predictions for the pound's entry level have ranged between
2.60 marks and 2.90 marks. The pound, which currently
fluctuates independently of the EMS exchange rate structure,
is now trading near the top of that range.
   The dollar, meanwhile, was moderately higher against the
mark and a bit lower against the yen in activity muted ahead
of the release beginning today of a series of U.S. economic
indicators.
   The market seized on the EMS news as a good reason to buy
the British currency, which already was favored for its
comparatively high interest rate returns, market participants
said. Traders have long maintained that the U.K. currency's
resiliency in the face of poor economic fundamentals has
stemmed from the attractiveness of relatively high British
interest rates. Base U.K. interest rates are currently at
15%.
   "The fact that someone is naming months" gives the market
the impression that there is a planning process under way,
whereas market enthusiasm for the pound's full entry into the
EMS previously was restrained by confusion about timing, said
Susan Babcock, vice president of corporate foreign exchange
at Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. in New York.
   Entry is seen as positive for the pound based on the
reasoning that a preset trading band for sterling would
enforce discipline on British monetary authorities and
obligate other EMS central banks to support the currency.
   In the aftermath of the Financial Times report, U.K.
Chancellor John Major reiterated that inflation remains an
obstacle to full British EMS membership, but the market
didn't pay much attention. Inflation currently is expected to
reach an annual rate of 10% by fall.
   Late in New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6965
marks, up from 1.6930 marks late Monday. The U.S. currency
also was quoted at at 154.55 yen, down from 154.77 yen.
Sterling was trading at $1.7035, up from $1.6860 late Monday.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was trading at 154.80 yen
soon after opening at 155.08 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S.
currency was trading at about 1.6970 marks, up from Tuesday's
Tokyo close of 1.6900 marks.
   U.K. Chancellor Major said that reduction of inflation
must precede full EMS membership for the pound, the same
position he has taken in the past. Market participants said
the comment, though discounted, did create hesitation to push
the British currency over long-term resistance at $1.7075, a
level it didn't approach in world trading yesterday.
   In addition to rising against the dollar, the pound
recorded strong gains against the mark and yen.
   The dollar strengthened modestly against its West German
counterpart on continued nervousness about the domestic
German cost of unification. The potential impact of Soviet
opposition to a united Germany's membership in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization also weighed on the mark,
traders said.
   Conversely, the yen stopped the dollar's recent advance.
The Japanese currency was propped up by market sentiment that
there is some room for the Bank of Japan to increase interest
rates, said Charles Spence, a vice president of foreign
exchange at First Interstate Bank of California in Los
Angeles.
   The Japanese currency is receiving additional support from
a market consensus that the Japanese economy is performing
well despite concern about rising inflation and the stability
of financial markets there, Mr. Spence said.
   "As long as the promise of higher rates is there, it keeps
people from bashing a currency," he said.
   Mr. Spence and Ms. Babcock of Hongkong &amp; Shanghai noted
that trading of the dollar was slowed by anticipation of a
slew of U.S. economic indicators scheduled for release
beginning today.
   The report today on U.S. retail sales for May isn't likely
to have a big impact on trading unless it's much different
from expectations, market participants said. Retail sales for
last month are estimated to be unchanged from April.
   The market is much more interested in the release tomorrow
of the U.S. producer price index for May and Friday's
announcement of May's consumer price index. Those reports are
being watched for their potential impact on U.S. interest
rates following last month's weak jobs growth, traders said.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $355.70 an ounce, down 70 cents.
Estimated volume was a light 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $354.50 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- GF Corp.:
   Most Furniture Unit Assets
   Are Sold to Tang Affiliate
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GFB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   GF Corp., Youngstown, Ohio, said it sold most of the
assets of its GF Furniture Systems Inc. unit to C.T. Ten, an
affiliate of Tang Industries Inc., a Chicago-based steel
concern. The price wasn't disclosed.
   GF Corp. and GF Furniture filed for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankrutcy Code last
April, after failing in earlier efforts to sell the furniture
business. At the time of the filing, GF said it had agreed in
principle to sell most of its assets to a Tang affiliate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new company will operate under the name GF Office
Furniture Ltd. It operates plants in Gallatin, Tenn., and
Chicago. General management, sales and marketing operations
are in Youngstown, where GF Furniture recently closed its
original manufacturing plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Ryan's Hope
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Most of American culture today is in turmoil or in court.
The battle lines are drawn again over the American flag. Pop
music is in jail in Florida, which doesn't seem to think it
has to endure a rap group's obscenity. Is there no respite?
Turns out there is, in the form of 43-year-old pitcher Nolan
Ryan's no-hitter Monday over the World Champion Oakland A's,
his sixth. No danger, we assume, that a court will try to
overturn it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Will Seek
   To Curb Banks'
   Insurance Entry
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. isn't
likely to permit banks to underwrite insurance, its chairman,
William Seidman said, despite a new law in Delaware that
permits banks to engage in that activity.
   Citing new risk to the bank-deposit insurance fund, Mr.
Seidman said the agency staff will recommend restrictions on
the two-week-old Delaware law, which has already drawn major
banks to the state to launch insurance operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an FDIC meeting yesterday, Mr. Seidman said the most
likely course would be for the agency either to prohibit
insurance underwriting inside banks or restrict it to
separately capitalized subsidiaries. The recommendation also
is expected to apply to bank investments in real estate.
   The agency has examined the issue in the past, but hadn't
any reason to act until the Delaware law was enacted. In the
wake of the savings-and-loan crisis, in which taxpayers are
expected to pay about $300 billion over the next 10 years,
regulators are taking a dim view of exposing the FDIC to new
potential losses. Last year, the bank-deposit insurance fund
had an $800 million loss, marking only the second year it
operated in the red.
   "This opens up a whole host of issues about safety and
soundness" of the insurance fund, Mr. Seidman said. "It's
time, given recent developments, to review this issue."
   Already, big banks have announced plans to take advantage
of the Delaware law, including Chase Manhattan Corp. and
Citicorp, both based in New York.
   It wasn't clear how damaging the FDIC's position is for
banks' entry into insurance. If the insurance activity is
restricted to separately established subsidiaries, banks
still might engage in insurance underwriting and brokerage
activities.
   Several banks that were contacted yesterday, including
Chase Manhattan, were aware of Mr. Seidman's remarks and
declined to comment.
   The FDIC move could set off conflicts between the state
and federal regulatory agencies. Keith Ellis, Delaware state
banking commissioner, met yesterday with FDIC officials to
discuss their concerns. The Federal Reserve Board also is
considering changes in regulations on bank power and safety,
and is expected to make recommendations to Congress, possibly
next year.
   The Delaware law allows banks to engage in all aspects of
the insurance business through separate divisions or
subsidiaries. As much as 25% of a bank's capital could be at
risk in the insurance operation, but assets, liabilities and
records of the insurance units are to be kept separate from
those of the bank.
   Banks have lobbied furiously for years for the ability to
underwrite insurance, and have won limited activities to sell
or underwrite insurance in some states. But because the
Delaware law is the most farreaching, bank lobbyists said
they expect some sort of federal revision, as part of the
regulatory give and take.
   "It was widely anticipated that the FDIC would look at
this," Edward Yingling, lobbyist for the American Bankers
Association, said. One likely scenario might be restrictions
on allowing banks to issue certain types of insurance, but
not on others, he said.
   Regulators also must wrangle with whether the insurance
operations will be considered units of bank holding companies
or divisions of the banks, a banking regulator said. A group
of five insurance trade associations asked the Federal
Reserve to block the Delaware law, contending that federal
bank holding company regulations bar the sale of insurance by
a bank's non-banking subsidiary. The Fed hasn't acted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tokos Medical Corp.:
   Acquisition of a Rival Firm
   For Common Stock Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokos Medical Corp., a provider of specialized home health
care for pregnant women, said it agreed to acquire rival
Physiologic Diagnostic Service Inc. for 2.7 million shares of
Tokos common stock.
   Tokos, based in Santa Ana, Calif., went public in March.
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, its stock
jumped $4.25 to $15 on turnover of 447,500 shares, giving the
transaction an indicated value of $40.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Craig T. Davenport, Tokos president and chief operating
officer, said the two companies plan to combine their
clinical-research data, potentially quickening and expanding
regulatory approval for their home uterine-activity monitors.
   Physiologic Diagnostic, a privately owned company in
Atlanta, expects revenue of about $3.5 million this year, Mr.
Davenport said. Tokos, which is forecasting 1990 revenue of
about $75 million, expects to complete the acquisition by
mid-August.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   London Stocks Gain on Speculation of Early Entry
   Of Pound Into EMS Exchange-Rate Mechanism
   ----
   By Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Stocks and sterling moved briskly higher on
renewed speculation of early entry of the British pound into
the European Monetary System's exchange-rate mechanism.
   But some market watchers asserted that the Thatcher
government is playing a risky game by deliberately fueling
the rumor mill about early ERM entry to keep the pound
strong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index gained
21.9 points to 2370.7, after rising as many as 30.4 points
soon after the opening.
   Meanwhile, Tokyo stocks ended lower on moderately thin
volume, continuing in a drab mood after falling substantially
the past two trading days.
   The London stock rally was broad-based and included
recently depressed building-related and retail issues, which
would stand to gain if U.K. inflation, expected to reach an
annual rate of 10% by late summer, is cooled. Curbing
inflation is a prime economic and political goal that the
Thatcher government obviously believes can be achieved by
bringing the pound into the ERM.
   Analysts and money managers attributed the bullishness to
an unattributed article in the Financial Times that said the
government is preparing to bring the pound into the ERM as
early as September or October if sterling is strong enough in
the foreign-exchange markets. A spokesman for Mrs. Thatcher
said the article was "pure speculation."
   The market reaction was a smaller-scale replay of a
63.3-point jump in the FTSE 100 index May 17 when Chancellor
of the Exchequer John Major, in an interview with The Wall
Street Journal/Europe, dispelled market doubts that sterling
would join the ERM. Mr. Major didn't give any prospective
entry date.
   After months of rocky political and economic news in the
U.K., the recent positive pound-ERM speculation persuades
foreign and domestic investors "that U.K. assets aren't
necessarily depreciating ones," said Alastair Ross Goobey,
chief investment strategist at James Capel &amp; Co.
   But some are skeptical of the government's motives. "The
market is being drip-fed very, very speculative rumors on a
fairly frequent basis," said Joe Roseman, an economist at UBS
Phillips &amp; Drew. "The government is getting a free lunch --
it's keeping the pound firm without having to raise interest
rates," he added. The base interest rate currently is 15%.
   "We need the domestic economy to get really hammered, or
we won't get inflation out of our system," Mr. Roseman said.
"The market is looking for a quick fix. It sees interest
rates tumbling down. They won't."
   And traders warned the government may be painting itself
into a corner if it can't make good on the speculation.
Sterling and equity prices could plummet if Britain fails to
join the ERM this year, traders said. "People are thinking
ERM entry has to happen this fall," said a London-based
currency trader. "If they don't join then, it's just going to
smash this market. The government has got themselves in too
far."
   Some traders believe that the government already is
preparing an escape hatch in case it decides against joining
the ERM. Mrs. Thatcher acknowledged yesterday that she
continues to seek the advice of Sir Alan Walters, an opponent
of British participation in the ERM, who resigned in October
as her chief economic aide. Questioned in Parliament by Labor
leader Neil Kinnock, Mrs. Thatcher said Sir Alan is "a family
friend" and that she "shall continue to see him as a friend
of the family."
   The government believes that ERM participation would
bolster the pound. Sterling would be tied to the strong
German and French currencies that, along with seven others in
the European Community, make up the system. In the system,
currencies can fluctuate within a 2.25% range, except for
Spain's, which can move 6%.
   Membership could be an important antiinflation tool for
Britain, because a strong pound would enable the government
to keep interest rates high. "The very process of strong
sterling is tightening in itself," said Capel's Mr. Ross
Goobey.
   Cutting rates with sterling outside the ERM could weaken
the pound and further stimulate inflation, which would force
the government to raise rates again. Such a raise would risk
political disaster for Mrs. Thatcher's Tories, who face a
general election no later than mid-1992.
   Meanwhile, Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 217.87
points to 32322.31. The index dropped 453.11 points Monday.
Traders noted that a weaker yen isn't helping buying
sentiment, while technical factors are adding to overall
bearishness.
   In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index rose
120.63 points to 32442.94.
   Tuesday's volume on the first section was estimated at 500
million shares, up from only 351 million shares Monday.
Decliners outnumbered winners 604 to 328, while 189 issues
were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 12.45 points, or 0.52%, to 2380.56.
   The second section index gained 7.85 points, or 0.19%, to
4064.80. Volume was estimated at 18 million shares, down
marginally from Monday.
   Nikkei futures had closed Monday at a discount to the cash
index, setting the framework for a wave of arbitrage and
other index-linked selling at yesterday's opening, traders
said. The key market barometer lost more than 200 points
within the first 15 minutes of trading.
   But bargain hunters cast aside the yen's softness
midmorning after prices of some electrical shares became
appealing and a small amount of arbitrage buying boosted
sentiment, observers said.
   At the same time, the dollar slipped slightly on technical
selling, brightening the stock market's mood, the analysts
noted.
   As a result, the Nikkei Index was up 2.07 points by the
end of the morning session. However, afternoon trading
mirrored early activity, as Topix futures were trading at a
discount.
   In yesterday's trading TEAC rose 70 yen to 2300 yen (45
cents to $14.87), TDK rose 40 yen to 6790 yen, and Sharp
gained 40 yen to 1820 yen. Nintendo added 700 yen to 23400
yen.
   Selling brought down Skylark, which plunged 150 yen to
2800 yen. In addition, Uni Charm fell 150 yen to 2160 yen and
Hattori Seiko fell 220 yen to 4980 yen.
   Meanwhile, stocks closed higher in Hong Kong and Taipei,
lower in Sydney, Seoul, and Singapore and mixed in
Wellington. Manila was closed.
   And shares closed higher in Madrid, Milan, Amsterdam,
Paris, Zurich and Stockholm, lower in Frankfurt and mixed in
Brussels. South African gold stocks closed narrowly mixed.
   ---
   Craig Forman contributed to this article.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                    Jun 11   Jun 8    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...........................  334.0   331.3   + 2.8
   Britain ........................  698.7   704.4   - 3.1
   Canada .........................  394.8   393.9   - 8.7
   Japan .......................... 1342.4  1355.1   -18.9
   France .........................  561.9   567.7   - 0.9
   Germany ........................  290.1   293.0   + 1.7
   Hong Kong ...................... 2339.6  2360.2   +11.6
   Switzerland ....................  221.8   223.9   + 0.5
   Australia ......................  307.7   307.7   - 7.1
   World index ....................  517.5   519.7   - 8.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who Speaks for Charlie the Tuna?
   ----
   By Robert C. Christopher
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   In the general rejoicing over the historic blow that the
big tuna canners recently struck in defense of dolphins,
nobody seems to be paying much attention to the unhappy lot
of another group of our fellow creatures. Who, as Dr. Seuss
might put it, speaks for the fish? How is it that the same
folks who struggled so valiantly to make the seas safe for
dolphins and whales can dig into a tuna salad platter or a
dish of herring in sour cream without blinking an eye?
   Chances are that your instinctive response to those
questions will be that tuna and herrings, after all, aren't
endangered species. True enough, but neither are dolphins nor
most kinds of whales. If preserving species from extinction
were actually the central issue, there would be no need for a
ban on all commercial whaling nor for imposing on U.S. tuna
fishermen restrictions that could drive them to abandon their
traditional fishing grounds to foreign fleets that kill even
more tuna.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But if pure environmentalism isn't the spur, what does
explain the protective urge that dolphins and whales arouse
in so many of us and that tuna and flounder so conspicuously
fail to stir? The answer, I believe, is inescapable. Fish are
scaly, cold-blooded creatures with no communications skills
and nerdlike personalities. Dolphins and whales, on the other
hand, are whimsical, warm-blooded extroverts who, just like
us humans, can sing, whistle and solve simple quadratic
equations. (Well, just like some of us humans anyway;
personally, I can't sing for sour apples and have never
knowingly solved a quadratic equation in my life.)
   What we're talking about here, in other words, is
mammalian chauvinist piggery. And like all other forms of
chauvinist piggery, this one rests on some pretty flimsy
foundations. Isn't it sheer cultural arrogance to assume that
fish are fit only for bouillabaisse simply because they
aren't as good at humanoid activities as dolphins? We try to
eliminate culture-specific and gender-specific questions from
policemen's and firefighters' exams these days, don't we? So
where do we get off setting up species-specific
qualifications for immunity from being broiled, baked or
sauteed?
   Similarly, to argue that fish rate less consideration than
dolphins or whales because they are less intelligent is
surely nothing but elitism. And in this day and age the evils
of elitism hardly need belaboring. Start down that slippery
slope and the next thing you know they'll be re-introducing
tracking into your local high school.
   I'm under no illusion about the magnitude of the problem
I'm attacking. There are millions of folks out there so
unimaginative and indifferent to basic philosophical concerns
that it would take sustained public-relations wizardry of the
highest order to sensitize them to the plight of Charlie the
Tuna. But, hey, that's one field where we Americans are still
acknowledged to be world leaders, and I'm going to try to
pick up some tips from our local Greenpeace person as soon as
possible. Maybe over lunch at this little place I know where
they have the most terrific fish chowder.
   ---
   Mr. Christopher is a journalist and author who is
unusually fond of fish.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freddie Mac
   Revamps Mortgage
   Securities Program
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale and Andrew Bary
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE CCI
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., known as Freddie
Mac, revamped its mortgage securities program to meet
increasing competition from its chief rival, the Federal
National Mortgage Association, called Fannie Mae.
   Freddie Mac has been losing market share, because many
investors and lenders viewed its securities as inferior to
Fannie Mae's. Both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are
government-sponsored, publicly traded companies that dominate
the secondary mortgage market. They buy loans from lenders
and package them into securities for sale to investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Freddie Mac said that beginning with mortgage securities
issued in October, the gap between the time homeowners make
monthly mortgage payments and when investors receive their
payments from Freddie Mac will be shortened to 45 days from
75 days. Fannie Mae's mortgage securities have a 55-day
payment delay.
   The new securities, called Gold PCs, for participation
certificates, will pay investors actual mortgage prepayments,
not estimated prepayments. And Freddie Mac will guarantee
investors the timely payment of principal and interest, even
if mortgage servicers fail to make the payments.
   Barney Buscemi, vice president, structured finance and
investor marketing, said the company had been studying how it
could meet investor needs better, and came up with the Gold
PC program. The company's objective, he said, is to raise the
security price, pleasing both investors and seller-servicers
who are motivated by price.
   Meanwhile, the part of Freddie Mac's earnings derived from
the short-term float will be reduced, while income from
guarantee fees will rise. Guarantee fees, Mr. Buscemi said,
not only are a more stable source of income, but also are
easier for analysts and others to predict.
   "We didn't simply want to mimic Fannie Mae," Mr. Buscemi
said. "We designed a superior product."
   Nevertheless, Peter Treadway, an analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co., said Freddie Mac had been slipping in
product development. "What you're seeing is that the company
is coming back to life," he said.
   At the same time, Freddie Mac announced that Citicorp
Mortgage Inc. agreed to swap $5 billion of single-family
mortgages in exchange for Gold PCs over the next year -- a
record transaction for the secondary market.
   Mr. Buscemi said that Freddie Mac doesn't know how many
holders of its securities will convert to the Gold PCs, but
that liquidity of the old securities won't be hampered. The
company, which has nearly $290 billion of mortgage securities
outstanding, will give investors the option of converting to
Gold PCs for a fee. About one-third can't be converted,
because they are held for collateral for derivative
securities such as Remics, or real estate mortgage investment
conduits. A Remic is a type of security authorized by the
1986 tax law; underwritten by Wall Street firms, Remics
provide a method of dividing up the income flows from many
mortgages into new securities with various interest rates and
maturities to attract banks, insurers and other big investors
to the home-mortgage market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Liberal Barrio
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Sarah Flores is one step away from becoming the first
Hispanic elected to the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors since 1875. But she is caught in a Catch-22: The
November runoff election she is favored to win is likely to
be canceled by a federal judge. Reason: He believes her
district was intentionally gerrymandered so that no Hispanic
can be elected.
   The stakes are big. Los Angeles County supervisors oversee
a $10 billion budget and an area more populous than that of
42 states. Mrs. Flores says that while the districts were
gerrymandered to protect the incumbents of both parties who
drew them, her first-place showing in last week's election
proves an Hispanic can win.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You'd think Hispanic leaders, the ACLU and the other
liberal groups who sued to overturn the districts would agree
with her and now ask the judge, who has already ordered new
district lines, to delay elections under them until 1992. But
no, they want to throw out last week's election results,
dramatically change Mrs. Flores's constituency and hold new
elections.
   They contend that even if Mrs. Flores wins, it doesn't
settle their claim that Hispanics would still not have
elected a candidate of their choice to the board. "The Voting
Rights Act protects communities, not candidates," says ACLU
attorney Mark Rosenbaum.
   Mrs. Flores says that the Constitution, a higher law, was
meant to protect individuals. She says she is one of the most
qualified candidates to ever run for supervisor, having
worked her way up in county government from secretary to a
top deputy for a county supervisor. Last week she won 65% of
the Hispanic vote and 35% overall -- 15 points ahead of her
runoff opponent, a conservative Anglo judge. Why then are
liberals trying to pull the electoral rug out from under her?
Her backers believe it's because she's a Republican who would
continue conservative control of the board.
   "These same liberal groups are silent on gerrymandering
when it protects liberal incumbents," says Ron Smith, a
Flores campaign consultant. "When it comes to gerrymandering
they don't like, they want to invalidate elections and hold
new ones so a minority they want wins instead of someone they
can't control." As with Bush Justice Department appointee
William Lucas last year, liberals have a big stake in cutting
down any minority individual who dissents from their dogma.
Otherwise, minorities might start straying from the Liberal
Plantation or Barrio.
   Gary Mendoza, a lawyer for Mrs. Flores, wants federal
Judge David Kenyon to let voters decide in November on
expanding the board from five to seven members. That would
make the drawing of a majority Hispanic district much easier.
   Judge Kenyon, a Jimmy Carter appointee, appears likely to
deny that request. One day before Mrs. Flores's first-place
finish, he struck down the existing districts saying "an
Hispanic candidate is unable to be elected to the Board under
the current configuration of supervisorial districts." When
Mr. Mendoza tried to argue at a hearing that Mrs. Flores's
showing proved an Hispanic could win under the old lines,
Judge Kenyon cut him off. "I don't want politics in here,"
the judge snapped.
   But if gerrymandering is clearly all about politics, then
so too would be a judicial decision to throw out Mrs.
Flores's showing in a district where Hispanics are already
47% of the population. Gerrymandered districts are a major
obstacle to effective democracy, but selective court action
to invalidate some map-making abuses while overlooking others
is little more than a shameless attempt to grant backdoor
political power.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. Won't Seek
   Trade Retaliation
   Against India
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills will
reaffirm later this week that India's policies governing
insurance and investment are unreasonable and hurt U.S.
commercial interests, but she won't order trade retaliation,
administration officials said.
   Instead, Mrs. Hills will say that the U.S. will seek to
address its concerns about the Indian trade barriers in the
so-called Uruguay Round of current multilateral trade
liberalization talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, the same officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. will reserve the right to take unilateral action
against India's trade barriers if they aren't addressed in
the GATT talks, which are expected to conclude in December.
India is an important participant in the talks because it has
substantial influence over other developing countries.
   Mrs. Hills is required to reach a determination about
India's insurance and investment practices under the
so-called Super 301 clause of the 1988 Trade Act. That law
was intended to help the U.S. open foreign markets through
negotiation backed by the threat of trade retaliation. India
was cited in April 1989, along with Japan and Brazil. But
while Japan and Brazil settled their differences with the
U.S., India has refused to negotiate.
   Several U.S. insurance companies are eager to invest more
in India, particularly to have access to that country's
growing middle-class market. But they say India's prohibitive
investment regulations prevent that. The U.S. had an $851
million merchandise trade deficit with India in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GPU Excludes
   Two Provisions
   Of Takeover Law
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GPU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- General Public Utilities Corp. amended
its bylaws to exclude two provisions of Pennsylvania's
controversial new anti-takeover statute.
   Widely regarded as the U.S.'s toughest anti-takeover
statute, the law was enacted in April and gave corporations
that are incorporated in Pennsylvania 90 days from the time
of its enactment to opt out of certain provisions. GPU is
incorporated in Pennsylvania, with headquarters here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GPU's board chose to exclude the so-called disgorgement
provision that would force short-term holders who sell their
shares within 18 months after a failed attempt to "control" a
company to turn over the profits on the stock sales to the
target company.
   GPU also deleted the "control-shares provision" that
withholds the voting rights of holders who control 20% or
more of a company's stock until "disinterested" holders agree
to restore their votes.
   The company took no action on the statute's provision
regarding the fiduciary duty of directors. The law allows
directors to base decisions not only on shareholders'
interests, but also on the interests of employees, customers,
suppliers and other "stakeholders." The provision also
insulates directors from most lawsuits by aggrieved
stakeholders and guarantees labor contracts and severance pay
in the event of a takeover.
   Standley H. Hoch, GPU chairman, said that "it was
inappropriate to deprive shareholders of their voting rights
and profits under the circumstances provided in the
Pennsylvania statute." As for the decision to keep the
fiduciary provision in the statute, Mr. Hoch said that "a
public utility's statutory obligation to provide adequate and
safe electric service to its customers has long been held to
be consistent with the long-term interests of its
shareholders."
   Pennsylvania enacted the law at the behest of Armstrong
World Industries Inc. The Lancaster, Pa., company had been
the target of a possible bid by Canada's Belzberg family,
which also initiated a proxy fight against the company. At
Armstrong's annual meeting, only a few days after the law was
passed, the Belzbergs managed to win only one seat of the
four up for election on the 13-member board and were later
forced to sell the family's 11.7% Armstrong stake at a loss.
   At least two lawsuits challenging the law's
constitutionality have been filed since Gov. Robert P. Casey
signed the bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   U.S. Gasoline for July Surges 2.62 Cents a Gallon
   And Pushes World Oil Futures Sharply Higher
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A sizzling rally in U.S. gasoline futures pushed world oil
prices sharply higher.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, unleaded gasoline for
July delivery surged 2.62 cents a gallon to settle at 58.5
cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The strong U.S. gasoline market contributed to a recovery
by crude oil futures of much of their recent losses and also
had an impact on European petroleum markets.
   A rally in the last two hours of trading on London's
International Petroleum Exchange sent the futures price of
the July contract for Brent blend crude 42 cents a barrel
higher to $15.97. In U.S. futures trading, the July crude
contract rose 69 cents a barrel to settle at $17.51.
   The crude gains, analysts said, were due in part to
expectations that a rally was overdue after the declines of
recent days. Analysts also cited some other factors,
including reports that Saudi Arabia is preparing to hold
output to its quota until the July 25 meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries even if others
in OPEC continue to exceed allotments.
   A report that Saudi Arabia had asked its biggest U.S.
customers to reduce their planned oil purchases for July hit
the New York Mercantile Exchange shortly before trading
closed. It kept the rally going, traders said.
   Earlier an announcement by Royal Dutch/Shell Group that it
will reduce use of its own vessels in shipping oil to the
U.S., for liability reasons, and news that Norwegian oil
workers are planning a July 1 strike contributed to the
firming of European oil markets. That set the stage for the
later strong openings in U.S. markets.
   But more important for the tone of U.S. futures trading
yesterday, according to several oil analysts, was a growing
belief that supplies of gasoline are tightening. Andrew
Lebow, trader and energy analyst with E.D.&amp;F. Man, noted that
cash prices for gasoline have remained firm in areas such as
the U.S. Gulf Coast and the New York harbor even as futures
prices fell in recent days.
   That, he said, suggested some tightness could be
developing. Also, he said, there was a general anticipation
that the American Petroleum Institute's latest report would
show declines of 1.5 million barrels each for inventories of
crude and gasoline.
   The American Petroleum Institute's statistics, released as
usual after futures trading had closed, showed, however, that
inventories were up again. Crude oil inventories rose nearly
1.3 million barrels last week while those for gasoline
increased 511,000 barrels.
   "They were slightly on the negative side," said Nauman
Barakat, first vice president of Shearson Lehman Hutton, who
described the report as mildly bearish.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose on an unexpected decrease in
London Metal Exchange copper inventories. The July contract
ended with a gain of 0.95 cent a pound at $1.1060. The London
exchange said its copper warehouse stocks dropped 4,475 tons
to 68,575 tons. Traders and analysts had expected an increase
of 3,000 to 5,000 tons. It was the second consecutive drop in
the exchange's copper inventories. Last Friday, inventories
were down 4,225 tons, for a total drop of 8,700 tons in three
business days. One analyst observed that the withdrawal of
copper stocks are coming at a time when demand is perceived
to be slowing as the industry moves toward its summer season
when consumption eases. On Monday, the July contract ended at
$1.0965, falling below the chief support level of $1.10, the
analyst said, which brought in bargain-hunters. The rebound
touched off short-covering, or buying back of contracts by
traders who previously sold short in anticipation that prices
would go lower, he said. The rebound helped the
soon-to-expire June contract even more than the July
contract, as June ended with a gain of 1.50 cents a pound at
$1.1250, further widening the premium of the June over the
July contract.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices fell in response to a report that
Poland was seeking to sell sugar. The October contract fell
0.52 cent a pound to 12.77 cents. Analysts said that two news
services reported that Poland was offering refined beet sugar
on the world market. One service said the quantity amounted
to 200,000 tons and the other simply said it was a surplus.
Judith Ganes, analyst at Merrill Lynch, New York, noted that
the report caught traders by surprise because Poland this
year had been expected to be a net importer of sugar. Also,
she said, recent statistics indicated that Poland didn't have
a surplus. The plunge in prices was accelerated when the
October contract fell below 12.85 cents, triggering further
selling, she said.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were mixed. August
delivery gold was off 60 cents an ounce to $359.10. July
silver edged higher by 0.50 cent an ounce to $5.04. July
platinum advanced $3.20 an ounce to $489.40. Gold eased
because of a strengthening in the dollar, said James
Kneafsey, president of Cambridge Financial Management of
Cambridge, Mass. However, the selling in gold may be showing
signs of exhaustion, he said, and gold prices may be
establishing a base from which to rebound. Mr. Kneafsey noted
platinum's gain and said it may be a positive indicator for
gold. "Platinum tends to be the market leader. It hit its low
of $465 for the recent move on April 25 and since then has
been rising. It could be that gold may be preparing to make
its upward move as well," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Digital Equipment Corp.:
   Talks With Ingres on Stake
   In the Software Firm Fail
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RELY DEC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Digital Equipment Corp., Maynard, Mass., and Ingres Corp.,
Alameda, Calif., said they failed to reach an agreement on a
previously announced plan for Digital to invest in the
software maker.
   The companies disclosed their discussions in May, though
they didn't give details. Digital rarely invests in other
companies, but such investments have become increasingly
common in the computer industry, as large computer hardware
makers seek technology and encourage small companies to
perform research and development related to the larger
companies' computer hardware. Digital was said to be
interested in Ingres's data base technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ingres President Paul E. Newton said the two companies
"were unable to agree on a strengthened alliance that was
consistent with our respective strategies. We both view this
as a missed opportunity." He said the two companies will
continue to work together under existing relationships.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Analysts Lower Masco 1990 Profit Estimates,
   Management Backs Off Forecast of New High
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   MAS MASX X.PCI
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The noise around Masco Corp. these days isn't
just the grinding, hammering and sawing that goes with the
making of faucets, furniture and cabinets.
   It is also the unwelcome thud of analysts dropping their
earnings estimates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citing weakness in the housing industry, at least four
major Wall Street securities firms have lowered their 1990
earnings estimates or investment opinions on Masco in recent
days. The estimates currently range from $1.83 a share to $2
a share.
   Both ends of that range are below the target of $2.04 a
share that Masco's management set in a meeting with analysts
Feb. 28. Masco makes building and home-improvement products,
home furnishings and other specialty consumer products.
   The outlook is such that Masco's management now is backing
away from its prediction that 1990 per-share earnings would
set a new record, exceeding the $2.03 the company posted for
1988. In 1989, earnings fell for the first time in 32 years
to $1.42 a share.
   John C. Nicholls Jr., Masco treasurer, said in an
interview yesterday: "Unless our markets reflect a
significant improvement, I would agree that we won't make the
record." He added that second-quarter earnings will decline
from the year earlier's 50 cents a share.
   "April was indeed a very poor month," said Mr. Nicholls,
who said he plans to review May's results on Friday.
   Mr. Nicholls also said the projection of record earnings,
made by Masco Chairman Richard A. Manoogian, came with a
caveat that the record could be achieved if "macroeconomics
did not worsen." Adds Mr. Nicholls: "Things have materially
changed since February."
   Housing analysts would agree. Barbara Allen, a Kidder
Peabody analyst who yesterday lowered her 1990 earnings
estimate for Masco to $1.90 a share from $2.15, said the
action resulted from her lower estimate for national housing
starts. Ms. Allen is now projecting 1,225,000 housing starts
this year, down from her earlier projection of 1,375,000,
which would have been a slight increase from last year's
level of 1,370,000.
   Ms. Allen expects a continuing slowdown in Masco's sales
to builders, which she says represent about 35% of the
company's revenue. "I think in the second half of the year
there will be very limited amounts of new construction
starting," she says, adding: "You can't build houses without
construction funds, and construction funds are very difficult
to come by now."
   Even after reducing her estimate, however, Ms. Allen
remains positive on Masco's long-term outlook. And analysts
who follow Masco for other Wall Street firms -- including
Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Shearson Lehman Brothers, and
Smith Barney -- believe that Masco will outperform other
stocks over the long term, as the company digests its recent
furniture acquisitions and as housing recovers.
   But Masco also is beginning to attract the attention of
aggressive short sellers, who are betting that Masco made an
expensive mistake when it spent about $1.7 billion to buy
four furniture companies from 1986 through 1989. The short
sellers are selling borrowed shares in the hopes of replacing
them with shares bought later at a lower price. They doubt
that Masco will be able to improve the efficiency of
furniture-making the way it cranked up faucet manufacturing
and marketing.
   Masco, which invented the single-handle Delta brand
faucet, has spent 30 years transforming the lowly faucet into
a high-profit item. In 1984, it spun off 51% of its original
auto and industrial parts-making business as Masco
Industries, to focus on consumer goods. It moved quickly into
kitchen and bathroom cabinets, then tackled furniture,
initially by acquiring Henredon.
   "The assimilation process has not gone ahead as quickly as
they {Masco} had hoped," says Gregory Nejmeh of Shearson
Lehman. "As to whether or not the strategy itself is faulty,
I don't think we're going to know for another five years."
Stephen Dobi of Smith Barney is more optimistic. He expects
1991 profit margins to expand as Masco restructures
internally. "There's real value in this stock," he says. "The
risk is that the stock is dead money for six months or so."
   Masco also has a $250 million investment in a leveraged
buy-out, mostly in a temporary "bridge" loan that turned
long-term when it couldn't be repaid by selling junk bonds.
The LBO is Payless Cashways, a chain of home-improvement
material stores.
   Masco Capital, of which Masco effectively owns 75%, bought
$41 million of junior convertible preferred stock and $168
million of zero-coupon junk bonds from Payless, which, in
turn, agreed to buy more of Masco's products. Though Payless
seems to be doing well, another issue of its publicly traded
junk bonds is trading at about 75 cents on the dollar.
   Masco hasn't written down the Payless investment and
doesn't plan to. Shearson's Mr. Nejmeh says a write-off, if
needed, would cost Masco $121.9 million after taxes, or about
78 cents a share.
   ---
   Masco Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: MAS)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Building and home improvement products,
furniture
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $3.15 billion
   Net income: $220.9 million; $1.42 a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 45 cents vs. 48 cents*
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   233,654 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 154.6 million
                                                                                                       

   *Year-ago figure restated to reflect results of Universal
Furniture Ltd., acquired in May 1989 on a
pooling-of-interests basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fundamentalist Picked
   By Southern Baptists
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- For the 12th consecutive year, a
fundamentalist was elected president of the Southern Baptist
Convention.
   At the denomination's annual meeting, the Rev. Morris
Chapman of Wichita Falls, Texas, received 21,471 votes, or
57.7% of the total, to defeat the Rev. Daniel Vestal of
Dunwoody, Ga., who received 15,753 votes, or 42.3%. Mr.
Vestal was the candidate of the convention's moderate
faction, which has accused the fundamentalists of launching a
purge of Southern Baptist seminaries and other organizations,
targeting persons who don't accept a literal interpretation
of the Bible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A recent Page One story in The Wall Street Journal
described how the struggle between the two factions had led
to a decline in active membership, seminary enrollment and
appointment of missionaries in the denomination, which claims
to be the largest Protestant body in the U.S.
   A total of 38,241 clergy and lay people registered at the
New Orleans convention, making the gathering the third
largest in Southern Baptist history, after the 1985
convention in Dallas and the 1986 convention in Atlanta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stafford Is Removed
   As Egg-Division Head
   Of Michael Foods Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MIKL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS --Michael Foods Inc. has removed John M.
Stafford as head of its egg division, which represents about
half the company's sales.
   A former chief executive officer of Pillsbury Co., Mr.
Stafford, 53 years old, had served in that position only a
few months. He remains executive vice president and a
director of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stafford, who confirmed his removal from the post,
declined further comment beyond saying there were several
projects he may be assigned to. A Michael Foods spokesman
declined to discuss the unannounced change, saying the
company doesn't comment on personnel matters.
   Succeeding Mr. Stafford will be Daniel Gardner, 65,
chairman of Milton G. Waldbaum Co., a Wakefield, Neb., egg
producer, which Michael recently acquired.
   The management change came as a rival concern, Papetti
High-Grade Egg Products Co. of Elizabeth, N.J., confirmed it
is supplying a pasteurized egg product to Burger King Corp.,
the fast-food chain unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC. Burger
King is believed to be the largest customer for Michael's
Easy Eggs ultra-pasteurized product.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Foxboro Co.:
   Search for Strategic Partner
   Produces Takeover Offers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FOX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Foxboro Co., Foxboro, Mass., said it received "several"
takeover proposals in connection with its previously
announced search for a strategic partner to make an equity
investment.
   The maker of industrial-process control systems said that
its investment adviser, Salomon Brothers Inc., and two law
firms are helping it evaluate the proposals and will assist
in negotiations. It added that it hasn't decided whether to
sell out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foxboro has advanced technology but has reported losses in
recent quarters and omitted its dividend earlier this year.
For all of 1989, it reported a net loss of $4.6 million, or
37 cents a share, on sales of $597.8 million.
   Analysts speculate that descendants of the founding
Bristol family, who hold nearly one-third of the stock, may
be restive due to the dividend cuts. In addition, in April,
the company added to its board two representatives of a
stockholder group that had accumulated a 4.8% stake. The
group agreed to hold its purchases below 10% this year and
said its directors wouldn't comment publicly on Foxboro
matters.
   Foxboro declined to disclose details about the takeover
offers. In New York Stock Exchange trading, its stock closed
up $2.375 at $32.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoechst AG:
   German Chemical Firm Says
   Profit May Fall 10% for '90
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HFA
</CO>
<LP>
   Hoechst AG said it may record a 10% decline in profit for
1990, compared with last year's moderate profit growth.
   Hoechst Chairman Wolfgang Hilger said at the annual
meeting that the strength of the mark against key foreign
currencies as well as downward pressure on product prices
make it unlikely the company will be able to recover from its
8.5% drop in pretax profit in the first quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first quarter, the West German chemical group's
pretax profit fell to 920 million marks ($543.5 million) from
1.01 billion marks a year ago. Sales were unchanged at 11
billion marks.
   Despite the expectations of softer earnings, Mr. Hilger
said that Hoechst believes "a satisfactory dividend proposal
{for 1990} is possible." He didn't elaborate. The company
earlier this year boosted its annual cash dividend for 1989
to 13 marks a share from 12 marks.
   For the first five months of 1990, Hoechst reported
world-wide group sales of 18.5 billion marks, down 2%.
   For 1989, Hoechst posted pretax profit of 4.15 billion
marks, on sales of 45.9 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pansophic Systems Inc.:
   Firm Plans to Shed Business
   In Graphics and Incur Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pansophic Systems Inc., Lisle, Ill., said it plans to shed
its graphics business, taking an estimated $27.1 million loss
on its disposal.
   The software concern said the divestiture -- together with
net one-time charges of $7.2 million associated with the
closing of its Brazilian subsidiary and the reorganization of
its continuing operations -- resulted in a net loss of $28.5
million, or $1.53 a share, for the fourth quarter ended April
30, on revenue of $66.4 million. For the fiscal year, the net
loss was $12.9 million, or 69 cents a share, on revenue of
$218.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, the company announced that planned special
charges would erase its earnings for the year. At the time,
Pansophic said it would write down certain assets of its
graphics operations, and incur other one-time costs as part
of a plan to "refocus" the operation.
   The company said it has now decided to get out of the
graphics business altogether, because the line is "no longer
complementary to its long-term strategic direction" and would
require financial resources better invested in Pansophic's
systems and applications software businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   KKR Said to Raise $1.7 Billion for RJR
   In Bid to Bolster Firm's Sagging Bonds
   ----
   By James A. White and David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. has raised about
$1.7 billion in cash from its investors that it plans to
inject into RJR Nabisco Inc. to try to bolster RJR's sagging
bonds, according to people familiar with the proposed
transaction.
   KKR, which quietly raised the money from investors in its
$5.6 billion leveraged buy-out fund this week, hopes that the
cash infusion, together with other financial restructuring
moves, will cause $6 billion of RJR Nabisco junk bonds to
rise above their current depressed trading levels. In raising
the $1.7 billion, KKR was drawing upon previous commitments
by its investors to the $5.6 billion fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the RJR Nabisco junk bonds rally, that will make it
easier for KKR to fulfill a requirement that it reset the
interest rate on the bonds to make them trade at their face
value, or par, no later than next April.
   Bonds of the largest RJR issue in question, which traded
at prices below 60 cents on the dollar earlier this year,
rallied late yesterday to close at 69.375 cents on the
dollar.
   The main result of the new cash infusion is likely to be
lower overall returns for investors in KKR's leveraged
buy-out fund. But if the financial restructuring of RJR is
successful, it will allow RJR to avoid paying extremely high
interest rates on the reset bonds in the future.
   Though RJR's basic businesses recently have performed
well, the company's junk bonds have been depressed by concern
about the company's heavy debt load and general weakness in
the junk bond market.
   Spokesmen for RJR Nabisco and KKR declined to comment on
the planned equity infusion.
   KKR took the food and tobacco giant private last year in a
record $25 billion leveraged buy-out.
   KKR hasn't yet completed all the details of the financial
restructuring moves it will take to deal with the reset bond
problem, according to people familiar with KKR. However, the
moves are likely to include new bank loans, if attractive
terms can be arranged, and may include an offer to buy back
the reset bonds from holders or to exchange them for newly
issued bonds, these people said.
   People familiar with the RJR transaction said that
investors in KKR's $5.6 billion leveraged buy-out fund each
were asked to deliver their share of the new $1.7 billion
cash infusion by last Monday. In addition to the new money
from the outside investors, KKR itself may also invest a
small amount of additional money.
   KKR's fund originally invested $1.5 billion to help
finance the RJR buy-out. While a new equity investment would
more than double the amount of the original investment,
several people familiar with the transaction said that RJR's
financial performance had proved so strong since the buy-out
that KKR's institutional investors still expected to obtain a
return of 20% to 30% a year on their investment in RJR.
   Such returns would rank the RJR buy-out as significantly
less successful than many of KKR's earlier and much smaller
buy-outs, which once generated annual returns of nearly 80% a
year. For the moment, however, KKR's investors seem pleased
with RJR's prospects.
   "All their major investors are very happy," said one
person involved in the RJR fund-raising. "They are going to
be earning up to 30% on absolutely huge amounts of money," he
said of the big investors.
   The investors in KKR's LBO fund include insurance
companies, pension funds, endowments and other large
institutions. As limited partners in the LBO fund, these
partners have no control over the investment decisions taken
by KKR.
   Nevertheless, KKR takes pains to keep its partners
informed on its investments. In May, for example, KKR's
investors were invited to a portfolio review meeting in San
Francisco at which KKR partners painted a glowing picture of
RJR's cash flow and other financial barometers.
   KKR further smoothed the way for adding new equity to the
RJR deal last week by selling Beatrice Cos. to ConAgra for
$1.34 billion in cash and stock, plus the assumption of
Beatrice debt. The sale price was less than originally hoped,
but still provided KKR investors returns of about 50% a year
while KKR owned Beatrice.
   The RJR recapitalization is expected to involve several
phases; the structure and timing of each step will depend in
large measure on the market reception given to the reset
bonds after the previous step.
   "There is going to be a plan for everything, but it is
evolving," said one person familiar with KKR's preparations
to deal with the RJR reset notes.
   KKR has some flexibility in deciding how to deal with the
reset problem. Although the deadline for determining a reset
rate is next April, KKR can reset the interest rate at any
time before that. The exact rate must be agreed upon by
investment bankers representing KKR and by Lazard Freres &amp;
Co. and Dillon Read &amp; Co., which were the investment banking
firms representing the former publicly traded RJR Nabisco.
   Although the firms must agree that the new interest rate
on the bonds would cause the bonds to trade at their full
face amount, there isn't any requirement that the bonds
actually trade at that price.
   If the RJR bonds don't rally, KKR could be forced to reset
interest rates at 20% or more. While those rates wouldn't
necessarily cripple RJR, it would severely depress the
profits for KKR and its investors, and would send a
disturbing message to the junk bond market, which has viewed
RJR Nabisco as one of its strongest credits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kinark Corp. Elects
   2 Altair Aides to Board
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KIN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TULSA, Okla. -- Kinark Corp. said three directors have
been elected to its eight-member board, including two
candidates who opposed Kinark's nominees.
   Elected were Garry Brainin, chairman and president of
Altair Corp., and George B. Collins, Altair's assistant
secretary. But a third Altair candidate was defeated by
Kinark nominee Ivan Himmel, chairman of Chicago-based
Maritime Partners Limited Partnership. Maritime is Kinark's
second-largest stockholder, with 7.8% of the common shares,
while Altair is third, with 6.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paul Chastain, Kinark's deputy chief executive officer,
said the Altair slate was pressing for more aggressive growth
by the company, which owns galvanizing plants and
chemical-storage facilities. The previous board rejected last
month an unsolicited $24.8 million offer from Steel Partners
Limited Partnership, but said it would consider additional
proposals. Mr. Chastain wouldn't comment on how the new board
would respond to such offers.
   Messrs. Brainin and Collins couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hachette Unit Creates
   Press, Names Publisher
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Grolier Inc. unit of Paris-based Hachette
S.A. said it created a division to publish general-interest
books on family issues, and named Judith Rothman, 48 years
old, to run it.
   Ms. Rothman, who has held executive posts at numerous
college textbook publishers, including the college division
of Harper &amp; Row, will be publisher of the new Grolier Press.
She said Grolier Press will launch a first list of 25 to 35
books, then expand the number of titles, while continuing to
focus on hard-cover and paperback books for parents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This fits well with the other publishing activities of
Grolier," Ms. Rothman said. "They publish encyclopedias,
school and library books, and run a children's book club.
Parents are their market, and ours too, and we can get help
from Grolier's direct-marketing organization. We will cover
parenting issues and also do things like child-activity
books."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FNNI ITCH WNEWS MCA PCI
</CO>
<LP>
   VENTURE: United Press International and Financial News
Network Inc. formed a joint venture to provide business and
financial news and data. Infotechnology Inc., which owns all
of UPI and 47% of FNN, named Jonathan Fram president of the
venture, UPI Financial Information Services. Mr. Fram is
president of Infotechnology's Institutional Research Network.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHO'S NEWS: Jeffrey Korchek was promoted to vice
president, business affairs, for MCA Inc.'s Universal
Pictures unit. He was a business affairs executive in
Universal's legal department. . . .Jack L. Farnsworth became
president of the higher education division of Simon &amp;
Schuster, a unit of Paramount Communications Co. He succeeds
Patrick Donaghy, who remains executive vice president. He was
senior vice president of North American operations for
Maxwell Communications Corp.'s Maxwell Macmillan
International.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys End About Flat in Listless Session
   As Investors Await Avalanche of Economic Data
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   GE C X.TMP FRE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market plodded through another dull
day with prices ending unchanged to slightly lower.
   Traders said the market's listless tenor was expected,
given the avalanche of key economic reports due to be
released today, tomorrow and Friday. Ahead of such reports,
investors are typically reluctant to establish new positions
or alter existing ones.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's because surprises in the reports have the potential
to roil the markets. Today, the Department of Commerce will
release the May retail sales report, followed by two
important inflation reports -- the producer price index and
the consumer price index -- on Thursday and Friday.
   "No one wants to show their hand until more of the cards
are on the table," said F. Ward McCarthy, a managing director
at Stone &amp; McCarthy Research Asssociates Inc.
   But while trading has been sluggish, corporate and
municipal treasurers have continued to tap the market. That
at least gave bond investors something to talk about.
   "New issues are the only focus in the market," said
Barbara Kenworthy, a portfolio manager at Dreyfus Corp. She
said considering the market has been so quiet, "I'm actually
surprised that we've been able to price and place this amount
of new corporate debt."
   Among new corporate issues, General Electric Co.'s General
Electric Capital Corp. unit offered $250 million of 18-year
notes through Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. The notes, which will be
reoffered, were priced for an initial yield of 8.67%.
   The markets were also abuzz about future new issues,
including plans by a unit of Chrysler Corp. to launch a $500
million Eurobond that will be backed by loans made to
Chrysler car dealers.
   The offering, which will be issued by Chrysler Finance
Co., is unusual in two ways. Most importantly, it's the
first-ever Eurobond backed by automobile loans.
   Secondly, while loans to auto buyers have been popular
fodder for asset-backed deals in the U.S., the Chrysler issue
will be the first that is secured with loans made by auto
makers to their dealers. These loans are used by dealers to
finance their showroom inventories until the cars can be
sold.
   The auto-loan securities market in the U.S. now totals
more than $20 billion. The first public asset-backed offering
in the U.S. was an auto-loan issue in May 1985.
   Dennis Cantwell, vice-president of Chrysler Financial's
corporate finance and development division, said the decision
to launch a deal in the Euromarket was driven by demand for
such bonds as well as the company's plans to diversify its
investor base.
   "We have been doing deals securitized on sales of
receivables in the {U.S.} public since 1986 and this is an
extension. We want to access as many markets with as many
different kinds of structures as the opportunities present
themselves, " he said.
   Looking to the economic reports, retail sales are expected
to have remained unchanged from April, according to the
average of estimates of 18 economists surveyed by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report. The economists' forecasts ranged
widely -- from two calls for a 0.6% decline to one call for
0.5% gain.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of Trump Taj Mahal Funding slipped on news
that the casino's gross revenues totaled $36.5 million during
its first month of operation.
   The New Jersey Casino Control Commission said the Trump
Taj's May revenues represented the largest ever reported for
a single month in New Jersey history.
   But some high-yield analysts weren't impressed because
they say the revenues were still somewhat lower than
necessary. "We are talking about May when the novelty is
still here," said one high-yield analyst. "What's it going to
be like in January or February?"
   Trump Taj Mahal's 14% bonds due in 1998 slid two points to
end at 57 on the American Stock Exchange. However, there was
little trading in the bonds.
   The 12 7/8% bonds of Trump Plaza, which reported the
second-largest gross at $31.32 million, compared with $25.31
million a year ago, ended up 1/2 point at 84 1/2.
   In the broader high-yield market, junk bonds, or
speculative-grade securities with low credit ratings or no
credit ratings at all, finished about 1/4 point lower.
   Junk bond traders said the high-yield market was catching
its breath after the recent run-up in prices.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury, Agency Securities

   Most Treasury securities ended unchanged to as much as 1/8
point lower, a loss of $1.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 103 4/32 to
yield 8.45% compared with 103 7/32 to yield 8.44% on Monday.
The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of 102 17/32 to
yield 8.47% compared with 102 20/32 to yield 8.46%. Most
shorter-term securities, including Treasury bills, were
little changed.
   In the agency market, traders said there were no surprises
in the pricing of $1.34 billion of Federal Home Loan Banks
bonds. The agency priced $365 million of one-year bonds to
yield 8.25%; $570 million two-year bonds to yield 8.45%; and
the $400 million four-year securities to yield 8.625%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Moving as expected within extremely narrow bands, the
tax-exempt market ended basically unchanged, with some issues
up 1/8 point in spots.
   In addition to awaiting oncoming supply expected to hit
the market this week, participants have been sitting on the
sidelines ahead of the release of economic data to provide
directional barometers for the market, traders said.
   In competitive action, $190 million of Los Angeles
wastewater system revenue bonds were won by a
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group with a bid setting the
true interest cost at 7.215%. True interest is a measure of
the interest costs paid by the issuer when the underwriting
expenses are factored in.
   The bonds, rated single-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., are priced to
yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2020.
   A Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group is expected to price
$100 million Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
consolidated revenue bonds today.
   In secondary action, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% securities of 2018 were unchanged at 98 1/2 to yield
7.32%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of British government bonds, called gilts, climbed
yesterday on speculation that the nation's currency will
enter the European Monetary System's exchange-rate mechanism
sooner than expected.
   The speculation was triggered by a story in yesterday's
Financial Times, which is published in London. The story
suggested that sterling could enter the ERM as soon as
September.
   The article also stated that British authorities would
like to join the ERM with a wide 6% trading band, as did
Spain when it entered last year. The trading band is a limit
on how far one currency can trade away from its assigned
level without prompting a change in monetary policy. Most
currencies in ERM trade within a 2.25% band.
   Setting the wider band would allow Britian to join ERM
sooner because it wouldn't require Britain to make as much
progress in containing inflation ahead of entry. That's
because sterling would have more room to fluctuate within its
assigned range.
   Sterling's entry into ERM could be bullish for the gilts
market because investors assume that the action would lead to
lower inflation and a more stable pound and eventually -- as
more money flows into the gilts market -- lower interest
rates.
   In trading yesterday, the benchmark 11.75% gilt due in
2003/2007 ended 7/8 point higher at 101 3/32 to yield 11.59%.
The bond had been as much as 1 1/4 points higher during the
morning.
   West German government bonds ended mixed in thin,
directionless trading. Bonn's 8.75% bonds due 2000 closed
unchanged at 99.38 to yield 8.84%. But the 8.5% notes due
1995 were off 0.04 point at 97.99 to yield 9.02%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities ended little changed after
light trading.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for June delivery finished at 99 5/32, down 1/32; 10%
securities ended at 101 18/32, up 1/32, and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. 9.5% securities ended at 98 15/32, down 1/32.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Electricity Production
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Last week's electricity output in the U.S. (excluding
Alaska and Hawaii) was reported by the Edison Electric
Institute as follows (figures are in millions of kilowatt
hours):
                                                                                                       

                            Week       Pct. Chg.    Week
                            Ended      From Like    Ended
     Geographic Area        06-09-90   1989 Week    06-02-90
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

    Mid Atlantic ..........  7,196       - 2.1       6,588
    Central Industrial .... 10,756       + 0.6      10,120
    West Central ..........  3,815       + 3.5       3,525
    Southeast ............. 14,003       + 8.8      12,167
    South Central .........  8,829       +11.9       8,025
    Rocky Mountain ........  2,966       + 5.7       2,580
    Pacific Northwest .....  2,884       + 1.2       2,864
    Pacific Southwest .....  4,801       +13.5       4,013
      Total ............... 57,265       + 5.2      51,762
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- National Westminster Bank PLC:
   Third World Debt Staff Set
   To Be Trimmed in July
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NW
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Westminster Bank PLC, London, is cutting its
Third World debt-management staff sharply next month, a move
signaling that Britain's second-largest commercial bank has
substantially trimmed its exposure to troubled sovereign
loans.
   NatWest's staff of 36 professionals within its Sovereign
Risk Unit will be cut in early July to a custodial operation
of fewer than 10 employees, possibly with just two
professional staffers assigned to oversee day-to-day
management of the bank's debt positions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A NatWest spokesman declined to confirm the figures,
although he said, "The staffing levels would move in line
with our aggressive asset-management policy."
   NatWest, which had #1.8 billion ($3.04 billion) of
exposure to 24 lesser developed countries at the end of 1989,
trimmed #723 million from its portfolio last year through
sales into the secondary-debt market. It also exited from
exposure to five countries outright as a result of those
sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Professor Named to Probe
   Case of Revco Drug's LBO
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   RDS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Harold F. White
approved the appointment of Barry L. Zaretsky, a Brooklyn Law
School professor and counsel to the international law firm of
Kelley Drye &amp; Warren, as examiner in the Revco Drugstores
bankruptcy case, according to the law firm.
   Appointment of an examiner in the case was requested by
U.S. Trustee Conrad J. Morgenstern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The law firm said that Prof. Zaretsky, with Kelley Drye as
his counsel, will investigate the failed $1.25 billion
management-led leveraged buy-out of the 2,000-drugstore
chain. It was the first major junk-bond-financed LBO to enter
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code under which a company is
given protection from creditors while it tries to work out a
plan for paying its debts.
   Prof. Zaretsky will seek to determine whether the Revco
LBO involved fraud and is to submit a preliminary report July
16.
   The law firm said that if Prof. Zaretsky's investigation
finds that the LBO was fraudulent and if the courts
ultimately uphold such findings, it would further jeopardize
junk-bond-financed LBOs as a method of corporate acquisition.
The law firm added that if fraud is found in the Revco case,
it could retroactively call into question billions of dollars
of LBO debt outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Tanker Blaze
   Off Texas Coast Is
   Put Under Control
   ---
   But Major Spill Remains Risk
   As Dutch Salvage Firm
   Is Criticized for Delays
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Journal staff reporters Carolyn Phillips,
   David D. Medina and Sue-Sun Yom
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AQU CNPA ARC EUROP MMM
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   GALVESTON, Texas -- Black, billowing smoke turned to gray
and white as firefighters conquered the blaze aboard the Mega
Borg oil tanker 57 miles southeast of here in the Gulf of
Mexico.
   Coast Guard officials and firefighters said chances are
now slim that the disabled ship will sink, but that crude oil
from the Mega Borg continues to pour into the Gulf and a
major spill is still a possibility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But even as the fight to save the tanker appeared to show
signs of success, Smit International Group -- the
Rotterdam-based marine salvage firm handling the fire --
found itself criticized for moving too slowly. Critics allege
that the company wasted valuable hours after the fire started
early Saturday bringing in special equipment from overseas,
shunning locally available materials and equipment.
   If Smit had moved sooner to use foam, some critics
contend, the blaze might not have taken as long to bring
under control. After a series of explosions on Sunday
afternoon, the fire grew so large that foam could no longer
be used effectively. "I'm no expert in this matter, but it's
my reasoned speculation that if we had the equipment
available at a short distance, we might have been able to
contain it sooner," said Tom Henderson, special assistant to
the Texas Land Commissioner.
   Williams Boots &amp; Coots Inc., a firefighting and material
supplier, claimed that it and Minnesota Mining &amp;
Manufacturing Corp. had their proposal for on-the-spot local
equipment and chemicals rejected by Smit while it searched
for equipment compatible with its own chemicals. "The talents
and the hardware and the chemicals that were here to get the
foam to the fire were not used," said Dwight Williams,
president of Williams Boots.
   A Smit official in Rotterdam declined to comment on the
allegations, but he maintained that Smit can get its European
coordinators on the spot to manage affairs anywhere in the
world within 12 hours.
   Most of the oil spill appears to be contained -- for the
moment, at least. Of the more than 100,000 gallons of crude
oil that has spilled since fire broke out on the Mega Borg
early Saturday, only about 2,000 gallons remain on the waters
of the Gulf. The rest of the light crude either burned away
as it left the tanker, was sucked up by skimmers or
dissipated by dispersants and evaporated. By comparison, the
Exxon Valdez dumped nearly 11 million gallons of heavy crude
into the waters of Prince William Sound, Alaska, in March
1989.
   But authorities are still preparing for a major spill,
possible if the Mega Borg loses more of its 38.2 million
gallon cargo when attempts are made -- perhaps late this week
-- to steady the listing ship in order to move the remaining
crude oil onto another vessel.
   Just in case, additional skimmers have been borrowed,
including one that's coming from Tampico, Mexico, at 10 miles
an hour and will take several days to arrive. Contractors are
lining up other equipment in case of a major spill.
   Mr. Henderson, the Land Commission official, said that if
the bulk of the Mega Borg's cargo spills, it's a lost cause.
"Nobody's ready for a spill that size," he said. "We don't
have the capability to clean up that kind of spill."
   He and other government and industry officials hope that
the threat posed by the Mega Borg's fire and explosion will
be enough to speed plans to improve the nation's preparedness
for major oil spills. Despite widespread studies, proposed
programs and legislation since the Valdez accident last year,
little has actually changed.
   A Texas governor's oil-spill advisory committee --
established because of and since Valdez -- has prepared
extensive recommendations on procedures and equipment
necessary to prevent and fight oil spills, and specifically
took note of the dangers involved in "lightering" -- the
process of unloading crude from one ship to another that the
Mega Borg was involved in when the fire broke out. He added
that some 70 to 80 such transfers take place each month off
the coast of Texas alone.
   An ambitious $400 million plan by the oil and
petrochemical industry to establish five regional centers,
each with 52 staffers and $24 million in equipment, is
stalled until Congress works out sticky liability questions.
And even once Congress acts, "it's {another} two years before
there is full operational capability," estimates Bill Taylor,
a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, a trade
group.
   Mosvolds Rederi AS, operator of the Mega Borg, said that
it holds $700 million in extended pollution insurance
coverage through Gard Assuranceforening, a mutually owned
Norwegian insurer. Mosvolds is a 90-year-old, family-owned
shipping concern based in Farsund, a port city on Norway's
southwestern coast. Mosvolds holds a 40% stake in the limited
partnership that owns the Mega Borg and has operated it on
charter since 1984, company officials said.
   Geir Larsen, Mosvolds's president, declined to discuss
possible legal liability for the cleanup of the Mega Borg oil
spill. "We'll leave that to the lawyers."
   The cause of the fire and explosions that ripped through
the tanker still hasn't been determined. Norwegian goverment
officials will start an investigation today, talking to the
captain and crew of the ship.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seagull Energy to Buy Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   SGO U.COS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Seagull Energy Corp., a natural gas pipeline
concern, said it agreed to acquire the Wacker Oil Inc. unit
of Costain Group PLC of London for $77 million, adjusted for
revenue and less direct operating and capital expenses
incurred since the beginning of the year.
   As of Jan. 1, Seagull said, Wacker had 43.2 million cubic
feet of proved natural gas reserves and 2.6 million barrels
of proved oil reserves from its interests in 114 producing
gas and oil wells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Magma Power Expects
   Lower 2nd-Period Net
   Due to Storm Damage
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGMA SCE
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Magma Power Co. said it expects
second-quarter earnings to be adversely affected by damage to
a transmission line during a storm last weekend in
California's Imperial Valley.
   Magma officials declined to estimate the impact on
earnings. In last year's second quarter, Magma had net income
of $4 million, or 18 cents a share, on revenue of $14.1
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Magma
shares closed at $30.50, down $2.25.
   The storm, the remnant of Hurricane Boris, toppled several
towers of a transmission line owned and operated by the
Imperial Irrigation District. The 400-megawatt line,
completed in 1988, was built with money provided by a
consortium of independent power producers, including Magma.
It transmits electrical power to SCEcorp's Southern
California Edison Co. Mirage Substation in Riverside County.
Magma said damage to the line is covered by insurance.
   Magma said the damage has caused its four geothermal
plants in the Imperial Valley to curtail electrical
generation, and that the outage could have an adverse impact
on the second-quarter results of the four partnerships that
own the affected plants. Magma and Mission Energy Co., a unit
of Rosemead, Calif.-based SCEcorp, each own 50% of those
partnerships. A temporary bypass of the damaged section and
alternate transmission paths are being considered, but a
bypass could take two weeks to one month to complete, Magma
said.
   Magma said the four geothermal plants, operated by its Red
Hill Geothermal subsidiary, weren't damaged by the storm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ethyl to Buy Quantum Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   EY CUE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Ethyl Corp. said it agreed to buy Quantum
Chemical Corp.'s poly alpha olefin production plant in
Houston for about $48 million.
   Terms of the agreement call for Quantum to operate the
plant for Ethyl. The unit, which has annual capacity of about
30 million gallons, will be Ethyl's first poly alpha olefin
plant in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Poly alpha olefins are widely used in premium motor oils
and lubricants for gears, transmissions and compressors.
   Completion of the purchase is subject to regulatory
review, Ethyl said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Western Union Corp.:
   Proposed Recapitalization
   Is Revised for Bondholders
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WU
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Western Union Corp., New York, debt-laden and struggling
to avoid bankruptcy court, again revised its proposed
recapitalization plan to satisfy its bondholders.
   The communications and financial services company now
wants to offer a different package of debt securities and
common shares to holders of its 19.25% senior secured reset
notes due Dec. 15, 1992, and to holders of its 16% notes due
June 15, 1991. The revision affects $530 million of debt.
Western Union is also seeking to reclassify its preferred
stock into new common shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the latest revision, the company seeks to change the
principal amounts of two new notes and plans to offer a
different mix of common, Class C and Class D shares, in
exchange for each $1,000 face value of the 19.25% and 16%
notes. In addition, Western Union is seeking a change in
interest payment terms on one new note, including the rate
and form of payment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Chrysler,
   Dollar Are
   In Talks
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chrysler Corp. may be trying to acquire one of the few
major independent car-rental companies left in the U.S.,
closely held Dollar Rent-a-Car Systems Inc.
   Chrysler and Dollar officials confirmed there have been
talks between the two, but company spokesmen refused to give
any details. It couldn't immediately be determined whether
Chrysler may be seeking to buy all or part of Dollar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Chrysler spokesman refused yesterday to comment on
"rumor and speculation," but didn't deny the two companies
are in discussions. A spokesman for Dollar in Los Angeles
said there's "nothing concrete" on which he could comment.
   "I think they are reasonably close" to an agreement, said
rental car industry analyst Charles H. Finnie of Alex. Brown
&amp; Sons, Inc. in Baltimore.
   Acquiring all or part of Dollar would potentially give
Chrysler a dedicated, high-volume customer for its vehicles.
Dollar buys about 70,000 to 80,000 cars a year, company
officials had said.
   Because car-rental agencies buy autos in high volume, U.S.
car makers have been rushing to form alliances with them in
an attempt to lock up markets for their cars and squeeze
Japanese auto makers out of these markets. But in May,
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. became the first Japanese auto maker
to buy a stake in a U.S. rental car company when it acquired
a majority of Value Rent-a-Car Inc. of Deerfield Beach, Fla.
   Ford Motor Co. has put money into Hertz Corp. and Budget
Rent A Car Corp.
   General Motors Corp. has done the same with Avis Inc. and
National Car Rental System Inc. Chrysler owns Thrifty
Rent-A-Car System Inc. and Snappy Rental Inc. Remaining major
independents include Alamo Rent A Car Inc. and Enterprise
Rent A Car Inc., two closely held concerns.
   But Chrysler lately has had trouble making the
"buy-your-customer" strategy work smoothly at Thrifty, the
rental agency it purchased last year in a transaction valued
at $263 million. Earlier this year, Chrysler allowed Thrifty
to buy about 4,000 cars from Mitsubishi after Chrysler
officials conceded they couldn't match Mitsubishi's prices
and weren't prepared to order Thrifty to pay more for
Chrysler-built vehicles.
   It's not clear how much Dollar would fetch in a sale. The
company has been closely held for more than 22 years, but
analysts estimate the company's revenue at between $300
million and $350 million. Dollar officials have said they are
bigger than Thrifty was at the time Chrysler acquired it last
year.
   Despite the problems with Thrifty, buying Dollar would
"make sense for Chrysler," because Dollar would give Chrysler
access to the "on-airport" segment of the car rental
industry, Mr. Finnie said. On-airport agencies such as Dollar
have rental locations on airport property, and thus are
typically favored by business travelers on expense accounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Cost-of-Living Index
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's cost-of-living index rose 0.5% in
May from April and 5.1% from a year earlier, the Federal
Statistics Office said.
   The rise was smaller than many economists and analysts had
expected. The monthly rise had been widely forecast at 0.7%
to 0.9% and the year-to-year increase at 5.3% to 5.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A month earlier, the year-to-year increase in the index
was 4.6%. For the year ending in May 1989, it was 3.0%.
   The latest jump in the year-to-year rate was due largely
to recent rent increases, which in turn followed rises in
Swiss mortgage rates, economists said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   New Line Cinema Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NLN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW LINE CINEMA Corp., a New York-based independent
producer and distributor of films, declared a 25% stock
dividend, in the form of one new share for each four common
shares owned, payable July 18 to stock of record June 27. The
company as of Monday had more than 6.8 million shares
outstanding. It last declared a stock dividend, of 10%, in
November 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alpharel Is Dismissing
   Chief Financial Officer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AREL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CAMARILLO, Calif. -- Troubled Alpharel Inc. said it's
dismissing its secretary and chief financial officer, William
H. Lane, because it simply can't afford to keep him anymore.
   "It wasn't a good-guy or bad-guy thing," Robert T. Bruce,
chairman of the maker of computerized document management
systems, said in an interview. "We just have to cut back on
the number of non-revenue generating people" at the company.
Mr. Lane, according to proxy material, earned $91,246 last
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lane, a former Honeywell Inc. executive and private
business consultant who came to Alpharel a little more than a
year ago, will be succeeded this week by John W. Low, who has
been corporate controller of the company since August 1987.
   In January, Alpharel said it would trim costs by reducing
its work force to 19 from 40. In the first quarter, the
company had a net loss of $313,000, or three cents a share,
on revenue of $1.1 million.
   Prior to Alpharel, Mr. Low was with Price Waterhouse for
seven years, most recently as manager in their
Entrepreneurial Services Group.
   Mr. Lane couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
   Separately, Alpharel said Roger H. Erickson has been
appointed vice president, engineering. The five-year company
veteran, who has served as, among other things, director of
technical projects, succeeds Don T. Miller. Mr. Miller will
leave Alpharel in August, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Unit Prices Geo Model
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARREN, Mich. -- General Motors Corp.'s Chevrolet division
said the base price for the 1990 Geo Metro LSi convertible is
$9,740.
   Initial production of the model, newest in the Geo line,
will be limited to 3,000 cars distributed in California,
Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey, New York,
Pennsylvania and Texas. The car will be available in greater
volume beginning with the 1991 model.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Surplus
   In Trade Shrank
   Slightly in May
   ---
   But Some Economists Say
   Measure Might Widen
   Again in a Few Months
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's May trade surplus narrowed slightly from
the year before, but economists said the rate of decline is
slowing and the surplus may start to expand again in a few
months.
   The Finance Ministry said that the May surplus, measured
when goods pass through customs, dropped 16.6% to $3.13
billion from $3.76 billion a year earlier. In April, by
contrast, the surplus fell a sharp 51.4% from the year
before. Exports in May declined 0.9%, to $21.52 billion from
$21.7 billion. Imports grew at a slower pace than recently
posted, rising 2.4% to $18.38 billion from $17.95 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trade surplus with the U.S. also narrowed, falling
11.4% to $2.44 billion from $2.76 billion in the previous
year. Exports to the U.S. dropped 4.5% to $6.82 billion, but
imports also fell 0.2% to $4.38 billion.
   Ministry officials said that although Japan's global
surplus continued to shrink, "the amount of decline seems to
have narrowed." One reason for the slowdown, the official
explained, was falling oil prices. Higher crude-oil prices
last year made an important contribution to import growth. In
May, however, crude-oil prices dropped from the year before
to $16.79 per barrel from $18.02 a year earlier. So although
the volume of crude oil imports rose 3.1% to 16,200
kiloliters, imports in value terms dropped 4% to $1.71
billion.
   Economists said the lower value of the yen against the
dollar was also putting a brake on the pace of decline in the
surplus. The ministry calculated that the dollar's average
exchange rate in May was 156.98 yen compared with 133.88 yen
a year ago. A weaker yen makes imports more expensive. At the
same time, the exchange rate makes the price of exports more
competitive in the world market.
   Although the dollar-denominated value of exports dropped,
the volume of exports actually grew 8.4%, said Kazuko Mizuno,
an economist at Baring Securities (Japan) Ltd. Export growth
was especially high for motorcycles, rising 32.2% to $150.67
million, and ships, increasing 30.9% to $319.1 million.
Exports of office equipment, another area in which Japanese
companies are very competitive, also rose 8.9% to $1.54
billion.
   Import volume, on the other hand, grew at a slower pace of
6.5%, compared with the average pace of 7.8% in 1989.
Although economists expect the surplus to continue narrowing
for a few more months, "this can't go on forever," said
Takayuki Tanaka, an economist for Japan's Long Term Credit
Bank. "The drop in the growth of imports may lead to an
expansion in the surplus," added Ms. Mizuno of Baring
Securities, possibly starting in August or September.
   That would bring additional pressure to bear on the
Japanese government from the U.S. Recently, Japanese
officials have sparked a debate by asserting that although
Japan is committed to reducing its trade surplus further,
retaining an overall external surplus that allows Japan to
remain a capital exporter is essential to a healthy world
economy.
   On a seasonally adjusted basis, the overall trade surplus
grew 6.9% in May from April to $3.41 billion from $3.19
billion. Adjusted exports grew 2.2%, to $21.48 billion from
$21.03 billion, while adjusted imports also grew 1.3%, to
$18.07 billion from $17.84 billion. Adjusted figures on a yen
basis showed a wider increase, with the surplus in May rising
37.2% from April to 656 billion yen from 479 billion yen.
   In trade with the U.S., Japan's exports dropped in a
number of areas, in part because Japanese companies' American
factories supplied more and more U.S. demand, said Mr. Tanaka
of Long Term Credit Bank. In particular, exports of engines
fell 32.2% to $193.87 million from the year before, while
exports of semiconductors dropped 19.7% to $299.95 million.
   The trade surplus with the European Community narrowed
26.4% to $1.2 billion. Exports increased 7.1% to $4.07
billion, while motorcycle exports rose 52.4% to $89.9
million. Meanwhile, imports from the EC rose 32.3% to $2.87
billion. The growth in imports was seen in cars, mainly from
West Germany, which doubled to $535 million. Imports of
alcoholic beverages rose 34.5% to $114.7 million, and Japan's
purchases of art from the EC countries doubled, reaching
$157.1 million in May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Signs Up
   Million Accounts
   For Credit Card
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., which
unveiled its credit card only 79 days ago, said it has signed
up one million accounts for the card so far and plans to be
among the nation's five largest issuers by the end of 1991.
   The million-account mark, which translates into 1.7
million card holders, is more than three times as many
accounts as experts had predicted up to this point for the
AT&amp;T Universal card, which comes as either a Visa or
MasterCard and also serves as a calling card.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The success of AT&amp;T's card hasn't gone unnoticed by four
of the nation's largest bank-card issuers, which have filed
complaints with federal and state authorities, challenging
the card's legality.
   "We are more than double where we expected to be by this
time in terms of accounts," said Paul Kahn, president of AT&amp;T
Universal Card Services Corp. "And revenue in the first month
was more than four times ahead."
   In fact, he said, card holders have made more than $100
million in purchases, and those revenues don't include
long-distance call charges.
   Analysts have pegged the card's success so far to a free
lifetime membership to any card holder who signs up this
year. AT&amp;T is also offering a 10% discount on all
long-distance calls made with the card.
   Employees have also put in long hours, said Mr. Kahn. "Our
people have been working six and seven-day weeks, more than I
would have liked, to book this business."
   AT&amp;T joined forces in March with Synovus Financial Corp.,
a Columbus, Ga., bank holding company, to distribute the AT&amp;T
Universal Card and process card accounts through Synovus's
Total Systems Services Inc. Another Synovus subsidiary,
Universal Bank, issues the cards and handles billing on card
transactions. AT&amp;T owns a small stake in Universal and buys
its credit-card receivables.
   Last month, Citicorp, Chase Manhattan Corp., BankAmerica
Corp. and MNC Financial Corp. asked the Federal Reserve
Board, the Federal Communications Commission and the Georgia
State Banking Department to examine whether AT&amp;T's venture
violates banking and communications law.
   The banks have charged that Universal Bank is controlled
by AT&amp;T and that the communications giant is therefore
violating federal banking laws that forbid commercial and
industrial companies from owning commercial banks. The banks
also claim that Universal is really a funding vehicle for an
unregulated affiliate, AT&amp;T. They also allege that the bank
is grossly undercapitalized, given its $3 million in capital
and ambitions to reach millions of customers.
   What's more, the banks have complained to the FCC that the
10% discount on calls amounts to "predatory pricing" against
other communications providers and is a price cut the FCC
hasn't authorized under its normal tariff system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Dai Nippon Printing Co.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   For Fiscal Year Rose 12%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.DNP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dai Nippon Printing Co., Japan's largest printing company,
posted a 12% rise in consolidated pretax profit for the year
ended March 31 to 93.8 billion yen ($606.6 million) from
83.52 billion yen a year earlier.
   Operating profit rose 8.5% to 84.11 billion yen from 77.52
billion yen. Net income jumped 17% to 40.99 billion yen, or
53.57 yen a share, from 35.13 billion yen, or 47.80 yen a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 6.3% to 1.075 trillion yen from 1.011 trillion
yen. Increased sales, materials and administrative costs for
the 37 consolidated subsidiaries were more than covered by
the surge in sales. Sales from printing services rose 6.1% to
962.02 billion yen, and other sales rose 8.3% to 112.49
billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PNC Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   PNC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PNC FINANCIAL Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Bruce E. Robbins, 46
years old, previously executive vice president, credit
policy, at this financial holding company, was named
president of the Central Bancorp. bank holding company unit
and vice chairman, a new post, of that unit's Central Trust
Co., both Cincinnati. At Central Bancorp., Mr. Robbins
succeeded Gary N. Kocher, 43, who was named chairman, a new
position, and remains chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Assistant Attorney General Rill Sends Message
   To Firms as He Strives to Intensify Antitrust Effort
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Business is improving for private antitrust
lawyers, and they have James Rill to thank.
   The Bush administration's chief antitrust enforcer talks
tough. In response, chief executive officers are fretting
about proposed mergers that would have sailed forward during
the hands-off Reagan years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The cop is back on the beat," says John Shenefield, the
Justice Department's antitrust chief in the late 1970s, who
now practices privately here. Joe Sims, a Washington lawyer
and former antitrust official, says he knows of several deals
that have died because of heightened antitrust anxiety.
   After only a year in office, Assistant Attorney General
Rill has convinced many in corporate America that, despite
the eight generally dormant years of the Reagan
administration, antitrust enforcement isn't dead. What's
surprising is that he has accomplished this without
challenging any notable mergers cases. In fact, after
preliminary investigations, Mr. Rill has backed away from
several large mergers, including the acquisition of Uniroyal
Goodrich Tire Co. by the French manufacturer Groupe Michelin
and two major accounting-firm mergers that reduced that
business's Big Eight to the Big Six.
   Though troubled by those cases, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum
(D., Ohio), a harsh critic of the Reagan antitrust effort,
says of Mr. Rill, "I am far more encouraged with him being in
that position."
   Charles Rule, Mr. Rill's Reagan administration
predecessor, says, "From what I can tell, there isn't a case
{brought by Mr. Rill} that I would not have brought."
   Mr. Rill says, "If people are taking a hard look at
competition analysis of proposed mergers, that's all to the
good." But he adds, "I'm certainly not trying to jawbone
mergers that would pass muster under the {government's}
guidelines."
   Mr. Rill says he has challenged 10 mergers since taking
office last June, while his predecessor challenged six in the
comparable period from June 1988 through May 1989. The
difference is greater than the numbers would indicate.
   Mr. Rill has commanded attention by launching potentially
explosive investigations of alleged price-fixing by elite
Eastern colleges and by the major airlines. Even dentists
have become targets: Earlier this year, Mr. Rill had three of
them indicted in Tuscon, Ariz., for conspiring to fix patient
fees.
   "He has carried through on previous threats" to police
health care, and other service industries could be next, says
Irving Scher, a past president of the American Bar
Association's antitrust section.
   Lately, Mr. Rill has led the Bush administration's effort
to inject U.S. antitrust law into trade relations. He has
helped elicit promises from Japanese officials that they
would enforce their own long-dormant antitrust laws against
Japanese firms that collude to exclude U.S. imports. Going
further, Mr. Rill has threatened to prosecute foreign
companies that violate U.S. antitrust laws, even if the
"anti-competitive" actions take place overseas.
   Compared to his Reagan administration predecessors, most
of whom came from academic backgrounds and adhered to an
extreme version of free-market economic theory, Mr. Rill is a
pragmatist. A career private attorney, he is more interested
in facts and figures than in arguments that mergers improve
overall efficiency. In this regard, he has a philosophical
ally in Janet Steiger, the relatively new chairman of the
Federal Trade Commission, which shares antitrust authority
with the Justice Department.
   The Reagan administration's attitude toward antitrust
"invited transactions that otherwise wouldn't have been put
forward," says Robert Pitofsky, who teaches antitrust law at
Georgetown University.
   Though he hasn't challenged any huge mergers yet, Mr. Rill
sends a message with the smaller cases he brings: his taking
legal actions that led to a restructuring of Gillette Co.'s
recent acquisition of some of Wilkinson Sword Inc.'s
international shaving-blade business. The result was the
preservation of Wilkinson's U.S. blade business as a separate
competitor against Gillette. Under the Reagan administration,
says Mr. Pitofsky, the deal "would have gone through" as
originally proposed.
   Mr. Rill applauds the 15-year trend in antitrust law
emphasizing economic analysis instead of the populist
anti-corporate rhetoric of earlier eras. But in contrast to
his predecessors, he believes in enforcing the laws as
they're written. The Reagan regulators didn't prosecute a
single case of so-called vertical price-fixing, which can
take the form of a manufacturer conspiring with list-price
retailers to shut out discount retailers. Mr. Rill says that
he's now considering bringing the first such case in a
decade.
   But concerning antitrust situations involving Japanese
companies, Mr. Rill faces a sizable problem. Japanese
officials can't be counted on to eliminate collusive
corporate practices which they have spent years perfecting,
notes William Perry, an international trade lawyer. Moreover,
if Mr. Rill attempts to sue foreign companies in U.S. courts,
he'll face stiff jurisdictional defenses.
   Moreover, Mr. Rill doesn't have the troops to fight all
his court battles at home, let alone to start new ones
abroad. The Reagan administration cut the Antitrust Division
staff by roughly 50%. Mr. Rill has added reinforcements for
the first time in nine years, but his tiny additions aren't
secure and could disappear next year as the Justice
Department continues to shift resources toward anti-drug
enforcement.
   Many private lawyers charge that the quality of the
division's lawyers fell during the Reagan years. Mr. Rill
disputes the charge but acknowledges that it's tough
recruiting young lawyers who can earn far more working for
private firms than the government's starting salary of
$30,000.
   If he is to leave a lasting imprint, Mr. Rill will have to
win White House backing to rebuild an enforcement unit that
abated in the 1980s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BCE Mobile to Sell
   Special Stock Warrants
   To 4 Securities Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BCX BCE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- BCE Mobile Communications Inc. said it will
sell three million special warrants at 25.25 Canadian dollars
(US$21.56) each to Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc., RBC Dominion
Securities Inc., Scotia-McLeod Inc. and Trilon Securities
Corp., all securities firms.
   BCE Mobile said each special warrant entitles the holder
to purchase a unit consisting of one BCE Mobile common share
and the right to purchase by April 30, 1991, another common
share at C$27.25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cellular-telephone and communications concern said net
proceeds, excluding proceeds from the exercise of the share
purchase warrants, will be about C$72.8 million.
   BCE Mobile said the investment firms have an option until
June 14 to increase the size of the issue to 3.5 million
special warrants. It said proceeds will be used mainly to
fund planned capital spending of its Bell Cellular Inc. unit.
   BCE Mobile is currently 73% owned by BCE Inc., a
Montreal-based telecommunications, energy, and real estate
concern. However, BCE Mobile said that on completion of the
special-warrant sale, BCE Inc.'s interest in BCE Mobile will
decline to 69.7%. Assuming full exercise of the share
purchase warrants, BCE's ownership would decrease to 66.6%.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange, BCE Mobile closed at
C$23.75, down 75 Canadian cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Digital Equipment Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC
</CO>
<LP>
   MAYNARD, Mass. -- Digital Equipment Corp. said it signed a
five-year agreement with the State University of New York
system to provide $30 million to $50 million of computers and
related products.
   The computer and data processing equipment concern said
the university plans to use the computers for administrative,
academic and research purposes on 17 of its 64 campuses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dissident Director,
   Partner Seek Seats
   On Goldcorp's Board
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.G CSA.A
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- A dissident director of Goldcorp Investments
Ltd. and a former director of the company's subsidiaries have
launched a proxy battle against management to gain seats on
the Goldcorp board.
   James McCartney, a partner at the Toronto law firm of
McCarthy Tetrault, said he and Robert Simon, senior vice
president and treasurer of Brascan Ltd., plan to stand for
election at the Goldcorp annual meeting, scheduled for June
25. Goldcorp is an investment concern based here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCartney said Mr. Simon currently serves on the
Goldcorp board but hasn't been renominated by management.
Last April, Mr. McCartney was replaced by management nominees
on the boards of Dickenson Gold Mines Ltd. and Wharf
Resources Ltd., both Goldcorp subsidiaries.
   In a proxy solicitation document, Mr. McCartney and Mr.
Simon question, among other things, the fees paid by Goldcorp
to CSA Management Ltd., which controls virtually all the
votes in Goldcorp through its holding of common shares.
   Goldcorp's Class A shareholders, with limited voting
powers, are entitled to elect two directors, which are the
positions that Mr. McCartney and Mr. Simon are hoping to
fill.
   CSA Management is 51% controlled by the family of Robert
McEwen, who serves as president of Goldcorp, and as chairman
and chief executive of Dickenson and Wharf.
   Mr. McEwen said allegations made in the proxy solicitation
circular are "without merit." He said the Goldcorp board will
meet tomorrow to come up with a response.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Stora AB:
   Pretax Profit Declined 22%
   In First 4 Months of Year
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.STR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sweden's Stora AB said its pretax profit in the first four
months of the year tumbled 22% to 1.12 billion kronor ($183
million) from 1.43 billion kronor a year earlier, dragged
down by increased competition and unfavorable cost trends.
   The forestry giant said group sales dropped 1.7% to 13.61
billion kronor from 13.84 billion kronor. Excluding the
effects of corporate acquisitions and divestitures, sales
increased 366 million kronor, or 3%, it said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stora said in a forecast that the relative profit decline
is expected to remain for all of 1990. It said, however, that
it expects its profit to pick up once the effects of its
recent acquisition of West German chemicals and engineering
concern Feldmuehle Nobel AG become noticeable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tenneco UAW Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TGT
</CO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Tenneco Inc. said United Auto Workers employees
at its J I Case unit ratified by a majority vote a 40-month
master contract. The conglomerate said the contract covers
5,100 active and laid-off workers from Case facilities in
Wisconsin, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota and Mississippi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   European Takeovers
   More Than Doubled
   In Quarter, Study Says
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The number and value of continental European
companies targeted for mergers and acquisitions more than
doubled in the first quarter from a year ago, a financial
data-base company said.
   IDD Information Services, a unit of United Newspapers PLC
of Britain, said the number of continental European companies
selected for acquisition in the first quarter rose to 715
from 319 a year ago. The value of the transactions increased
to $18.4 billion from $7.3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reason for the increase is largely due to continental
European companies' shift in focus from the U.S. to their own
markets, in preparation for the unification of the European
market in 1992, IDD said.
   The information service also found that the value of
transactions in Britain increased, although the number of
transactions decreased. In the 1990 quarter, 513 U.K.
concerns were targeted for acquisitions valued at $17.8
billion. That compares with 560 U.K. concerns valued at $11.8
billion.
   IDD said the number of targeted companies in Europe and
Britain for the first time exceeded the number in the U.S.,
which was 1,054 companies. The value of the U.S. transactions
was $62 billion.
   The number of continental European companies targeted by
U.S. companies increased to 34, from 26. But their total
value declined to $77.5 million from $210.5 million, IDD
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Ship Is Seized
   Over Heavy Oil-Spill
   In New York Harbor
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- New York Attorney General Robert Abrams said
that New York, New Jersey and New York City have obtained a
federal warrant to seize a British oil tanker that spilled
250,000 gallons of heavy oil into New York Harbor when it ran
aground last Thursday.
   He said the warrant gives New York and New Jersey
possession of the tanker, at least until a large bond to
cover cleanup costs is posted by the tanker's owner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The attorney general's office said the tanker, the BT
Nautilus, is owned by Nautilus Motor Tanker Co. of London,
and is operated by Bulk Tanker Management Ltd., also of
London. The warrant was obtained after the states and city
filed a lawsuit in federal court in Newark, N.J.
   In a statement, Mr. Abrams said that only by seizing the
BT Nautilus can the states ensure that the company will
provide the money needed to cover the full cost of the
cleanup and damages to the environment. His office was unable
to provide an estimate of the cleanup costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV PROPOSED a looser federation of sovereign Soviet
states.
   In an attempt to hold together a splintering Soviet Union,
the Kremlin leader told the presidents of all 15 republics to
nominate representatives and prepare drafts for a union "that
would have elements of a federation, a confederation or some
such pluralistic relationship." Gorbachev also met separately
with the leaders of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, the first
such talks since he termed their independence bids illegal,
and progress was reported toward ending the impasse.
Meanwhile, Russia approved a resolution proclaiming its
sovereignty. Gorbachev also indicated flexibility on a united
Germany's membership in the Warsaw Pact and NATO.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet parliament passed a bill to guarantee press
freedom and eliminate censorship, with officials facing
charges if they hamper journalists.
   ---
   Firefighters conquered a blaze aboard the Mega Borg oil
tanker in the Gulf of Mexico. The Coast Guard said it was
encouraged by the progress and that chances are now slim that
the disabled ship will sink. However, crude oil continues to
pour out of the vessel and authorities said a major spill is
still a possibility.
   ---
   The Senate Ethics Committee opened hearings into the
financial dealings of Sen. Dave Durenberger. A special
counsel to the committee recommended that the Minnesota
Republican be denounced by the Senate for "knowingly engaging
in unethical conduct which has brought dishonor and disrepute
to this institution."
   ---
   Bush said he hadn't decided whether to break off talks
with the Palestine Liberation Organization, but he demanded
that the Arab group condemn a May 30 terrorist raid on Israel
by one of the PLO's factions. Secretary of State Baker
earlier stated that the Arab organization's statements so far
"have fallen short of the mark."
   ---
   The Senate failed by a margin of two votes to override
Bush's veto of an Amtrak-authorization bill in a hard-fought
battle over a regulatory provision that provoked lobbying
from unions and the railroad industry. The vote followed an
intense administration campaign headed by Transportation
Secretary Skinner.
   ---
   Medical researchers reported that a comprehensive
education program for premature, underweight babies that
begins just after birth can significantly improve the
infants' chances for productive lives. More than 250,000
babies are born prematurely each year in the U.S.
   ---
   Algerians cast ballots in the country's first contested
elections since French rule ended in 1962. The interior
minister said Moslem fundamentalists were set to score an
upset victory against the ruling National Liberation Front,
based on initial results. Eleven parties vied in municipal
and provincial races in the North African nation.
   ---
   The House defied a White House veto threat, sending Bush a
bill that would free federal workers for considerably more
off-the-job political activity. The House voted to adopt a
version of the legislation the Senate approved last month for
liberalizing restrictions set by the 51-year-old Hatch Act.
   ---
   Liberian rebels began talks in Sierra Leone with officials
of the Monrovia government. Members of the Liberian Council
of Churches are mediating the negotiations to end the West
African nation's tribal war.
   ---
   The World Health Organization said the rapid spread of the
AIDS virus in developing nations means the disease will be
more widespread in the next century than previously thought.
WHO said its current projection of up to 20 million people
infected with AIDS by the year 2000 is a minimum that the
agency expects to revise upward.
   ---
   Soviet and U.S. negotiators resumed formal talks in Geneva
on proposed deep reductions in long-range nuclear weapons.
The chief Soviet negotiator said he expected to reach an
agreement this year on a Strategic Arms Reduction Talks pact.
   ---
   A cease-fire accord was reached in Sri Lanka between the
government and Tamil rebels. Declaration of the truce, to
take effect today, followed two days of renewed fighting in
the northeastern part of the Indian Ocean island. The
minority Tamils are seeking political autonomy, claiming
discrimination by the majority Sinhalese.
   ---
   Mozambique delegations arrived in neighboring Malawi for
peace talks. Representatives of Mozambique's left-wing
government and rebel leaders were to begin their first direct
discussions aimed at ending a civil war that has claimed
hundreds of thousands of lives during the past 13 years in
the southeast African nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CRI Inc.:
   REIT That Firm Manages
   To Seek Partnership Control
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE CMM AIMAZ AIMBZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   A real estate investment trust managed by CRI Inc. said it
plans to try to acquire control of four real estate limited
partnerships sponsored by Integrated Resources Inc.
   The acquisition plan by CRI Insured Mortgage Association
Inc. was disclosed in a registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. CRI Insured Mortgage is a
real estate investment trust traded on the New York Stock
Exchange that specializes in insured multifamily mortgage
investments. CRI Inc., based in Rockville, Md., is a real
estate syndicator that manages a portfolio of more than $4
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The preliminary plan to acquire control of Integrated's
American Insured Mortgage Investors series of public
partnerships, which CRI Insured said hold a total of $642
million of federally insured mortgages, falls outside an
auction of the funds that is being overseen by the judge in
Integrated's bankruptcy proceedings in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kaman Sets Venture
   With French Company
   For Defense Products
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KAMNA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BLOOMFIELD, Conn. -- Kaman Corp. signed a joint-venture
agreement with Societe Nationale des Poudres Explosifs of
Paris to develop defense and industrial products using
so-called insensitive explosive-materials technology.
   The venture, called Advanced Energetic Materials Corp. of
America, will be based in the U.S. Each company will hold a
50% stake in the endeavor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kaman, a defense contractor, said the joint venture
intends to develop cost-effective products to improve defense
capabilities of armored vehicles against munitions attacks.
Kaman said the products will use explosive materials
developed by the French company that are highly stable during
handling and operating conditions. Societe Nationale is a
specialty chemicals and advanced materials concern.
   The two companies have worked together on related research
since 1986, Kaman said. Developing products based on the
research "is the next logical step," said Richard E.W. Smith,
vice president of Kaman. Mr. Smith will be president of the
joint venture.
   Kaman said it is too early to estimate annual revenues
from the venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   AN APPEALS COURT struck down the SEC's "one share, one
vote" rule, a move that could reshape the way some companies
protect themselves from takeovers. The federal panel said the
SEC had overstepped its authority and had entered corporate
governance, an area traditionally determined by state law.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kohlberg Kravis has raised about $1.7 billion from
investors to inject into RJR Nabisco to bolster RJR's sagging
bonds, according to people close to the proposed transaction.
   ---
   Stocks surged with the Dow Jones industrials climbing
40.85 points to 2933.42, less than two points below the
record high set June 4. U.S. bonds slipped a bit. The dollar
rose against the mark but fell against the yen.
   ---
   The balance of payments narrowed to $22.9 billion in the
first quarter, its lowest level in six years. Analysts said
strong growth overseas boosted exports, while sluggish growth
in the U.S. slowed demand for imports.
                                                                                                       

   Japan's trade surplus contracted in May, but economists
said it may expand again in a few months.
   ---
   The FDIC isn't likely to permit banks to underwrite
insurance despite a new Delaware law that permits such
activity, Chairman Seidman said.
                                                                                                       

   Bank earnings fell 14% in the first quarter from a year
earlier. Seidman warned of growing problems in Midwest and
Northwest real-estate loans.
   ---
   Milken's planned appearance before a House subcommittee
this summer may be blocked, if prosecutors and regulators
have their way. They don't want the ex-Drexel official to
testify before he is sentenced Oct. 1.
   ---
   The Big Board's proposal for trading halts drew many
complaints from traders, investors and executives. The plan
was recommended after a study of ways to curb market
volatility.
   ---
   NBC will slash the audience-size guarantees it makes to
advertisers, joining rival Capital Cities/ABC. But both say
A.C. Nielsen figures showing that many viewers deserted TV in
the first quarter are inaccurate.
   ---
   Chrysler and Renault agreed to terminate their venture to
build a new mini-sport utility vehicle.
   Chrysler may be seeking Dollar Rent-a-Car, one of the few
big independent car rental firms left.
   ---
   ITT plans to sell part of its 37% stake in Alcatel N.V. to
its partner in a European telecommunications joint venture
for $640 million. Proceeds will be used primarily to buy back
stock.
   ---
   American Express hopes to raise $825 million through a
public offering of 27 million new shares. Nippon Life will
buy about 10 million of them.
   ---
   A former Chicago Merc member said orders from the trading
firm of exchange head Leo Melamed got special handling, at
times forcing local traders to take losses on trades.
   ---
   Bank of New York named Alan R. Griffith president of its
flagship bank. Mr. Griffith, a senior executive vice
president, had been a dark horse.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 157,100,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2933.42, up 40.85; transportation 1208.76, up 6.75; utilities
215.04, up 1.82.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3421.35, off
1.95.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.06, up 0.36; spot
index 131.63, up 0.07.
   Dollar: 154.55 yen, off 0.22; 1.6965 marks, up 0.0035.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken:
   Operating Profit Increased
   10% in First Four Months
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SEB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken of Sweden said group
operating profit for the first four months of this year
jumped 10% to 1.64 billion kronor ($267.3 million) from 1.49
billion kronor a year earlier, and predicted a 10% increase
for the full year.
   Sweden's biggest bank, known as SE Banken, cited a 40%
surge in foreign currency-denominated lending. But as foreign
currency credits have lower profit margins than lending in
kronor, SE Banken's net interest margin fell to 2.23% from
2.41%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SE Banken also outlined plans for a 600 million-kronor
offering of new shares to its three allies in Scandinavian
Banking Partners. The offering, representing about 3% of SE
Banken's share capital outstanding, will be subscribed by
Union Bank of Finland, Den norske Bank of Norway and Unibank
Denmark. The four banks formed the group five years ago to
circumvent regulations that then prevented cross-border
banking in Scandinavia. They agreed to swap stakes, but SE
Banken was barred from this by laws banning foreign ownership
in Swedish banks, a curb Sweden's parliament is expected to
scrap soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Businessmen's Homeless-Housing Project Ends Bitterly
   ---
   After Tenant Ire and Lawsuit,
   New York City Takes Control of Harlem Site
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Can entrepreneurs put a dent in the homeless
problem and still make a buck?
   Two black entrepreneurs here still think so -- but their
own experience suggests it isn't easy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last summer, Bentley Whitfield and his partner, Cyril
Boynes Jr., took on as daunting a task as most small-business
owners might want to face: owning and running two rooming
houses catering to homeless single men. They bought their
buildings in July. And in August, Mr. Whitfield began
interviewing the destitute in homeless shelters, confident
that he could cull promising tenants. The partners aimed to
make a profit.
   But recently, the roof caved in on the entrepreneurs'
dream of bringing a private-sector solution to the public
problem of housing the poor. By May Mr. Whitfield's only
contribution to the homeless problem was occasional volunteer
duty as an overnight shelter attendant. The city runs the
buildings, which have large liens assessed against them for
penalties.
   One city agency is seeking to recover $20,000 in special
rent-incentive payments that Mr. Whitfield and Mr. Boynes say
they just don't have. The partners are still smarting from
vandals who, they say, flooded floors directly above some
newly renovated kitchens. They also haven't forgotten tenants
who destroyed stoves in order to qualify for city welfare
department restaurant allowances -- possibly to finance drug
habits, Mr. Whitfield says.
   The venture started with high hopes. Mr. Whitfield, a
former vice president of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &amp;
Smith, met Mr. Boynes, a restaurant manager and entertainment
promoter, at a rally for housing at a Harlem church last
April. The two formed a partnership, Connection Global
Properties, to acquire the two rundown, but habitable,
rooming houses for $200,000 -- practically all
seller-financed.
   The partners then agreed with the city's Emergency
Assistance Rehousing Program to take about 15 homeless men.
The program would pay the maximum public-assistance rent of
$215 a month for singles, well below the $300 to $400 a month
charged by similar buildings in New York. But what made the
entire deal viable, Mr. Whitfield figured, was the one-time
city incentive payment of $2,500 for each homeless tenant.
Together with the meager rent roll from the buildings'
existing tenants, Mr. Whitfield projected first-year gross
revenue of between $80,000 and $90,000.
   City officials were delighted because Mr. Whitfield held
out hope for the thorniest part of the homeless problem. "The
kind of thing he's talking about is simply very exciting,"
said Gail Gordon, who was executive deputy commissioner with
the main city welfare agency last fall.
   Increasingly, experts on homelessness are placing hopes on
a revival of "single room occupancy" housing, such as the
Harlem project. In such inexpensive housing, tenants occupy
single rooms, usually sharing baths and kitchens.
   The project also had special significance to Mr.
Whitfield. Four years ago, he pleaded guilty to a mail-fraud
charge involving misuse of Merrill Lynch funds. Sentenced to
three years' probation, he earned his living as an
independent financial consultant to small businesses.
   But he says he became driven to find a way to use his Wall
Street skills for social good. "I guess redemption is the
word I would use, especially in the eyes of my family and my
co-workers at Merrill Lynch," he says.
   The Emergency Assistance Rehousing Program, finding no
serious violations, told the partners they could start
housing tenants, Mr. Whitfield says. But on July 29, the city
agency that inspects housing found 70 violations, including
rodent infestation. The partners had to dip into a reserve of
about $6,000 to make some of the most serious repairs. In
September, the city told them that the most serious
violations had been cleared.
   The partners say they were told in September that the city
incentive money -- $37,500 -- would arrive by the end of
October. Less than half the money arrived -- at the end of
November, Mr. Whitfield says. At this time, he adds, the city
was also about $6,000 behind in the rental payments.
   Michael Handy, administrator of the city's Emergency
Assistance Relocation Program, concedes some payments were
late due to paperwork problems. Sometimes, he notes, tenants
delay the process by trying to get city rent checks mailed to
themselves instead of to landlords.
   But the partners proceeded anyway. With $1,500 in October,
they formed a small company of three tenants with
construction skills to work on the building. Much of the city
incentive money went to cover expenses in arrears.
   In December the oil-fired boiler in one of the buildings
began to break down repeatedly. After the third incident, the
partners found that the locks to the basement where the
furnace was located were broken and furnace parts had been
taken. The roof chimney had been bricked up, creating a
serious health hazard. Mr. Whitfield and Mr. Boynes say they
suspect a sabotage campaign by two tenants who were upset
because they weren't chosen to be part of the construction
company.
   Tenant organizer Terry Poe claims the partners were more
negligent than unlucky. "I went out and found the only source
of heat in the buildings was the gas jets on the common
stoves," Mr. Poe says. "The buildings were in deplorable
condition," he adds, with one basement filled with standing
water, unsanitary toilets and unusable sinks.
   Mr. Poe helped some disgruntled tenants press the city to
sue the partners in New York housing court last March,
charging violations of landlord-tenant law. Under pressure of
the suit, the partners then agreed to place the buildings
under city control.
   The partners deny wrongdoing. "I didn't break the locks
off the doors, I didn't break the boiler, I didn't break the
chimney. I didn't make any money off of this -- my kids went
without," Mr. Boynes says. "And I could have made those
buildings into condos]" he adds.
   Mr. Handy says, "Mr. Whitfield simply came to it with too
little, too late. I think it was a very good idea. But I
think he was unprepared for the task, imbued with a certain
social consciousness, and then reality seeped in."
   Mr. Whitfield, who is once again counting on consulting
work, says he still thinks private SRO housing can pay. The
trick, he says, is to triple the cash reserve you think
you'll need to offset problems getting payments from a third
party, such as a city agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Royal Bank of Canada
   Agrees to Purchase
   International Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   T.RY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Royal Bank of Canada said it agreed to acquire
International Trust Co., even though Canadian legislation
doesn't permit banks to buy trust concerns, which are similar
to U.S. thrifts.
   The purchase price wasn't disclosed. International Trust
is wholly owned by closely held International Trustco Inc.,
based in Toronto. It has about 80 employees, and at the end
of 1989 it was administering on behalf of clients assets of
about 3 billion Canadian dollars (US$2.56 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jim MacKay, a Royal Bank vice president, said the purchase
would be completed as soon as proposed changes to Canada's
Bank Act permit such a transaction. But the new rules
probably won't be introduced in the federal legislature until
this fall, he said. In the meantime, Royal Bank will be able
to refer its customers seeking trust services to
International Trust. Trust services include custodial fees
for pension funds, trustee, administration and record-keeping
services for group savings plans, securities lending and
pooled investment funds.
   Canada's banks have been awaiting further deregulation of
the financial-services sector since they were permitted in
1987 to own securities dealers. One of their goals is to
expand into businesses that generate fee income, such as the
trust business and insurance. Although current regulations
prohibit banks from owning insurance companies, several of
them have established links with insurance companies by
referring their bank clients to them.
   Mr. MacKay said that by agreeing to buy International
Trust as soon as permitted by law, rather than building the
business from the ground up, Royal Bank will save three years
in the development of its trust operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NRC Proposes Fine
   Of $160,000 for 3M
   For Safety Violations
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MMM
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Nuclear Regulatory Commission proposed
fining Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co. $160,000 for the
company's alleged "willful violations" of NRC safety and
reporting requirements.
   The company has 30 days to respond to the proposed
penalty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The regulatory agency's findings relate to an air-ionizer
3M manufactured in the mid-1980s. By early 1988, the NRC
ordered a recall of some models of the ionizers, which
contained microscopic metal spheres that held particles of a
radioactive source, polonium 210.
   The recall was ordered after agency investigators found
that the ionizers, or static-removing devices, leaked
radioactivity at some customers' industrial plants. The
leakage was at levels so low that it didn't represent a
significant health hazard, and consumer products made at the
affected plants showed no contamination.
   The company later expanded the recall to include all
ionizer models containing the radioactive material, and
halted those models' production.
   The company said it is "surprised by the size of the
proposed penalty," given the company's cooperation and
compliance with NRC's requests. It is "studying the specifics
of the allegations and will respond."
   The NRC said it found seven violations. Among them, it
said 3M failed to make sure customers would use the devices
in "acceptable environments." It also said the company didn't
check returned ionizers for surface contamination, a process
that would identify any leaking devices that should be
classified unacceptable.
   The agency said 3M also failed to tell customers how the
leaking ionizers should be handled, and to provide the NRC
with complete reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Semhon Leaves Posts
   At Parlux; Kaufman
   Is Named President
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PARL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Parlux Fragrances Inc. said Gerard Semhon
resigned as president, chief executive officer and a director
to pursue other interests. Robert Kaufman, a new director,
succeeds him as president.
   A spokesman for Parlux, a fragrance company that recently
resolved a dispute with its largest shareholder by
effectively giving this holder's group control of the board,
said the management changes weren't related to that
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spokesman said the chief executive's post will be
filled, but not in the "immediate future." Mr. Semhon, 53
years old, who has an 8% stake in Parlux, said through the
spokesman that he will remain a consultant to the company.
   Parlux also is no longer exploring the sale of any of its
divisions, the spokesman said, but is "looking into the
acquisition" of other companies, which he couldn't specify.
Parlux, which has annual revenue of more than $20 million,
said earlier this year that it intended to sell all or part
of the company. Parlux has world-wide marketing rights to
fragrances such as Spectacular by Joan Collins, and Anne
Klein.
   Mr. Semhon's departure from the board reduces the number
of directors to eight. It means that five directors are
appointees of a group headed by Ilia Lekach, a director and
Parlux's largest holder, with a stake of about 30%. After the
board shift was announced several weeks ago, Mr. Lekach
agreed to drop his request for a special meeting of holders
to consider the removal of three Parlux directors.
   Parlux said at the time of the agreement that Mr. Kaufman,
36, one of Mr. Lekach's associates, would join the company as
executive vice president. Parlux also said then that Mr.
Lekach wouldn't seek further board or management changes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Higher as New Investors Spur
   Late Rally; Tokos Medical Gains 4 1/4
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks surged strongly in the afternoon,
defying some morning selling pressure and the specter of late
week economic data and options expirations.
   "The profit-taking is over. The buyers are coming back
into the market," says David Memmott, a senior trader at
Dillon Read &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index pushed ahead 3.77 to 466.56.
The OTC broad index gain couldn't quite keep pace with the
rapid rise of the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index,
which added 1.13%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up
40.85, or 1.41%.
   Traders said investors with money on the sidelines entered
yesterday skeptically after Monday's thin advance.
   But the market's ability to resist sellers in the morning
persuaded investors to join the market in the afternoon, says
Robert O'Toole, head of OTC trading at Shearson Lehman
Hutton. Mr. O'Toole said new money from the sidelines led
most of the afternoon rally.
   Friday will be triple witching for options and futures
expirations. Retail sales, the consumer price index and the
producer price index also are due to be released this week.
   Mr. O'Toole says uncertainty about what effect those
events might have could inspire caution when trading resumes
today. Pointing out, however, that the market managed its
gains yesterday with some investors already cautious. He
predicts "more of the same" for today, though perhaps
"without the same gusto."
   Advancers led decliners, 1,134 to 783. Volume was 163.3
million, up from 112.2 million.
   Sun Microsystems rode the vanguard of technology issues
which mostly paced yesterday's rally. The day's most-active
issue, Sun Microsystems added 1 3/8 to 33 on 2.5 million
shares.
   Dillon Read &amp; Co.'s Mr. Memmott says although yesterday's
advance was broad, technology stocks were conspicuous again
for their leadership.
   Technology issues got a boost in the form of positive
economic data. The semiconductor industry's book-to-bill
ratio rose to 1.14 in May from 1.09 in April suggesting
better sales to come.
   Intel was 3/8 higher to 47 7/8. Apple Computer climbed 1
1/2 to 40 1/2. Microsoft added 1 to 75 7/8. Oracle Systems
was up 1/8 to 21 1/4.
   Integrated Device Technology shares closed at 6 1/8, up
3/8.
   Novell hit a new 52-week high, jumping 2 1/4 to 53 1/4.
The company attributed the surge to a new line of network
management products.
   Lotus Development also announced a new product and also
closed higher. On the heels of a new 1-2-3 version for
computers using the Unix system V operating system, Lotus
shares were 3/4 higher at 38.
   Tokos Medical shares posted a solid 40% gain on the day
after announcing the acquisition of Physiologic Diagnostic
Service for 2.7 million Tokos shares.
   Tokos Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Mione said a Food &amp;
Drug Administration advisory panel has recommended
Physiologic Diagnostic Service's uterine activity monitor for
use in the detection of preterm labor. Mr. Mione said Tokos
has a similar application for a similar device pending now
before the FDA. Tokos shares closed at 15, up 4 1/4, in heavy
trading.
   Healthdyne shares were hurt initially after that FDA panel
declined to recommend its uterine activity monitor.
Healthdyne recovered in the afternoon, however, ending the
day unchanged at 11 3/4.
   Good Guys managed a 2 3/4 point, or 13%, rise to 24 1/2.
Traders and analysts couldn't explain the interest in the
consumer electronics retailer.
   Vivigen lost 1 1/8 to 15 1/2 when it revealed that its
previous second quarter estimates had been too optimistic.
   Magma Power dropped 2 1/4 to 30 1/2. Magma Power said
storm damage to a power line will hurt its second quarter
results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Pencils Sharp?
   E.T.S. to Offer
   Employee Tests
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   OLS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   The people who run the College Board exams want to put
office workers to the test.
   Educational Testing Service, publisher of the Scholastic
Aptitude Test and other educational and professional exams,
is developing a series of products that would assess basic
workplace skills, from computer know-how to secretarial savvy
to memo-writing ability.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today the Princeton, N.J., company is to announce its
first products for the office-testing field, a series of
software packages to probe proficiency on a variety of
word-processing programs used in millions of businesses
around the country. Tests for less concrete skills are still
in the developmental stage.
   If they catch on, the new E.T.S. tests -- billed by a
spokeswoman as the "S.A.T.s" of the workplace -- could prompt
a shake-up in the burgeoning employee evaluation industry.
E.T.S.'s prominence as the nation's best-known testing
company stands to give its workplace tests added credibility.
This could encourage the spread of employee testing,
especially among employers concerned about liability for
administering tests that are deemed unfair, experts say.
   Companies now can sort among thousands of testing products
and techniques, from written personality and integrity tests
to computer-based simulations of corporate dilemmas. A recent
Ford Foundation study charged that much workplace testing has
grown out of control, with little regulation existing to
verify test validity and to ensure that tests aren't biased
in themselves or misused by companies.
   E.T.S. hasn't escaped criticism. Some educators say the
company hasn't done enough to discourage colleges from using
its tests as the sole standard to judge applicants. And the
company's new workplace tests could be abused because
employers will be free to buy and administer them without
supervision.
   But E.T.S.'s reputation is bound to give it a strategic
edge. One possible result, observers say, could be the first
nationally accepted benchmarks for judging secretaries,
clerks and other entry-level workers, a group assailed by
many employers for lacking basic qualifications.
   "E.T.S.'s entry into this kind of testing will clearly add
value and credibility," says Walter M. Haney, a senior
research associate with Boston College's Center for the Study
of Testing, Evaluation and Educational Policy.
   E.T.S. itself isn't shy about heralding its impact. The
name "is like a Good Housekeeping seal of approval," a
spokesman says.
   The company is "not looking to make bundles and bundles of
money in the short run" with workplace testing, says Alice
Irby, an E.T.S. vice president overseeing the venture. E.T.S.
revenue, which has increased steadily for the past five
years, reached $256 million in the year ending June 30, 1989.
   But E.T.S. faces troubles in its largest longtime market:
college admissions testing. A decline in the population of
high school seniors caused a modest slide in the S.A.T.
business last year, to just under two million tests
administered. And if demographic projections hold, demand may
drop for the company's range of professional-school
admissions tests, too.
   E.T.S. has moved to diversify. The company makes
certification and licensing tests for dozens of industries
and professions, from architecture to food preparation to
teaching. E.T.S. also has taken on a variety of private
companies as clients in recent years, evaluating their
internal training and testing programs.
   Overall demand for employee evaluation is huge. About half
of all companies conduct some form of competency testing,
mostly among job applicants, according to a recent American
Management Association survey. And the number is expected to
grow, as companies step up their efforts to find the best
workers they can in a shrinking pool of young people.
   E.T.S. contends its new products will differ from many
current personnel tests because they will be computer-based,
and will generate diagnoses for further training as well as
assessments. "One thing that's happened in corporate training
programs is that companies never know whether that training
takes," Ms. Irby says.
   The software packages set for announcement today are
designed to test users of WordPerfect, DisplayWrite, and
Microsoft Word, three popular word-processing programs. The
tests will take between 20 and 30 minutes each. They will run
through a variety of tasks and then score performance -- and
recommend additional training -- in such areas as editing
skills, file management and document creation. Each
test-taker will also receive one of three ratings: junior,
senior or specialist. (Anyone taking a test presumably would
have at least some experience with the program in question.)
   E.T.S. developed the tests in conjunction with closely
held Kee Incorp, Columbia, Md., which markets computer
training classes. Kee had tried to develop the tests on its
own, but clients balked because they weren't certain about
the validity of the exams, says Doug Becker, Kee's executive
vice-president.
   E.T.S. agreed to become a partner but "required that we
rebuild the test from scratch" to ensure fairness, he says.
   Kee says it trained 300,000 people last year in one-day
classes on various software programs. The new software tests
are to be marketed through subscriptions costing $795
annually, with additional charges for each product. "Demand
for a program like this is in the tens of millions of
dollars," Mr. Becker says.
   Kee and E.T.S. are beginning work on tests, expected about
a year from now, that will gauge expertise on Lotus 1-2-3 and
other spreadsheet programs. Other exams are under
consideration to measure how well people can handle data base
and operating system programs, Mr. Becker says.
   More broadly, E.T.S. is developing a variety of "workplace
literacy" exams for testing and training employees at all
corporate levels, from clerks to managers, Ms. Irby says.
   It's too early to know how such tests will turn out, Ms.
Irby says, but they will probably involve interactive
video-based systems, offering test-takers a chance to answer
questions via computer. Such technology is the basis for a
new 20-hour training and testing program E.T.S. has helped
develop for appraising nursing assistants, Ms. Irby says. The
tests for general office skills may be ready within two
years, she adds.
   One arena likely to be affected by the word-processing
exams is the temporary-help industry. Olsten Corp., Westbury,
N.Y., is installing the E.T.S./Kee programs in its 540 temp
offices, and believes they will lead to a "more precise
match" between client needs and the secretaries sent into the
workplace. But the nation's largest temp company, Manpower
Inc., based in Milwaukee, questioned whether the new exams
would prove superior to word-processing tests it developed
for its offices.
   Testing industry experts say that the new tests, simply
because their focus is so specific, may mark an improvement
over many broad-based employment exams currently available.
   But the tests could prove problematic, they say, if
employers set fixed cutoff scores and use the exams to
exclude workers who may be worth hiring and training. "A test
is a tool that can be used or applied poorly," says Mr. Haney
of Boston College.
   Cinthia Schuman, executive director of the National Center
for Fair and Open Testing, a Cambridge, Mass., test-reform
group, says employers shouldn't latch onto the tests simply
because they may be billed as "validated" by E.T.S., given
the company's role in developing them, too.
   "Where are the people completely outside the system who
have no financial stake in the outcome?" she asks. "Where are
they in the process? That's what independent validation is."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Fails by Two Votes to Override
   Bush Veto of Amtrak-Authorization Bill
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   GE UNP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (ICC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate failed by a margin of two votes
to override President Bush's veto of an Amtrak-authorization
bill in a hard-fought battle over a regulatory provision that
provoked intense lobbying from unions and parts of the
railroad industry.
   Ten Republicans joined all 55 Democrats on the initial
motion to override, and Majority Leader George Mitchell
served notice that he would retain the right to force a
second vote if sufficient support can be found to reverse the
outcome.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The evening roll call followed a strenuous administration
lobbying campaign spearheaded by Transportation Secretary
Samuel Skinner in a striking partnership with Drew Lewis, a
former transportation secretary and current chairman and
chief executive officer of Union Pacific Corp. At one point,
Mr. Skinner and Mr. Lewis, working from Mr. Skinner's office,
placed a conference call to Sen. Bob Packwood (R., Ore.),
giving the senator the opportunity, he joked later, to talk
to past and present transportation secretaries at the same
time.
   The Senate action came as a House Appropriations
subcommittee approved a $83.6 billion veterans, space and
housing bill providing more than $2.25 billion for the space
station in fiscal 1991 but denying most of the Bush
administration's request for its moon and Mars initiative.
   President Bush, in vetoing the Amtrak legislation last
month, objected not to the spending authorization but to a
requirement that tightened Interstate Commerce Commission
regulation of freight-railroad takeovers. Last week, the
House voted 294-123 to override him. The fate of the
legislation, which would authorize $2 billion for Amtrak over
three years is unclear. The president would sign
stripped-down legislation, according to White House
officials, but House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman
John Dingell (D., Mich.) has warned that he wouldn't support
quick enactment of legislation that didn't contain the ICC
provision.
   The ICC, under the disputed provision, would have the
authority to review the proposed takeover of any of the
nation's 16 largest freight railroads by non-rail companies.
The commission already has the authority to review
acquisitions of railroads by other railroads. Proponents,
including rail unions, said the ICC provision closed a
loophole in current law.
   Thirty-five Republicans stood with Mr. Bush in the fight,
and within party ranks, there was strong pressure to uphold
Mr. Bush's string of victories on veto fights. And among the
most high-profile conversions was Sen. Larry Pressler, who
had been an early supporter of the regulatory provision and
had signed the conference report on the Amtrak bill. "We
don't have Amtrak in South Dakota," said Mr. Pressler later,
but his apparent reversal angered proponents of the bill.
"The president vetoed Pressler's bill, and Pressler supported
him," said Sen. James Exon (D. Neb.).
   Within the House appropriations bill yesterday, the rising
costs of the space station helped to boost total funding for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration above $14
billion. But within these totals, the subcommittee lists
about $314 million in reductions from the ambitious moon and
Mars program.
   The high-speed national aerospace plane, which was cut
severely by the same panel last year, escaped with only
modest reductions by comparison. And preliminary numbers
indicated NASA's share of the program would grow to about
$114 million in the new budget year beginning Oct. 1.
Elsewhere in NASA, the bill makes only modest reductions from
the costly, large satellite Earth-observing system program
for which General Electric Co. is a major contractor. But $10
million would be shifted to boost significantly the smaller
satellite "Earth probes" program to $35 million, with much of
the new money targeted to the so-called TOMS ozone-mapping
spectrometer project.
   Within the National Science Foundation, research funding
would rise by nearly 9% to $1.85 billion, $100 million below
the president's budget. The subcommittee chose to put more
emphasis on science and engineering education funding, which
would grow by almost 40% to $285 million.
   Among major domestic accounts, the measure provides $12.3
billion for veterans medical care, a 7.8% increase over
fiscal 1990. And federal contributions for assisted housing
for elderly and low-income households would grow sharply to
$11.6 billion. The new figure represents an estimated 47%
increase above current funding and includes a major expansion
of available housing for poor families and $2.7 billion for
public housing modernization, $850 million above the
administration's request.
   Within the Environmental Protection Agency, abatement,
control and compliance accounts would total more than $1
billion, a 25% increase over current funding. And the bill
rejects proposed cuts by the administration in water and
sewer construction grants, which would be roughly frozen near
$2 billion.
   Separately, the House Judiciary Committee authorized $110
million for the Justice Department to prosecute thrift fraud
in fiscal 1991, roughly doubling the amount requested by the
Bush administration.
   The judiciary panel's action was part of an overall $7.4
billion Justice Department authorization for the year
beginning Oct. 1. Congress hasn't passed an authorization
bill for the Justice Department since 1980, implicitly
leaving the establishment of priorities to the appropriations
stage of the budget process. Committee Chairman Jack Brooks
(D., Texas) has said he will try to push through an
authorization bill this year as a way of holding the
department more accountable to Congress.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900613-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900613-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First American Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FAMRA
</CO>
<LP>
   FIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL Corp. (Santa Ana, Calif.) --
Anthony R. Moiso, president and chief executive officer of
Santa Margarita Co., was elected a director of this title
insurance concern. The appointment increases the board to 15
members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
