<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0183
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0183.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   PepsiCo Inc. Splits
   Shares 3-for-1
   After Stock Run-Up
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc. declared a 3-for-1 stock split. The move
followed a doubling of its stock price in the past 19 months.
   The stock price for the snack food, soft drink and
restaurant company, which has been one of Wall Street's
darlings, had increased about 25% this year alone.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a brief halt in trading to announce the split, the
news yesterday pushed Pepsi up another $1.375, to close at
$79.75, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   The run-up in Pepsi's stock largely reflects the company's
strong and reliable earnings growth. For nearly four years,
the Purchase, N.Y., concern has reported lockstep quarterly
gains of at least 20% in per-share operating earnings.
Investors have also been attracted by the recession-resistant
nature of Pepsi's businesses and the company's prospects for
expansion in fledgling markets overseas.
   What's more, Pepsi's stock had gained a bit of momentum
earlier this year on speculation that food and tobacco
concern Philip Morris Cos. might want to acquire Pepsi. In
March, a business magazine tossed Pepsi into a smorgasbord of
companies considered to be appetizing acquisition candidates
for cash-rich Philip Morris. Pepsi and Philip Morris won't
talk about the speculation, which analysts and investors have
since dismissed as unfounded.
   Pepsi, which hasn't split its stock since May 1986, said
the latest split "signals our interest in individual
shareholders -- the men and women who buy our products."
Likewise, when Coca-Cola Co.'s stock got a little pricey
earlier this year, the Atlanta-based soft-drink company
itself declared a 2-for-1 stock split.
   The Pepsi split, which is payable Sept. 4 to stock of
record Aug. 10, will triple the number of authorized shares
to 1.8 billion. As of June, Pepsi had about 266.8 million
common shares outstanding. On a post-split basis, Pepsi
declared a quarterly dividend of 10 cents a share, payable
Sept. 30 to stock of record Sept. 14. The company has been
paying 30 cents a share quarterly, indicating no change in
the payout rate.
   The split won't require approval from shareholders under
the laws of North Carolina, the state where the company is
incorporated and where a turn-of-the-century pharmacist
whipped up the first Pepsi-Cola soft drink.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0182
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0182.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stanhome Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STH
</CO>
<LP>
   STANHOME Inc. (Westfield, Mass.) -- Alejandro Diaz,
45-year-old president of this direct marketer of
personal-care and home products, was named to the additional
post of chief executive officer, effective next Wednesday,
succeeding H.L. Tower, 58, who will remain chairman. Mr.
Diaz's other current title of chief operating will be
dropped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0181
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0181.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Procter &amp; Gamble's
   President Responds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   PG CPB
</CO>
<LP>
   I must comment on your July 10 article concerning CEO
succession, which importantly involved Procter &amp; Gamble and
me. This article represented a sad day for journalism in
general, and for The Wall Street Journal as far as I am
concerned. I say that from a professional standpoint, not
just because of my personal involvement.
   We knew this story was being written. We had been told by
your reporter that she had heard from several sources that I
had interviewed for and had been among the final contenders
for the Campbell Soup CEO job. When I learned about this I
was on a trip in the Far East. Gerry Gendell, head of our
public-affairs division, called the reporter personally to
relay our conversation on this subject. We told her the
reports she had received were "flat wrong." I didn't have one
conversation, or one contact about the Campbell position with
anyone. Moreover, we confirmed this in writing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Your staff knows our company. We do not lie. At a minimum
I would have expected, with this flat denial, a professional
job would have been done of finding out what the truth was. I
feel sure that a contact with the appropriate senior people
at Campbell could have revealed that it was not true.
   Beyond this, there are statements in the article about my
personal feelings that are absolutely wrong. Of course, there
is no way for a reporter who doesn't know me or my associates
closely to be aware of this. But what valid purpose does it
serve to speculate on this?
   We try to work with the Journal in an open way. We gave
you the right input on this story. It is depressing to me
that despite that input, unsubstantiated rumors were allowed
to control the day -- and that the appropriate research was
not done to come to a proper determination of the facts.
   John E. Pepper
   President
   Procter &amp; Gamble Co.
   Cincinnati
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, July 26, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.875% 30 to 44 days; 7.85% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 119 days; 7.70% 120 to 149
days; 7.65% 150 to 179 days; 7.55 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.97%
30 days; 7.93% 60 days; 7.88% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.69% two
months; 7.71% three months; 7.89% six months; 8.09% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.95% one month; 8% three months;
8.05% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.87% 30 days; 7.79% 60 days; 7.75%
90 days; 7.70% 120 days; 7.66% 150 days; 7.62% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 1/8% -
8% two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 1/8% - 8% four
months; 8 1/8% - 8% five months; 8 1/8% 8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/8% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.40% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.91%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.85%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.50%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.75%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Whirlpool Reports
   Profit Decline of 26%
   In Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   WHR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BENTON HARBOR, Mich. -- Whirlpool Corp., hammered by a
loss from its Brazilian affiliates, said second-quarter
earnings fell 26% to $37 million, or 54 cents a share.
   Like other manufacturers with operations in Brazil, the
appliance maker has suffered under that country's economic
reform plan introduced last March. In the year-earlier
period, Whirlpool earned $50 million, or 72 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The current results were slightly better than some
analysts expected. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, Whirlpool closed yesterday at $28, up 37.5 cents.
   The company said the outlook in Brazil for the rest of the
year remains uncertain, but added that improvements which
started in the second quarter have continued into the current
quarter.
   Whirlpool said that, if its Brazilian affiliates' results
were excluded in both the latest and the year-earlier second
quarters, earnings would have risen 18%. It said North
American appliance operations were strong, despite a slumping
market for new homes.
   Revenue for the quarter rose 4% to $1.71 billion from
$1.64 billion. For the six months, earnings fell 27% to $66
million, or 96 cents a share, from $91 million, or $1.31 a
share a year earlier. Revenue rose 4% to $3.34 billion from
$3.22 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By ASRA Q. Nomani
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Top Managers' Spouses
   Make Fewer Trips
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ONE RAREFIED business perk is becoming more rare: paid
travel expenses for an executive's spouse.
   After rising for most of the 1980s, the percentage of
companies that cover a spouse's travel has slipped for the
past two years, according to Hewitt Associates, a benefits
consulting firm. Last year, 47% of major U.S. employers
provided the perk, down from a peak of 53% in 1987. The
survey indicates that only about 1% of the work force gets
the benefit -- mostly elite executives earning at least
$100,000 annually.
   "The outrageous days are gone," says Webb Bassick, a
Hewitt partner and executive compensation specialist. "There
were an awful lot of corporate jets flying to New York for a
trip to Bloomingdale's. You don't see that happening nearly
as much." He recalls the wife of one company executive who
flew on the corporate jet to Paris to run in a marathon.
   Increased public scrutiny is one reason for the
turnaround. Also, companies are being more careful to adhere
to tax laws that don't allow tax deductions for non-business
spouse trips.
   A growing number of companies now pay for trips only if a
spouse's or companion's presence benefits the company, a
survey by consultants Runzheimer International shows. "It's
usually only the big boys who get to take their wives along,
for the cocktail parties," says Brad Burris, a Runzheimer
executive vice president.
                                                                                                       

   Getting Squared Away On
   Nonsmoking Sections
                                                                                                       

   SOME FOREIGN airlines take an unusual approach to creating
nonsmoking sections: They seat smokers on one side of the
cabin and nonsmokers right across the aisle. But that appears
to be changing as the effects of the anti-smoking crusade
ripple out to overseas carriers.
   Many foreign carriers haven't yet banned smoking, as U.S.
airlines have done on most domestic flights. They are,
however, starting to copy the way U.S. airlines traditionally
separated their passengers, by seating smokers in the back
rows. Lineas Aereas Paraguayas switched to that system after
realizing that smoke fumes were ruining air filters
throughout its planes rather than in just one section,
increasing costs. LOT Polish Airlines switched to a
front-back system last year on flights between Los Angeles
and Montreal after getting passenger complaints.
   Nonsmoking advocates, flush with victory in North America,
say side-by-side sections are on their hit list. "We're going
to make it much harder for these airlines to get away with
it," says David Sweanor, staff legal counsel at Non-Smokers'
Rights Association, a Canadian group.
   Fliers tell of side-by-side divisions on carriers in
Eastern Europe, South America, Asia and Africa, including
Brazil's Varig Brazilian Airlines, Malev Hungarian Airlines
and Air Tanzania. Sometimes, the smoking side changes from
flight to flight. Either way, nonsmokers aren't thrilled.
   "It's completely useless," says Stanton Glantz, a
passive-smoking expert at the University of California, San
Francisco. "If somebody sitting across the aisle from you is
smoking, he or she might as well be sitting on your lap."
                                                                                                       

   Airlines Face Barrage
   Of Lawsuits on Fares
                                                                                                       

   ANTITRUST PROBES of the nation's airlines are attracting
the legal sharks.
   At least eight law firms have filed class-action suits
recently, charging big airlines with price fixing. Another
five to nine law firms are said to be considering filing
suits soon.
   The suits follow confirmation that the Justice Department
is investigating whether airlines are violating antitrust
laws. Among other things, federal sleuths are looking into
whether carriers set prices using an electronic fare
exchange, Airline Tariff Publishing Co. The department has
requested information about the airlines' relationship with
the industry's fare clearinghouse. The airlines and the fare
exchange, named as a defendant in the suits, deny any
wrongdoing.
   Listed as plaintiffs in most of the suits are all
customers who have bought tickets since Jan. 1, 1988. That's
also the date from which the Justice Department seeks
information from airlines for one of its inquiries.
   Among other things, the suits charge that carriers signal
and discipline each other through the fare exchange. One
result, the suits claim, is higher fares.
   "This is pushing forward the question of what kind of
cases make for a conspiracy," says Michael Basch, a lawyer at
Fine, Kaplan &amp; Black, Philadelphia, which this week filed a
suit in federal district court in Pittsburgh. "There are
rarely cases involving millions of people."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   WHEN UNITED Airlines Flight 79 was delayed July 16 leaving
New York's La Guardia Airport, some passengers grumbled that
they wanted to return to the gate. Flight attendants usually
nix such requests. This time, though, they took a vote of
passengers. Only nine of 120 passengers wanted to return, a
flight attendant told one passenger, but the minority got
their wish. She claimed the Federal Aviation Administration
requires that even if one passenger wants to return, the crew
must abide. Nonsense, says an FAA spokesman. A United
spokesman admits the attendant was probably winging it. . . .
What will guests steal next? The Hotel Inter-Continental in
Miami leaves notes in leather-bound folders that hold hotel
stationery: "Please do not remove. . . . If you wish to
purchase a new folder, please contact concierge." A hotel
spokeswoman says the warning has cut folder thefts in half,
to about 50 a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Hussein Takes Some Royal Liberties
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   The June 25 article "King Hussein Fears Mideast Strife
Could Flare Into War, Chides U.S" by Karen Elliott House and
Geraldine Brooks is a further example of royal disinformation
and majestic misconceptions. If we assume that the king has
not forgotten his ill-fated military alliance in 1967 with
Egypt and Syria (despite clear messages from Israel that if
he stayed out of the hostilities not an inch of the
territories he then controlled would be touched) and the
demagogy of the Arab leadership that succeeded in convincing
itself of Israel's imminent demise, surely this "longtime
U.S. ally and Arab moderate" should not resort to such
provocative history-twisting remarks.
   It should be noted that, as in 1967, there is no
warmongering on the Israeli side. We are indeed involved with
the great event of Jewish immigration, mainly from the Soviet
Union, and the immigrants' successful absorption into our
free society. Peace is, therefore, our basic and absolute
need and desire. We have never taken a belligerent attitude
toward those who have accepted our presence. If "the region
is approaching the same state of hair-trigger tension," such
tension comes from the king's best friend and ally -- the
Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Combine this with the recent announcement of the setting
up of a joint Iraqi-Jordanian air squadron and other joint
military maneuvers between these two countries and one can
perhaps begin to understand which path the king has started
to tread.
   "With a photo of the Iraqi president just behind his {King
Hussein's} shoulder," the U.S. and the entire world should
recall that old adage: Tell me who your friends are and I'll
tell you who you are. Your majesty, take down that picture of
Saddam Hussein and replace it with that of Anwar Sadat. This
would symbolize a much more fruitful expression of your
concern for the future welfare of your people and the entire
Middle East.
   J. Eshel
   J.J. Boock
   Tel Aviv
   ---
   Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been trying to
reach a comprehensive peace agreement with its Arab
neighbors. In contrast, 20 Arab countries have refused to
negotiate with or recognize Israel.
   The 1967 war into which Israel was pulled saw Israelis at
a moment of fear, despair and extreme anxiety for their fate.
Arab countries, on the other side, coordinated their
aggression toward Israel by closing vital water channels,
mobilizing their armies and threatening Israel for months
before the war. Israel has never talked of starting a war. As
to the Arabs, historical documents and speeches attest to
belligerent statements made by Gamal Abdel Nasser (then
president of Egypt) and King Hussein of Jordan right before
the 1967 war. King Hussein must be a hypocrite to say that
the Arabs "fell into a trap." He should read his own 1967
speeches, to remember how he predicted the Israelis would be
pushed into the sea.
   King Hussein's preoccupations are not the poor Jewish
immigrants who are only trying to escape anti-Semitic
beatings and who plan to live in peace. Since practically
none want to settle in the territories, Soviet immigrants
pose no danger to Arabs who search for peace. They pose an
obstacle only to those who dream of destroying the Jewish
state.
   King Hussein is acting out of self-fear. The land where he
"reigns" is about 70% Palestinian (not 50% as your reporters
write), and he realizes that the Palestinian people are
growing unhappy with his authoritative regime.
   What is the true formula for disaster? King Hussein's
instability, and his desperate alliance with Saddam Hussein,
the butcher of Iraq.
   Daniel Lubetzky
   Tokyo
   ---
   King Hussein of Jordan is at it again. As he has done in
the past, he rewrites history, blames Israel and the U.S. for
Middle East problems, conjures up irrational fears that
Israel will expel the Palestinians from the territories, and
refuses to accept his own responsibility for continuing
conflict in the region.
   He has the gall to say that Israel lured the Arabs into
the 1967 war. Arab aggression against Israel was a constant
since the Jewish state's creation in 1948 and reached a high
point in 1967, including Egypt's closure of the Straits of
Tiran, Syria's massing of troops and Jordan's attack on
Israel despite Israeli pleas to King Hussein to stay out of
the war. King Hussein knows his decision to attack was a
historic blunder; rather than face up to that fact, he
continues to blame the party he attacked, which had the nerve
to defend itself and win the war.
   As usual, the king criticizes U.S. support for Israel and
suggests that such support could lead the region to war. He
omits to say that the U.S. continues to be a staunch ally of
the king and that if there is a threat of war in the region
it comes from the bellicosity of Iraq's leader Saddam Hussein
and the massing of ever-more-sophisticated arms -- missiles,
chemical and biological weapons -- by the Arab world.
   King Hussein conveniently ignores the fact that, after all
these years, he still has not recognized Israel, established
relations or moved toward peace. His words indicate that he
isn't quite the moderate that he is widely perceived to be.
   Abraham H. Foxman
   National Director
   Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Unbeleaguered Ayer
   Isn't Going Public
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your July 10 Advertising column "Beleaguered Ayer
Considers Going Public," written after an interview with
Glenn Corlett, Ayer's new chief financial officer, there are
some important misconceptions that I feel need to be set
straight.
   We are not going public. We want the control of our agency
in our own hands. That's the right way to serve clients.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The article touched on the fact that we are being
contacted by agencies looking for some type of partnering
arrangement with us. Since Ayer is independent, large,
profitable and has the privilege of serving a roster of
blue-chip clients, this type of contact is not surprising.
   We are not "beleaguered." We are, and always have been, a
profitable business. We are not "reeling" from account
losses. In fact, we have gained more than $200 million of new
business world-wide, including $70 million domestically in
the past six months. And we are in the finals of a number of
large and important new business presentations.
   Mr. Corlett has been here for one month. He gave the
reporter good answers to some difficult, probing questions.
How those were incorporated into the story is debatable.
   In my strong opinion, an advertising agency is a
personal-service business whose primary motivation must be to
do the very best it can for its clients. Only a private,
employee-owned agency can totally fulfill this promise.
   Jerry J. Siano
   Chairman and CEO
   NW Ayer Inc.
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boston Edison Posts
   Loss in 2nd Quarter,
   Cites Operating Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BSE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Boston Edison Co., citing higher operating
costs, reported a loss for the second quarter of about $2
million, or 17 cents a share.
   The latest quarter's loss compared with a year-earlier
earnings of $1.1 million, which, after preferred stock
dividends, was equal to a loss of 9 cents a share. Revenue
fell about 4.6% to $269.7 million from $282.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for the utility said that Boston Edison's
revenue isn't growing "as fast as expected" and thus didn't
keep pace in the latest quarter with operating and
maintenance expenses.
   He added that while electricity sales increased by 0.6%
during the quarter, customer "fuel-charge" revenue dropped.
The revenue is based on how much replacement power Boston
Edison purchases from outside utilities, he explained. Those
purchases were lower in the latest quarter than last year,
largely because the company's Pilgrim nuclear power plant has
been operating at full capacity this year.
   For the six months, the utility earned $28.5 million, or
51 cents a share, after an accounting change that added 41
cents a share to the company's profit. The change consists of
recording unbilled estimated revenue, which "provides a
better matching of revenue and expenses," the company said.
In the year-earlier six months, the company earned $12.9
million, or 11 cents a share. Revenue rose slightly to $579.3
million from $579 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Shooting Sport for Mom and Junior Too
   ----
   By Michael Pearce
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Houston -- The shooter started the morning with the usual
gentle nervousness one feels when trying a sport for the
first time. "I've never shot sporting clays. I've only shot
skeet -- twice," the gunner admitted while studying the clays
course at the American Shooting Center here.
   Eventually a gun was uncased and the shooter stepped up to
try the first shots of the day. Signs of anxiety continued as
the gunner finished the first station, as well as the second
and the third.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But there was a definite transformation on station number
four. The shooter said "pull" and an accelerated target
bounced and rolled from left to right. Instinct took over and
the shooter snapped the gun up and shot, shattering the
four-inch disk. You could hear the confidence building when
the next target was called. It, too, was broken quickly and
cleanly.
   Shellie Collier opened her over-under shotgun, tucked it
under her arm and headed for station five wearing the broad
smile of someone who's just discovered a new love. It's the
kind of smile that's being seen in almost epidemic frequency
on sporting-clays fields across America.
   Basically unheard of in the U.S. a decade ago, sporting
clays is unquestionably one of the fastest growing sports in
the country. January 1986 saw but three American
sporting-clays courses. Current estimates range from 300 to
500 or more.
   Popular in Europe for a half-century, some say sporting
clays is the optimum marriage of wing and target shooting.
Every station and course are unique, offering shooters
targets that resemble the challenges of gunning in the wilds.
Typical stations include targets settling in over a pond like
landing ducks or fast, vertical climbing targets like flushed
woodcock. For added realism targets come in four different
sizes.
   Sporting clays also attracts different varieties of
shooters, lots of beginners -- and women like Ms. Collier. In
fact, the day she had her first experience with sporting
clays it was females-only at the course west of Houston. The
Dallas-based businesswoman was one of 240 shooters at the
popular Ladies Charity Classic.
   In its third year, the classic has fulfilled its goals of
raising tens of thousands of dollars for a local women's
shelter as well as introducing hundreds of local women to the
sport. Featuring free lessons and available shotguns, the
classic has drawn women for a variety of reasons, including
some who are eager to learn for business as well as pleasure.
   "A lot of women who come to shoot sporting clays are
professional women," said Sue King, a leading organizer of
the classic and a nationally respected sporting-clays shooter
and instructor. "They've discovered that it can really help
them to learn how to shoot. Here in Texas a lot of
corporations will have a bird lease where they'll take
clients and staff hunting. You're also seeing more and more
corporations using sporting-clays courses for business
entertainment."
   And this is a sport in which women easily can compete with
men. "Shooting is the perfect sport for women. There's no
need for brute strength or blazing speed like in most
sports," said Ms. King, whose shooting average is one of the
highest in the nation -- male or female. "It's a matter of
hand-eye coordination and being able to stand in one spot,
swing a shotgun and say `pull.'"
   Many women at the classic said they were learning the
sport to better their family life. "It's getting harder and
harder to find something for the whole family, but sporting
clays is that kind of sport," said Bud Ward, publisher of
Outdoor Life and an avid sporting-clays shooter and promoter.
"It's really a pleasure to go out and simply walk from
station to station. It's also a lot of fun for women and some
children to shoot. At a recent national championship we saw a
lot of 10- to 12-year-old shooters who were really very
good."
   Unlike the not-too-distant past, women and young shooters
are finding it easier and easier to get into the shooting
sports. Ms. King expressed relief that many sporting-goods
companies now are marketing shotguns and shooting clothing
specially designed for women and children.
   Such inexperienced gunners also are finding a growing
amount of information and encouragement in the outdoor media.
Outdoor Life, for example, is publishing a regular
sporting-clays column and a growing number of family-oriented
hunting and fishing articles.
   Those who know the shooting industry realize that getting
women and children involved could be critical to the future
of sport shooting in America. "We think it's extremely
important that we get women, and new shooters in general,
involved in some sort of shooting sport," said Sandy Wood,
shooting promotions manager at Winchester-Olin Corp., the
ammo company that donated the ammunition for the classic.
   "For one thing, women are a major voice in this country,
and the young shooters will be in the future. Anytime you can
get them shooting it tones down some of the hysteria about
gun ownership," said Mr. Wood.
   Outdoor Life publisher Bud Ward agreed, saying, "You can
teach them a lot with just one round of sporting clays. They
quickly learn that shooting and guns can be rewarding as well
as lots of fun. Also, all they have to do is break a few
targets and they're hooked on shooting. It's like eating
popcorn; try it once and you're addicted."
   ---
   Mr. Pearce is a free-lance outdoor writer based in
Manhattan, Kan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Retail Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sales at Japan's department stores and other
major retail stores went up 12% in June from a year earlier
to 1.622 trillion yen ($10.81 billion), the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry announced.
   Ministry officials said unseasonally warm weather during
the month led to brisk sales of summer clothing and such
products as air conditioners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Bookshelf: The Red Planet Beckons
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   There was a collective national "frisson" when JFK
announced in the early 1960s that the U.S. would put a man on
the moon by the end of the decade. When President Bush
announced recently that he wanted to reach Mars by 2019, the
response was far from deafening. There was some discussion,
there were some magazine covers -- but no true universal
cheer.
   Americans now are not looking toward the stars. They are
looking at a burgeoning federal deficit and other hard fiscal
realities. Americans also have seen our country's grand
scientific achievements either perish in a ball of flame (the
Challenger disaster) or end in grotesque failure (the Hubble
Telescope's imitation of Mr. Magoo). This is why an excellent
book such as "Mars Beckons" (Knopf, 244 pages, $24.95) by
John Noble Wilford still gives one mixed emotions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wilford, a science correspondent for the New York
Times, paints a picture that is pleasing to our adventurous
eye. But one can't help but be seized by the skepticism of
the present day, for it will be quite hard to slip the surly
financial bonds that stricture America's expeditionary
yearnings.
   Yet Mr. Wilford sounds the theme of inevitability in his
book: "Humans will go forth to Mars. In the next two or three
decades perhaps, in the twenty-first century almost
certainly, astronauts will make the long journey," he writes.
"They may be Americans or Russians, traveling separately or
together, and they may be Europeans, Chinese, and Japanese as
well. Their journeys should be only the beginning of human
expansion out into the solar system."
   We will go to Mars, he argues, in part because of our
ancient fascination with the Red Planet, and he chronicles
its appeal through the ages at the beginning of "Mars
Beckons." In a sweeping preamble, the reader is taken to the
very beginning of Martian studies, a study first steeped in
astrological mysticism that then grew and matured as the
scientific mind matured.
   Mars was an object of awe for the ancients in Mesopotamia,
an object of scientific study for the likes of astronomers
Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler and Percival Lowell and an
object of fear exploited by H.G. Wells and Orson Welles. We
have always had this longing for some sort of life on Mars.
We've always wanted more than an echo when we gave a call
across space. Our fanciful visions of Martian canals,
beautiful Martian women and advanced Martian civilizations
stayed with us -- right up until the point we went there.
   His Martian history lesson concluded, Mr. Wilford shows us
the long path to Martian exploration. After years of spinning
Martian yarns and peering through telescopes, we finally
reached Mars with The Little Spacecraft That Could -- Mariner
4. His description of the craft, which reached Mars in 1965,
brings to mind an old piece of intricately spun Steuben:
"Simple and small . . . The solar blades shone purple from
the thin sapphire-glass coating . . . the craft's silvery
octagonal body . . . carried 138,000 delicate instruments . .
."
   Soviet and American Martian exploration had been checkered
by many failures before Mariner 4, prompting American
planetary engineers to imagine a "Great Galactic Ghoul" that
ate spacecraft. But the pictures Mariner 4 sent back showed
no canals, no ancient civilizations, no beautiful women, not
even a small ghoul.
   Even so, we went forward, with more orbiters, with robotic
landers. But the ultimate goal, the goal that Mr. Wilford is
very excited about, is a manned mission to Mars. "The time
for decision is at hand," insists Mr. Wilford. The end of the
Cold War and growing pro-Mars sentiment are cited as two
reasons why we can explore the Red Planet. The entire world
-- America, the Soviet Union, Europe, Asia -- should take
part in the exploration of this red world. And soon, too. A
perfect date to announce these grand plans, he thinks, would
be in 1992, the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus's
discovery of the New World, a feat that required great
fortitude.
   But Columbus had to sail over the edge of the world; we
now have to sail beyond it. How we can do it technically is
discussed in depth in "Mars Beckons."
   But what is lacking in the book is a true sense of the
political and financial barriers to the Martian endeavor. Mr.
Wilford cites the rhetoric of politicians, the supposed
willingness of the Soviets to cooperate, the technological
capacity of the present day and the technological progress of
the near future as foundations for a Mars mission.
   One wants to believe in Mr. Wilford's vision, like a
sinner wishing for salvation at a church revival. But
reality, like Old Scratch, always seems to ruin things.
Budget negotiators continually eye NASA's budget hungrily.
NASA isn't playing it smart in this day of fiscal crunch --
its reliance on huge, expensive projects prone to failure
(Hubble, the proposed Space Station Freedom) has not endeared
the space agency to Congress or the American people. The
clamor over AIDS, the environment and the homeless, among
other things, drowns out the discussion about Mars. The
debate over whether the U.S. should support "big science"
projects like the Space Station or whether we should support
smaller, less ambitious and less costly endeavors dominates
discourse nowadays -- and present reality seems to be tilting
us toward smaller projects.
   Yet, Mr. Wilford offers us a compelling vision of our
past, present and (hopefully) future with Mars. He obviously
is excited about our future: Someone should set this book to
the tune of "Blue Danube." "The call to Mars," he writes,
"echoes through centuries of human history." The grand vision
of setting foot upon Mars is tantalizing, but our present
problems threaten to muffle and drown out this ancient call
to explore.
   ---
   Mr. Pritchett is a member of the Journal's editorial page
staff.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   U.S. Shoe Corp. Gives
   Hudson Greater Role
   In Footwear Business
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   USR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- U.S. Shoe Corp. reshuffled top executives in
its footwear operations, giving Bannus B. Hudson, president
and chief executive officer, a more hands-on role in that
group.
   Martin Schulman, group president of domestic footwear, was
promoted to president of footwear manufacturing and
wholesaling, effective Sept. 1. He will report to Mr. Hudson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Schulman, 51 years old, will take over a major part of
the job of Howard Platt, who will retire as U.S. Shoe
executive vice president and president of both footwear
wholesaling and retailing. Mr. Platt, 63, will continue as a
consultant to the company, managing projects for the footwear
group.
   Mr. Schulman will have responsibility for both U.S.
footwear manufacturing operations and for wholesaling
imported shoes. However, Charles Goorman will continue as
president of footwear retailing, reporting to Mr. Hudson.
Previously, he reported to Mr. Platt.
   Mr. Hudson said the new arrangement will permit him to be
more directly involved in retailing, an area where he had
extensive experience developing U.S. Shoe's successful
Lenscrafters optical division.
   U.S. Shoe was a footwear concern that diversified into
specialty retailing, which is now its largest business. For
the fiscal year ended Feb. 3, the company earned $49.2
million, or $1.10 a share, on sales of $2.56 billion.
   Earlier this year, the company reported accounting
irregularities at Marx &amp; Newman, its shoe importing unit.
However, the management changes aren't a direct result of
that problem, Mr. Hudson said.
   Michael Geller was promoted to chief executive officer of
the Marx &amp; Newman division, filling the position vacated by
the May 1 retirement of Howard Glick. Mr. Geller joined U.S.
Shoe last January, after 27 years in the footwear industry,
including manufacturing experience in Italy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Small Company Is Seeking to Market
   Generic Brand of Acne Drug Retin-A
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ MDRXA
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A small dermatology company is seeking to
capture part of the market for Retin-A, a prescription acne
drug that has become popular as a wrinkle treatment.
   Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. said it obtained an exclusive
license from Syosset Laboratories Inc. to market, when
approved, a generic prescription form of the drug now
marketed exclusively by Johnson &amp; Johnson's Ortho
Pharmaceutical Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Closely held Syosset, a Syosset, N.Y., maker of
dermatological products for physicians, has applied to the
Food and Drug Administration for permission to market the
generic drug, a synthetic form of Vitamin A known as
tretinoin. But other concerns are likely to be making similar
applications, although the FDA declined to discuss how many
such petitions it may have received.
   Medicis estimates that Retin-A has about $150 million in
annual sales and that the total market for anti-acne products
is about $300 million. A spokesman for Ortho in New
Brunswick, N.J., said Retin-A is "the most widely prescribed"
acne treatment.
   Medicis isn't currently marketing any products. It plans
to start marketing a line of skin moisturizers and
therapeutic shampoos to dermatologists next month. The
anti-acne products will give Medicis "a strong presence" in
the acne product market, said Jonah Shacknai, Medicis
chairman and chief executive officer. He said that if the
Retin-A formulation is approved, it would give the company
"an explosive opportunity" to compete in that market.
   Ortho's patent on the use of Retin-A as an acne treatment
expired in the spring, so until recently it had exclusive
marketing rights to sell it. Ortho "anticipated some generic
competition" when the Retin-A anti-acne treatment went off
patent, the Ortho spokesman said.
   Kurt Kruger, an analyst with Hambrecht &amp; Quist, said
Johnson &amp; Johnson's "franchise and marketing muscle" would be
able to "overwhelm" any small company coming in with a
generic Retin-A product. He said Retin-A, although still "a
great prospect" for the company, had diminished in terms of
importance, noting that J&amp;J, with annual sales of $11
billion, recently posted an 18% rise in second-quarter
earnings.
   But Hemant Shah, who has a health-care investment research
firm called HKS &amp; Co. in Warren, N.J., said the entry of
generic forms of Retin-A into the market will be meaningful
because Retin-A is a "fairly expensive" product. Retin-A now
retails for between $25 and $45 a tube, he said, depending on
the strength of the formulation. Mr. Shah estimates that
Johnson &amp; Johnson could lose as much as a 30% share of the
market in the first year after a generic version is
introduced.
   Mr. Shah says that, all told, there may be as many as five
companies doing research on generic forms of Retin-A. In
addition to Syosset, he said he knows of one other company
that has applied for FDA approval. He expects FDA approval on
an abbreviated new drug application on generic Retin-A to
come sometime in the middle of next year.
   The Ortho spokesman said the firm has an application
before the FDA to market a form of Retin-A to treat
sun-damaged skin. Ortho has the patent to use the product as
a skin-damage treatment, he said. According to Ortho studies,
the product has been shown to be effective in helping reverse
"manifestations of sun damage," such as hyperpigmentation,
mottled skin and wrinkles, the spokesman said.
   Although "some see it as a beauty product, we see it as a
medical product," he said.
   Sales of Retin-A rose sharply after published reports that
the cream reduced the fine wrinkling of the skin caused by
sun damage. Although a study last year at the University of
Arizona found Retin-A does smooth wrinkles, the FDA in 1988
issued a statement condemning the indiscriminate use of
Retin-A to treat wrinkles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Europe's June Sales
   Of New Cars Fell 11%
   From Previous Year
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Sales of new cars in Europe fell 11% in June
from a year earlier, reflecting a decline in all major
markets.
   The June data also show an 11% drop from May, when sales
were up 3.8% on the year. Analysts still predict a year of no
worse than flat, sluggish sales. But some say that, if the
trend goes into July, the downturn could be cause for
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Industry and government statistics from 12 countries that
normally account for 94% of non-communist Europe's
passenger-car sales totalled 1.01 million in June, down from
1.14 million in May and down from 1.13 in June 1989.
   Analysts cautioned that month-to-month data can fluctuate
widely, making it difficult to judge trends on the basis of a
single month's data. Some noted that the June figures suffer
from comparison with the strong sales of a year ago, when the
monthly total was 6.8% up on June 1988.
   West German new-car sales are expected to rise generally
over the year as East Germans buy either new cars or
second-hand cars, forcing more West German consumers into the
new-car market. In June, West German car sales fell 8% to
259,254 from June 1989 and dropped 9.4% from May.
   France's data showed car sales falling 8.4% in June to
152,100 from a year earlier and off 23% from May. Italian
new-car sales lost 5.7% in June to 208,790 from June 1989 and
were off 5.5 % from May.
   The U.K. experienced the biggest declines, with June sales
down 18% on both the year and month to 142,697. Spain's data
showed June sales down 21% to 91,816 compared to June 1989
and off 1.9% from May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Whittaker Sells Technibilt Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   WKR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Whittaker Corp. said it sold its Technibilt
division in Newton, N.C., to Cari-All Co. of Montreal. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Technibilt makes shopping carts and other equipment for
the grocery industry in the U.S. Cari-All makes similar
products. Whittaker is a high-technology equipment maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Trouble in Super Marioland
   ----
   By Alex Kozinski
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   It was a scene that would have warmed the hearts of the
Nintendo board of directors: The family sat transfixed
watching nine-year-old Jimmy, hero of the movie "The Wizard,"
sweep the final round of the Nintendo World Cup competition
while, on a separate screen, Dad was struggling frantically
to subdue level 8/4 of "Tetris." But such golden Nintendo
moments are getting rarer these days. Despite Nintendo's
aggressive marketing efforts -- "The Wizard," for example,
looks like a thinly disguised infomercial on the joys and
benefits of Nintendo -- it is clear that the home video game
giant has lost some of its luster.
   You don't have to see Nintendo's balance sheet to sense
trouble in Super Marioland. There are telltale signs that the
public's passion for this love-child of the television set
and the computer chip may be cooling:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- The video-games aisle at the Toys `R' Us often is
deserted. Until recently, this was a bustling marketplace of
ideas where scores of cognoscenti met to swap vital game
information. Today you're lucky if you run into somebody who
knows a Jelectro from a Para-Goomba. In the past, cartridge
racks marked "WE'RE OUT. MORE ON THE WAY]" stood as mute
testimony to the carnage wrought by maddened shoppers in
search of the latest video thrill; today such signs are few
and far between.
   -- The Game Boy -- Nintendo's plunge into the hand-held
video game market -- timed to make a splash last Christmas,
made only a ripple. Supplies of the game, widely expected to
be snatched off the shelves by December, held up just fine.
   -- The Power Pad -- a plastic mat that turns your Nintendo
into an electronic aerobics machine -- has faltered for lack
of supporting software. Other attachments, such as Mattel's
super-sophisticated Power Glove, are going begging.
   -- A player recently called the Nintendo Hotline
(206-885-7529) -- which offers advice and news about current
and soon-to-be released games -- and got through on the first
try. Repeated busy signals and half-hour waits were the rule
only a few months ago.
   -- My eight-year-old son, Yale -- the most serious
Nintendo player in a family of Nintendo junkies -- recently
was heard to say: "Not another Nintendo cartridge, Dad. How
about a backgammon set instead?"
   While it's far too early to count Nintendo out of the home
video game market -- after all, millions of American
households own Nintendo machines -- it is worth trying to
figure out what went wrong. The answer, I suspect, is that
Nintendo has become the victim of its own success. Nintendo
controls virtually every aspect of production, marketing and
distribution of its games; it maintains an orderly market.
   But is it too orderly?
   The games marketed over the past couple of years have
taken on a monotonous uniformity; prices have shot up
mercilessly; and consumer services have eroded. The lesson
here may be that a planned economy -- even a privately
planned one -- sows the seeds of its own destruction.
   In the beginning, Nintendo games were exciting and
reasonably priced. What still are some of the most innovative
game cartridges were released during Nintendo's first two
years, at prices from $20 to $40. "Super Mario Brothers,"
"Zelda," "Metroid," "Kid Icarus," "Wrecking Crew," "Solomon's
Key," "World Runner," "KluKlu Land," "Rygar," "Legacy of the
Wizard": All of these, and another handful released between
1986 and 1988, reflected ingenious efforts at creating games
with unique feel, graphics and concept. At about $30, they
were a darn good entertainment value.
   Nintendo games now start at $40 and run up to about $75.
Worse still, interesting new games are rare as hens' teeth.
Many "new" games mimic not only the concept but also the
music and graphics of earlier ones. Nintendo's most recent
offering, "Final Fantasy," for example, is a rehash of
"Ultima" and "Dragon Warrior." It seems like the only really
novel game Nintendo has released in a couple of years is the
aforementioned "Tetris," a game invented in the Soviet Union
that's so exciting and challenging it's instantly addictive.
   The lack of innovation and diversity in a medium that is
constrained only by the imagination of the programmer and the
skill of the graphic artist is surprising. The reason may be
that Nintendo's careful filtering process allows production
of only those games it approves of. Having to satisfy the
Nintendo censor might well chill the creativity of potential
game producers.
   Nintendo also has ham-handedly interfered with normal
retailer-customer relations. In the good old days, if you
took your Nintendo product home and it didn't work, you could
get an exchange from your retailer, just as with most other
consumer products. No more. I recently tried to return a
defective game cartridge and was advised that Nintendo
prohibits such exchanges: "They won't take 'em back from us,
so we get stuck with them. If you have a problem send the
defective product to Nintendo in Redmond, Washington." Well,
good luck. Video-game players definitely are into instant
gratification, not this mail-and-wait routine. Most
manufacturers can't push retailers and consumers around like
this, but when you're the Donkey Kong of the business, maybe
you can get away with it.
   No doubt, Nintendo has what it thinks are fine business
reasons for its strategy, but the bottom line is that the
lack of effective competition may have made it fat and
flabby. Maybe they'll pull it out, maybe they won't. In the
meantime, my sons and I will be playing a bit of backgammon,
as we wait for the situation to clear up.
   ---
   Mr. Kozinski is a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Peruvians Brace for `Fujishock' as New President
   Confronts Economic Crisis, Determined Insurgents
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LIMA, Peru -- Alberto Fujimori becomes president of Peru
tomorrow after winning the approval of more voters than any
other candidate in Peru's history. As first president of
Japanese ancestry, Mr. Fujimori faces an almost biblical set
of problems: economic collapse, violent insurrection and the
nation's worst drought in memory.
   Peru is falling apart, and for his effort to put it
together again, Mr. Fujimori controls only small minorities
in the Legislature. His popular support, which comes mostly
from the poor, could easily evaporate if their lot worsens.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Fujimori campaigned on a pledge to bring "readjustment
without recession," but he already has hinted he will be
forced to break his vow -- and soon -- by imposing austerity
measures under guidelines laid down by the International
Monetary Fund. Peruvians have coined a phrase for the
expected moves: "Fujishock."
   The prospects unnerve members of Mr. Fujimori's
government. Shortly after being named, his prime minister,
Juan Carlos Hurtado-Miller, confessed to a reporter that he
was "very scared" about taking the job. Worries Esteban
Hnylicza, an economic adviser, "The country is in such bad
shape, there is a big risk the country may explode."
   Is Mr. Fujimori worried? He shrugs: "They are just
technical problems." The agronomist and one-time
mathematician adds, "And I'm a political engineer," as he
escorts a visitor through the tightly guarded armed forces
officers club, where he has been living for security reasons.
   A part of Mr. Fujimori's confidence seems to stem from his
meteoric political rise. Just a few months ago, he was a
total unknown. "My relatives didn't believe in me," Mr.
Fujimori says. "My brother said I was crazy." Only his
15-year-old daughter, Keiko, thought Mr. Fujimori would make
it. She saw it in a dream.
   Peru's disastrous economy is Mr. Fujimori's most immediate
challenge. In the past two years, gross national product fell
22%, while real income slumped 63%. Inflation topped 1,500%
in 1988 and surpassed 3,500% in the past 12 months.
   The crisis has devastated an already poor country. Almost
40% of Peruvians suffer from malnutrition. Two-thirds of
Lima's six million-plus residents live in shantytowns, often
in roofless cubicles with straw walls.
   Lima, once the proud seat of Spanish viceroys, has become
a chaotic bazaar, its streets home to thousands of peddlers
and thousands more money-changers, buying and selling
dollars. Money-changing is one of the few growth industries.
   Middle-class and business districts go without water and
electricity for days at a time, the result of the drought and
sabotage of electric installations by guerrillas. The
situation is even worse in the countryside. Drought has
destroyed half of Peru's potato, corn and barley crops. More
than two million peasants are at risk.
   Mr. Fujimori says he will take quick steps to put Peru's
economy in order but offers few specifics. Peruvians
nevertheless are bracing for drastically higher prices on
now-subsidized goods, such as bread and gasoline.
   The economic crisis has aggravated Mr. Fujimori's second
headache, the bloody 10-year war waged by Sendero Luminoso,
or "Shining Path," a sect-like group led by a former
philosophy professor who may or may not be dead and whose nom
de guerre is "Presidente Gonzalo, the Fourth Sword of
Marxism."
   "The situation will get worse, and that's good for
revolutionaries," says a 60-ish Shining Path activist, a
university professor who sits slumped in the empty lobby of a
once-elegant Lima hotel. "We must destroy everything so
something green can emerge," he says.
   Shining Path now challenges the military for control of
about half of Peru's territory. More than 18,000 people have
died in the conflict. Frustrated by its inability to defeat
the guerrillas, the army has frequently taken out its ire on
the civilian population, various human rights organizations
say. The result: murders, massacres and disappearances.
   It is a war that will get worse. "The country is in a
state of subversion," says a Peruvian military analyst. "We
can't kill the whole indigenous population."
   Mr. Fujimori says he is willing to negotiate with Sendero,
but Sendero doesn't negotiate. "The army will be totally
defeated," says the professor, who thinks that the crimes of
Cambodia's Pol Pot and the Soviet Union's Josef Stalin have
been exaggerated. "No. Not defeated," he says, after a pause.
"Destroyed."
   While the combustible combination of hyperinflation and
terrorism is the stuff of Lima nightmares, the U.S. has
different concerns about Peru. More than half the coca leaf
used in the world's cocaine trade is grown in Peru's Alto
Huallaga valley, a jungle region near its Colombian and
Brazilian borders. Washington's goal in Peru is to stop the
cocaine trade.
   But the Alto Huallaga is a Shining Path stronghold. The
guerrillas made great strides in the valley by defending
coca-growing campesinos from Colombian traffickers and from
sometimes corrupt Peruvian police. Shining Path's services
aren't free. It earns at least $1 million a month from its
protection rackets, U.S. and Peruvian officials say.
   The U.S. and Peru are negotiating a $35.9 million military
aid package that would pay for equipment and training by U.S.
advisers of about six Peruvian army battalions to be used in
operations against both drug traffickers and Shining Path
guerrillas in the Alto Huallaga.
   Already, U.S. Special Forces trainers and Drug Enforcement
Administration agents are involved in training Peruvian
police forces at two bases in the valley. At one base, Santa
Lucia, pistol-packing U.S. officials and Peruvian police have
set up a simulated cocaine-base production farm and
laboratory, complete with fake Shining Path guerrillas
guarding fake shipments. They show it off to visiting
journalists.
   Not everyone in the Peruvian military is pleased by the
U.S. efforts. Gen. Alberto Arciniegas, a former military
commander of the Alto Huallaga, opposes the drug eradication
program, arguing that it drives the local population into the
arms of the rebels. He dismisses the demonstration center at
Santa Lucia as "Disneyworld."
   Gen. Arciniegas, echoing the opinion of many of his
colleagues, says the U.S. military agreement is positive, as
the Peruvian military is underequipped. But bringing in
advisers or troops would be disastrous, he says. "If the
Americans come, we will be handing Sendero the
anti-imperialist banner to wave."
   Mr. Fujimori probably has little choice but to cooperate
with the U.S. "Fujimori is in no position to demand
anything," says a military analyst who advises the
president-elect. "Foreign debt negotiations and our return to
the international community depend on what the State
Department wants on drug trafficking."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sonat Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SNT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SONAT Inc. (Birmingham, Ala.) -- William O. Bourke, 63
years old, chairman and chief executive officer of Reynolds
Metals Co., and John J. Phelan Jr., 59, chairman and chief
executive of the New York Stock Exchange, were elected
directors of this oil and natural gas exploration and
production concern, increasing board membership to 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amoco to Expand Texas Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AN
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Amoco Corp. said it will spend more than $200
million over the next four years to expand the capacity of
its Alvin, Texas, olefins plant.
   The energy concern said the expansion will increase annual
ethylene output at the facility by about 600 million pounds
from over two billion pounds presently, and will increase
propylene production capacity by 200 pounds, from current
annual levels of about 800 million pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   In Franklin Lawsuit,
   The Judge Defends
   `Joy Through Profit'
   ---
   Ruling Is Blow to Investors
   Alleging Excessive Fees;
   A First for a Bond Fund
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BEN
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Just because an investment firm makes big
bucks managing a mutual fund, a shareholder can't win a suit
alleging excessive fees, a federal judge ruled.
   After a six-day trial, federal Judge Charles S. Haight Jr.
dismissed a shareholder's complaint that Franklin Resources
Inc. charged excessive fees for managing its $11.2 billion
Franklin U.S. Government Securities Fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New York federal court's ruling is the sixth
consecutive courtroom setback for investors accusing mutual
funds of charging exorbitant fees. Wall Street has paid close
attention to the Franklin case because it is the first of its
kind to go to trial involving a bond mutual fund. The
Franklin portfolio also is one of the largest funds in the
business.
   "There has never been an excessive-fee case won by a
plaintiff . . . but I'm still banging my head against the
wall," said Richard Meyer, the shareholder's New York lawyer
(who himself lost a similar case as a plaintiff last year).
He said he probably will appeal the Franklin case.
   The ruling stemmed from a 1987 suit filed by Lucyle Kalish
and Sol Joseph Kamen, alleging that Franklin, a big San
Mateo, Calif., fund company, charged excessive fees and that
management failed to fully inform the fund's directors about
the appropriateness of such fees.
   Franklin currently charges investors 0.45% annually to
manage the fund, which grew to a high of $15 billion in
assets in 1986 from $2 billion in 1984. Management fees
amounted to about $65 million at the fund's peak, said Daniel
Pollack, Franklin's attorney.
   "A main thrust of the plaintiffs' case is that Franklin
simply made too much money managing the fund," Judge Haight
wrote. But he said his ruling followed cases that "squarely
rejected a Calvinistic condemnation of joy through profit."
Franklin's after-tax profit from managing the fund, which the
judge said didn't exceed 35% of revenue, was "reasonable," he
said.
   "Plaintiffs have failed to prove that Franklin realized
economies of scale as the fund increased in size, or that
economies of scale, if realized, were not shared with
investors," the 70-page ruling said.
   Other excessive-fee cases that have gone to trial involved
money-market mutual funds. The new ruling shows that "courts
apply the same factors irrespective of the type of fund,"
says James Benedict, a partner at the law firm of Rogers &amp;
Wells who has handled similar cases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Slip as Investors Are Discouraged
   By Swings in Bond, Foreign-Exchange Markets
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices finished lower in thin dealings,
discouraged by fluctuations in the bond and foreign-exchange
markets.
   Meanwhile, London stocks finished significantly lower,
depressed by weaker-than-expected half-yearly earnings from
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, said to be the bellwether
of British industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sentiment in Tokyo was also hurt by reports that the
national tax agency decided to impose a total of about 7
billion yen ($46.7 million) in taxes on Japanese securities
companies that allegedly compensated major clients for losses
in 1987's Black Monday stock plunge.
   Yamaichi Securities and Daiwa Securities, who were named
in the news reports, officially denied them by midafternoon.
But securities companies shares failed to recover from the
fall.
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues dropped 331.52 points to
31369.75. Volume on the first section was estimated at 330
million shares, down from 353 million shares Wednesday.
Decliners outnumbered advancers 622 to 295, while 205 issues
were unchanged.
   In trading in Tokyo Friday, the Nikkei index was down
744.94 points to 30624.81 at the end of the morning session.
   On Thursday, the Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues
listed in the first section fell 26.11 points, or 1.13%, to
2281.20.
   The second section index added 3.54 points, or 0.08%, to
4384.30. Volume in the section was estimated at 22.9 million
shares, up from 21.2 million shares.
   The market softened in the early morning, responding to
the yen's weakness as the dollar climbed above 150 yen.
   The Nikkei Index firmed in the midmorning, however, helped
by minor index-linked buying by a few brokerage houses and
gains for high-price shares. But that was the only time in
the day the index moved upward.
   Wire news agencies reported late morning that more than 10
securities companies, including Yamaichi and Daiwa,
compensated a total of roughly 16 billion yen for their major
institutional and individual clients in 1987. The reports
said the tax agency decided the costs fell under
"entertainment expenses," subject to taxation.
   The stock futures market first slid responding to the
news, and then the cash market followed, as investors held
off from buying, observers said.
   The report prompted selling of securities companies
shares.
   As for the overall losses yesterday, traders blamed
already bearish sentiment, mirroring investors'
discouragement as they had been unable to see signs that
domestic interest rates may peak out soon.
   For the third consecutive day, Nippon Telegraph &amp;
Telephone Corp. posted a record low, falling 20000 yen to 1
million yen.
   While the market's direction remains foggy, investors are
trying to take profits from stocks of companies whose
earnings are predicted to grow at faster paces than the
average on the market, a senior trader at Wako Securities
said. Also, smaller-capital shares are attracting most of
investors' interest as the stocks tend to move up widely on
small volume, he said.
   Investors, who had taken enough profits from small-capital
shares to offset losses on NTT, are dumping NTT stocks, he
said.
   The reports on tax investigation prompted selling of not
only Daiwa and Yamaichi, but of other brokerage house shares.
Daiwa Securities was down 40 yen to 1330 yen, Yamaichi
Securities dropped 60 yen to 1120 yen, Nomura Securities fell
50 yen to 2050 yen, and Nikko Securities declined 50 yen to
1120 yen.
   In London, traders blamed the drop in ICI shares for the
lower close.
   "ICI is the sole culprit" for the market's slide, one
dealer said. "The chemistry of the {ICI earnings} combined
with the market's recent twitchy mood made the entire market
volatile," he added. ICI, part of the Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100 Share Index, fell 65 pence to #10.40 ($1.18 to
$18.81), having been off as many as 77 pence at one point. A
hefty 7.6 million issues changed hands.
   In addition, the recent good progress in the oil sector
was abruptly halted, dealers said, putting further pressure
on the broader market.
   The FT-SE 100 Share Index fell 20.6 points to 2344.1. The
Financial Times 30 Share Index dropped 14.2 points to 1851.5
points. Volume was a moderate 468.8 million shares, up from
427.5 million issues Wednesday.
   A soggy showing on Wall Street also hindered any headway
in London, dealers said, where oil stocks were also falling
back and several corporate earnings from the Big Three U.S.
car makers were disappointing.
   Other chemical shares felt the brunt of the ICI news,
dealers said. Courtaulds shed 10 pence to 369 pence, while
BOC slumped 12 pence to 573 pence.
   In the oil patch, Ultramar dropped 11 pence to 338 pence,
Enterprise shed 12 pence to 675 pence, Burmah eased 12 pence
to 658 pence, British Petroleum fell 4.5 pence to 338.5
pence, while Shell Transport &amp; Trading sank 9 pence to 479
pence. Dealers said the sector ran out of steam after its
hearty advance earlier in the week as investors took profits
ahead of news from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries meeting in Geneva.
   STC, an electronics group, advanced 3 pence to 289 pence.
Dealers said the stock gained on hopes that the company will
include details of its talks with Fujitsu Ltd. over the
possible sale of its computer subsidiary ICL with the
half-year earnings results, set to be reported Monday.
   Banks were off ahead of the start of the interim reporting
season, as Lloyds kicks off the round today with its results.
Barclays fell 5 pence to 402 pence, Lloyds shed 4 pence to
298 pence, National Westminster slipped 4 pence to 333 pence,
while Midland eased 2 pence to 296 pence.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Frankfurt, Stockholm
and Milan, mixed in Amsterdam and lower in Paris, Zurich,
Brussels and Madrid. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Also, stocks ended down in Hong Kong, Taipei and
Singapore, higher in Manila, and steady in Sydney and
Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                    Jul 25   Jul 24   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ...........................  330.6    329.5   + 1.7
   Britain ........................  702.1    701.6   - 2.6
   Canada .........................  391.9    391.6   - 9.4
   Japan .......................... 1275.7   1275.6   -22.9
   France .........................  557.7    556.6   - 1.6
   Germany ........................  310.5    310.5   + 8.8
   Hong Kong ...................... 2623.0   2610.9   +25.1
   Switzerland ....................  222.3    221.6   + 0.7
   Australia ......................  327.3    327.1   - 1.2
   World index ....................  524.2    524.2   - 7.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Asian Study Sees Outlook
   Improving in 4 Economies
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Prospects for earnings growth improved in
Hong Kong, Malaysia, South Korea and Thailand during June,
according to a monthly survey of analysts by Institutional
Brokers Estimate System. The earnings outlook was unchanged
in Japan, Australia and Singapore, while prospects dimmed
slightly in New Zealand.
   IBES, a unit of the New York-based securities firm Lynch,
Jones &amp; Ryan, calculates "consensus" earnings estimates based
on thousands of analysts' company and market reports. It
projects 12 months ahead by combining pershare earnings
estimates for each company's current fiscal year with
forecasts for its coming year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The system also measures the level of disagreement among
analysts, which is reflected in a so-called uncertainty
estimate. In addition, the statistics include a figure for
earnings revisions during the month. The figure is expressed
as a percentage showing whether upward or downward revisions
dominated.
   Because of insufficient data, IBES doesn't provide
estimates for Taiwan or Indonesia. This month, the system
begins offering projections on the Philippines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Liggett Group Inc.'s
   Name Change Cleared;
   New Directors Elected
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   LIG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DURHAM, N.C. -- Liggett Group Inc. said that its
stockholders approved changing the tobacco company's name to
Brooke Group Ltd., and that four directors were elected.
   The new board members are Richard S. Ressler, Michael
Rosenbaum, Jean E. Sharpe and Steven J. Green.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ressler, 31 years old, is a vice president of the
company and executive vice president of Brooke Management
Inc.; Mr. Rosenbaum, 52, is a vice president of the company
and senior vice president of Brooke Management; Ms. Sharpe,
43, is a vice president and secretary of the company, and
vice president and general counsel of Brooke Management; and
Mr. Green, 44, is chief executive officer of Samsonite Corp.
Their election expands board membership to six.
   In connection with the name change, the company's New York
Stock Exchange ticker symbol will be BGL, as of next Monday.
   Last month, the company said it restructured its
organization by separating its business into two separate
subsidiary corporations, Liggett &amp; Myers Tobacco Co. and
Impel Marketing Inc. It said Liggett &amp; Myers Tobacco will be
renamed Liggett Group Inc., effective today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alleged Violations
   Of Big Board Rules
   Result in Sanctions
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   PBCT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A former broker with four firms agreed to be
barred from associating with New York Stock Exchange members
for alleged violations of Big Board rules.
   Without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Adnan Ahmed
Durrani of New York agreed to the sanction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action against Mr. Durrani -- formerly employed with
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.; E.F. Hutton &amp; Co., a Shearson
predecessor; Oppenheimer &amp; Co., and Moseley Hallgarten,
Estabrook &amp; Weeden Inc. -- was among several disciplinary
moves the exchange made.
   The exchange charged that Mr. Durrani, among other things,
misappropriated a security owned by a customer, effected
unauthorized trades, and caused an account statement with
false and misleading data to be issued to a customer.
   Other disciplinary actions and related suspensions from
membership and fines include:
   Michael John Boorse, Horsham, Pa., 18 months and $5,000;
Susan B. Weston, Waukegan, Ill., one year; Ronald Alan
Rubenstein, Randolph, N.J., nine months; Howard George
Einhorn Jr., Huntington, N.Y., four months.
   The exchange barred the following individuals until they
comply with its requests for information or testimony: Derek
J. Baxter, Jersey City, N.J.; Edgar Bellenger Cooper,
Nashville; Steven C. Rickun, Glendale, Wis., and Arthur
Gladre Stevenson III, Grover, Mo.
   The following settled charges without admitting or denying
wrongdoing:
   Jeffrey E. Bonham, Lafayette, N.Y., barred from
membership; David Michael Swope, Ontario, Calif., three
years; James Michael Owen, Richmond, Va., one year; Mark A.
Willman, Dunkirk, Md., two months; Raymond Joseph LeVan,
Whitmore Lake, Mich., one month; Spear, Leeds &amp; Kellogg, New
York, $20,000; the People's Securities Inc. subsidiary of
People's Bank in Bridgeport, Conn., and Gerard Frost,
Rockville Centre, N.Y., $5,000 apiece; Kenneth K. Ho, Queens,
N.Y., Joel David Kaminer, Coral Gables, Fla., and Wallace
Rogers Smith, Charlotte, Vt., censure only.
   Except as noted below, the individuals and firms involved
couldn't immediately be reached for comment.
   A spokesman for People's Bank said the bank settled to
avoid the cost of litigation, while Mr. Frost declined to
comment.
   Spear Leeds declined to comment.
   Mr. Willman declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   France Intends to Repay
   Almost All Its Foreign Debt
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy said
yesterday that France will repay virtually all of its
outstanding external debt by the end of this week through
prepayments equivalent to about $400 million.
   Mr. Beregovoy told a meeting of journalists that the
payments, to be made July 27, will cover the last $350
million of a $4 billion loan contracted by France in 1982 to
shore up France's official reserves of foreign currency.
France will also pay off 40 million European Currency Units
($50.9 million) of a 4 billion-ECU loan taken out in 1983 for
the same purpose.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The minister said the two payments would leave 30 million
ECUs of external debt outstanding. This amount is part of a
fixed-maturity borrowing that comes due in 1993. Terms of
this borrowing won't allow France to make prepayments until
July 1, 1991, and this will be done, Mr. Beregovoy said.
   Mr. Beregovoy said the move was made possible by the
strength of the franc, the high level of French official
reserves and the strong performance of its economy.
   The debt reduction effort will make France one of Europe's
least indebted states.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Antidote
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Jogging is very boring,"
   I've heard many people say,
   But in all my years of jogging
   I've never found it that way.
   In fact, that little comment
   Really goes against the grain --
   How can it be boring
   While it's causing so much pain?
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Once Is Enough
                                                                                                       

   The prospect of a second childhood
   I can face with acquiescence,
   Provided it doesn't lead to
   A second adolescence.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial Jobless Claims
   Fell in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 358,000
the week ended July 14 from 361,000 the previous week, the
Labor Department said.
   In the week ended July 7, the number of people receiving
regular state benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted
2,490,000 from 2,429,000 the previous week. Based on that
data, the insured unemployment rate rose to 2.4% from 2.3% a
week earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, without
seasonal adjustment, the number of people receiving
unemployment benefits in the week ended July 7 rose to
2,475,300 from 2,134,600 a week earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse to Buy Knoll International
   In Transaction Estimated at $200 Million
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp., in a move that
doubles its size in the growing office-furniture business,
agreed to acquire Knoll International Inc., a closely held
maker and designer of office furniture.
   Terms of the all-stock transaction weren't disclosed.
Industry observers put the value at around $200 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition, Westinghouse's third in office furniture
in the past two years, increases the company's sales in the
business to about $700 million this year, making it No. 3
behind industry leaders Steelcase Inc. and Herman Miller Inc.
The acquisition is the first under Paul E. Lego, who became
Westinghouse's chairman and chief executive on July 1.
   With the Knoll purchase, Westinghouse takes a big step in
its rapid buildup in the office-furniture industry, a
business in which it was only a bit player until last year.
Like Westinghouse, both Steelcase and Herman Miller have made
a string of acquisitions over the past two years. The
consolidation means that smaller players almost certainly
will have to seek mergers or affiliations with other
companies because distribution channels are being locked up
by the industry leaders.
   In fact, the $8 billion-a-year industry has seen a handful
of players seeking bankruptcy-court protection amid severe
price competition. But Westinghouse officials insist that
office furniture has a big future. They cite statistics
projecting 8% annual growth in the U.S. and even more in
Europe and Japan. And with Knoll, which is based in New York
and whose sales are estimated at $380 million this year,
Westinghouse officials say they are poised to challenge
industry-leader Steelcase.
   "I want us to be much bigger. There's ample room for two
Steelcases," said Maurice Sardi, head of the business group
that includes office furniture, in a recent interview at the
unit's headquarters in Grand Rapids, Mich.
   The furniture business is a stylish departure for a
company that produces power generation equipment such as
giant turbines and handles hazardous wastes. At the Grand
Rapids headquarters, Westinghouse is going all out to woo
potential furniture customers, offering meals whipped up by
in-house chefs. There is an auditorium, complete with
special-effects lighting, moving floors and a funky, Pointer
Sisters-like video demonstration that includes company
employees.
   Westinghouse came to the office-furniture business through
its sales of movable wall partitions. But walls soon became a
commodity product and for the decade beginning in the
mid-1970s, Westinghouse's business slumped at a time when
furniture makers prospered. The company closed excess
capacity and revamped its manufacturing process. Still,
Westinghouse at one point considered selling out because it
had difficulty competing against full-line suppliers such as
Steelcase.
   Westinghouse officials say that partitions now account for
just 30% of office-furniture industry sales. Most customers,
they say, prefer one-stop shopping, ordering chairs and items
such as desks and cabinets along with the walls.
   Last year, Westinghouse broadened its line by acquiring
Reff Inc., a maker of wood furniture based in Toronto, and
Shaw-Walker Co., a furniture distributor and a producer of
chairs, cabinets and assorted furniture based in Muskegon,
Mich.
   For Mr. Lego, Westinghouse's new chairman, the purchase
marks his first step in a plan to expand selected businesses
within the company after a decade of divesting slower growth
businesses. Earlier this week, Mr. Lego was thwarted in
another acquisition effort when Ford Motor Co. selected Loral
Corp. as the winning bidder for Ford's aerospace subsidiary.
Mr. Lego had said he intended to increase Westinghouse's
presence in radar systems.
   The Knoll acquisition enhances Westinghouse's goal of
competing globally in most of its varied business segments.
Knoll has facilities in Milan and Paris and sells its
products throughout Western Europe as well as Canada and the
U.S. Knoll has about 2,800 employees.
   Moreover, Westinghouse plans to eventually tie in its
expertise in worker productivity and communications
electronics to its furniture business. Company officials say
Japanese companies lag far behind their American counterparts
in office productivity. Westinghouse believes there is a
market in exporting advances in office technology to that
country as well as others abroad.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   GE's Cable Channel CNBC
   Picks Barber for President
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   CVC GE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- National Broadcasting Co.'s consumer and
business cable channel, CNBC, selected Albert F. Barber, a
financial executive without a background in programming or
journalism, as its new president. He succeeds Michael
Eskridge, who resigned earlier this week.
   Mr. Barber, 44 years old, has been executive
vice-president and chief financial officer at NBC, a unit of
General Electric Co., since 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "My job first and foremost is to manage the business and
motivate people," Mr. Barber said in an interview. "I have a
financial background and that's what CNBC's programming is
all about. I talk the businessman's language."
   CNBC, a 24-hour channel based in Fort Lee, N.J., started
in April 1989 with 13 million subscribers; it now has about
16.8 million subscribers. But growth has been slow, and the
channel is still far short of its 30-million-subscriber
breakeven point.
   Mr. Barber said he "raised his hand" when the job became
available, and NBC president Robert C. Wright was "pleasantly
surprised. . . ."
   A 20-year veteran of GE, Mr. Barber said he didn't
anticipate immediate changes in CNBC personnel or
programming.
   CNBC is jointly owned by NBC Cable and Cablevision Systems
Corp., Woodbury, N.Y. Mr. Barber, no stranger to CNBC, is one
of two NBC executives to serve on its board of directors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GOP Tax Plan
   Tentatively Set
   In Budget Talks
   ---
   Support Begins to Vanish,
   Though, Over Question
   Of Retirement Benefits
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration and congressional
Republicans tentatively agreed to propose raising taxes on
alcoholic beverages and limiting deductions for state and
local taxes as part of their opening bid at the budget
summit, according to people familiar with the plan.
   But almost immediately, support for the budget proposal
began to unravel over the question of trimming cost-of-living
adjustments for government retirement benefits other than
Social Security. Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico and Rep.
Newt Gingrich of Georgia urged other GOP negotiators to
delete this item from the budget President Bush proposed in
January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Congressional Democrats, meanwhile, concentrated on
questions of scheduling rather than substance, according to
Sen. James Sasser (D., Tenn.), chairman of the Budget
Committee. He said Democrats were "not very far" toward
finishing work on a deficit-reduction package of their own.
"We haven't been able to air all of our views internally," he
said.
   "We're sorry to hear they {the Democrats} are having
difficulty," said White House Chief of Staff John Sununu said
as he arrived for a meeting with House Republicans. "We're
ready anytime."
   But minutes later, House Republican Leader Robert Michel
of Illinois said, "I agreed to no plan."
   Negotiators have all but abandoned hope of reaching an
agreement before the scheduled start of the congressional
recess next Friday. A new timetable for the talks could
emerge from a scheduled meeting between President Bush and
top congressional leaders today. Summit negotiators expect to
spend part of their monthlong break working toward a
deficit-reduction compromise.
   Some say there's still a possibility President Bush will
ask Congress to delay the start of the recess. Rep. Gingrich
said it would be "an extraordinary mistake" for Congress to
leave at this time. Nevertheless, Democrats are now talking
about trying to get a deficit-reduction package enacted by
early October, which would require reaching an agreement at
the summit early in September.
   The Republicans' $50 billion deficit-reduction proposal
for fiscal 1991, which starts Oct. 1, was discussed by GOP
budget negotiators late Wednesday and may be revised before
it is offered to Democrats. "We're a highly flexible
operation," White House Budget Director Richard Darman told
reporters.
   Those familiar with the draft plan say it calls for about
$25 billion in higher revenue, including about $6 billion in
user fees. Although many of the proposals are taken from the
president's January budget, Sen. Bob Packwood of Oregon,
senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, told
reporters the package would raise taxes on alcoholic
beverages. The Bush budget doesn't contain such a proposal,
and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater wouldn't comment.
   Others familiar with the plan confirmed that it envisions
raising federal taxes on beer and wine, which are currently
taxed less per ounce of alcohol than hard liquor. Although
the discussion among the Republicans referred only to beer
and wine, the revenue estimates mentioned by Mr. Darman --
raising about $7.2 billion in the first year -- implied
raising taxes on hard liquor, too, people familiar with the
discussion said.
   The details weren't put in writing, and Republicans
differed on whether hard liquor was included. To raise $7.2
billion, however, the tax on a six-pack of beer would have to
go up to about 81 cents from 16 cents, the tax on a bottle of
wine to about 70 cents from three cents and on a bottle of
liquor to about $2.54 from $1.98. Democrats have criticized
such proposals as regressive, arguing instead that any tax
increase be structured to hit upper-income taxpayers harder
than others.
   The tentative Republican plan also would limit the
deduction for state and local taxes to $10,000 a year,
sources familiar with the package said. Currently there isn't
a limit on the deduction. Similar proposals in the past have
been successfully resisted by members of Congress from states
with relatively high taxes, and opponents already are holding
news conferences to denounce it.
   "Read our lips: This will not pass," said Sen. Daniel
Moynihan (D., N.Y.), flanked by a bipartisan contingent of
New York congressmen. New York Gov. Mario Cuomo and New York
City Major David Dinkins appeared to protest the plan at a
news conference called by a coalition of unions and local
government associations.
   Within the Republican delegation to the budget talks, a
more controversial issue is whether to include the Bush
administration's plan to freeze cost-of-living adjustments,
or COLAs, for federal and military retirees for one year, and
to set them at one percentage point below the inflation rate
in subsequent years. Some Republicans are uneasy about
endorsing such proposals, even though they don't involve
Social Security. They fear Democrats will be able to turn
them into a political weapon anyway.
   Rep. Gingrich, the House Republican Whip, circulated a
one-sentence memo to the other GOP negotiators yesterday that
said: "I cannot support any offer in the budget summit that
freezes COLAs and any such offer which is made will not have
my support." Sen. Domenici, senior Republican on the Budget
Committee, also argued against the item, which would save
about $1.5 billion next year.
   The draft Republican plan repeats the president's proposed
cut in capital gains taxes and adds new proposals to trim
entitlement programs about $16 billion, including new
proposals to reduce farm subsidies, people familiar with the
package said.
   Separately, a proposal is circulating among House Ways and
Means Committee members that would raise as much as $3
billion a year from stock and mutual life insurance
companies. The industry was expecting some tax increase but
was hoping for a significantly smaller one.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Motors Set
   To Idle 11 U.S. Plants
   For Model Changes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY TOYOY J.MZD J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. said it will idle 11 U.S.
assembly plants next week and in August to retool for 1991
models.
   The GM plant that builds the Buick Reatta will be shut
five weeks, the longest of the shutdowns. Most of the other
shutdowns will last one to three weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler Corp. said it will idle the St. Louis assembly
plant that builds its long wheelbase minivans for four weeks
beginning Monday to retool for a major model change. Chrysler
also has added one week to the shutdown at its Jeep factory
in Toledo, Ohio, because of a "parts shortage." The plant was
originally scheduled to reopen July 30.
   Ford Motor Co. said it is planning daily overtime at its
car assembly plants in Wixom and Wayne, Mich. The No. 2 auto
maker has scheduled Saturday overtime at truck plants in Twin
Cities, Minn., Louisville, Ky., and St. Louis.
   The 10 major domestic auto makers planned to build 86,516
cars this week, up 2.6% from the 84,312 built a year earlier.
   ---
           This    Last   Yr. Ago     -Yr. to Date-      %
          Week-e  Week-r   Week      1990       1989    Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM       24,549  35,324  20,403  1,531,454  1,898,993  - 19
 Ford     34,460  29,869  32,372    827,140  1,021,296  - 19
 Chrysler  2,600       0   6,523    374,446    542,636  - 31
 Honda     8,940   8,888   7,665    251,096    220,290  + 14
 Nissan        0       0   3,192     51,134     67,313  - 24
 Nummi-f   4,100   4,152   4,286    122,753    118,704  +  3
 Mazda     4,008   3,996   4,277    102,864    132,307  - 22
 Diam.Star 2,884   2,998   1,889     80,452     31,575  +155
 Toyota    4,400   4,419   3,705    127,239     64,310  + 98
 Suba-Isuz   575     697       0     12,297          0    d
 TOTAL    86,516  90,343  84,312  3,480,875  4,097,424  - 15
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN AFRIC FORGN MCD
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOVIET CIGARETTE SHORTAGE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A shortage of cigarettes in the Soviet Union is prompting
a public outcry.
   The shortage is caused by antiquated manufacturing
equipment, a lack of foreign currency to buy cigarettes
abroad and ethnic unrest in domestic cigarette-producing
areas. It has led to the closing of most tobacco kiosks in
Moscow, forcing indignant consumers to scour the city for an
open shop and then line up for hours.
   Soviet press reports said workers demanding cigarettes
have gone on strike or threatened to stop working in various
regions in the country.
   A pack of foreign cigarettes on the black market goes for
the equivalent of at least $17 and as much as $25.
                                                                                                       

   ZIMBABWE TO AID BLACK FARMERS
                                                                                                       

   Zimbabwe has unveiled plans to create a new class of
wealthy black commercial farmers alongside its powerful white
landowners and to stop foreigners from buying land.
Agriculture Minister Witness Mangwende told Parliament the
plan aimed to bring about "a more balanced racial composition
of the large-scale commercial sector" and also to "ensure
continuity in production." Mr. Mangwende said foreigners who
already owned land would be encouraged to sell it.
                                                                                                       

   BLAMING BANGLADESH'S DOCTORS
                                                                                                       

   Bangladesh's President Hossain Mohammad Ershad proposed a
law to keep specialist physicians from concentrating on
private patients and neglecting their responsibilities in
government hospitals. In a national broadcast on radio and
television, the president blamed the poor health of
Bangladeshis on the greed of specialists and the desire of
young doctors to stay in the cities. "Such personalized and
inhuman tendencies must come to an end if we are to make
success of the government policy to ensure health for
everybody by the year 2000," he said.
                                                                                                       

   CZECHOSLOVAK NUCLEAR PROBLEM
                                                                                                       

   Czechoslovakia acknowledged that one of its nuclear
reactors doesn't meet world safety standards. The reactor at
Jaslovske Bohunice, 200 miles east of Prague, is a source of
friction with Austria, which claims the Soviet-licensed plant
is unsafe and placed on earthquake-prone land.
Czechoslovakia's government admitted in a communique that the
reactor's design, position and safety equipment "do not
comply with world standards" but said "it is not necessary to
stop its operation" without further study.
                                                                                                       

   ADVICE FOR JAPANESE WORKERS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Health Ministry wants the nation's workers to take
more vacations. "We suggest Japanese workers take more free
time, completely away from their place of work, and relax," a
ministry official said. Arduous working conditions, partly
arising from an acute labor shortage, and resulting health
problems prompted the ministry to issue the suggestion, he
said. Japanese workers spend over 2,100 hours a year on the
job, while workers in the U.S. spend 1,924 hours and those in
West Germany 1,655, ministry statistics show.
                                                                                                       

   U.N. MOSCOW CONFERENCE
                                                                                                       

   The United Nations is organizing a conference in Moscow
from Aug. 13 to 17 on switching resources from military to
civilian use. The gathering is titled "Conversion: Economic
Adjustments in an Era of Arms Reduction." More than 100
participants from 40 countries -- including the U.S. and
China -- are expected. Taking part will be representatives
from governments, business, labor, universities and research
institutes.
                                                                                                       

   SUSPENDING PHILIPPINE DEBT
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines' search for debt relief to help recover
from last week's earthquake will take the form of a request
to foreign creditors for a two-and-one-half-year suspension
of debt payments, a member of the government's Foreign Debt
Council said.
   Margarito Teves, chairman of the House of Representatives'
Committee on Economic Affairs, said the council would
estimate the cost of specific reconstruction projects and
would then negotiate the debt-payment moratorium with the
14-nation Paris Club, the Philippines' official creditors,
which includes the U.S., Japan, France, West Germany and
Britain.
   Yesterday, officials estimated that property damage from
the quake totaled 20.77 billion pesos ($907 million), but the
amount is expected to increase.
   President Corazon Aquino will not agree to release funds
frozen by U.S. courts so Imelda Marcos can donate money to
earthquake relief, Mrs. Aquino's press secretary said
yesterday. On Wednesday, a lawyer for Mrs. Marcos said the
former first lady has offered to donate about $5 million for
earthquake relief if U.S. and Philippine officials agree to
release money frozen by U.S. courts.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet KGB is now an officially registered diplomatic
mission in Poland and has the status of Soviet Embassy staff,
said Krzysztof Kozlowski, who heads the Polish ministry that
oversees the police. "If we objected (to the KGB's presence),
there would be agents anyway, only we would not know who they
are," Mr. Kozlowski said. . . . The chairman of the East
German parliament's environment committee called for a ban on
"McDonald's and similar abnormal garbage-makers," deploring
the disposable containers and cutlery used by fast-food
chains. McDonald's plans to open 10 outlets in East Germany
next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Firms' Outlays
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian spending on plant and equipment is now
expected to rise 6.4% this year, somewhat more slowly than
previously estimated, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   The agency, which surveys spending intentions of
businesses and government agencies, had estimated in March
that capital spending this year would rise 7.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest spending estimate was bigger than expected by
some economic analysts who had predicted that many projects
would be shelved because of a drop in corporate profits in
the past year and because of a decline in business confidence
in Canada's economic outlook.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Talk of Tokyo:
   Favors for Clients
   Of Brokerage Firms
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES JAPAN J.YMS J.DST J.NKT J.NOM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Was Japan's stock market rigged?
   For years, conspiracy theorists have hinted that the
mammoth securities houses that dominate trading on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange routinely act in collusion with their major
clients. Until now, there had been little official support
for such allegations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, though, Japanese newspapers reported that
Japan's National Tax Agency allegedly discovered that about
20 securities firms -- including two of the biggest, Yamaichi
Securities Co. and Daiwa Securities Co. -- had paid more than
16 billion yen ($106.7 million) in compensation to cover
losses logged by big customers in the 18 months through March
31, 1989.
   The Tokyo Tax Administration Bureau refused to comment on
the allegations, which were carried in articles in all the
major evening newspapers here. According to the newspapers,
the authorities are seeking from the securities firms seven
to eight billion yen in back taxes on the compensation. The
authorities also are said to be continuing their
investigations at other houses, including the giants Nikko
Securities Co. and Nomura Securities Co.
   Because the compensation that is paid should be reported
as profit by the securities firms -- such compensation isn't
permitted under Japan's Securities and Exchange Law -- firms
that made these payments without paying taxes on them first
could be found to have violated the country's tax code and
still to owe back taxes on the money.
   Both Daiwa and Yamaichi issued statements, denying the
allegations. A spokesman for Daiwa said he couldn't
understand why the matter is surfacing now, as the company
already has been audited for the tax year involved.
   Still, this isn't the first time Daiwa has been charged in
this kind of case. Last year, the firm paid about 6.2 billion
yen in back taxes on 10 billion yen in compensation it paid
to some big institutional investors for losses they incurred
during the late 1970s.
   In that instance, as well as in the latest alleged tax
violations, Japan's tax authorities have uncovered what fund
managers have said in the past is a common practice in Japan:
securities firms' guaranteeing returns for big investors.
   Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading economic newspaper,
said the securities firms compensated major clients for
losses by buying back from them, at a profit for the clients,
bonds and other securities that the securities firms
initially sold to those same clients at a discount. The
newspaper said many major clients demanded such compensation
after the Black Monday stock market crash in October 1987.
   This means the securities firms would have been taking
losses on such transactions to bolster their big clients.
Small stockholders aren't given the opportunity to recoup
their losses in a similar way, and, analysts said,
effectively lose on the deals because of the higher fees they
must eventually pay to cover the securities firms' costs.
   "They're discriminating against the individual," Stuart
Matthews, a financial analyst for Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities Ltd., a British firm with offices in Tokyo, said.
"They're saving the big guys from harm."
   The implications of the latest allegations against the
securities firms are significant, Mr. Matthews said. "It
raises the question of what the Japanese firms did after the
crash" of share prices earlier this year in Tokyo, he said.
"Clearly, they allow their profits to leak away" by paying
them out to clients.
   Partly as a result of the newspaper reports, the share
prices of the Big Four Japanese securities houses fell
yesterday. Daiwa shares fell 40 yen to 1,330 yen, Yamaichi
was off 60 at 1,120, Nikko was down 50 at 1,120, and Nomura
lost 50 to 2,050.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Penn Central Announces
   Stock Buy-Back Program
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   PC AFINP
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Penn Central Corp. said it will buy back up
to 6 million shares of common stock at $26 a share.
   The company said it will mail an offer to shareholders as
soon as possible, and that the offer isn't contingent upon
any minumum number of shares being tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company reserved the right to buy back up to an
additional 1.5 million shares if the offer is oversubscribed.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Penn Central closed at $25 a share, up $1.625.
   Penn Central, a manufacturing, defense services, insurance
and energy concern, has 62.7 million shares outstanding.
   Carl H. Lindner, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the stock "is currently undervalued," especially in
relation to the June 30 book value of $28.50 a share.
   American Financial Corp., Cincinnati, a financial holding
company that Mr. Lindner also heads, said it won't tender any
of its Penn Central shares. American Financial owns 34.3% of
the stock, and its ownership will rise to 37.9% if 6 million
shares are bought back by Penn Central.
   In addition, directors exempted Penn Central from all
provisions of the new Pennsylvania anti-takeover law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Many Chileans Still Lured by Statists' Siren Song
   ----
   By Matias E. Rojas
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTIAGO -- That populism in Chile still exists is
understandable. But that the textile sector should become the
stage for populism's latest appearance is downright ironic.
Textiles were among those industries that, according to
free-market economist Joaquin Lavin, most clearly reflected
the modernizing effects of the Pinochet dictatorship's
liberal economic model. First published in 1987, Mr. Lavin's
book "La Revolucion Silenciosa" is an unconnected list of
showy examples presented as irrefutable proof that Chile was
finally joining the ranks of modernity.
   Unfortunately, events currently taking place in the
textile sector reveal Mr. Lavin overlooked an important
factor. To paraphrase another famous book title, modernity is
also a state of mind.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Denouncing foreign "dumping," management leaders of
Chile's textile sector already have asked the government for
protection. They argue the alternative is bankruptcy. But it
has been the reaction of Chile's most important labor
organization, Unitary Worker's Central (CUT), that has raised
the most alarming memories of a populist past. It has called
on the state to intervene in the textile sector to protect
the thousands of jobs that would be lost in an eventual
collapse.
   The textile sector's problems might be a preamble to the
greatest economic challenge facing Chile's new democracy: to
conciliate continued economic growth with an economic
consciousness still lured by the siren song of populism.
President Patricio Aylwin's government has given every sign
that it understands the way to maintain this economic
performance is to conserve the main features of Gen. Augusto
Pincohet's free-market model, a view that has found broad
consensus among Chile's political elites. The problem is that
in a democracy what the elites think might not be enough.
CUT's opinions suggest a fundamental disagreement between the
working-class people it represents and the market-oriented
policies that now rule the Chilean economy.
   There is no question that under Gen. Pinochet's economic
model, Chile took strides toward becoming a modern nation. In
1974, a customer going to an ALMAC (one of Chile's oldest
supermarket chains) had 5,500 different products to choose
from; today ALMAC offers 16,000 items. In 1970, two in 100
Chileans had a car; by 1985, five in 100 did. Walking into
Almacenes Paris or Falabella in downtown Santiago is like
walking into any major department store in the U.S. or
Europe: Paloma Picasso window displays, Arrow shirts, Swiss
army knives and Sony diskettes. On the streets of any Chilean
city, the youth wear jeans, ski parkas and sneakers.
   Faced with the choice, those who have tasted the benefits
of this open, world-oriented economy would rather never go
back to the statist model that dominated society until 1973.
But there are others who are not yet better off than before.
   Different sources indicate the poor account for somewhere
between a third and a half of Chile's population. An American
journalist friend who recently came with me to the
"poblaciones", as the suburban slums are known, described
them simply as "surreal." That cold night the dirt streets
were barely visible through the dense cloud of dust
reflecting this year's drought. Added on to the
state-supplied cement cabins were shanties made of cardboard
and plastic to accommodate the homeless's relatives, about a
million nationwide.
   When well-off people drive through these areas on their
way to the beach or to pick somebody up at the airport, few
imagine that the fetid organic smell that permeates the area
is an everyday reality for the hundreds of thousands of
"pobladores" who live there. The poblaciones are a world unto
their own. Even though the people there wear jeans and
sneakers, most spend their days trying to figure out how to
secure their next meal.
   These people don't earn enough to join one of the private
social-security or health-care companies, and what is left
for them instead are the ailing remnants of the old state-run
system. Three-day waits are common for those who want to set
up medical appointments, and patients often are asked to
bring their own medicine before they are admitted to
hospitals. City services aren't worse; they just aren't.
   Contrary to the widespread perception that economic
dependency on the state had been retreating during the
dictatorship years, for this other half it was the opposite.
A recent survey indicates that whereas in 1970, 37% of the
extremely poor relied on the government for all income, by
1988 the new policy of subsidy "focalization" and the drop in
real wages had caused the state to account for 57% of the
very poor's total income. Unwillingly, the dictatorship
created the conditions for populism to survive in the
mind-set of the poor; they have become a parallel and
anachronistic reality whose political expectations stand in
direct contrast to the Chileans who have joined the world
market.
   Pictures of Marxist President Salvador Allende are common
on the walls of many houses at the poblaciones. A robust
woman with a sad expression on her face told me, "We were
better off when he was our president. Poor man, he will
always be with us." Allende's memory is revered and his
protecting father-image lives on as testament to a mentality
that to this day sees state initiatives as the main hope for
improvement.
   The preference for a strong state is not limited to the
extremely poor, however. This view is still present in part
of the old middle class.
   Chileans say Santiago, population four million, has more
taxicabs than New York City. Middle-aged ex-accountants,
ex-bureaucrats and ex-administrators of state companies are
only a few among those one currently finds driving hacks. Now
they drive their taxicabs in a deregulated market, charging a
fare governed almost exclusively by what the market will
bear. "I wish the state would set the fares," says Alredo
Medina, a cab driver who used to be a municipal supervisor.
"This way, no one knows what to charge, and one has to go
around competing with other taxis." To him, this dynamic
society is puzzling and obscure. Consciously or not, looking
to the state for guidance and protection remains a cultural
trait for much of the middle class he represents.
   Many of those who voted for President Aylwin perceived him
as a continuation of the system that existed before the
military coup of 1973, and this might be the essence of a
long-range problem. But Mr. Aylwin's policies are far from
those of the long-dead Allende's, and many will be
disappointed once it becomes clear that his government plans
to restrict the growth of the state. So far the new
government has been on its honeymoon, but events like those
in the textile industry indicate that the honeymoon may be
coming to an end.
   Measures of the sort proposed by CUT have found little
echo among the established political forces. But the real
danger lies in the future. Chile is now a democracy, and as
long as a populist view of the state remains alive within a
significant number of the voters, the system will remain
vulnerable to its influence.
   ---
   Mr. Rojas, a Chilean, is an undergraduate at Harvard
University.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel production totaled 262,440 metric
tons in the week ended last Saturday, a 4.2% increase from
251,936 tons the previous week but a 12% decline from 299,366
tons a year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   From Jan. 1 through last Saturday, production totaled
8,007,524 tons, a 9.8% decline from 8,881,216 tons a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Motors Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL MOTORS Corp. (Detroit) -- Richard J.S. Clout was
named vice president in charge of international operations of
GMAC Financial Services, the financial subsidiary of GM.
Jerome B. Van Orman was named vice president in charge of
world-wide borrowings for the unit, Mr. Clout's previous
position. Mr. Van Orman was formerly director of U.S.
borrowings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Andrew Young Is Fighting History and Himself
   In Georgia's Democratic Runoff for Governor
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   FORT VALLEY, Ga. -- To go forward, Andrew Young first went
home again last week.
   Battered at the polls in his race for governor, he came to
this south Georgia town to be among black Baptist clergy he
has known since his days as Martin Luther King's deputy. He
recalled past protests. He read from Exodus. And finally he
sang, leading the crowd in the cadences of the old spiritual,
"Guide my feet while I run this race . . . Don't want to run
this race in vain."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was a poignant scene, and the onetime congressman,
United Nations ambassador and mayor of Atlanta seemed for the
moment a man alone. Days before, he had finished a poor
second in a crowded Democratic gubernatorial primary. Now
matched against Lt. Gov. Zell Miller in the Aug. 7 runoff,
his trip here symbolized an effort to shore up his base --
and to heal himself for the weeks ahead.
   Mr. Young's campaign is a laboratory for the evolving
politics of the South. No black since Reconstruction has come
so far in pursuit of Georgia's governorship, but he must run
now not only against history but also against himself. More
than Jesse Jackson or Virginia's new Gov. Douglas Wilder, he
has compiled a long record in executive office. As he reaches
out to whites, this record can make Mr. Young a target in his
own community.
   Alongside the middle-class leaders of the civil-rights
movement, Mr. Young was upper crust. Even today, campaigning
in a rural farm setting, he is more cool than country. An
ordained minister, he speaks earnestly of "service" and
"economic development," but it is his white rival Mr. Miller
who strikes the more-populist chord by championing a state
lottery for Georgians.
   Hundreds of thousands of voters swamped the Democratic
primary July 17 to back the lottery, and Mr. Young's primary
campaign sometimes seems like a morality play lost in a sea
of hucksterism. Few cities are more relentlessly
self-promoting than Atlanta itself, and as the city's mayor
through the 1980s, the thoughtful former pastor from south
Georgia is inevitably drawn into this upscale world.
   When he stepped down from City Hall last year, Mr. Young
and his wife were presented with "his" and "hers" luxury cars
by a grateful Chamber of Commerce. Anne Cox Chambers,
chairwoman of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and a pillar
of the Southern establishment, has given heavily to his
campaign. And even as he runs for governor, Mr. Young is on
retainer to an Atlanta-based international engineering firm
that dispatched him to London this spring.
   In last week's primary, Mr. Young won more votes in
Atlanta's Fulton County than Jesse Jackson got there on Super
Tuesday two years ago; but in working-class black precincts,
the former mayor lost critical support to his white rivals.
In the same neighborhoods where Mr. Jackson won better than
90% of the vote, Mr. Young came out 10 to 20 percentage
points lower.
   Like whites, blacks were drawn to Mr. Miller's promise of
a lottery. But the pattern also shows an uncertainty about
Mr. Young, who is faulted for having aligned himself closely
with the business community as mayor. "I've supported Andy
Young from the day he went into politics," says Lowell Ware,
the 62-year-old editor of a black newspaper, the Atlanta
Voice. But this year, Mr. Ware gave no endorsement. "What
we're looking for is delivery," he says of Mr. Young. "He's
got to start at the grass roots."
   Born just weeks before Mr. Young, the 58-year-old Mr.
Miller has led a career that is a portrait of the
ever-adapting white Southern Democrat. Dubbed "Zig Zag," he
refuses to be an easy foil for left or right. His hero is
former Gov. Ed Rivers, who wore the political galluses of
"Old Gene" Talmadge as a young man but who ultimately sided
with the New Deal against the powerful Georgia demagogue and
business ally.
   As a young man, Mr. Miller fell in line with those
opposing civil-rights legislation, but in 1980 he took on the
establishment and the powerful Talmadge legacy in a bitter
and unsuccessful primary fight with then-Sen. Herman
Talmadge. In 16 years as lieutenant governor, Mr. Miller has
made the state Senate his own preserve, and as much as he
casts himself now as a reformer, he has political ties to
vested interests from highway builders to the state medical
association. Until this campaign, he enjoyed a lakeside lot
leased from the Georgia Power Co. unit of Southern Co. And
Mr. Young yesterday demanded public disclosure of any
deposits by lobbyists or public agencies in a small bank
where Mr. Miller and his wife are officers and in which they
hold marketable securities of $607,000.
   A former Marine rifle-range instructor, Mr. Miller has a
feisty, spikes-up style; but he leaves the toughest rhetoric
to his professional campaign manager, James Carville, who
spent primary day watching the shoot-'em-up film "Die Hard
II" to calm his nerves. Three years ago, Mr. Carville helped
Wallace Wilkinson win the Kentucky governorship on a platform
calling for a state lottery. And the issue fits now into a
broader effort by the Miller campaign to paint Mr. Young as
the true elitist, imposing rules while elsewhere obeying his
own code.
   In the same vein, Mr. Miller casts himself as the mountain
man against urban Atlanta, and runs on a platform intended to
put him on safe ground next November against the GOP's
multimillionaire nominee, Johnny Isakson. Sporting a Marine
pin and cowboy boots, the former college professor talks
tough on drugs while promising a sales-tax exemption for
food; but he finds it harder to explain where he has been as
the state's fiscal problems have evolved. The sales tax, for
example, was raised by 33% only last year, but revenue is
falling below budget projections. Mr. Miller concedes that
the estimates were high -- and that he never protested. "No
one spoke up about it," he says.
   Mr. Young, outspent by better than 2-1 on television in
the primary, is expected to be on at least even footing in
the remaining days of the runoff. There is a renewed drive in
the black community for more-unified support; but to overtake
Mr. Miller, Mr. Young must win between 25% to 30% of the
white vote. He comes closest in the metropolitan Atlanta
area, but even there his white support last week totaled only
two-thirds of what he needs, and it falls off further in
rural counties.
   No clear emotional issue -- such as abortion rights --
separates him from Mr. Miller. And while Mr. Young has
toughened his attack, Georgia is too content to find much
urgency in his message on jobs and economic development.
"Tough crowd," he sighs after leaving a nearly all-white
union meeting in Atlanta. Days later he is lobbying in
Washington for peanut farmers, whose help he needs among
whites down the red-clay roads of rural south Georgia.
   "Martin is gone, Ralph (Abernathy) is gone, I want heroes
walking around in living color," says a black minister and
friend. But in interviews, Mr. Young's comments suggest he is
ready to let slip the racial leadership burden he has helped
carry so long.
   "White people," he tells a black congregation in Atlanta,
"they have to overcome over a hundred years of fear, and
nobody preaches that good. Somebody has to move inside them
to make them see clearly the character of a man rather than
the color of his skin. So I ask for your votes, but most of
all I ask for your prayers."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Women
   Are Truly Putting
   Aside a Tradition
   ---
   `Oyaji Girls' Bring Femininity
   To Nation's Golf Courses;
   They Also Play Pachinko
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHINO, Japan -- Megumi Negishi wouldn't have been caught
dead playing golf a few years ago. She is a woman -- and the
links were the domain of middle-aged businessmen known as
"oyaji," or "old boys," for their coarse ways. The
beer-swilling oyaji, dressed in gaudy striped shirts and
tight-fitting polyester trousers, gave Japanese golf a
locker-room tone.
   Things are changing, though. The 24-year-old Ms. Negishi,
wearing bright pink designer golf clothes, now is happy to
shell out 58,000 yen, about $385, for a two-day golf tour. "I
used to think I'd never do things that oyaji did," she says.
"But when I tried it myself, it was fun."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many of the newcomers are certainly not obsessive about
their scores. They are more interested in the latest in golf
fashion -- this year, tropical prints with labels such as
"Cute Story." Many of the women, in fact, never make it to a
golf course. They settle for urban driving ranges.
   On a stormy day at the fancy Mitsui no Mori Tateshina Golf
Club, 120 miles from Tokyo, Ms. Negishi is playing her first
round on a real course with a group of women touring with the
Loft Sports Golf School. She began weekly lessons six months
ago. The women are scurrying after their designer golf-balls.
Some of the balls have plopped into ponds, and others have
bounced straight onto the green -- the previous hole's green.
   The women play at less than the speed of divine lightning.
One vows to break 200 in her next round -- nearly three times
par. Ms. Negishi, shielding her outfit under a raincoat and
hat, slices her ball off a tree trunk. A group of men
impatiently pace the fairway behind her, and a caddy pleads
with her to hurry.
   Oyaji say they really welcome women to golf but bemoan
their giggly manner and slow pace. "I wouldn't mind them if
they practice and become good," says Hiroyoshi Sugano, a
38-year-old electric appliance company worker. Still, he
says, if women take up too many pastimes of the old men, they
are going to become old themselves.
   Those pastimes are just what the women are pursuing,
however. Bored with discos and chic bars, young women have
used their rising purchasing power to assert themselves in
the male domain of "out-of-the-ordinary experiences, just
like eating ethnic food, or going to Bali and Tahiti," says
Hikaru Hayashi. She is senior research director at the
Hakuhodo Institute of Life &amp; Living Inc. and a specialist in
youth culture. Young women are joining the oyaji at pachinko
parlors, "karaoke" sing-along bars, and even seedy
horse-racing tracks. The women, mostly single clerks and
secretaries in their 20s, call themselves "oyaji girls."
   Golf appeals to them most. The number of women golfers in
Japan has doubled in the past five years to three million, or
20% of all the golfers in a country that spends $13.3 billion
a year on the game.
   "I'm sick of going to discos," says 23-year-old Mika
Takaara after finishing her round with Ms. Negishi. Ms.
Takaara, who works for a securities company, says, "If
there's something fun to do, we should all do it." In
addition to golf and pinball, her oyaji pastimes include
betting at the track and downing vitamin drinks marketed as
energy fixes for the overworked.
   Clothes-consciousness weighs heavily on the women. Young
skiers here often buy two skiing outfits a season so they
won't always be wearing the same clothing in photographs.
Golf is even more demanding, fashion-wise. "I feel I have to
change my outfit every time I play," says Kumiko Koga, a
23-year-old Tokyo secretary who took up the game a year ago.
   She plays with her company's clients and occasionally even
with her 56-year-old boss, who, she says, encourages her
fashion spending. She has spent as much as $465 on clothes
for a single round of golf. She likes this year's hot colors,
gold and silver, and especially sequins. She saves money by
borrowing her mother's golf clubs, but she recently invested
$865 in a blue golf bag with embroidered figures of Mickey
and Minnie Mouse swinging their clubs.
   All over Japan, golf shops with shelves of pastel balls
and racks of clothing with such labels as "Papas" and "Popo
Club" are opening. Designers offer the oyaji girls slim
leather bags, holding only a few clubs, especially made for
the driving range. New magazines for neophyte women golfers
advise on proper makeup, and advertise gloves that emit a
fragrance when a wearer grips a club. The Kapalua Golf Course
in Hawaii sells its own brand of designer clothes exclusively
in the Japanese market.
   High greens fees, often well above $180 on weekends, give
the sport prestige for those oyaji girls who can afford them.
Other young women swing their clubs only at golf schools on
the rooftops of Tokyo department stores. Still others, like
18-year-old Megumi Sakaguchi, are satisfied with urban
driving ranges. Unlike America's driving ranges, with their
broad swaths of green that stretch for 150 yards or more,
Japan's cramped ranges look like batting cages. Some, draped
with nets as high as 80 feet, are no longer than two tennis
courts.
   The country's 4,500 ranges attracted more than 120 million
customer visits in 1989, compared with 90 million by those
who teed off on courses. Driving at the trendy Meiji Jingu
Gaien Golf Practice Range in Tokyo, where a flashing
electronic board warns of a one-hour, 50-minute wait, Ms.
Sakaguchi admits she has never played on a real course. She
has been practicing for three years.
   Yutsuko Chusonji claims to be the first oyaji girl. She
says she coined the term two years ago when, in the comic
books she writes, she started portraying young women golfers
pretending to be men. The 27-year-old Ms. Chusonji, herself
an avid golfer, says golf is an important status symbol for
young women.
   Not all, however, like being called oyaji girls. Ms. Koga
says she gets upset when middle-aged men on the golf course
ask if she's one. "If you call me an oyaji girl," she warns a
reporter, "I'll cry."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   China Eases Harsh Austerity Plan
   To Avert Potential Worker Unrest
   ----
   By Julia Leung
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Beijing's efforts to mend an unraveling
economy and reduce the potential for social unrest are
forcing China's leaders to scale back a long-running
austerity program, make credit more available and risk a
sharply wider budget deficit.
   "Since June 4 {1989, when Chinese troops opened fire on
demonstrators in Beijing}, the Chinese leaders have been
grappling with the issue of their own survival," says Lo
Chi-kin, a political commentator here. "Maintaining stability
is the key to survival."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign analysts say the moves reflect a policy shift this
year that emphasizes political, economic and social
stability. Signs that credit was easing were evident late
last year, but a big expansion came during this year's second
quarter, when loans outstanding grew at a rate comparable to
that in 1988's first half, before austerity was introduced.
Premier Li Peng signaled a further loosening this month by
announcing a cut in lending rates, the second since late
March.
   China's leaders have said that the austerity program would
remain in force for at least one more year. Yet the credit
easing means that Beijing has all but abandoned one of its
two main tools for damping inflation. The other, strict
control over state investment, was also relaxed this month
with Mr. Li's promise to release new funds for revamping
factories.
   "Austerity hardly exists anymore," Mr. Lo says. An
official in Guangdong province says: "Li Peng is bent on
improving the economy. To stay in power, he has to keep up
with wage payments and keep workers off the street."
   Beijing's predicament stems from a collision of economic
and political policies. When authorities imposed the
austerity program in September 1988 to rein in an overheating
economy, the belt-tightening measures didn't provoke much
more than grumbling among a populace accustomed to the
central government's zigzags. But the brutal crackdown on
pro-democracy demonstrators in June 1989, and the repressive
measures that followed, spurred stronger resentment of
members of the public.
   China's leaders fear that the moves have so alienated the
people that further discontent would erupt into even more
widespread protests and threaten to bring down the Communist
Party. In a similar vein, Beijing hard-liners have checked
the impulse to purge sympathizers of former party chief Zhao
Ziyang, analysts say, for fear of exacerbating the rifts in
the party that appeared amid disagreement over how to handle
the protests in Beijing.
   The latest policy shift was summed up in a banner headline
on a front-page editorial in the People's Daily last month:
"Stability Supersedes Everything Else." The source of the
headline was a speech by Deng Xiaoping, who engineered the
stability policy. "If China isn't stable, the world won't be
stable. What would happen if civil war breaks out in China?
Ten million people will go to Thailand, 100 million to
Indonesia and 500,000 to Hong Kong," Mr. Deng was quoted as
saying by the Beijing-controlled Wen Wei Po newspaper here
last month.
   Although China's heavily censored press doesn't mention
them, there have been workers' strikes in the past year, and
Beijing's leaders are worried that such actions could become
widespread, analysts say. Workers already are grumbling about
reduced bonuses as most Chinese factories are either
operating below capacity or have stopped production because
of the economic slowdown.
   Premier Li apparently hopes that easing credit will
improve both the economy and his prospects for keeping his
job.
   During the second quarter, the net increase in debt
outstanding was 45 billion yuan ($9.52 billion), up from 16.1
billion yuan during the first quarter. Loans outstanding at
the end of June grew about 20% from the end of June 1989,
compared with a 23% growth rate in 1988's first half, before
the austerity program was introduced.
   The injection of funds seems to have helped reverse the
slide in industrial output. Production declined 0.9% in
1990's first two months from a year earlier but expanded 3.2%
in the March-May period, according to official statistics.
   Wages are growing at a similar rate, rising 4% in the
first five months. The inflation rate was cut to 4% in the
same period from a peak of 27% at the beginning of last year.
In May, retail prices were 2.6% above the level a year
earlier but were rising at a lower rate, the State
Statistical Bureau says.
   Citing improved economic indicators, Premier Li even
declared for the first time that the Chinese economy "has
gotten over, or is getting over, the most difficult period."
   Many analysts disagree, however. Though overall industrial
output -- including state plants, collectively owned
factories and other enterprises -- has edged up, profits of
state factories alone have declined precipitously, the
analysts say. Noting that demand hasn't recovered, some
analysts speculate that the increase in output had probably
ended up in warehouses. That and rising raw-material prices,
they say, explain the sharp drop in state factories' profits
in recent months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Suffering From a Lack of Water,
   They Start Plumbing the Depths
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fish don't normally float in toilet bowls until they're
off to meet their Maker.
   But commodes soon may make cozy homes for marine life,
thanks to some ecologically minded officials in Southern
California who want to dump old water-guzzling toilets into
the Pacific Ocean.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Worried about the state's continuing drought, water
districts have been urging residents to install
ultralow-flush toilets to save water; some districts are even
offering rebates to residents who switch. But that has led to
another environmental dilemma as the older toilets are dumped
into already backed-up landfills.
   So the bureaucrats came up with the idea for toilet-bowl
reefs.
   "Porcelain fixtures are just as good as rock as far as the
fish are concerned. They're funny-shaped devices with lots of
places for them to hide," says John Grant, a marine biologist
with the U.S. Department of Fish and Game, which is
considering proposals from the city of Santa Monica and the
Helix Water District near San Diego to dump toilets into
Santa Monica Bay and off Point Loma, San Diego. He says a
pile of 300 commodes dumped illegally into Santa Monica Bay a
few years ago has become "a great place to dive for
lobsters."
   Harold Ball, president of the Helix Water District, says
toilets would make ideal reefs for the very reason they're
terrible in landfills: "A toilet literally lasts forever. . .
. It's identical material to a dinner plate. When they went
down to the Titanic, they found the dinner plates were in
perfect condition."
   Flush with suggestions for getting rid of old toilets,
Helix Water District is also testing a plan to crush commodes
and use them to fill potholes. Goleta Water District, near
Santa Barbara, which abandoned the idea of a toilet-bowl reef
because of cost and other issues, is using ground-up toilets
as roadbed.
   With artificial reefs already made of sunken ships, old
cars and rubber tires, "I can't see why using those toilets
wouldn't be very acceptable," says James Stewart, a diving
safety officer with Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La
Jolla, Calif.
   Even so, officials are bracing for a swirl of controversy
over their toilet-bowl reefs. "If you look at it
aesthetically, there are some troubling aspects," concedes
Fish and Game's Mr. Grant. Though giant kelp would camouflage
the commodes in a matter of years, "There's still a stigma
attached to a toilet bowl."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New England
   Slump Hurts
   2 Banks' Results
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB BBNK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of Boston Corp., grappling with New
England's continuing ecomonic woes, reported sharply lower
second-quarter profit of $3.5 million, or less than one cent
a share, after a $125 million provision for possible loan
losses.
   Separately, BayBanks Inc. posted a second-quarter net loss
of $11.5 million, or 72 cents a share, after a loan-loss
provision of $63.5 million. BayBanks also cut its dividend by
a third.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank of Boston's second-quarter profit compared with
year-earlier profit of $97.8 million, or $1.34 a share. The
year-earlier profit included a $36 million provision for loan
losses.
   The bank-holding company said that at the end of the
second quarter, its reserves for possible loan losses totaled
$892 million, or 3.91% of outstanding loans and leases, up
from $645 million, or 2.41% a year earlier. The reserves as
of June 30, however, were down from reserves of $967 million,
or 4% of loans and leases, as of March 31.
   Bank of Boston noted that "in spite of further weakening
in the real estate market and a declining regional economy,"
its nonperforming assets as of June 30 fell to $1.96 billion
from $1.98 billion as of March 31, 1990. The reduction in
nonperforming assets was due partly to charge-offs of $200
million of bad loans during the quarter, said Peter Manning,
chief financial officer. But a larger portion of the
reduction stemmed from sales of problem real-estate assets
and the reclassification of problem loans as "healthy" ones
after restructuring, he added. As of June 30, 1989,
nonperforming assets totaled $1.47 billion.
   The company said that as of June 30, 45% of its troubled
real-estate assets were in New England, 17% in Florida, 5%
each in Georgia, Tennessee and Texas, and 23% in the rest of
the country.
   Net interest revenue for the quarter was $246 million,
down from $304 million a year earlier. The net interest
margin fell to 2.92% from 3.78%, reflecting a higher level of
domestic nonperforming assets, lower interest spreads and
lower margins from Latin American operations, the company
said.
   Noninterest income for the quarter rose to $205 million
from $195 million a year earlier.
   For the six months, Bank of Boston earned $47.2 million,
or 56 cents a share, down from profit of $186.9 million, or
$2.57 a share, a year earlier. Provisions for credit losses
totaled $250 million in the first half of 1990, compared with
$72 million during the year-earlier period.
   In New York, Moody's Investors Service, citing
"disappointing second-quarter earnings," said it lowered it
ratings on Bank of Boston's senior debt to Ba-2 from Ba-1 and
on its subordinated debt to B-1 from Ba-3. Moody's lowered
its ratings on other Bank of Boston issues, affecting a total
of $2.2 billion of long-term debt. Moody's noted that despite
higher chargeoffs by the company during the second quarter,
its "aggregate volume of nonperformers remained stable,
suggesting continuing asset quality pressures."
   Commenting on the Moody's downgrade, Mr. Manning, Bank of
Boston's chief financial officer, said the bank-holding
company is "obviously disappointed" with Moody's action but
pleased "that Moody's saw fit to maintain certain of our
ratings."
   BayBanks second-quarter loss compared with year-earlier
profit of $18.9 million, or $1.18 a share.
   For the six months, BayBanks reported a net loss of $25.3
million, or $1.59 a share, compared with year-earlier profit
of $39.7 million, or $2.48 a share, including a nonrecurring
gain of $1.2 million.
   BayBanks said its board cut the quarterly dividend to 30
cents a share from 45 cents a share "to conserve capital
during an unsettled period in the region's economy." The
company added that its nonperforming loans rose to $265
million as of June 30, compared with $237 million at the end
of the prior quarter and $87.4 million a year earlier.
   Loan loss reserves as of June 30 were $145 million, or 55%
of nonperforming loans, compared with $57.3 million, or
65.6%, of nonperforming loans a year earlier, the company
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Bank System Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FBS
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- First Bank System Inc. said it reached an
agreement with JCB International Co. of Japan to process
credit card transactions for JCB in the northern region of
the U.S. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The bank holding company said it will process and settle
all transactions for JCB, Japan's largest credit card issuer,
with 17 million cardholders there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Bank also said it will provide customer service
support for the card members and merchants and solicit
merchants for JCB card acceptance.
   As of May 1990, 250,000 U.S. merchants accepted the JCB
card.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Eastern Enterprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   EFU WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EASTERN ENTERPRISES (Weston, Mass.) -- Thomas W. Jones was
named a board member. Mr. Jones is currently executive vice
president, finance and planning, for Teachers' Insurance
Annuity Association/College Retirement Equities Fund of New
York. He is an addition to the board and brings board
membership to 12. Eastern is a utility, marine transport and
water-purification products concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mead Corp. Unit Services
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MEA
</CO>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- Mead Corp. said its Mead Data Central Inc.
unit will triple the number of brokerage house reports
available through its LEXIS and NEXIS electronic publishing
services.
   Mead Data said it will add company and industry research
reports from the Investext database on Sept. 1. Investext, a
service of Thomson Financial Networks Inc., Boston, includes
research reports by leading U.S. and foreign investment
concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Barriers
   On Some Trades
   Appear to Ease
   ---
   Goldman, Salomon Cleared
   To Offer Securities Tied
   To Foreign Exchange
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN C MER SB
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Big U.S. securities houses are chipping away at
the Japanese regulatory taboo that prevents them from
handling foreign-exchange transactions in Tokyo.
   Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Salomon Brothers Inc. have
quietly received permission from the Finance Ministry to
offer securities that regulators previously held to be
foreign-exchange instruments. The securities, which are
denominated in yen, give holders the right to invest in
certain U.S.-dollar denominated securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. won permission to offer a
dollar-denominated money-market fund in Japan that
effectively offers current interest rates on demand deposits
-- the first time, Merrill says, that such a product has been
offered by a securities company in Japan.
   Many industry officials here consider the regulatory
concessions the first signs that the Finance Ministry
eventually will permit foreign securities companies here to
deal in foreign exchange. That would be an important
regulatory change, since only banks now are permitted to
handle foreign-exchange transactions in Japan.
   Under Article 65 of Japan's securities code, the country's
securities and banking industries are rigidly separated. The
law is modeled on the U.S.'s Glass-Steagall Act of 1933,
which raises a legal wall between the same industries in the
U.S. But the barriers between the banking and securities
industries have been the subject of considerable debate in
both countries, and some think eventually the walls will be
dismantled.
   In Japan, the Ministry of Finance appears inclined to
allow foreign securities companies such as Salomon and
Goldman Sachs the first chance to push through the wall's
cracks. The Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's largest business
daily newspaper, reported that the Ministry of Finance
granted Goldman Sachs permission to conduct foreign-exchange
transactions linked to options trades and currency swaps
denominated in yen and dollars.
   An official in the Ministry of Finance's international
banking division said the newspaper's report contained many
inaccuracies and "went too far" in its assertions. He
confirmed that some foreign securities firms recently
received permission to buy and sell yen options on
dollar-denominated securities. But he said permission hadn't
been granted for swaps.
   A spokesman for Goldman Sachs' Tokyo subsidiary declined
to comment on the article.
   While most officials in the financial industry here hail
recent moves by the Finance Ministry to liberalize
restrictions on overseas brokerage houses entering the
banking business, some are critical.
   "The changes are misleading," says a U.S. securities
company executive, who argues that the Finance Ministry
essentially is suggesting that foreign brokerage houses need
a special license to offer financial services that shouldn't
require government approval in the first place.
   "The impression is that there has been this significant
breakthrough, but in fact it's a regression," the executive
said.
   Pressure on the Ministry of Finance to dismantle Article
65 has come mostly from Japan's major banks and securities
companies, who are themselves challenged by so-called
universal banks from other countries. A universal bank offers
both banking and securities products. Such institutions exist
in most European countries, but are restricted in the U.S. as
they are in Japan.
   The first fissure in the wall separating Japan's financial
industries came three years ago. Despite heavy criticism from
domestic financial institutions, the Finance Ministry
permitted foreign bank-owned securities firms to open for
business. Among the new entrants to the business were
securities firms owned by Chase Manhattan Corp., Bankers
Trust Co. and J.P. Morgan Trust Bank. Securities companies
that were acquired by other bank holding companies, including
Citicorp and Security Pacific Corp., were permitted to remain
in business.
   Now foreign securities firms are anticipating a similar
relaxation of the rules governing banks owned by foreign
brokerage houses. Most big brokerage firms already have
banking subsidiaries outside the U.S. -- some of which
themselves have representative offices in Tokyo. The
securities firms' banking business is concentrated in swaps,
forward contracts and other transactions designed to reduce
the foreign-exchange or interest-rate risk their securities
customers otherwise would have to face. They also handle some
deposits and loans for very wealthy clients.
   Currently, foreign securities companies must put all such
business in Japan through locally licensed banks.
   A senior official at one U.S. securities firm said he has
been told by the Finance Ministry that the government will
begin accepting banking applications from foreign brokerage
houses in the last quarter of this calendar year.
   "They're in an awkward regulatory position," says Randy
Harris, the head of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in Japan. "Foreign
banks can have securities companies so it's difficult to
preclude foreign securities companies with representative
banking offices from upgrading to full branch status."
   So confident are the foreign houses that permission will
come through that they already are preparing the structures
of their banks according to rules they say regulators have
told them. The banks will have to be subsidiaries of existing
banking companies -- in other words, branches of the banks
that the securities companies already own in Europe.
   Like the foreign bank-owned securities houses, brokerage
firm-owned banks will have to be half-owned by non-financial
firms. That makes for some strange alliances; among the
partners in the bank-owned securities firms are the San
Francisco-based construction giant Bechtel Group and Chrysler
Corp. So far, none of the securities companies have
identified the companies with which they're negotiating
partnerships.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Industrial Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Production at Japan's mines and factories grew
2.7% in June from a year earlier while showing a 0.4% drop
from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade
and Industry said.
   The industrial and mining production index before seasonal
adjustment stood at 127.6, while the adjusted index was 124.5
(1985 equals 100).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the month-to-month drop, ministry officials said
industrial production as a whole, reflecting the country's
sustained economic growth, still remains strong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Technologies Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX EUROP F.ABI
</CO>
<LP>
   EAST HARTFORD, Conn. -- United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt
&amp; Whitney division said it received a $70 million order for
eight PW4156A jet engines from the Romanian national airline,
Transporturile Aeriene Romane, or Tarom.
   The engines, including two spares, will power three new
Airbus Industrie A310-300 airliners, Pratt &amp; Whitney said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United Technologies, in nearby Hartford, also has
businesses in building and automotive systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Ashton-Tate Set
   To Unveil Updated
   Database Product
   ----
   G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TATE
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ashton-Tate Corp., a maker of database software, will
announce a revamped version of its flagship database product
Tuesday, industry observers say. The arrival of the product,
which has been plagued by delays, could signal a reversal of
the company's sagging fortunes.
   Ashton-Tate declined to provide details about the
announcement, but industry observers say the company will
begin shipping dBASE IV version 1.1 immediately.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Invitations to the unveiling of the new product were
received by industry officials Wednesday, sending
Ashton-Tate's stock surging to $10.50, up $1.125. Yesterday,
the stock closed at $10.375, down 12.5 cents.
   Nearly two years ago, Ashton-Tate introduced the original
version of dBASE IV, but when customers complained about the
product's shortcomings the company promised to release a
revamped version within months. However, the work required to
correct dBASE IV's many programming errors stretched on far
longer than the company anticipated. In the meantime,
Ashton-Tate, once one of the world's biggest software
companies, slipped far behind the industry's leaders.
   Users, who have tested the new product, say it isn't
saddled with the flaws that bedeviled the earlier release.
"Unlike {the original} dBASE IV, this one is going to work as
advertised," said Michael Masterson, president of a large
user group in Silicon Valley.
   Database experts say the new version of dBASE, if it
doesn't face unexpected technical problems, should enable
Ashton-Tate to halt declining sales and even regain some of
its share in the database market, which has fallen sharply in
recent years. "This shores things up," said Jeffrey Tarter,
editor of Softletter, an industry newsletter.
   But the product isn't considered a barnburner, nor
something that will by itself restore Ashton-Tate to software
prominence.
   `It has passed my tests for reliability and performance,"
said Adam Green, a database consultant in Lexington, Mass.
"But for excitement Ashton-Tate must get out quality products
consistently. This is not a matter of selling a single
product."
   Sales of dBASE 1.1 will help, though. Ashton-Tate's
revenue fell 24% to $48.1 million in the second quarter.
Analysts said the decline was partly due to buyers holding
off in anticipation of the release of a new dBASE.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Joint Venture Is Set in Italy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RR I.AER I.ALR EUROP U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Rolls-Royce PLC, Aeritalia and a unit of Alfa
Romeo S.p.A. have agreed to jointly manufacture castings for
gas turbine engines in Italy, the companies said.
   The three will hold equal shares in the joint venture, to
be known as Europea Microfusioni Spaziali, which is to build
a #25 million ($45.2 million) factory in southern Italy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial details of the venture weren't disclosed. The
Italian government is partially funding construction of the
plant, the companies said.
   The castings will be used in the Rolls-Royce Tay engine
program. The venture will eventually make castings for the
Rolls-Royce engine that equips the Tornado jet fighter, built
by a European consortium that includes Aeritalia and British
Aerospace PLC, and the engine proposed for the European
Fighter Aircraft, planned by another pan-European consortium.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medical Care Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Medical Care International Inc. completed an
offering of $60 million principal amount of convertible
subordinated debentures, due Aug. 1, 2015.
   The operator of outpatient surgical centers said proceeds
will be used for long-term expansion and general corporate
purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. was the lead
underwriter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Union Warns
   Of Strike If Chrysler
   Rejects Pattern Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA LABOR C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canadian Auto Workers President Robert White
warned Chrysler Corp.'s Canadian subsidiary that the union
would strike if the company refused to accept any contract
agreement worked out with the other Canadian units of the Big
Three auto makers.
   Speaking at the opening of contract negotiations, Kenneth
Francese, Chrysler Canada's vice president, human resources,
said the company hadn't yet decided whether it would follow
the traditional system of pattern bargaining, in which the
Big Three all fall in with the contract terms worked out
between the union and one of the companies targeted for
talks. But, he said, "If something is done by one of the
other companies that we believe would negatively impact
Chrysler in its competitiveness, then we'll have to take a
look at it."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The parent company, which began contract negotiations in
the U.S. last week, has told the United Auto Workers that it
wants to be the target company, because it believes it can't
afford to be as generous as General Motors Corp. or Ford
Motor Co. If it isn't the target, Chrysler would like a
different contract. The UAW wants to maintain pattern
bargaining, but hasn't said what it would do if Chrysler opts
out.
   Contracts at the Big Three in both Canada and the U.S.
expire Sept. 14.
   Chrysler also has offered its U.S. workers stock in the
company and bonus payments in return for greater flexibility
to operate its plants. Mr. Francese said Chrysler Canada
hasn't offered such incentives, but said the company
considers more flexible work rules its top bargaining goal.
Chrysler Canada's success in this area "will determine the
size of any economic package we may negotiate," he said.
   Mr. White said the union presented Chrysler Canada with
nearly identical demands to those made to the Canadian units
of GM and Ford earlier this week. The union is seeking higher
wages, better protection against inflation and a limited
degree of job security.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wholesale Club Share Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WHLS
</CO>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- Wholesale Club Inc. said it expects
second-quarter earnings to fall to between seven cents and
nine cents a share compared with 15 cents a year earlier.
   The discount-store said for several years it has gradually
lowered its prices and margins. In the second quarter, this
process was accelerated, bringing margins down to those of
other large companies in the industry. Wholesale Club said
the move is designed to increase its share of market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it expects six-month earnings to increase
to between 17 cents to 19 cents a share, compared with last
year's three cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GACC Notes Are Tendered
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   GACC AFINP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Great American Communications Co. said $46
million of its 13 1/4% senior extendable reset notes were
tendered in response to an offer by the company that recently
expired.
   Combined with previously reported private purchases, GACC
now has repurchased about $135 million of the notes, or 78%
of the total issued, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great American is a radio and television broadcasting
concern that also is involved in movie and video production.
   American Financial Corp., a Cincinnati insurance holding
company, owns 68% of the stock of Great American.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stock-Index Arbitrage Tops
   50% of Program Trading
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   GE MS Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock-index arbitrage accounted for more than
half of total program trading volume during the week of July
9 through 13, the New York Stock Exchange said yesterday.
   Stock-index arbitrage, the most controversial form of
program trading, in which traders jump between stock-index
futures and options and underlying stocks to lock in profits,
accounted for 52.9% of all program trades during July 9
through 13. The previous week, stock-index arbitrage
accounted for 45% of all program trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Big Board said that of the top five program-trading
firms for the week, about 79% of all index arbitrage was
conducted by General Electric Co.'s Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
unit, Morgan Stanley Group Inc.'s Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. unit,
Susquehanna Investment Group and CS First Boston Inc.'s First
Boston Corp. unit.
   Aside from stock-index arbitrage, program trading also
describes strategies that involve the purchase or sale of
baskets of 15 or more stocks.
   Overall, program trading amounted to 7.9% of average daily
volume of 171.3 million shares on the Big Board during the
week, down from 10.9% of average daily volume of 125.1
million shares the previous week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunt Brothers
   Battle Creditors
   On Liquidations
   ---
   Disputes Arise Over Share
   Of Proceeds From Sales;
   Mineral Rights Tangled
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Just seven months after the end of their
contentious personal bankruptcy cases, oilmen Nelson Bunker
Hunt and William Herbert Hunt are bickering with creditors
over their share of proceeds from the liquidation of their
estates.
   The wrangling has been particularly heated in the case of
Nelson Bunker Hunt, who is arguing with creditors over the
value of certain mineral rights in a dispute that potentially
involves tens of millions of dollars. Meanwhile, both
brothers are quarreling with creditors over their share of
the proceeds from recent auctions of their collections of
rare coins and antiquities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disputes amount to a financial rearguard action by the
Hunts to preserve what remains of a fortune once estimated at
$6 billion. Battered by their disastrous speculation in the
1979-80 silver market and the subsequent fall of oil prices,
the brothers filed for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in 1988. The Hunts
concluded their cases last December after agreeing to
liquidate most of their personal assets to pay off creditors.
   But in Nelson Bunker Hunt's case, the mineral rights
dispute has either stalled or vastly complicated the sale of
more than $70 million of real estate, according to R. Carter
Pate, a principal of Charlotte, N.C.-based Finley Group and
liquidating trustee for the Nelson Bunker Hunt estate.
   Under a reorganization plan negotiated with creditors last
year, Mr. Hunt was permitted to keep a 50% interest in
mineral rights to non-producing properties. But creditors and
Mr. Hunt now disagree over which properties are included
under that provision and how much such mineral rights are
worth.
   "We're so far apart now we couldn't agree on lunch," Mr.
Pate said of recent settlement talks involving himself, Mr.
Hunt's attorneys and a creditors group led by the Internal
Revenue Service, the largest creditor in both cases.
   Mr. Pate, who has asked U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Harold
Abramson to rule on the matter, claimed Mr. Hunt has
construed that clause to include mineral rights on everything
from a Hawaii condominium to some Florida beachfront property
and is using it to effectively block the sale of such
properties until he is paid unspecified amounts for the
mineral rights. Mr. Hunt's Kentucky horse ranch was sold
recently for $3 million, but Mr. Pate said that sale was only
concluded after Mr. Pate agreed to put all the proceeds in
escrow pending a resolution of the dispute.
   Attorney Russell Munsch denied that his client was
asserting mineral rights to condominiums and other properties
without minerals and said creditors are trying to deny Mr.
Hunt the 50% stake in mineral rights that they agreed to in
the reorganziation plan signed by both parties last December.
"They're saying we didn't mean to give you that much even
though we signed the plan," said Mr. Munsch.
   Stephen McCartin, attorney for William Herbert Hunt, said
the argument is part of an overall effort by creditors to
"attack every provision of the plan that provides benefit to
the debtors."
   Meanwhile, both brothers are at odds with creditors over
how much the Hunts should be paid for their efforts to
publicize -- via media interviews and receptions -- the
recent auctions of their collections of rare Greek and Roman
coins, Byzantine bronzes and other antiquities. Those
auctions, conducted by Sotheby's Holdings Inc. last month in
New York, raised an estimated $22 million.
   Under their reorganization plans, the Hunt brothers are
entitled to 60% of the proceeds beyond an unspecified
"benchmark" price for their efforts to enhance the value of
the collections. Under a benchmark formula being proposed by
the IRS, William Herbert Hunt would receive about $34,000 and
Nelson Bunker Hunt, who owned most of the auctioned goods,
about $295,000.
   Mr. McCartin contends his client should get about
$700,000. Using a similar formula, Nelson Bunker Hunt would
get about $4.3 million, attorneys involved in the case said.
   Judge Abramson has also been asked to rule in that
dispute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Crown Cork &amp; Seal Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CCK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   CROWN CORK &amp; SEAL Co. (Philadelphia) -- William J. Avery,
50-year-old president and chief executive officer of this
maker of metal containers and packaging machinery, was
elected to the additional post of chairman, succeeding John
F. Connelly, who died July 8.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Trinova Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   TNV WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TRINOVA Corp. (Maumee, Ohio) -- Purdy Crawford and Steven
S. Reinemund were elected to the board of this maker of auto
parts. Mr. Crawford is chairman, president and chief
executive officer of Imasco Ltd. Mr. Reinemund has been
president and chief executive officer of Pizza Hut Inc. since
1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Geodynamics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GDYN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GEODYNAMICS Corp. (Santa Barbara, Calif.) -- Donald L.
Haas was appointed a director of this supplier of systems
engineering, systems integration and software development to
the U.S. government and prime contractors, succeeding Morris
Bennett, who retired. Mr. Haas was vice president and general
manager of the government systems sector of Perkin-Elmer
Corp. and was Air Force deputy undersecretary for space
systems from 1979 to 1982.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mediq Unit Completes Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MED
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PENNSAUKEN, N.J. -- NutraMax Products Inc. and Aid-Pack
Inc., a unit of Mediq Inc., said they have completed a
previously announced merger, valued at about $18 million.
   Mediq said it owns 81.7% of the merged companies, which
will operate and trade shares over-the-counter as NutraMax
Products Inc. Mediq said it received about 120 million shares
of NutraMax as a result of the merger. NutraMax shares have
been trading in the over-the-counter market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aid-Pack, a Gloucester, Mass.-based maker and distributor
of feminine personal-care products, had sales of about $13.1
million last year.
   NutraMax, formerly based in Ft. Lee, N.J., and now in
Gloucester, distributes and markets health and beauty
products in the U.S. and Japan. The company had sales of
about $347,000 last year.
   Mediq, based in Pennsauken, N.J., sells health-care
products and services. The company had sales of about $350
million last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FREST LATAM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   SOUTER STARTS in good shape as he faces Senate
confirmation.
   Bush aides are highly pleased at initial reactions to the
Supreme Court nominee. Conservatives aren't thrilled but are
satisfied. Liberals are thrown off by Souter's lack of a
record on abortion; Judiciary Committee members seem
uncertain about how to raise the issue. But Bush aides insist
they are taking nothing for granted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While former top Reagan aide Kenneth Duberstein comes in
to steer the confirmation effort, Souter will spend next
month combing through his judicial writings to anticipate any
controversies. Meanwhile, Bush aides debate the wisdom of
launching a high-profile public campaign for the nomination;
some say that while things are going smoothly, Bush shouldn't
create an atmosphere suggesting he anticipates problems.
   Democrats play coy about scheduling confirmation hearings,
hoping to buy time to scour Souter's record, but Republicans
will soon demand a date.
                                                                                                       

   ELECTION-YEAR JOCKEYING imperils Bush-Congress relations.
   The president's attacks on Democrats over taxes antagonize
lawmakers and complicate budget talks, despite his promise to
ease up. An extraordinarily heavy September schedule of
political trips will come just as he will be trying to get a
budget agreement and get clean-air, anti-crime and
civil-rights measures through.
   Bush tries to calm ruffled Democrats by telling them he
will try to separate his general political attacks from the
budget talks. But House Democratic Whip Gray warns that "if
the president is going to run around America and score points
attacking Democrats, and then he thinks that in the closed
room on Capitol Hill we're going to sit there and do
substance, you're nuts."
                                                                                                       

   REGIONAL DISPUTES resist resolution by the superpowers.
   Soviet officials tell the U.S. they are ready to trim
subsidies to Cuba and lean on Castro to stop stirring up
trouble in El Salvador, but they assert their leverage over
him is limited. It is also uncertain whether Moscow can prod
Vietnam toward a Cambodia settlement, while the U.S. is
unwilling to pressure China into cutting aid to the Khmer
Rouge.
   In Siberia next week, Baker will press Shevardnadze for an
accord on Afghan elections -- but a Baker aide concedes that
some of the U.S.-backed guerrillas won't back any deal that
doesn't oust Communist leader Najibullah first. The Soviets
also claim they are anxious to defuse tensions in Kashmir,
but say their old ties to India make cooperation with the
U.S. difficult there.
   Baker says "we don't have any assurances" that cooperation
with the Soviets can ease these trouble spots, but "that
doesn't mean we ought not to make the effort."
                                                                                                       

   GOVERNORS WILL SPAR over S&amp;Ls at their national conference
in Mobile, Ala., this weekend. Virginia's Wilder, a Democrat,
pushes for a bipartisan commission to look at the S&amp;L mess.
But the GOP arms its governors with a long fact sheet
detailing Democratic ties to fallen thrift executives.
                                                                                                       

   GATT ACCORDS elude frustrated U.S. negotiators. Despite
the Houston summit's call for quicker action on an agreement
to phase out agricultural subsidies, the EC continues to drag
its feet. West Germany's Chancellor Kohl, for one, doesn't
want to bargain away his farmers' benefits before this fall's
elections.
                                                                                                       

   SOLDIERS TO TEACHERS: The Army asks a group of educators
to help find teaching jobs for people leaving the shrinking
military. Retiring military trainers could help schools fill
shortages of math and science teachers and find needed
teachers for inner-city schools.
                                                                                                       

   TOBACCO INTERESTS, resigned to being hit with a hefty tax
increase if there is a major deficit-reduction agreement,
angle to minimize the pain. They hope to hold the increase to
less than a doubling of current 16-cent-a-pack tax, and for a
four-year phase-in of the increase. But the chances for such
a long grace period aren't good.
                                                                                                       

   CONGRESS FACES a mess over raising the debt limit.
   With the Treasury saying it will need new borrowing
authority by Aug. 15, controversial amendments to the
must-pass bill are a near-certainty in the Senate. Moynihan
intends to offer his plan to cut the Social Security payroll
tax. Heinz will demand that the Social Security surplus be
taken out of the official deficit calculation. Kasten may
press the GOP's capital-gains tax cut.
   House Speaker Foley says the debt limit is the one issue
that could delay the planned Aug. 3 start of the
congressional recess. Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski
predicts that the legislation could be defeated once before
it is finally passed -- and then might only be extended for
two months.
   That would force members to vote on the issue again in
mid-October -- perhaps with a deficit-reduction accord
attached.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Michigan GOP Senate candidate Schuette's TV
ads complain of Senate spending on Washington's Metro subway
system -- without mentioning that he voted for the House bill
that included Metro money. . . . Deborah Dean, a central
figure in the HUD scandal, tries something new: She opens a
Georgetown antique shop called "The Proud American.". . . The
world's only rap song with lyrics including "regulatory
accounting principles" is "The S&amp;L Rap," by New York Rep.
Major Owens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goodyear Reports
   $9.4 Million Loss
   For 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co. reported a
second quarter net loss of $9.4 million, or 16 cents a share,
mainly as a result of a North American automobile slowdown, a
price war in Europe and economic problems of Brazil.
   Those problems will continue in the second half, Goodyear
said. Sales rose to $2.87 billion from $2.81 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss also reflected charges of $21.4 million, or 37
cents a share, partly offset by a tax-loss carry-forward of
$600,000, or two cents a share. The charges include costs of
restructuring parts of Goodyear's North American tire sales
and distribution operations and closing the New Bedford,
Mass., roofing systems plant.
   In the 1989 second quarter, net income was $27.1 million,
or 47 cents a share, after charges of $95 million, or $1.65 a
share, partly offset by a tax-loss carry-forward of $4.9
million, or eight cents a share. The charges included losses
on the sale of Goodyear's South African subsidiary and of
unused pipe owned by the All American Pipeline subsidiary.
   Goodyear had expected a loss of up to $10 million for the
1990 second quarter.
   Prices for replacement tires in North America were
depressed in the latest quarter because the slowdown in
automobile production created a tire surplus, according to
industry officials. Producers dumped into the replacement
market some tires they had produced for Detroit, resulting in
widespread discounting. While major producers have announced
price increases of 2% to 4% on replacement tires effective
next month, it remains to be seen how much of the increase
they will collect.
   In Europe, Japan's Bridgestone Tire Corp. and Michelin &amp;
Co. of France are fighting aggressively for market share,
slashing prices in the process. Goodyear, which has a major
market position in Europe, is trying to at least hold its
own.
   In addition, Goodyear has continuing strikes at its
Turkish tire plants and is feeling the impact of the economic
change by the Brazilian government.
   The 1990 quarter also reflects depreciation of the All
American Pipeline System and its operating and interest
expenses, which were capitalized until the 1989 fourth
quarter. Had those items been recognized in the 1989 second
period, it would have reduced profit $26.8 million, or 47
cents a share, the company said.
   In the first half, profit before extraordinary gains fell
to $6.5 million, or 11 cents a share, from $112.3 million, or
$1.95 a share, a year earlier. After tax-loss carry-forwards,
net was $11.5 million, or 20 cents a share, down from $121.6
million, or $2.11 a share, a year earlier. Sales rose to
$5.56 billion from $5.45 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Bars
   A Broker, Citing
   Bounced Checks
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MER AGE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange barred for five
years a broker who, it charged, bounced checks on two
brokerage firms and misstated information on
securities-industry forms required for employment.
   The exchange also charged that William F. Falbo Sr. of
Palatine, Ill., violated rules regarding margin, or credit.
In addition to the five-year bar from membership, Mr. Falbo
was fined $10,000. Mr. Falbo, who denied the charges in a
letter to the exchange, couldn't be reached for comment. He
no longer is employed in the securities industry, the Big
Board said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case points up the difficulty brokerage firms and
regulators have in checking the backgrounds of potential
employees.
   The exchange said that in 1985 and 1986, Mr. Falbo, while
employed at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., wrote five personal checks,
totaling nearly $30,000, and deposited them in an account at
Merrill. The checks were returned for insufficient funds.
   The Big Board also said Mr. Falbo bought stock-index
options while he had insufficient funds in his securities
account to pay for them. Merrill notified the exchange that
the broker was discharged from the firm May 20, 1986; Merrill
said he had permitted overdrafts and abused check-writing
privileges.
   On June 2, 1986, Mr. Falbo joined A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons
Inc., allegedly failing to report his discharge by Merrill
Lynch. In June and July 1986, he bought stock-index options
with insufficient funds in his Edwards account to pay for
them, the exchange said.
   On July 8, the exchange added, he deposited a $5,000 check
into his Edwards account; the check was returned to Edwards
on July 15 for lack of sufficient funds. Edwards redeposited
the check on Mr. Falbo's request; the broker stopped payment
on the check July 22.
   Edwards, which sustained a $7,431 loss on the options
transactions, discharged Mr. Falbo July 9 for failing to
disclose a reportable item on his application and for
violating margin rules, the exchange said.
   Mr. Falbo joined First of Michigan Corp. in September
1987, allegedly failing to tell the firm that the previous
February he had pleaded guilty in state court in Illinois to
a misdemeanor involving issuance of a check with insufficient
funds. He also failed to disclose that two judgments A.G.
Edwards won against him were outstanding. He voluntarily
resigned from First of Michigan in January 1988, the exchange
said.
   The exchange also said Mr. Falbo has declined to cooperate
with its inquiries about his termination from Merrill Lynch.
But in a January 1987 letter to the Big Board, Mr. Falbo
denied Merrill Lynch's assertions and said those assertions
led A.G. Edwards to dismiss him.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Panhandle Eastern Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PEL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PANHANDLE EASTERN Corp. (Houston) -- George E. Rupp was
elected to the board of this interstate gas pipeline concern.
Mr. Rupp is president of Rice University, Houston. He
succeeds former U.S. Sen. James B. Pearson, who retired from
the board at age 70.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Asahi Diamond Buys Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Asahi Diamond Industrial Co., Japan's largest
diamond-tipped tools manufacturer, announced Thursday that it
purchased all remaining shares of Triefus PLC, a U.K.
diamond-tipped tools concern.
   The purchase, which took place Monday, totaled about 4
billion yen ($20.7 million), an Asahi Diamond official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move reflects Asahi's plans to obtain a better
foothold in Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Net Slid
   38% in Quarter;
   Ford's Fell 45%
   ---
   Hard Times in U.S. Market,
   Brazil's Economic Unrest
   Cited as Major Factors
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co.
reported steep drops in second-quarter earnings, largely
reflecting hard times in the U.S. market and economic unrest
in Brazil.
   Ford's quarterly net income tumbled 45%, as a profit
plunge overseas compounded the effect of expected lower
results in North America. At GM, earnings fell 38%. Heavy
spending for discounts and other sales inducements more than
offset the benefits of a slight increase in the No. 1 auto
maker's U.S. market share. Chrysler Corp. is expected to
report earnings next week, and analysts are estimating a
profit drop there of as much as 60%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors and analysts had expected weak earnings from
both GM and Ford. Yesterday, GM common stock closed at
$47.25, down 37.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Ford stock fell 37.5 cents to close at $41.875.
   Ford and GM both plan to boost U.S. vehicle output in the
third quarter, which should help earnings. The European
market, meanwhile, continues to look healthy. U.S. market
demand is weak, and pressure from Japanese auto makers could
undermine U.S. auto makers' efforts to beef up profit margins
by raising prices.
   At Ford, second-quarter net dropped to $770.7 million, or
$1.67 a share, from $1.41 billion, or $3 a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose slightly to $26.87 billion from $25.89
billion.
   "Overseas automotive earnings were off 78%," David N.
McCammon, vice president for finance, said at a news
conference. "U.S. automotive earnings were off 22%." Ford ran
into major problems in both its big overseas markets: Europe,
where a strike cut output in Belgium, and Latin America,
where Brazil's economic reform measures are hurting many
companies. Earnings from financial-services operations rose
40%, to $241.5 million.
   For the third quarter, Mr. McCammon said, "the earnings
outlook for the U.S. is better" than last year, while "the
outlook for overseas is worse." He wouldn't forecast overall
earnings for the quarter, but he said there's only a 50%
chance that Ford will make profit-sharing payments to its
U.S. hourly workers this year. Ford has paid each worker an
average $2,500 a year in profit sharing since 1987.
   Perhaps the most significant number Ford released
yesterday was not in its income statement but in the balance
sheet. Ford reported that its ratio of debt to shareholders'
equity rose to 27% at the end of the second quarter from just
10% a year earlier. The company is borrowing heavily, Mr.
McCammon explained, to finance an ambitious capital-spending
program.
   The spending includes the development of new engines and
transmissions -- where Ford has lagged behind major rivals --
and new vehicles, as well as the recent purchase of Jaguar
PLC. Capital spending jumped 26% in the first half, to $3.3
billion.
   "We've been spending at record levels," Mr. McCammon said.
"We think it's good strategy to capitalize on the momentum we
gained during the 1980s."
   Ford's borrowings, Mr. McCammon said, accounted for the
increase in cash and marketable securities during the
quarter, to $6.41 billion from just $3.86 billion three
months earlier. A year ago, Ford's cash stood at $7.8
billion.
   Mr. McCammon said Ford spent $1,050 per vehicle on buyer
incentives in the second quarter, up from just $600 a vehicle
a year ago. The heavy spending will continue, he said, for
the rest of the model year, which ends Sept. 30.
   One positive factor, he added, is that Ford's North
American vehicle output will be 18% higher in the third
quarter than it was a year ago. In the first half output
dropped about 18% because Ford was reducing inventories,
which now stand at a normal level. World-wide, Ford sold 1.7
million cars and trucks in the second quarter, down from 1.8
million a year earlier.
   Mr. McCammon said the pending sale of Ford Aerospace to
Loral Corp. "probably won't be closed for several months and
won't have a material effect on earnings," though it will
boost Ford's cash position. Mr. McCammon wouldn't comment on
whether BDM International Inc., which Ford Aerospace bought
just two years ago for $425 million, was valued at less than
$100 million in the pending transaction.
   At GM, second-quarter earnings slumped to $900.1 million,
or $1.32 a common share, from $1.45 billion, or $2.23 a
common share, a year ago.
   Profit dived even though GM's total revenue rose 1.2% to
$33.9 billion and world-wide factory sales of GM vehicles
dipped just 2% to 2,143,000 vehicles from 2,184,000 vehicles
a year ago.
   GM said profit was depressed by heavy discounting of
vehicles sold in North America and the pressure put on
Brazilian operations by the economic turmoil there. GM may
have had a loss of about $120 million in Brazil in the second
quarter, said David Healy, an analyst at Barclays de Zoete
Wedd in New York.
   But rising costs hurt, too. GM's operating and
administrative costs in the quarter rose 3.7% from a year ago
-- more than triple the growth rate in overall revenue.
   Profit at GM's overseas operations, excluding Brazil,
"continued at a record level" in the quarter, the company
said in a statement. Higher profit from two of its three big
non-automotive units, General Motors Acceptance Corp. and
Electronic Data Systems Corp., also helped to cushion GM's
weak performance in North American vehicle operations and
Brazil.
   GM's core North American vehicle operations appear to have
been at best marginally profitable, analysts said. Retail
sales of GM cars and light trucks fell 5.5% to 1,385,025
vehicles in the quarter despite discounts that averaged
$1,000 a vehicle.
   GM increased its share of the total U.S. car and truck
market to 35.8% from 35.5% a year ago. That was because its
sales decline was slightly less severe than the slide in
overall U.S. vehicle sales.
   With overall profit margins down 40% from a year ago, GM
had to dip into its cash reserves to finance operations
during the first six months of the year. The auto maker had
$6.18 billion in cash as of June 30, down 12.5% from $7.07
billion at the beginning of the year and off 13% from $7.13
billion a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   Don't Say
   Robert Bork
   Didn't Warn Us
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Robert Bork predicted David Souter a year ago. In his book
about his own Supreme Court ordeal, Judge Bork wrote:
   "A president who wants to avoid a battle like mine, and
most presidents would prefer to, is likely to nominate men
and women who have not written much, and certainly nothing
that could be regarded as controversial by left-leaning
senators and groups."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now George Bush has named a stealth candidate, and
Washington is . . . nonplused. How could he] Liberals, scared
to death by the departure of William Brennan, are demanding
that the Senate ask tough, detailed questions. Even some
conservatives, wary as ever of betrayal by George Bush, want
specific answers. After the Bork trial, the Senate will get
nothing of the sort -- which is what it deserves.
   The reticent Yankee's nomination sent everyone scrambling
for Lexis news retrieval.One delicious anecdote, reported by
Dale Russakoff of the Washington Post, captures the sense of
panic. At People for the American Way, the group that paid
Gregory Peck to smear Judge Bork, activists awaited Mr.
Bush's announcement around the TV set holding files on Texas
appeals-court judge Edith Jones. But Ms. Jones was the
runner-up. When Mr. Souter appeared next to George Bush,
everyone shouted, "That's a man]" and rushed off to locate
the Souter file.
   Mostly, that file is empty. Everyone says nice things
about him, even New Hampshire Democrats. Liberals and
conservatives take comfort, respectively, from the two
Bigfoot GOP New Hampshirites, malleable Sen. Warren Rudman
and the granite former Gov. John Sununu, who take credit for
discovering him.
   Even a clue found on abortion can be read both ways. While
a Superior court judge, Mr. Souter wrote a letter saying
judges should take no position on the issue of parental
consent for abortion. The letter served a pro-choice end by
helping to defeat a parental-consent bill. But the letter's
reasoning -- that judges shouldn't engage in "acts of
unfettered personal choice" -- sounds like the sort that
would disapprove Roe v. Wade. The artful dodger himself,
George Bush, couldn't have written a better script.
   Senators can expect more forthright ambiguity at his
confirmation hearing. Judge Souter will throw off more fog
than San Francisco Bay. On the Constitution's "right to
privacy" (the bedrock of Roe), he will sound like Justice
Anthony Kennedy, who at his confirmation said the
Constitution protected privacy, but how and why would depend
on the case. That didn't stop Mr. Kennedy from voting to
overturn Roe in Webster v. Missouri.
   On the burden of precedent, Judge Souter will declare his
deep respect for Supreme Court decisions, but how deep no one
will know. Liberals will climb the walls, but what can they
do? Without hot-button quotes -- to be turned into Gregory
Peck sound bites -- their only target is a legal theory,
George Bush's preference for "strict constructionists." Mr.
Bush could reply that Democrats are trying to "politicize"
the Court, something Americans don't like.
   Perhaps the only bad confirmation omen is that the White
House has picked Kenneth Duberstein to shepherd Mr. Souter
through the Senate. Mr. Duberstein's credits include the Bork
confirmation strategy of turning the other cheek. If there is
an attack brewing, Mr. Duberstein will be the last to know.
   For their part, conservatives fear another John Paul
Stevens, but in judicial politics this is not the 1970s. As
Mr. Bork wrote last year, "in the larger war for control of
the law, there are only two sides." The increasingly florid
liberal activism of recent years has unified the opposition.
Among Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee, even
Wyoming moderate Alan Simpson is in the Bork camp. So is
George Bush.
   Mr. Souter's Sununu or Rudman pedigree matters less than
his clearance by talent-spotters at the Reagan Justice
Department. He passed muster with the same people who
approved Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy. Some of
these people are in key places in the Bush Administration.
None of President Bush's other finalists -- Ms. Jones, and
Clarence Thomas and Laurence Silberman of the D.C. circuit --
should console liberals.
   A mistake is always possible, but it's the exception. The
rule is Justice Kennedy. Sources who've interviewed Mr.
Souter agree that their only real doubt is how aggressively
he'll seek to overturn liberal precedents. He has a
"libertarian streak" that might make him tolerant of
flag-burning but also distrustful of economic regulation. No
one even dreams he'll go rummaging through the Constitution
looking for "emanations and penumbras."
   After the Brennan era, a newcomer will also be joining a
different Supreme Court. The liberals will no longer have the
four solid votes required to hear a case, so the Court's
docket will change. Liberal enthusiasms will wane. Justice
Scalia now becomes the Court's intellectual heavyweight, much
as Justice Brennan was when Justice Stevens joined.
   As Justice Harry Blackmun admitted recently, and none too
happily, the Supreme Court has begun an era of conservative
jurisprudence that could last 40 years. Liberals ache to stop
this, but with the Bork massacre they created the new stealth
standard that will frustrate them. Judge Bork predicted that
too.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   MCI Communications Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MCI COMMUNICATIONS Corp. (Washington) -- O. Gene Gabbard
was named chief financial officer and an executive vice
president of this telecommunications concern. Mr. Gabbard
will assume the new post after the completion of the pending
merger between MCI and Telecom USA Inc., an Atlanta-based
telecommunications concern of which he is chairman and chief
executive officer.
   In his new posts at MCI, he will succeed Daniel F.
Akerson, who in May was named executive vice president and
group executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Continental Medical Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CONT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MECHANICSBURG, Pa. -- Continental Medical Systems Inc.
said it agreed to acquire 80% of the stock of three privately
held rehabilitation-services companies based in Boone, N.C.
   The companies, which have common owners, are Communi Care
of America Inc., Pro-Rehab Inc. and Alta Petens Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continental, a provider of rehabilitation services, said
the purchase will be made with cash and stock, but the
company didn't specify terms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Mixed as Technology Shares
   Slide on Microsoft Profit Announcement
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Early gains in over-the-counter stocks evaporated after
computer software leader Microsoft cautioned analysts that
increased spending next year will crimp its profit margins.
   Microsoft skidded 2 3/4 to 68 3/4, after first rising to a
high of 74. Other technology shares followed suit, pressuring
the broader OTC market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index eased 0.02 to 445.45, a 0.1%
decline, after gaining more than 1.5 points before the
Microsoft outlook was reported. Volume continued to slip as
136.1 million shares changed hands, down from 141.6 million
Wednesday. Advancing shares again outpaced decliners, 1,054
to 923; the gap between stocks trading to new lows and new
highs narrowed, 94 to 58.
   "Anytime you have a company the size of Microsoft getting
knocked like that, it affects the general tone of the
market," said Nelson Gold, senior vice president of OTC
trading at Interstate-Johnson Lane Corp., Atlanta. Kidder
Peabody senior OTC trader Peter Coolidge agreed, adding that
the reaction to the Microsoft news underscores the
nervousness of the market.
   Some investors shifted from technology shares into
biotechnology stocks, noted James Tarantino, head of OTC
trading at Hambrecht &amp; Quist, San Francisco. Among the day's
strong biotech issues, Amgen rose 1 to 91 1/2, Centocor
jumped 2 1/4 to 43 and Xoma added 3/4 to 25 3/4. Mr.
Tarantino said that institutions have been this week's
busiest investors, adding that "futures programs seem to have
driven retail {investors} out of the market."
   Regional stocks have been in favor among institutions
trading through Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. in Memphis, according to
Hedi Reynolds, managing director of OTC trading there. She
said that in the last two days she's seen more orders to buy
stocks than sell among larger clients.
   Surprising strength in insurance stocks helped shore up
the OTC market. The Nasdaq Insurance Index rose nearly 0.8%,
or 3.93 to 498.21
   There seemed to be no apparent fundamental reason for the
advance of the insurance index, according to Mr. Coolidge and
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette insurance analyst David Seifer.
Mr. Seifer noted that second quarter insurance underwriting
losses seem to have increased while the industry's investment
income growth slowed.
   Traders said that insurance stocks seemed to gain strength
after Ohio Casualty reported net income for the second
quarter of $1.14 a share, down from $1.68 a year earlier.
However, analysts said that figure wasn't surprising and they
were mystified by the advance. Ohio Casualty rose 1 3/4 to
45; St. Paul Cos. added 3/4 to 60; Safeco rose 3/4 to 35 3/8,
and 20th Century Industries gained 1 1/8 to 25.
   Among the day's most-active stocks, United Banks of
Colorado rose 1 3/8 to 21 1/2 after the Denver commercial
bank signed a definitive merger agreement with Norwest. Under
the agreement, United Banks stockholders will receive 1.22
Norwest shares for each of their United Banks shares.
   Other active stocks didn't fare so well.
   Wholesale Club plunged 5 5/8 to 18 1/2 on more than 1.1
million shares after the Indianapolis operator of membership
merchandise warehouses said it expects to report net income
for the second quarter ending in August will range between
seven and nine cents a share, down from 15 cents a year
earlier.
   Intellicall gained 1 to 13 5/8 after the Carrollton,
Texas, maker and marketer of pay telephones reported second
quarter net income rose to 27 cents a share from 17 cents a
year earlier.
   Michael Foods climbed 1 1/4 to 19 7/8 after the
Minneapolis food processor reported second quarter net income
rose to 43 cents a share from 20 cents a year earlier.
   Vikonics rebounded 3/4 to 5 3/8. In the first three days
of the week, shares of the Secaucus, N.J., security systems
concern lost one-third of their market value. Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said Vikonics lost a bid on
Monday to provide a security system for the U.S. Treasury
Department. John J. Strong, Vikonics vice president of
finance and administration, and President John L. Kaufman
told DJPIR that contrary to market rumors, the loss of the
contract doesn't jeopardize the company's chance of winning
other awards.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Gets Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LIT UIS GE
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Motors Corp. got a $65.8 million
Navy contract for aircraft turbine engines.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   FKW Inc. was given a $23 million Navy contract to operate
surveillance field stations.
                                                                                                       

   Litton Systems Inc., a unit of Litton Industries Inc., won
a $20.9 million Navy contract for cruise-missile components.
                                                                                                       

   Unisys Corp. got a $15 million Navy contract for Trident
missile components.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. was issued a $14.6 million Air Force
contract for aircraft jet engines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Indexing Capital Gains -- Fool's Gold
   ----
   By Clark S. Judge
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   As the current inning in the long-running game called the
budget process reaches its climax, many in Washington are
betting that the congressional Democrats are about to make a
double play. Getting George Bush to move his lips on taxes
was their first out. Stopping him from moving them on capital
gains tax reduction could be the second.
   Senate majority leader George Mitchell had insisted that
any change in the capital gains tax rate must be paired with
a new top rate of 33% for higher income taxpayers, bursting
the so-called bubble. House Republicans have said that they
would wash their hands of such a deal. A number, led by Rep.
Vin Weber (R., Minn.), are ready to walk out on any budget
deal that fails to include action on capital gains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But without fanfare in the press, Sen. Mitchell has begun
to retreat from his demand. At the same time, some summiteers
have begun informally exploring alternatives to the
president's tax cut proposal -- alternatives that they hope
might be acceptable to the White House and perhaps even win
over the House Republicans, despite Mr. Weber's tough line.
   The president's plan would effectively cut the capital
gains rate to 19.6% after three years, by excluding 10% of
gains in the first year, 20% in the second and 30% in the
third. Mr. Bush argues that this cut would, among other
desirable things, compensate investors for the inflation
built into the appreciation of asset prices.
   Opponents of the cut and now some summiteers have asked,
why not take the president's reasoning to its logical
conclusion? Why not simply index capital gains to the rate of
inflation instead? If inflation has totaled 15% over the time
someone held a $100 asset, tax the gain on the asset as if
the purchase price had been $115.
   On its face, indexation appears to be a fine idea.
Indexing business-related taxes was the one element of the
1986 tax reform proposal that Congress didn't pass. Indexing
capital gains would put an end to one of the principal risks
of investing the danger of paying hefty taxes on non-existent
real gains or even losses, without reopening such settled
issues of tax reform as rates on personal income. It would
remedy something that liberals as well as conservatives
regard as a serious flaw in our current tax system.
   Because of its obvious fairness, indexing doesn't call
forth the class warfare style of opposition that a straight
capital gains cut does. Some prominent conservatives support
it over the Bush proposal for just that reason. They see
indexing as an achievable way to reduce taxes on capital
gains, one that even dedicated adversaries of the Bush plan
will favor. That means, they believe, giving up less and
perhaps nothing at all to get it. As one advocate says, if
Mr. Bush had endorsed indexing last year, it would be enacted
by now.
   The problem is that -- as happens so often when taxes are
the issue -- different people mean different things by
indexing. Full indexing would permit losses on one asset to
offset gains on another and for a portfolio with nominal
gains to show real losses. But full indexing, which many
conservatives appear to assume the Democrats are talking
about, does not command active liberal support and has no
prospect of getting a serious hearing in Congress. No one in
Washington has suggested that indexed valuations be allowed
to drop below zero. Under proposals being discussed, if that
asset with the indexed purchase price of $115 were sold for
$110, the investor couldn't show a $5 loss, just a wash.
   Investors with real losses for their portfolios would thus
still pay taxes on phantom gains. Among other things,
"quarter indexing," as some call this treatment, is far less
expensive to the government than full indexing, which all
agree would produce a big drop in federal revenue, even
accounting for its stimulative effect on the economy.
   Opponents of the Bush proposal refer to calculations of
what a dollar would be worth after a number of years if: a)
it is invested this year, b) produces a steady annual return,
c) all returns on that investment are reinvested without
paying the 28% personal income tax until d) the asset with
its compound returns is finally sold. Looked at this way, the
Bush proposal can be made to seem a minor boost to the
economy compared to indexing.
   But this analysis describes a limited group of companies.
Only mature or stagnating companies produce smooth,
predictable earnings that compound at roughly the same rate,
year in, year out. New and growing businesses have different
profiles. Early investors pay prices that reflect not only
the returns that they hope the business will produce but
their doubts that it will produce any at all. Within a few
years, a company may still have little or no profits even
though it has taken a large share of a growing market. It
looks like a surer deal, however, and so the stock price
climbs rapidly, not because of rising earnings but declining
risk.
   For this kind of company -- the kind that in large measure
has driven the current expansion and is driving virtually all
expanding economies around the world -- the Bush proposal
will have a markedly greater impact than quarter-indexing.
Simply put: the greater the capital appreciation of an
investment in its first six years -- the normal horizon for
seed capital investments -- the more powerful the incentives
in the Bush proposal.
   Two issues have underpinned the now decade-long tax
contest in Washington: first, will there be a cap on the
proportion of the economy that the government takes; and
second, should policy be designed to free the economy's
dynamic and creative elements or to protect the threatened
and declining ones, even at the expense of growth?
   If the budget summit does indeed produce higher taxes,
particularly without real reforms in the budget process and
concessions on entitlements, congressional Democrats will
have tagged out the administration on limiting the
government's take. If the summit also blocks the cutting of
the capital gains tax rate, they will have stopped the most
powerful recent initiative for advancement of the growth
agenda. While indexing -- even quarter indexing -- might be
better than nothing, it would still represent a setback on
this agenda.
   President Bush has now stepped up to bat. The old Yale
first base man may yet hit a home run -- and even a single
that advances all runners will do. But right now the betting
is heavy on the Democrats' team from the Hill.
   ---
   Mr. Judge was a speechwriter for President Reagan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coastal Corp. Unit Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CGP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Coastal Corp. said its ANR Production Co. unit
is purchasing additional interests in 374 producing oil and
gas wells and a natural gas processing facility in Utah.
Coastal declined to disclose the name of the seller or the
purchase price.
   The pipeline concern said its portion of production will
increase to 3,600 barrels of oil and 10.8 million cubic feet
of natural gas a day from 2,400 barrels of oil and 7.2
million cubic feet of gas. The wells are in the
Altamont/Bluebell field in Utah.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ANR is operator of about 154 of the wells and of the
Altamont plant, which has the capacity to process 40 million
cubic feet of gas a day. Propane, butane and natural gas are
produced at that plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comerica Unit Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CMCA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Comerica Inc.'s Comerica Bank-Texas subsidiary
said it has acquired the deposits and some of the loans of
Continental Bank of Dallas in a transaction assisted by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   Continental, which has deposits of about $124 million,
operates two branches. With the Continental acquisition,
Comerica Bank-Texas now has assets of over $1 billion, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing's Net
   Nearly Doubles
   To $387 Million
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co.'s second-quarter net income nearly doubled to
$387 million, or $1.12 a share, on the continued strength of
the Seattle-based company's commercial aircraft business.
   A year earlier, the aerospace concern earned $195 million,
or 57 cents a share, after a 3-for-2 stock split paid last
month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 37% to $6.97 billion from $5.07 billion.
   Boeing said commercial aircraft sales volume and operating
margins for the latest quarter were partly offset by a higher
effective federal tax rate.
   Despite the overall increases in results, Boeing's
chairman and chief executive officer, Frank Shrontz, painted
a gloomy picture for the company's defense business. He
warned, as he has previously, that "technical, cost and
schedule problems" on certain defense contracts will result
in "a significant 1990 operating loss" for the company's
defense and space business. Last year, Boeing's military
transport subsidiary had a $559 million loss, while the
missiles and space segment earned $85 million.
   "The market environment for Department of Defense business
continues to be influenced by world events and strong
pressures to reduce federal expenditures," Boeing said. "A
number of programs involving the company are under DOD, NASA
{National Aeronautics and Space Administration} and
congressional funding reviews."
   Still, robust commercial business made Boeing the clear
winner among U.S. aerospace companies for the second quarter.
Boeing received orders for 128 jetliners and five commuter
planes valued at a total of $11.5 billion in the latest
period. A year earlier, the company had a record 502 jetliner
and eight commuter aircraft orders valued at $25 billion.
   The company reported its earnings after the close of the
market yesterday. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, Boeing shares finished at $59.125, up 87.5 cents.
   Boeing said the "key challenges" for its commercial
aircraft business during the second half will be maintaining
schedule and cost controls at the current high level of
production, and obtaining firm orders from top airline
customers for the proposed 777 wide-body, twin-engine jet.
   Boeing's total backlog as of June 30 was $84.3 billion, of
which $78.1 billion was for commercial customers. At the end
of 1989, its backlog was $80.6 billion, with $74 billion from
commercial business.
   In the first half, net rose 5.4% to $689 million, or $1.99
a share, from $654 million, or $1.89 a share, adjusted for
the split, a year earlier, when net income included $298
million, or 86 cents a share, related to an accounting change
for taxes. Sales rose 48% to $13.4 billion from $9.07
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FirstFederal Financial Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   FFSW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOOSTER, Ohio -- FirstFederal Financial Services Corp.
said it agreed to acquire First Federal of Mount Vernon,
Ohio, a mutual savings association with $77.4 million in
assets but a negative net worth.
   First Federal of Mount Vernon will be merged into First
Federal Savings &amp; Loan Assn. of Wooster, the principal unit
of FirstFederal Financial Services. FirstFederal Financial
Services will inject capital into First Federal of Mount
Vernon if it is acquired, but isn't paying anything at the
outset, an official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   FirstFederal Financial Services said it has assets of $321
million, shareholder equity of $25.7 million, and a ratio of
capital to assets of 8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Compaq Computer
   Profit Rose 24%
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Compaq Computer Corp., riding a crest of European sales,
posted a 24% gain in profit for its second quarter.
   That isn't the kind of torrid growth Compaq investors are
accustomed to, but analysts drew comfort from the Houston
company's 42% gross profit margin in the period. "The margins
were impressive," said James Poyner, an analyst with William
K. Woodruff &amp; Co., a Dallas-based institutional brokerage
firm. "Revenues were not."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Compaq said it earned $104 million, or $1.18 a share,
compared with $84 million, or 98 cents a share, a year
earlier. Pershare figures are fully diluted. A one-time
investment gain added five cents a share to the 1990
quarter's figure.
   Sales rose 19% to $862 million from $722 million.
   Compaq also scored practically all of its sales gains in
Europe, where it ranks second in computer sales to
International Business Machines Corp. in computer sales.
While international sales rose 42%, Compaq managed only a 2%
improvement at home. For the second consecutive quarter,
Compaq sold more personal computers abroad than at home.
   The lackluster North American sales raised anew the
question of whether Compaq can hold on to its 29% share of
domestic retail sales of personal computers. Mr. Poyner noted
that both the market and smaller competitors such as Dell
Compute Corp. enjoyed faster sales gains. "I'm sure they gave
up market share," said Mr. Poyner.
   Rod Canion, Compaq's chairman, disputed that assessment.
Compaq's unit sales grew faster than revenue because the
manufacturer is cutting prices to hold share, he said. Mr.
Canion pronounced the surgery a success. "Our market strength
is at a high point, and we've introduced seven new products
in the last three months," he said.
   Compaq's strength in Britain, West Germany and France
strained the company's production capacities. In turn, the
resulting efficiency gains and slimmer inventories improved
Compaq margins. Mr. Canion noted that Compaq established a
subsidiary in Finland and appointed dealers in East Germany
and Yugoslavia during the quarter.
   Compaq also suffered parts shortages that created backlogs
for three of its Deskpro 386 models. Those back orders, and
the recent revival of U.S. sales, also heartened analysts.
"I'm looking for quite strong earnings growth in the second
half," said Eugene G. Glazer, an analyst with Dean Witter
Reynolds.
   Compaq earned $196 million, or $2.23 a share, in the first
half, up from $167 million, or $1.94 a share, a year earlier.
Sales were $1.7 billion against $1.4 billion.
   Compaq shares closed yesterday at $57.875, off $1.50, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Procter &amp; Gamble Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   PG ACY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Procter &amp; Gamble Co. said it completed the
purchase of the toiletry and fragrance businesses of American
Cyanamid Co.'s Shulton Group, excluding the Pierre Cardin
fragrance line, for between $300 million and $370 million.
   As reported, P&amp;G is acquiring the Old Spice and Santa Fe
men's toiletries and fragrances. The final purchase price
hasn't yet been determined, P&amp;G said. It will depend on the
price American Cyanamid, based in Wayne, N.J., obtains for
the Breck hair care and Lady's Choice personal-care product
lines, which also are part of Shulton.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   P&amp;G produces a wide range of household, food, drug and
personal-care products. American Cyanamid is a major chemical
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   ICI Pretax Profit Fell
   21% During First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   ICI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Imperial Chemical Industries PLC said pretax
profit fell 21% in the first half of 1990, hit by a sharp
decline in the company's industrial-products division.
   The British chemicals giant also announced a major
reorganization of its fertilizer division. ICI said it has
agreed in principle to sell its U.K. fertilizer business, the
biggest of its global fertilizer operations, to Kemira Oy of
Finland. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shares in ICI, Britain's biggest manufacturer, plunged
nearly 6% on the worse-than-expected earnings for the 1990
first half. ICI shares traded late Thursday at #10.40
($18.81) on London's Stock Exchange, down 65 pence from
Wednesday.
   The results from ICI, the world's fourth-biggest chemical
concern, reinforced perceptions of rough times for bulk
chemical makers. Sluggish economic growth is depressing
demand and prices.
   ICI posted pretax profit of #733 million ($1.33 billion)
in the 1990 first half, down from #925 million a year
earlier. Sales rose 2.7% to #6.82 billion from #6.64 billion.
But the company attributed most of that increase to more
favorable foreign-exchange rates.
   Net profit attributable to shareholders fell 34% to #372
million from #562 million, after a #100 million charge
stemming from the reorganization of fertilizer operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Reporter's Notebook: In the Ukraine,
   Moscow and Perestroika Seem Far Away
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LVOV, U.S.S.R. -- Flea marketers in Moscow sell T-shirts
asking, "What have you done for perestroika today?"
   In this region of western Ukraine, the question doesn't
apply. Perestroika hasn't even arrived. Five years after
Mikhail Gorbachev came to power promising to restructure
Soviet society and its economy, residents of Lvov love his
glasnost, or openness, which has given them the freedom to
complain, among other things, that "you can't eat glasnost."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A reporter's two-week visit to this region far from Moscow
offers snapshots of perestroika, 1990, in action, or, most
often, inaction. Here are a few of them:
   ---
   At the collective farms, factories and enterprises where
food and other goods are made and packaged for distribution,
some work must surely be going on. But finding evidence of it
isn't easy. Impromptu visits to factories and offices around
Lvov show a kind of perpetual recess.
   Nobody there. Nobody doing anything. This is a socialist
workers' paradise Lenin didn't envision. Having a job has
very little to do with having to work.
   Even in government offices, officials wait for Moscow's
next perestroika plan just as they did old five-year plans.
They complain of not having legal authority from Moscow to
revamp the local economy. Even if they did, they aren't sure
what they'd do or how they'd go about it. The Ukraine's
government in Kiev has declared the republic's sovereignty.
Officials here wait to see what that means.
   ---
   "Our economy is literally falling apart," says Stepan I.
Davimvka, a 43-year-old former aerospace engineer who is the
region's top economic manager.
   "The old command system of labor no longer works," he
says. "Discipline has fallen sharply at all levels, from
worker on up. There's been a sharp fall in output. We now
have no growth, and the tendency is for further decline."
   "New discipline must come from the worker himself," he
says. But he admits there's no incentive for that. Workers
get paid whether they work or not. They don't fear being
fired.
   ---
   A restaurant door is open at noon on a weekday, but inside
there's no sign of life. Eventually, a man emerges from the
kitchen to shoo his eager customers out. "Go away, we're
closed," he says. But hours posted on the door say otherwise,
he is told. "It's cleaning day," he shouts with a
you-must-be-deaf expression. "GO AWAY]" Cleaning days are an
institution here.
   Impromptu work-avoidance occurs whenever a rumor comes
along that something has arrived somewhere to buy. Workers
dash out of the offices and shops to get into line. Some wait
hours. Anytime after noon is a good time for men to pop away
from their desks for "500 mills," the standard milliliter
measure for a shot of vodka. Stores and shops are shuttered
for days at a time for "taking inventory," an especially
ironic exercise in a nation singularly lacking in
inventories.
   ---
   Viktor Pynzenyk says he knows how to make people work, and
quick: sell factories to their workers, shops to their
clerks, apartments to their occupants, and government and
Communist Party buildings to private companies. Allow hiring
and firing at will. Break down vertical supply lines with
Moscow. Set up horizontal economic ties to other regions,
thereby cutting out Moscow as socialist middleman.
   "The measures taken since 1987 were only attempts at
reform," says the 36-year-old university economics professor.
"They were half steps and many weren't fulfilled at all.
People now have a lack of faith in any steps the government
takes. They are frustrated and bitter."
   The Ukraine, he says, is a colony of Moscow. Its minerals,
land and labor are exploited. Less than 20% of the value of
what Lvov produces stays in Lvov. The rest goes to Moscow.
Intourist rakes off tourist revenue. With economic
sovereignty, he says, Ukrainians and Lvovians would have the
incentives and competition and resources to become rich. But
there's a hitch beyond Moscow's foot-dragging: Local people
say they want competition as long as they don't lose from it.
   "We're psychologically not ready for that step," he says.
"There's an old Ukrainian saying: Let me have not one cow as
long as my neighbor doesn't have two. In other words, let's
all be poor together. This must change. Competition and
inequities are the first element of a healthy economic
society but this population doesn't understand that."
   ---
   Indeed, over at the farmers' free market, customers heap
constant verbal abuse on farm women in babushkas raking in
rubles behind their small mountains of fresh produce.
   Like an oasis in this commercial desert, the market is a
dawn-to-dusk gridlock of buyers and sellers. It is piled with
strawberries, cherries, melons, apricots, peaches, plums,
oranges, homemade jams, fresh mushrooms, pickles, cucumbers,
tomatoes, dill, squash, beans, beets, spinach, lettuce,
homemade cheese, pork, poultry, fish and dozens of varieties
of flowers. Customers eagerly snap up the bounty. But are
they grateful? Perhaps, but they show it by calling the
farmers price-gouging peasants and thieves.
   The story is much the same at a flea market on the west
side of town. This is where locals buy car parts, blue jeans,
Western music cassettes, and clothes never available in state
shops. It, too, brims with customers and others who come
simply for the recreation of seeing what's new for sale. The
Communists, who ran this town until March, tolerated this
market. But some of the new democrats who now run Lvov say it
is a messy, disorderly, unregulated venue for crooks,
gypsies, border-hopping Poles and speculators. They want it
closed down.
   ---
   Back on main street, an enterprising Estonian wearing a
skin-tight imported shirt and a silver necklace has come to
Lvov to practice what Prof. Pynzenyk says it needs: commerce
between regions. He's brought 6,000 copies of a newspaper he
publishes in the Estonian capital of Tallinn to sell here.
   "Back in Tallinn I sell for one ruble, here more," he
says, rubbing his thumb and forefinger together. "Here I get
10 rubles, sometimes more." Local papers cost five kopecks,
or local cents.
   Young men in the crowd around him eagerly wave 10 ruble
notes, which have the buying power of $10 bills in America.
His publication is called Sunday Newspaper, and labeled "For
Family Reading." It's the paper's magazine insert the young
men want. "Estonian girls, 27 photos, young girls," says the
Estonian.
   "Such filth," shouts an old woman attracted by the crowd.
"Why do you sell this filth?"
   The Estonian says he'll buy things here to sell back in
Tallinn. He's on the lookout for Chinese condoms, which are a
bargain here at 1.05 rubles for three. "Back home I can sell
for five rubles," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Congress's Wheel of Fortune
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   With all the talk of "needed revenue," we should watch
whether the Washington budget summiteers propose ending the
cellular-phone lottery scam. In the past six years, Congress
has forced the Federal Communications Commission to give away
an estimated $30 billion to $40 billion worth of licenses to
operate cellular-phone systems. The winners are a few favored
corporations and speculators; the losers are the taxpayers.
   The cellular-phone industry is booming. The number of
subscribers could grow from 3.5 million now to 20 million by
decade's end, once car makers decide to install cellular
phones as regular features. You'd think Congress would have
charged for these license gold mines by holding an auction.
After all, it already charges for mineral, grazing and timber
rights. Auctions for offshore oil and gas leases alone have
brought in $55 billion over the past 30 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, the cellular lottery scam came about like this.
In 1984 Congress abandoned the awarding of cellular rights
through arbitrary "public interest" hearings. But its
60-year-old theory on the electromagnetic band remains: It's
public property and can't be sold. Rep. John Dingell,
chairman of the House Commerce Committee, pushes through
frequent amendments barring any use of auctions. So instead,
the FCC gives away spectrum space by lottery.
   The cellular lotteries led to perverse windfalls for a
few, lucky individuals. Rural licenses are now worth upward
of $100 a person. Not surprisingly, some 280,000 applications
flooded in just for the 428 rural markets. But "applications
engineering" firms charged only $5,000 for someone to enter
every lottery in partnership with others, and those
applicants stood a 50-50 chance of winning part of a license.
Some congressional offices kindly helped favored constituents
through the maze of paper work.
   Of course, most winners have no interest or expertise in
operating a cellular system. They sell their winning
"tickets" to large companies building nationwide cellular
networks. Many lottery winners realized instant windfalls.
One couple in Ovid, Michigan, sold a license to McCaw
Communications for $4 million, and then won another worth $10
million.
   Both the Reagan and Bush administrations have pleaded with
Congress to end such giveaways to a well-heeled, lucky few.
Last year, the Bush FCC proposed using auctions to assign six
currently unassigned megahertz of the spectrum to cellular
users. The sales would bring in at least $3.3 billion over
two years. Congress refused to act, so the FCC recently had
to assign four of the unused megahertz for air-to-ground
telephone users. It will collect zero revenue from them.
   Congress may be about to repeat its folly. In June, a
House committee approved a bill by Rep. Dingell to make
available for cellular use 200 megahertz now reserved for the
government. The potential revenue from an auction system is
enormous, but Rep. Dingell still doesn't think it's worth
giving up political control of the spectrum.
   Other countries aren't so foolish. In New Zealand, a
left-wing Labor government recently privatized the spectrum
by leasing it to firms on a long-term basis. This gives
lessees a virtual property right; they can, for example, use
their part of the spectrum for whatever use they think best.
   It's now clear that the technical justifications for
government ownership of the electromagnetic spectrum are
specious and outdated. Congress's cellular-phone giveaway
makes it imperative to begin questioning government control
of the airwaves on basic grounds of fiscal common sense.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Late-Summer Movies May Steal Thunder
   From Glut of Big-Budget Action Films
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI TWX MCA CRC SNE DIS NWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Paramount Pictures Corp.'s "Ghost" opened two
weekends ago, the odds of success seemed slim at best. The
romantic thriller was entering a field glutted with big
movies ranging from "Total Recall" and "Die Hard II" to
"Another 48 Hours" and "Days of Thunder."
   But while many of those pricey, megastar movies are
dropping off precipitously, "Ghost" is turning out to be one
of the summer's surprise hits. After opening to an impressive
$12.2 million on about 1,100 screens, the movie added 300
more screens and sold $12.5 million of tickets last weekend.
It continued to gain momentum this week, with ticket sales at
about $38 million as of yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a summer packed with big-budget, big-star movies,
"Ghost" is the first widely released film to appeal to a
largely ignored audience of women and moviegoers tired of the
relentless diet of action films. Although its premise is a
variation on other similar themes recently, the story about a
man who is murdered but comes back as a ghost to save his
girlfriend and catch his killer is generating good word of
mouth, a key ingredient in any movie's success.
   A number of other movies starting today could well benefit
by filling the gap left by a dearth of intelligent adult
movies and comedies. For example, today Time Warner Inc.'s
Warner Bros. opens the much-publicized "Presumed Innocent,"
which stars Harrison Ford and is based on the best-selling
novel by Scott Turow, and MCA Inc.'s Universal Studios is
releasing "Problem Child," a comedy. Due to expand to more
theaters after a limited release in New York and Los Angeles
is Tri-Star's "The Freshman," a comedy that features Matthew
Broderick and Marlon Brando doing a takeoff of his
"Godfather" character.
   For the first part of the summer at least, "the industry
went off on a tangent," forgetting the audience of young
adults who last summer made hits out of movies like "When
Harry Met Sally" and "Parenthood," says Alan Kassan, who
follows the movie business for Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "For a
while, the industry was doing a super job of changing its
product development to coincide with the demographic changes
of baby boomers replacing teenagers as the heavy moviegoing
group," he adds. "But this summer everyone wanted to have the
next `Batman.'"
   Unfortunately, it doesn't look like any of this summer's
action crop is going to even come close to the success of
Warner Bros.' "Batman," which took in more than $250 million
in the U.S. alone after opening last summer. The biggest hit
of the summer so far this year is "Total Recall," the Arnold
Schwarzenegger movie produced by Carolco Pictures Inc. and
distributed by Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star Pictures. That movie has
taken in about $110 million since opening at the beginning of
the summer, but it is dropping off sharply each weekend.
   After hitting a record $2.04 billion last year, the summer
box office is likely to drop 9% to $1.85 billion, even with
ticket price increases, says A.D. Murphy, who tracks
box-office data for Variety. Mr. Murphy says that is still
the second best summer on record -- and last year's results
were virtually impossible to duplicate, with three big
blockbusters: "Batman," "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade"
and "Lethal Weapon II."
   John Krier, president of Exhibitor Relations Co., which
gathers data for theater owners, agrees that the box-office
numbers, are "down, but still good." But he notes, "Last
year, you had a diversity of pictures, including big hits and
smaller pictures with good legs." This year, he adds, "you
don't have any of those elements" so far.
   While a handful of other summer action movies may break
the $100 million mark, that is no longer considered a big
success, particularly when movies cost $40 million to $60
million to produce and another $20 million to $30 million to
market. "Total Recall," for example, reportedly cost more
than $60 million, not including sizable marketing and
distribution costs. By contrast, "Ghost" cost only about $20
million to produce and features the relatively minor stars
Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg.
   Mark Manson, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette,
noted in a recent report: "In another age, Paramount's two
lead films, `Another 48 Hours' and `Days of Thunder,' which
combined will probably gross $150 million to $200 million,
would have been triumphs. But it probably cost around $100
million to make those movies, and in the light of the cost,
the returns so far are modestly disappointing."
   "Days of Thunder," which stars Tom Cruise, is on about
1,900 screens and "Another 48 Hours," which stars Eddie
Murphy, is down to 800 screens from its 2,200-screen opening
in early June. Barry London, president of distribution for
Paramount, notes, "The movies are both still in wide release,
and I don't think the final stories are in yet." But the
Paramount Communications Inc. unit did move up the release of
"Ghost," Mr. London acknowledges, "to take advantage of the
lack of programming for the female audience."
   Observers note it is still possible for movies to build
audiences if they can hold theaters. Walt Disney Co.'s
"Pretty Woman," which opened in early March, is the
highest-grossing movie so far this year. It has taken in $160
million at the box office; as of last weekend, the movie was
still pulling in $1.7 million at more than 1,000 theaters.
   And some movies that opened early in the summer have
quietly built into respectable successes, notably Universal's
"Bird on a Wire," which stars Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn.
Although the movie is only playing on about 589 screens, it
has taken in more than $66 million. Likewise, Universal's
"Back to the Future Part III," which opened Memorial Day
weekend, is still hanging in there. The movie is the No. 3
hit of the summer, with a total take of about $78.5 million;
it sold more than $1 million in tickets at 878 screens last
weekend.
   Both "Die Hard II," from News Corp.'s Twentieth Century
Fox Film Co., and "Dick Tracy," from Walt Disney, continue to
do strong business. "Dick Tracy" is clearly the bigger
success of the two so far in terms of total revenues, ranking
No. 2 after "Total Recall." The movie is just sliding past
the $100 million mark, and though estimates of its production
and marketing costs vary, analysts say Disney has a
profitable film on its hands, assuming the movie cost about
$32 million to produce. Studios' share of box-office revenues
typically range between 40% and 60%.
   "Die Hard II" will have to do better than the total as of
last week of $77 million, since the movie reportedly cost
more than $60 million to produce. But in terms of weekly
ticket sales, the movie is stronger than "Dick Tracy." Last
weekend, according to Baseline Inc., "Die Hard II" was the
No. 2 film in the market after "Ghost," selling $10 million
of tickets at 2,325 screens. "Dick Tracy," by contrast, was
the No. 8 film in the market, selling $3.1 million of tickets
at 1,642 screens, the entertainment data-gathering service
said.
   Some of the newer crop also show signs of promise.
Disney's "Arachnophobia," a black comedy about a town
infested with spiders, started off with a modest $1.2 million
opening night on Wednesday, July 18. Last Wednesday, the
movie took in $1.3 million, and its cumulative sales as of
yesterday were about $14.3 million. "When a picture goes up
that second week, there's no better sign that you may have a
hit," says Mr. Krier of Exhibitor Relations. The movie, now
on 1,479 screens, will go to an additional 370 screens this
weekend.
   "Arachnophobia" this weekend, however, will be going up
against "Presumed Innocent," "The Freshman," and "Problem
Child." And a number of other movies are slated for release
later in August. "There are 10 or 12 movies still to come
this summer, and the second half has quite a few quality
pictures left in it," says Philip Garfinkle, executive vice
president of Entertainment Data Inc.
   Mr. Garfinkle and other observers say comedies should do
well, since there have been virtually none this summer.
Warner's "My Blue Heaven," for example, features Steve Martin
as a convicted mobster who goes into the federal
witness-protection program in a small town. Other films
likely to draw a strong adult audience are Paramount's "The
Two Jakes," starring Jack Nicholson in a long-awaited sequel
to "Chinatown;" and "Air America," which stars Mel Gibson as
a fighter pilot.
   ---
                   The Biggest Movies...
                                                                                                       

                      Through July 22
                                                                                                       

                                     BOX OFFICE      DAYS
                                       GROSS          IN
 MOVIE (Studio)                    (In millions)    RELEASE
                                                                                                       

 Total Recall (Carolco/Tri-Star)      $108.6          52
 Dick Tracy (Disney)                    95.6          31
 Back to the Future III (Universal)     78.4          59
 Die Hard II (Fox)                      77.2          20
 Another 48 Hours (Paramount)           74.3          45
 Bird on a Wire (Universal)             66.4          66
 Days of Thunder (Paramount)            63.3          26
 Robocop 2 (Orion)                      39.1          31
 Gremlins 2 (Warner)                    38.6          38
 Ghost (Paramount)                      32.3          10
                                                                                                       

   Source: Baseline Inc.
                                                                                                       

                  And Coming Attractions
                                                                                                       

 MOVIE (Studio)                                DATE*
                                                                                                       

 Presumed Innocent (Warner)                    7/27
 The Freshman (Tri-Star)                       7/27
 Problem Child (Universal)                     7/27
 Young Guns II (Fox)                           8/1
 Ducktales (Disney)                            8/1
 Flatliners (Columbia)                         8/10
 The Two Jakes (Paramount)                     8/10
 Air America (Carolco/Tri-Star)                8/10
 Taking Care of Business (Disney)              8/17
 Exorcist III (Fox)                            8/17
 My Blue Heaven (Warner)                       8/17
                                                                                                       

   *Wide release
                                                                                                       

   Source: Exhibitor Relations
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Egghead Discount Software
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EGGS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EGGHEAD DISCOUNT SOFTWARE (Issaquah, Wash.) -- Matthew J.
Griffin was named president and chief operating officer. Mr.
Griffin, formerly executive vice president of operations,
succeeds Stuart Sloan as president. The post of chief
operating officer is newly created. Mr. Sloan, 46 years old,
remains chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Griffin is
38 years old. Egghead, a software retailer, has been
struggling to overcome the effects of its overly rapid
expansion in years past. For the year ended March 31, it had
a net loss of $7.7 million, or 47 cents a share, on sales of
$456.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Do Downbeat Corporate Forecasts Foretell a Recession?
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Every day, it seems, another company jolts
Wall Street with a gloomy outlook for the rest of the year.
Put together, these downbeat corporate forecasts suggest to
some economists on the Street that the economy is moving
closer to recession.
   No longer is the market punishing only the stocks of
companies that report weak earnings. This week, some of the
hardest-hit stocks were companies that, despite respectable
second-quarter profits, painted dim expectations for this
year's third quarter or second half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though the broader stock market hasn't taken much notice,
this drumbeat of caution from Corporate America has the
Street's economists on red alert.
   "I think the economy is teetering on the edge of
recession," Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist at Bear Stearns,
says. "When you see these big companies warning about
sluggish business conditions, you should take that seriously.
These are the front-line spear carriers, and normally they're
optimists."
   Donald Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, says,
"I don't know that it's appropriate to start talking about
recession." But he adds: "I am more concerned about a
recession than I was a few months ago. . . . There is simply
more anecdotal evidence of weakness than there is anecdotal
evidence of strength."
   Witness the carnage of last Tuesday. Three major companies
at which revenue depends on distinctly different businesses
-- consumer advertising, financial services, and commodity
chemicals -- each offered a grim prospect for the third
quarter or second half. Their stocks promptly fell 9% to 15%.
   Capital Cities/ABC reported a 4.6% increase in
second-quarter earnings per share, but said third-quarter
earnings may fall below the year-earlier level, if the
"relatively flat demand" for television, radio and newspaper
advertising continues. Its stock fell 55 1/2 to 533 Tuesday,
though it has since recovered, closing yesterday at $554.125.
   Reuters Holdings, which posted a 26% increase in pretax
per-share profit for the first half, warned of high
cancellation rates for its financial information services and
said full-year growth will be slower. Its American depositary
receipts plunged 10 points to 56 1/4 on Tuesday; two days
later, they still languished at 57 1/8.
   Wall Street wasn't startled when Dow Chemical posted
second-quarter profit of $1.34 a share, down from $2.70 a
year earlier. What upset analysts was the company's statement
that second-half results are likely to be even "softer" than
those for the first half. The lone ray of hope: Dow Chemical
is aiming for cost-cutting to "help offset business
conditions in the second half." Dow stock fell 5 3/4 to 52
3/8 on Tuesday, and by yesterday's close, was just 1/8
higher.
   Another casualty: Gerber Scientific, which makes
computerized drawing and cutting equipment, said Tuesday that
it expects earnings for the six months ending Oct. 31 "to be
significantly lower" than those of a year earlier, because of
"softness in order entry in all major product areas." The
next day, Gerber stock fell 2 7/8 to 10 3/8, a 22% drop that
led the percentage losers list on the New York Stock Exchange
and has since been followed by further slippage to 9 7/8.
   The bad news has continued among smaller capital-goods
manufacturing companies. AMP, which makes solderless
electrical wire terminals, managed to post a 3.7% rise in
second-quarter per-share earnings on Wednesday, but said its
U.S. sales declined slightly, because of sluggishness in the
economy and electronics industry. For the second half, AMP
predicted "continued flatness" in its U.S. business. The
shares fell 1 3/8 on Wednesday and declined 1 1/8 yesterday,
to 45.
   Just before the close of trading Wednesday, Tecumseh
Products, which makes compressors for refrigeration and
air-conditioning systems, said the second half "will be a
difficult one," with earnings likely to be "materially lower"
than year-earlier net income. Tecumseh shares slid 2
yesterday, to close at 111.
   Of course, such examples don't prove that the economy is
headed into recession. Many other companies have been
reporting robust second-quarter earnings and haven't made
gloomy second-half predictions.
   But the recent chorus of downbeat corporate predictions
"certainly says that the company managements in a whole
variety of areas are seeing business trends that cause them
to scale back their expectations for the second half of
1990," Richard B. Hoey, chief U.S. economist for Barclays de
Zoete Wedd, says. "And that probably does reflect a worsening
economy."
   Mr. Hoey says the current tone of company statements about
future business is what "you expect to see, as the economy is
in that transition zone between expansion and contraction."
   Unlike most Wall Street economists, Mr. Hoey for some time
has been predicting a recession in the second half of this
year. He says it will be only a "borderline recession," the
severity of which will depend more on its duration than its
depth. In the past year or so, he notes, the U.S. has
experienced a "rolling recession" that hit specific regions
and industries, while national economic statistics continued
to show some growth.
   Today, the government will unveil its first estimate of
economic activity for the second quarter. A survey of 50
economists in early July by Blue Chip Economic Indicators of
Sedona, Ariz., yielded a consensus estimate of 1.8%
inflation-adjusted growth in gross national product. Since
then, however, downward revisions have moved other consensus
estimates to 1.5%.
   Mr. Straszheim of Merrill Lynch isn't predicting a
second-half recession. But he believes the economy will be
weak enough to cause the Federal Reserve Board to ease access
to credit, in an effort to prevent a recession.
   But Mr. Kudlow of Bear Stearns notes that because it takes
time for a Fed easing to work its way into the economy, there
is little the Fed can do now to affect the third and fourth
quarters. "Changes in Fed policy this summer probably won't
impact the economy until the winter or spring of next year,"
Mr. Kudlow says.
   Meanwhile, Corporate America's somber tone will provide
ammunition for those who oppose all the Washington talk of
higher taxes. "A tax increase right now, with the economy on
the cusp of recession, would be exactly the wrong medicine,"
says Mr. Kudlow, a veteran of the Reagan administration's
Office of Management and Budget. "That's what these companies
are trying to tell us."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reebok's Fireman
   Gets Hosed Down
   In New Pay Pact
   ---
   Previous $13.6 Million Salary
   Cut to Annual Maximum
   Of $2 Million for 5 Years
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   RBK
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOUGHTON, Mass. -- He won't have to go barefoot, but Paul
Fireman, chairman and chief executive officer of Reebok
International Ltd., is taking a big pay cut.
   Mr. Fireman, who has been paid an average of $13.6 million
annually the past four years, will get a maximum of just $2
million a year under a new contract -- $1 million in salary
and a bonus of as much as $1 million depending on the
company's profit performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under his old contract, which expires Jan. 1, Mr. Fireman
received a smaller base salary plus 5% of the footwear
company's pretax earnings. The new contract is for five
years.
   Mr. Fireman has also been awarded a one-time grant of
options to purchase 2.5 million Reebok common shares. The
options will become exercisable in stages over a five-year
period at an average premium of about 18% above the current
market price and will remain exercisable for about 10 years
from the date of grant.
   The earlier compensation agreement dates to when Reebok
was a small company. Mr. Fireman is credited with guiding the
company to its early and rapid growth.
   However, while Mr. Fireman has been among the highest-paid
executives in the U.S. in the past few years, Reebok's growth
has slowed considerably as it has been overtaken by rival
Nike Inc., and its stock price has been sluggish.
   Reebok said, "Directors believed that it was particularly
appropriate to tie Mr. Fireman's long-term compensation
directly to increases in value for Reebok's shareholders."
Mr. Fireman, with his wife, already owns 15% of Reebok's
stock.
   "Today's actions put Mr. Fireman's interests more closely
aligned to the interests of the shareholders," said Steven
Frankel, an analyst at Adams Harkness &amp; Hill Inc., in Boston.
"I don't believe in their wildest dreams {board members} ever
imagined the heights Reebok would reach and the dollars that
would be accrued to Mr. Fireman."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Many Top Pennsylvania Firms Opt Out
   Of Provisions in State Anti-Takeover Law
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   More than 65 of Pennsylvania's publicly traded
corporations -- about 21% -- have rejected all or part of the
state's new anti-takeover law, many of them citing concerns
that the law's restrictions were unfair to shareholders.
   Despite proponents' claims that the law would protect
companies from unwanted bidders, a majority of the state's
Fortune 500 firms chose not to be covered by at least part of
the statute, including Westinghouse Electric Corp., H.J.
Heinz Co., Sun Co. and P.H. Glatfelter Co. In addition, a
number of the state's large financial companies, such as PNC
Financial Corp., Core States Financial Corp., and Mellon Bank
Corp., exempted themselves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, the measure's supporters said they were
pleased with the number of firms that chose to keep the
offered protection, including Scott Paper Co., PPG Industries
Inc. and Aluminum Co. of America. "If you get 80% of the
people agreeing on anything, most people would consider it a
landslide," said Steven Wallman, the Washington lawyer who
drafted the law.
   The controversial measure, which was passed overwhelmingly
by the legislature last April, gave companies until yesterday
to opt out of any of the law's three main provisions: changes
in fiduciary standards to allow directors to place other
interests above shareholders' interests; restrictions on the
voting rights of certain large shareholders; and forced
"disgorgement" of the profits of short-term holders who sell
after an attempt to control the company.
   Many companies that opted out said that concerns about
violating the rights of shareholders were a primary
motivation for their decisions. Their concerns were echoed in
letters to directors from several large pension funds,
including the California Public Employees' Retirement System,
the largest public pension fund in the country.
   "I wouldn't vote for a director who said, `When it comes
time to represent you, I'm going to ignore you,'" said M.A.
Johnson II, executive vice president and chief financial
officer of Glatfelter, which opted out of all provisions.
Besides, Mr. Johnson added, directors can always reject a
hostile offer they believe isn't in the company's best
interests. "It's the `just say no' defense."
   Indeed, several companies that declined the law's
protections felt other defenses were more useful or
desirable. Hunt Manufacturing Co., for example, opted out of
all provisions but adopted a "poison pill" measure. And
financial companies in particular seemed satisfied with
regulatory deterrents to hostile takeovers. "We didn't need
the protection," said a spokesman for Core States, which
opted out of the disgorgement and voting-rights provisions.
   But one casualty of the widespread exemptions may be the
business-labor alliance that lobbied the bill through the
Pennsylvania Legislature. Organized labor threw its weight
behind the bill in exchange for severance-pay and contract
guarantees associated with the voting-rights section -- only
to watch several companies renege on early pledges of
support.
   The most prominent example is Consolidated Rail Corp.,
which along with Armstrong World Industries Inc. ardently
supported the bill to ward off takeover threats. Last week,
Conrail's board voted to exempt the company from the
disgorgement and voting-rights provisions, knocking out the
labor protections at the same time.
   "Conrail executives were scared . . . and were one of the
reasons for the passage of that bill," said Bill George,
president of the state AFL-CIO, which represents many
railroad employees. "Apparently they have elected to make
greed the priority. And maybe they should be taken over by
raiders."
   A Conrail spokesman said the company never supported the
bill in its entirety. "Conrail's board decided to apply that
portion that was to the greatest benefit to the corporation,"
he said.
   Even the chairman of the state business chamber, Richard
M. Ross Jr., recommended that his bank holding company, First
Eastern Corp., opt out of two provisions because it already
had regulatory protections. "Some corporations needed the
law, Armstrong particularly," said Mr. Ross, First Eastern's
chairman and chief executive officer. "But why put the belt
on if you've got a good pair of suspenders?"
   However, labor groups warned that rejecting the law raises
questions in the mind of legislators about the good faith of
the state's business community. "They've got a credibility
problem with the General Assembly," Mr. George said.
   More ominously, Pennsylvania corporations may soon have a
problem with labor: Unions are supporting a bill that would
submit executive severance contracts, known as "golden
parachutes," to a shareholder vote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Ethical Priorities
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congress laid to rest two ethics cases this week. The
Senate voted 96-0 to denounce David Durenberger for financial
misconduct. The House voted 408-18 to reprimand Rep. Barney
Frank for his actions on behalf of a male prostitute. Ethics
experts say the votes finally show a willingness by Congress
to discipline Members, though we worry that the real effect
will be closer to a new ritual of confession and penance. If
ethics were the first priority in the congressional club,
Senator Durenberger and Rep. Frank would resign.
   In any event, we're less worried about personal finances
or private behavior than about what Congresspersons do during
working hours, especially with the S&amp;L crisis costing every
American family $3,000 or more. Congress will not have begun
to tackle its ethics problem, or its tattered image, until it
starts to draw some lines around "constituent service."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disney Reports
   3rd-Quarter Net
   Increased 23%
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- Walt Disney Co. posted a 23% increase
in third-quarter net income on a 32% increase in revenue
spurred by a solid performance in its theme parks and surging
movie profits.
   The entertainment company earned $238.5 million, or $1.75
a share, in the period, compared with $193.3 million, or
$1.40 a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed to $1.53
billion from $1.16 billion a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The third-quarter earnings were about what analysts had
been projecting. "No big surprises in this quarter," said
Harold Vogel, entertainment analyst for Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
"Maybe a slight touch lighter than some people had
projected-but only a penny or two a share."
   Growth companies such as Disney have been under intense
scrutiny by Wall Street lately; any faltering in the earnings
growth rate has led to a sell-off of the stock. Disney
released its earnings yesterday after the market closed. In
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Disney shares
closed at $121, up $2.125.
   "The 23% gain certainly exceeds Disney's targeted goal of
a 20% earnings increase for every quarter," said Jeffrey
Logsdon, an analyst at Seidler Amdec Securities Inc., Los
Angeles. "They keep cranking them out."
   Disney's biggest business segment, its theme parks and
resort operations, showed a 14% increase in operating income
to $288.5 million for the quarter, up from $252.3 million a
year ago. Revenue for the theme park segment rose 18%.
   Erwin Okun, a Disney spokesman, said that through June 30,
"things have been going well" at the company's theme parks.
He declined to comment on how theme park attendance has been
doing in July.
   Mr. Vogel said attendance at Disney theme parks in the
third quarter had an "easy" comparison with last year's third
quarter. The company had its Disney-MGM studio tour operating
all three months this quarter compared with only part of the
quarter a year ago, he said. In addition, the Easter vacation
fell into April this year, compared with an earlier Easter a
year ago, which diffused the Easter vacation attendance surge
into last year's second quarter, he said.
   Some analysts have been concerned that economic
uncertainty has been affecting theme parks around the U.S.
Mr. Vogel said he thinks that attendance at Disneyland and
Walt Disney World has recently been "flattening -- but there
is no reason to be alarmed." Disney doesn't disclose
attendance numbers for its Disneyland and Walt Disney World
theme parks.
   Led by "Pretty Woman," the industry's highest grossing
movie this year, and home video sales of "The Little
Mermaid," an animated feature, the operating income for
Disney's filmed entertainment segment rose 35% in the quarter
to $73.3 million from $54.5 million a year ago. "Pretty
Woman's box office success is significant because it wasn't
an expensive movie to make," Mr. Okun said.
   "Dick Tracy," released in June, had "very strong box
office results," the company said. Through last weekend,
"Dick Tracy" had a box office gross of $95 million, Disney
said.
   Operating income for consumer products, including "Dick
Tracy" merchandise, increased 18% for the quarter to $46
million from $39 million a year ago.
   For the nine months ended June 30, Disney's profit rose
21% to to $591.3 million, or $4.29 a share, from $490.6
million, or $3.56 a share, a year ago. Revenue climbed 27% to
$4.13 billion from $3.24 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION will allow until
Aug. 22 for comment before granting final approval of
SuperShares, a product designed to give investors protection
from market drops. An article in yesterday's editions didn't
fully explain the agency's action.
   (See: "SEC Approves Rule Curtailing Program Trades" -- WSJ
July 26, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   GNW FINANCIAL Corp. named Ralph Lintz chief operating
officer of Great Northwest Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association, a unit of this holding company. Wednesday's
edition misstated his position.
   (See: "Who's News: GNW Financial Corp." -- WSJ July 25,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Great Non-Litmus
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Everyone wants to know what David Souter would mean for
abortion. We have the answer. However he votes on Roe v.
Wade, nothing.
   The Supreme Court has already said it is willing to uphold
restrictions on abortions that the states, it turns out, are
unwilling to legislate. Some 40 states have considered about
300 new abortion restrictions during the past year. Only
three states actually approved new laws, and none comes close
to banning abortions. With the passion on both sides, no one
seems to have noticed that the Supreme Court has been made
irrelevant to the availability of abortions by the very force
that the liberal activist Justices feared most: politics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Beginning last year, a slight conservative majority issued
opinions that upheld restrictions on abortions such as
parental notifications for minors. This set off an explosion
of political activity. The net results:
   Pennsylvania now requires wives to notify their husbands,
bans abortion for gender selection and prohibits abortions
after the second trimester. South Carolina requires parental
consent. West Virginia passed a law to limit public funding.
Even Louisiana and Idaho are tied in knots.
   If anti-abortion forces do prevail in, say, Louisiana, the
most that will happen is that to get an abortion women will
have to cross a state line. Anti-abortion politicians from
New Jersey to California have been scampering to muddy their
positions.
   As a matter of academic interest, it's also clear how the
David Souters of the bar think about abortion. It is
perfectly clear to anyone who looks that the word "abortion"
does not occur in the Constitution; if a Justice Souter were
presented Roe v. Wade on a blank slate, he'd snort it out of
court. Whether he'd overturn it now depends on how he
balances stare decisis with his duty to uphold the
Constitution. We can totally assure the nervous pro-choice
nellies that he will never read anywhere in the Constitution
that abortion is a crime.
   This important point should not be lost. Justice Souter
will not read through the Constitution to find some penumbra
or emanation declaring that life begins at conception. Nor
will Justice Rehnquist, Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy,
Justice O'Connor. Nor for that matter would a Justice Edith
Jones, a Justice Laurence Silberman or a Justice Clarence
Thomas. Nor a Justice Robert Bork. Instead, they would rule
that abortion is not a constitutional issue for judges, but
an issue reserved to the people to decide for themselves in
the states.
   The wisdom of this position is already evident in the way
the abortion issue is sorting itself out once the court
started to let it. The pro-choice lobby is finding it need
not hide behind the court's skirts, and may eventually stop
talking as if abortion is some kind of sacrament. The
pro-life lobby is at least finally allowed to have its say,
and may start to calm its own hysteria. If it fails to outlaw
abortion in the legislatures, after all, it will still have a
chance to convince women that what's legal is nonetheless
sinful. This process will allow society to resolve its deep
divisions in a much healthier way than having nine Justices
weave constitutional law out of nothing.
   If Roe v. Wade is approaching legal irrelevancy, why are
the liberal activists devoting such efforts in its name? One
reason is that this case is one of the few remaining symbols
of a declining era in the Supreme Court and a fading view of
its proper duties. Liberals since the Warren Court have
regarded the federal courts as their preserve, an institution
that would bus schoolchildren, enforce quotas and advance the
liberal agenda despite its failures at the polls. This will
change as the Reagan and Bush judges at all levels make their
presence felt.
   More broadly, rumbling underneath the debate about Judge
Souter is the fundamental question of what the courts are
for. The business of the Supreme Court is to ensure justice
in accordance with the Constitution. It is no secret that the
American system of justice leaves much to be desired. It is
fair to ask, where was the Supreme Court when the police
discovered they could no longer convict criminals? Where were
the Justices as our civil-liability system imploded with
senseless and costly litigation? The answer is that the court
has ignored rule-of-law problems to find room on its docket
for essentially political cases.
   Instead of irrelevant issues, we'd like to know Judge
Souter's view of the role of the courts. Will he vote to
review the exclusionary rule that suppresses evidence of
crimes? Will he vote to hear cases that can defuse our
litigation explosion? Will he help make the Supreme Court
once again the final arbiter not on social policy, but on
law?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coast Savings Posts 2nd-Quarter Loss
   Amid Fears About California Real Estate
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CSA GTA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The national real estate virus appears to be finally
taking hold in California, and that is giving bankers and
thrift executives all over the country the chills.
   California's gravity-defying economy in recent years has
made its real estate market the most robust in the country.
Lately, with New England, the Southwest and several other
regional markets in the tank, it has been about the only
robust one left. Big California banks and thrifts, as well as
many lenders across the nation who have heavy exposure to
California real estate, have been dreading the prospect of a
crack in California, which would leave them with practically
no good markets anywhere in the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fissures have now become evident. Yesterday Coast Savings
Financial Inc. reported a net loss of $28.7 million, or $1.89
a share, for the second quarter. The loss reflected increased
loan-loss reserves, primarily for bad assets outside
California but including some California problem assets too.
And Great American Bank FSB, as expected, reported a
second-quarter loss of $107.9 million, or $4.49 a share. Its
troubled assets ballooned to $1.8 billion from $929.2 million
as of March 31, in part because of a "slowdown" in California
real estate, Great American said.
   That comes on the heels of several recent disclosures by
financial institutions of mounting California woes. CalFed
Inc. cited deterioration in its California portfolio as the
main cause of its $53 million, or $2.10 a share,
second-quarter loss.
   HomeFed Inc., which reported a second-quarter loss of
$108.2 million, or $5.04 a share, said 37% of its problem
assets now are in California, a much higher percentage than
in years past.
   Banks have been feeling it too. First Interstate Bancorp,
trying to fight back from a string of surprise losses and
blunders that have badly weakened it over the past three
years, told analysts last week that its nonperforming real
estate loans would probably increase in the second half of
the year because of growing trouble in California real
estate.
   Such news has pounded financial institution stocks in
recent days. First Interstate, for example, skidded $2.25 a
share last Friday to a New York Stock Exchange close of
$34.75. It lost 13% of its market value in the two days after
the analysts' meeting. Yesterday, it closed at $34.75, down
25 cents.
   Also yesterday, Moody's Investor Service Inc. issued a
special report predicting softening in major sectors of the
California market over the next two years. It said
significant declines in asset value could appear by late this
year. Moody's recently lowered its debt ratings on San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Los Angeles-based
Security Pacific Corp., citing potential for such declines.
   "You can no longer be sanguine about the California real
estate situation," says Donald Crowley, an analyst with Keefe
Bruyette &amp; Woods. "It is not good news for lenders."
   California isn't on the verge of a Texas-style collapse;
its economy remains the most buoyant in the nation. But the
state has been suffering from a gradually worsening
commercial real estate glut for about two years that now is
beginning to produce some notable vacancy rates.
   In Los Angeles, for example, Mr. Crowley says, the office
vacancy rate is about 15%, with enough office space scheduled
to hit the market in the next few years to produce vacancy
rates of 20% to 25%. Orange County already has a vacancy rate
of 22%, up two to three percentage points in the past two
years. By comparison, Phoenix, at the epicenter of Arizona's
real estate tremors, has a vacancy rate of roughly 29%.
   Reflecting concern about the overbuilt commercial market,
Security Pacific's Jack Hancock, executive vice president of
the bank's real estate industries group, says Security
Pacific anticipates no significant growth in its $7 billion
commercial real estate portfolio.
   More worrisome, the residential market, heretofore
seemingly on a one-way ticket skyward, has crested. Home
prices, which in some areas of the state have doubled or
tripled in the 1980s, dropped statewide for the third month
in a row after five years of almost uninterrupted increases.
House resales in June fell to an annualized rate of 443,451,
their lowest level since 1986.
   Mr. Hancock says he believes this is "an aberration" and
that the housing market is still strong. Nonetheless, he
says, "Clearly, we have slowed down in California."
   Economic factors may further damp the market in coming
years, especially if defense spending continues to wind down.
About 8% of California's jobs are in the defense industry.
Recently, McDonnell Douglas Corp. announced its intention to
eliminate 14,000 to 17,000 jobs, mainly in Southern
California, because of reduced defense spending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Union Asks Ruling
   Making Greyhound
   Reinstate Strikers
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Amalgamated Transit Union has asked the general
counsel of the National Labor Relations Board to seek a court
injunction forcing Greyhound Lines Inc. to end the union and
the troubled bus company. The ATU already has an unfair labor
practices case pending against the company which, if
successful, could force Greyhound to reinstate 6,300 striking
ATU members and give them back pay totaling an estimated $3
million a month or more.
   But in a letter this week to NLRB General Counsel Jerry
Hunter, union attorney Martin J. Burns said a resolution of
the case could take years, and by that time Greyhound's
deteriorated financial situation could make a decision in the
union's favor worthless. Meanwhile, "striking employees'
resources are now depleted and their health care and homes
are at risk," Mr. Burns wrote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An NLRB spokesman said Mr. Hunter was reviewing the
union's request for immediate reinstatement but wouldn't
comment further.
   Mr. Hunter has already obtained an injunction barring the
union from the kind of violence that marked the early months
of the strike.
   In May, he also authorized an NLRB regional office in
Milwaukee to issue the unfair labor practices complaint
against the company. That complaint, stemming from
Greyhound's decision to unilaterally assert its last contract
offer, is scheduled to be argued before a federal
administrative law judge in September. "We're ready for
trial," said Greyhound spokesman George Gravley. "We expect
to win."
   The unfair labor practices suit and the related request
for a court injunction have given the union some leverage in
its efforts to wrest control of Greyhound away from
   ATU members walked off the job at Greyhound on March 2.
Crippled by the subsequent violence, last month Greyhound
joined five other units of its parent, Dallas-based GLI
Holding Co., in filing for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code. (Under Chapter 11,
a company continues to operate under court protection while
it devises a plan to repay creditors.)
   The ATU has used the prospect of its huge back pay claim
to gain a seat on the unsecured creditors committee in
Greyhound's Chapter 11 case, where it has been seeking
support for its call to immediately reinstate union drivers.
In recent weeks, union leaders and advisors are said to have
held several meetings with other creditors in an effort to
garner backing for a possible union takeover bid. ATU General
Counsel Earle Putnam said the union hasn't made such a plan
final or obtained the necessary financing. "We're working to
see if there is somebody willing to put their money where
their mouth is," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sallie Mae Bids
   To Take Over
   HEAF's Loans
   ---
   Company Proposes to Seek
   The Status of Guarantor;
   Plan Meets Opposition
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<LP>
   Student Loan Marketing Association has proposed taking
over the portfolio of a troubled student-loan guarantor, a
move that would greatly expand its influence in the education
financing field.
   The Washington-based company, also known as Sallie Mae,
has become one of the central players in the Bush
administration's efforts to rescue Higher Education
Assistance Foundation, a distressed guarantor of $9.3 billion
in student loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Through its purchases of student loans and its financing
of other purchasers and lenders, Sallie Mae already dominates
the field, as owner or source of funds for more than half of
the $51 billion in loans outstanding. To take over HEAF's
portfolio, Sallie Mae is proposing to gain the designation of
guarantor in the student-loan program, according to people
familiar with the proposal.
   Although Sallie Mae's proposal could be attractive to the
government because of the company's financial resources and
profitability, the plan would face stiff opposition. Banks
and many of the 55 other guarantors of loans have
traditionally opposed a widening of Sallie Mae's powers,
which are spelled out in a special charter from the federal
government.
   A spokesman for Sallie Mae declined to comment on the
company's discussions with the government, but he said,
"Under our charter, we can be a guarantor at the behest of
the Department of Education."
   Jean Frohlicher, executive director of the National
Council of Higher Education Loan Programs, said, "Lenders and
guarantee agencies would be extremely upset at the idea that
the government-sponsored secondary market (Sallie Mae) would
seek to become a guarantor in this program."
   "If you let Sallie Mae do this, they will own the
student-loan industry," added Roy Nicholson, chairman of
United Student Aid Funds in Indianapolis, another loan
guarantor.
   Mr. Nicholson says United Student Aid, with about $11
billion in guarantees outstanding, also has submitted a
proposal to the government for taking over HEAF's portfolio.
He said the government told him Sallie Mae has submitted a
competitive proposal.
   In addition, Mr. Nicholson and other loan-industry
officials said, a coalition of smaller guarantee agencies is
preparing a proposal for taking over some or all of HEAF's
portfolio and splitting it among themselves.
   Sallie Mae and United Student Aid each want special
treatment or government sweeteners to protect them against
the defaults that are the cause of HEAF's problems.
   Banks lend students money under the program and receive
100% principal reimbursements from guarantee agencies in the
frequent instances of defaults. But because HEAF guaranteed
too many defaulting loans, it doesn't get the full
reimbursement from the federal government that guarantee
agencies usually receive, causing big losses. An immediate
potential shortfall at HEAF of $60 million and fears of
further defaults in its $9.3 billion portfolio have prompted
the government to explore rescue plans.
   If it gets the go-ahead, Sallie Mae could resolve its own
potential liabilities in the HEAF mess. Sallie Mae has lent
HEAF $800 million that it says is not at risk even if HEAF
fails because the collateral is sound. But investors have
been skeptical and have pounded down Sallie Mae's stock since
HEAF's problems came to light.
   People familiar with Sallie Mae's proposal said it seeks
certain changes in the timing and formulas for repayments in
the program if its proposal is accepted. One possible
government sweetener, these people said, would be to allow
Sallie Mae to keep a larger share of recoveries from students
after defaults are paid off. Guarantors are now allowed to
keep 30% of any recoveries -- usually gained through
collection agencies -- and must return 70% to the government.
HEAF already has $2 billion in defaulted paper for such
recoveries and will surely generate more in the next year.
   Mr. Nicholson said United Student Aid has committed itself
to taking $5 billion to $7 billion of guarantees on HEAF's
"best" paper at first and the rest over time, eventually
assuming it all by Sept. 30, 1992. He said United Student Aid
is not asking for the 1% administrative fee from the
government that agencies usually receive for assuming
original guarantees.
   Until Sept. 30, 1992, Mr. Nicholson said, HEAF would make
claims to the government on the lower-quality loans, many of
which were made to low-income students at trade schools. The
government's cost on this part of the portfolio would be the
same as if HEAF were allowed to stay in business, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OPEC Is Close
   To Reaching
   Pact on Output
   ---
   Most Ministers Favor Level
   Of 22.5 Million Barrels
   A Day to Push Up Price
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- OPEC ministers neared agreement on a new output
ceiling intended to reduce the current world oil glut and
push up crude oil prices.
   The ministers of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries remained at odds, however, over just how far those
prices should rise. Most seek an eventual boost of about $2 a
barrel but others are aiming for much more. Late last night,
they held informal talks aimed at resolving those
differences. They'll resume their formal conference today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before the meeting started this week, Iraq had moved
troops onto Kuwait's border and angrily alleged it was being
damaged by low oil prices brought on by excessive Kuwaiti
ouput. Yesterday, however, Baghdad scaled back its weeklong
intimidation campaign, and leaders of the two nations are
scheduled to meet this weekend in Saudi Arabia.
   A majority of the OPEC ministers are supporting a new
total production ceiling of 22.5 million barrels a day for
the remainder of the year. While 400,000 barrels a day above
OPEC's current ceiling, that ceiling would be well below the
organization's actual output most of this year because the
old ceiling was routinely exceeded.
   Among the attractions of the new ceiling proposal are a
pledge by Kuwait to adhere to its official quota from now on,
and what amounts to a return to the OPEC fold by the United
Arab Emirates, which would get a new quota. Previously, the
UAE all but ignored its quota.
   If all members honor a 22.5-million-barrel ceiling, the
supply of OPEC oil on world markets would shrink and prices
would rise as current excess inventories are worked off.
Continued output at that new ceiling also should strengthen
prices more later in the year because oil demand increases in
the fall and winter.
   The problem for ministers has become the setting of a new
"reference", or target, price for OPEC oil. For the past four
years, OPEC has had an official reference price of $18 a
barrel, averaged over its various grades of crude. But that
has been rarely sustained because chronic quota "cheating" by
some members has created excess supply. Even after a recent
quick run-up from the year's low of $14, OPEC oil prices
still are shy of $18 a barrel.
   Sadek Boussena, Algeria's oil minister and president of
OPEC, justifying the call for a higher figure, estimated the
old reference price would be $22.70 a barrel today if
adjusted into current dollars. A majority of the 13 OPEC
nations consider an increase of $2 a barrel realistic, but an
increase of $7 a barrel has been demanded by President Saddam
Hussein of Iraq.
   "We are arguing very hard" on the pricing issue, said
Gholamreza Aghazadeh, Iran's oil minister who has been
leading the push for an increase of $2 a barrel in the $18
reference price.
   OPEC's reference price is largely symbolic; a goal it
hopes to achieve in the open market through manipulation of
its production, rather than through a set selling price.
Nonetheless, the reference price has emerged as the
centerpiece of the campaign started in February by the Iraqi
president against Kuwait and the UAE for what he claimed was
their "economic warfare" against Iraq.
   That confrontation grew rapidly, with Kuwait becoming the
chief target. It climaxed with last week's troop and tank
movements and this week's demand here by Iraqi oil minister
Issam Abdul Raheem Al-Chalabi for an increase in OPEC's
reference price to $25 a barrel.
   So far, that figure has been supported only by Libya.
Although it is understood Mr. Al-Chalabi would need
government permission to change his stance, some ministers
attempted to negotiate a figure of $21 or $22. But they ran
into an unexpected obstacle. "There is a stalemate," said
one. "One group {believed to be led by Venezuela} won't go
above $20."
   While Iraq isn't likely to prevail in its bold bid to push
the OPEC reference price all the way to $25, several oil
ministers conceded the attempt has at least revived waning
discipline within the organization.
   "It's a whole new ballgame," Ginandjar Kartasasmita,
Indonesia's oil minister, said in an interview. "There are
two countries that can take the credit." He named Saudi
Arabia "for its courage in cutting production last May to set
the pace" and Iraq "for its determination to restore quota
discipline."
   Separately, as expected, Ramzi Salman, Iraq's
oil-marketing director, was named to fill the vacant post of
deputy secretary-general of OPEC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Calls by Juror to Drug Cartel Figures
   Almost Derail Money-Laundering Trial
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr and Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Call it "The Case of the Inquisitive Juror," or, "Why It's
Generally Unwise to Dial a Drug Cartel During Jury
Deliberations."
   Attorneys in U.S. District Court in Tampa, Fla., are
shaking their heads over an incident Tuesday that came within
an eyelash of aborting a major criminal trial that has
consumed seven months of court time and thousands of hours of
testimony.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case involves five former employees of Bank of Credit
&amp; Commerce International, the Luxembourg bank that, earlier
this year, pleaded guilty to running the biggest single-bank
drug-money laundering operation in U.S. history. The five
employees, as well as a Colombia businessman, are accused of
conspiring to launder $14 million in proceeds from the sale
of cocaine.
   The trial began in January. After hearing two weeks of
closing arguments, the jury began deliberations last week.
   Late Tuesday, however, the U.S. attorney was informed that
one of the jurors had apparently decided to do some of his
own investigating and had placed at least one -- and possibly
several -- telephone calls to people outside the courthouse.
The calls, according to court officials, were made to
individuals allegedly connected to the Medellin drug cartel
in Colombia. The calls were first disclosed publicly in the
Tampa Tribune yesterday.
   News of the juror's actions prompted a flurry of meetings
among prosecutors, defense attorneys and U.S. District Judge
William T. Hodges, who held a hearing on the incident
yesterday morning. The judge decided not to declare a
mistrial. Instead, the juror was dismissed, and the 11
remaining jurors were ordered to continue their
deliberations.
   Neither the U.S. attorney's office nor defense attorneys
would comment on the incident. But legal experts said the
juror's activities were all but unprecedented.
   While it's not unprecedented for jurors to take it upon
themselves to, say, inspect the scene of an accident in a
lawsuit, said Richard Lempert, a professor of law and
sociology at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, ". . .
I've never heard of anything quite like this."
   Testifying before Judge Hodges yesterday, the juror said
he had obtained the telephone numbers from an address book
that prosecutors had introduced as evidence during the trial.
The book had been seized from the briefcase of one of the
defendants, Rudolf Ambrecht, when he was arrested in Miami in
October 1988.
   The juror said he had made the calls out of "simple
curiosity," seeking to discover whether the people at the
other end of the line did, in fact, know Mr. Ambrecht. "No
real bad intent was meant," the juror said.
   He acknowledged, however, that on Tuesday, he mentioned to
at least five other jurors that he had made the phone calls.
   One of the jurors, a woman, told her husband about the
incident when she returned home Tuesday evening. The husband
contacted the Federal Bureau of Investigation, who
immediately relayed the information to the office of U.S.
Attorney Robert W. Genzman. Officials there called Judge
Hodges.
   "If there's a guilty verdict, you can be sure the defense
will make {the juror's actions} grounds for an appeal," said
Shari Diamond, senior research fellow at the American Bar
Foundation in Chicago. "But then it will depend on what {he}
told the other jurors."
   John Gay, court deputy to Judge Hodges, noted that the
judge had given specific instructions to the jury to decide
the case based on the evidence that was presented in court
and to avoid any outside information. The jury wasn't
sequestered.
   Few jurors disregard judges' instructions about sticking
to the evidence presented in the courtroom, said Daniel
Margolis, chairman of an American Bar Association committee
on juries, and an attorney with the Washington firm of
Patton, Boggs &amp; Blow.
   "I think most jurors are fairly compliant," Mr. Margolis
said. "A lot of people are like sheep and don't do any more
than they're told." He added, however, that there are
probably instances of such behavior that remain unknown
simply because a juror never tells anyone of his private
investigations.
   Jury misconduct of this magnitude is a rare event, said
Thomas Munsterman, director of the Center for Jury Studies at
the National Center for State Courts. "Usually it's much more
innocent," he said, such as disregarding a judge's
instructions not to drive by the scene of a crime.
   In general, jurors try to keep a distance from people
associated with the defendants in a criminal case -- if only
out of a concern for their own safety. "They don't want to
get involved," Mr. Munsterman said.
   That, he said, makes the dismissed juror's actions all the
more remarkable, particularly in light of the Medellin
cartel's reputation. "This guy's kind of brave, when you
think about it, given that these might have been nasty
people, right?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Fall,
   Bonds Close
   Unchanged
   ---
   Budget-Talks Worry,
   Technology Sector
   Spur Drop in Shares
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices edged lower amid skittishness
about U.S. budget negotiations and a downdraft in technology
stocks that triggered selling in other sectors.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 10.15 points in
moderate trading to close at 2920.79. Bond prices ended
unchanged on little activity, with traders awaiting today's
preliminary report on economic growth in the second quarter.
The dollar ended mixed, with much of the activity focused on
a weakening Japanese yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock investors turned cautious because of reports
indicating Congress is unlikely to agree on cutting the
budget deficit before the August recess. That attitude turned
more negative on earnings news from Microsoft and Compaq
Computer, which sparked the dip in technology stocks.
International Business Machines, for example, fell 1 5/8 to
113 1/8, which helped drag down the Dow industrials.
   But James Awad, president of BMI Capital, a
money-management firm, said investors overreacted to the news
from Microsoft and Compaq. Microsoft said higher expansion
costs will lead to lower profit margins, but Mr. Awad said
that comment indicates Microsoft is laying the groundwork for
future growth. And Compaq said its results were affected not
by weak demand but by a shortage of parts.
   "It's transitory," Mr. Awad said of the market's decline.
"The selling is not rooted in rational thinking. People just
don't like to see the past market leaders weaken."
   Mr. Awad said the budget-deficit factor also may be
overblown. The Federal Reserve has indicated that a credible
deficit-reduction plan will be rewarded with lower interest
rates, which would make stocks a more attractive investment
than bonds.
   "I think in two months Congress will have hammered
something {budget agreement} out that will calm the market,"
he says."
   Bond prices opened slightly higher in anticipation of
today's report showing weaker-than-expected economic growth.
But bonds eased after the Dow industrials abruptly dropped 30
points below Wednesday's close. Futures-related sell programs
caused that decline and subsequent rebound.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell on volume of 155 million shares in
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, where declining
issues outnumbered advancers, 778 to 701.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were unchanged. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond stood at to 8.54%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6245 German marks and 150.37 yen,
compared with 1.6250 marks and 149.89 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Approves
   Reprimand Motion
   For Rep. Frank
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House voted to reprimand Rep. Barney
Frank after rejecting a Republican-backed motion calling for
a stiffer censure penalty for the Massachusetts liberal on
charges related to his past relationship with a male
prostitute.
   The final 408-18 roll call upheld the bipartisan
recommendations last week of the House Ethics Committee, but
the issue first split the chamber emotionally and reflected
more partisanship than in any ethics case in the past decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The censure motion, which failed 287-141, was opposed by
all but 12 Democrats, while Republicans lined up almost 3 to
1 in favor of the tougher penalty. "It was the homosexual
issue," said Rep. Charles Wilson, a conservative Texas
Democrat, "and in my opinion a Republican effort to say
Democrats are more supportive of alternative lifestyles."
   As the fall elections approach, the debate underscored the
politics of ethics issues this year, and both parties are
competing for the high ground in meeting promises of
campaign-finance revision. After weeks on the defensive,
House Democrats are increasingly confident of offering a plan
to cut contributions by political action committees and
wealthy individuals, and provide public matching funds of as
much as $100,000 for candidates who accept spending limits.
   Negotiations will continue today, but major elements
include a provision that PACs can account for no more than
40% of a candidate's contributions, compared with a 50% cap
previously discussed. The maximum individual donation, now
$1,000, would be cut in half. To encourage small
contributors, the measure would include a tax credit for the
first $50 donation by an individual. And though critics say
PACs will soon adjust to the new rules, one option calls for
a $55,000 limit on how much an individual lawmaker can take
from those groups, such as business and pro-Israel PACs, that
now draw a greater proportion of their funds from large
individual donors.
   The long investigation of Mr. Frank, touched off by press
reports last year, focused on his relationship with Steven
Gobie from 1985 to 1987, when the congressman paid for sex
with Mr. Gobie and subsequently hired him as a household
employee and driver. Mr. Frank, an acknowledged homosexual,
had used his position to fix parking tickets for the
prostitute and prepared a 1986 memo supportive of reduced
probation for Mr. Gobie, a convicted felon.
   The committee concluded that Mr. Frank "knew or should
have known" that the memo might be communicated to law
enforcement officials, and the panel argued that the
misleading statements in the document "could be perceived as
an attempt to use political influence to affect the outcome
of Mr. Gobie's probation."
   "That the memorandum apparently had no such effect does
not detract from the inappropriateness of communicating known
misleading statements," the panel said.
   Within the GOP leadership, the drive to impose censure
reflected the pressure of Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, who
mocked the notion of the lesser penalty allows Mr. Frank to
keep his subcommittee chairmanship on the House Judiciary
Committee. "People are looking for a guidepost," the Georgia
conservative said. But Democrats argued that the GOP sought
only a social issue for itself at a time when the party could
be forced to vote for taxes before the November campaign.
   More broadly, the Ethics Committee had an institutional
stake in seeing its recommendations upheld. And after
handling politically sensitive investigations of former
Speaker James Wright as well as Mr. Gingrich himself, the
committee leadership saw yesterday's vote as a test of its
own strength.
   "The case boils down to who do you trust," committee
Chairman Julian Dixon (D., Calif.) said bluntly. And perhaps
the strongest defense came from a third-term Republican from
Iowa. "We don't enshrine traditional family values by damning
individuals whose lifestyles are different than our own,"
Rep. Fred Grandy said. "We are here to prosecute, not to
persecute."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   HI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Household International Inc., shelf offering of up to $250
million of debt securities and warrants to purchase debt
securities.
                                                                                                       

   Moorco International Inc., initial offering of six million
common shares, of which four million shares will be sold by
the company and two million by holders, via PaineWebber Inc.
and Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. Inc.
                                                                                                       

   TakeCare Inc., initial offering of two million common
shares, of which 1.4 million will be sold by the company and
600,000 by holders, via First Boston Corp., Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co. Inc., and Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Zilog Inc., proposed offering of two million initial
common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soviet Economy Heads for a Crash
   ----
   By Marshall I. Goldman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   While most foreign observers have by now come to
understand that Mikhail Gorbachev's successes in
international diplomacy have been offset by economic failures
at home, they do not perhaps know the whole picture. There
are growing signs that the Soviet Union's economic situation
is more serious now than in the pre-"perestroika" period, or
indeed than at any time since World War II. Unless something
changes soon, the country's economy will break.
   There are some indications that it might already be too
late. For example, earlier this month, a senior Soviet
economist and an executive of one of the country's economic
reform commissions told me that, as of May, the consumer
goods distribution system was no longer functioning. Goods
were no longer showing up in the stores at the prices set for
them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What makes the present situation especially critical is
that there is good reason to believe that the Soviet Union
will not come out of this depression. In the West,
depressions are often cyclical and essentially
self-correcting. They also respond to policy change. In the
Soviet Union, however, there is unlikely to be a domestic
remedy for the current economic crisis. The Soviet Union
seems to lack the antibodies that cure economic disease in
other societies.
   Once the Soviet economy becomes unstabilized, a free fall
is hard to prevent. Until recently, this was not a problem
because the momentum of the economy was almost always one of
growth. In Stalin's time, that growth was fueled by
intimidation, terror and wartime patriotism. In the postwar
era, the growth was fueled by squandering the Soviet Union's
vast horde of raw materials, particularly energy. In the
1970s and early 1980s, the Soviet Union exported more than
$200 billion dollars in oil. These exports enabled the Soviet
Union to pay for imports such as grain that were necessary
because of the inefficiency of its system. Like so many of
the world's other oil exporters, the Soviet Union has nothing
left to show for all that wealth now but depleted oil fields
-- and rich American farmers.
   In the absence of such external stimuli, the Soviet
economy is extremely vulnerable. What in more robust times
were Soviet strengths, in a time of collapse become
impediments to recovery. Despite perestroika, the Soviet
system, for example, still precludes bankruptcy and
unemployment. That leads to obsolete products, noncompetitive
prices, continually increasing subsidies and, ultimately,
deficits in the national budget. All of this must be financed
by Gosbank, the central bank.
   The government increases subsidies because it is reluctant
to raise food prices in government stores, which, it fears,
would bring unemployment and lead to civil unrest. This comes
at a cost. Despite cuts in military expenditures, the Soviet
budget deficit has grown to at least 10% of gross national
product. (By comparison, the U.S. deficit is 3% to 4% of
GNP.) To keep functioning with a deficit of this magnitude,
the Soviets have printed money.
   During the first four months of 1990, salaries and wages
rose 14.4% even though GNP fell by nearly 2% -- before
inflation, which some estimate is racing along at 20% a year.
A few Soviet economists even warn of hyperinflation.
   Once prices start rising in peasant markets and in
cooperative stores, the markets and coops suck in lower-price
goods. That is, the goods move to the stores where they
command the higher price. For state stores, it thus becomes
very hard to maintain supply. This embitters those dependent
on state stores and leads to social unrest and strikes.
Strikes are compounded by unrest precipitated by ethnic
violence. The growing sense of economic chaos in turn
aggravates ethnic separatism. Such disruptions combine to
produce a breakdown in a taut economic system like the Soviet
Union's, which has always had shortages and where producers
have tended to operate as monopolists. An unexpected
disruption in one sector of the economy reverberates
throughout the whole system.
   When, for instance, Azerbaijan embargoed all rail
shipments to Armenia in January, the Vladimir Tractor
Factory, not far from Moscow, found itself cut off from its
Armenian -- and only -- source of tires. There was no
alternate tire manufacturer with excess capacity, and, of
course, no wholesaler. So the Vladimir Factory can offer only
tireless tractors. Such tractors are of no use to farmers,
who now find it difficult to bring in what otherwise was
expected to be a good harvest. For that matter, those farmers
with tractors find themselves short of diesel fuel because
the oil workers in Siberia have been protesting work
conditions.
   The majority of the country's coal miners have struck
twice this year. Leningrad and Moscow subway workers have
walked out to protest deteriorating standards of living and
the breakdown of operating safety. All of this is reflected
in the growing number of railroad and pipeline accidents as
well as an increase in the number of workers on strike at any
one time. During the first half of 1989, an average of 15,000
workers were on strike every day. That increased during the
second half of 1989 to 50,000 and 130,000 during the first
five months of 1990.
   Strikes, infrastructure collapse and growing inflation
have led to further declines in production, including oil
output, which was down to 145 million tons in the first
quarter of this year, compared with 152 million tons a year
earlier and 156 million tons in the first quarter of 1988.
   The cigarette industry is affected too. Filters for the
cigarettes are made in ethnically turbulent Armenia and
Latvia. This disruption plus a cardboard shortage has forced
the closing of all but six of the country's 24 cigarette
factories, leading to cigarette riots in some cities
including Dnepropetrovsk in the Ukraine.
   The absence of goods and the increase in prices have
created a crisis of confidence in the ruble. Its value in
internal auctions -- the closest place to a free market for
currency a Soviet manager can find -- has fallen 60% since
November. In the large cities, cab drivers want foreign
currencies like dollars, or goods, like Marlboros. On my
visit this month I noticed for the first time many Russians
carrying rolls of dollar bills in their pockets, including
$100 notes.
   The provinces are now suffering from the same problems.
Why trade near worthless rubles for valuable grain? Even if
their tractors had tires and diesel fuel, the peasants would
hold back. That is why, despite a 50% increase in government
prices paid to the farmers (there goes that budget deficit
again), grain deliveries to the state so far this year are
down by more than one-third from last year -- which was also
down from the year before.
   A drop in grain deliveries has increased pressure to
expand grain imports. But Soviet officials say they don't
have the money to buy the grain. In part, this is due to the
drop in production of the Soviet Union's main hard-currency
commodity, oil. It has necessitated a drop in oil exports of
at least 10% to 15%. This, combined with the growing lack of
control and coordination from the center (as one economist
put it "today we have neither carrots nor sticks"), has
resulted in an unprecedented foreign credit arrears.
   Some American grain dealers are stuck with overdue bills
worth $100 million and have stopped delivering. A senior
Soviet official told me earlier this month that the Soviet
Union is now $3 billion in arrears. That coincidentally
approximates the size of the West German credit to the Soviet
Union. This of course, has had major foreign-policy
consequences: As one Soviet paper headlined it, "The Soviet
Government Sells East Germany to West Germany for 5 billion
Marks." It also explains the sale of Soviet gold and the
newly announced diamond sales agreement with De Beers.
   As concern about the ineptitude of Mr. Gorbachev's
economic policies grows, so does the mood of "every man for
himself." Western Europeans may be uniting, but the Soviet
Union is disintegrating. Six republics have declared their
economic sovereignty and some of them have set up their own
banks.
   Nor does this disintegration stop with the republics.
Major cities like Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev and Odessa have
begun to insist on taking control, not only from the Union,
but also from republic authorities. Moscow city authorities,
for example, have moved to take control of factories,
heretofore subordinate to ministries at both the all-Union
and republic levels. Moscow is even making plans to issue its
own currency.
   In the meantime, as long as there can be no unemployment
and bankruptcy, subsidies and inflation will increase, as
will strikes, the disruption of production and the hoarding
of supplies. This in turn will increase the need to import
and reduce the country's potential to export and pay its
bills. It is not a happy prospect.
   ---
   Mr. Goldman, a professor of economics at Wellesley College
and the associate director of Harvard's Russian Research
Center, will soon publish "What Went Wrong With Perestroika"
(W.W. Norton).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Multiple Jeopardy?
   Porn Defendants Face
   Indictments in Courts
   Far From Their Bases
   ---
   Cleared in Hometown, a Man
   Is Investigated in 2 States
   More Hostile to Obscenity
   ---
   Feds Get Temporary Setback
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CARRBORO, N.C. -- Philip Harvey has legal evidence that
his $20 million-a-year pornography business doesn't violate
the community standards of this sleepy rural town, where it
is based.
   After investigating his mail-order company, Adam &amp; Eve,
the county district attorney decided that its X-rated videos,
magazines and "marital aids" didn't violate state obscenity
law. The D.A. in a neighboring county did put Mr. Harvey on
trial in 1987. After deliberating for less than an hour, the
jury acquitted him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet Mr. Harvey isn't out of trouble -- far from it.
Despite his exoneration in his own community, the federal
government is conducting simultaneous criminal investigations
of him in strait-laced Utah and Kentucky. This week, in an
unusual decision, a federal judge temporarily blocked the
Justice Department from indicting him in more than one
jurisdiction, but federal lawyers will return to court in
September to try to free themselves of the limit.
   If the department prevails, Mr. Harvey says, the cost of
fighting the far-flung charges could put him out of business.
He isn't just in double jeopardy, he says, "it's triple
jeopardy, or quadruple."
   Mr. Harvey is just one target of what has quietly become
the most aggressive federal attack on pornography in decades.
The effort is being spearheaded by the Justice Department's
10-member obscenity unit, soon to be expanded to 13 members.
Former Attorney General Edwin Meese created the unit largely
to give speeches and draft state anti-porn laws. His
successor, Dick Thornburgh, has turned it into a high-voltage
prosecution machine.
   Working with postal inspectors and regional U.S.
attorneys, the unit last year helped in the indictments of
120 individuals and corporations on obscenity charges, up
from only 37 in 1988. Investigations in progress, including
one in Southern California, are expected to produce another
large batch of indictments in coming months.
   By bringing cases that have been ignored by most federal
prosecutors for 20 years, Mr. Thornburgh -- a former governor
of Pennsylvania who is said to harbor higher elective
ambitions -- has strengthened his ties to the right. His
putting more child pornographers behind bars has brought
little protest, even from doctrinaire civil libertarians. But
the obscenity unit's offensive against adult pornography --
especially its efforts against material sent by mail,
code-named Project Postporn -- has begun to create
controversy.
   The federal strategy is to threaten two or more criminal
trials in quick succession in geographically disparate, and
often politically conservative, jurisdictions. Many
defendants fold under such pressure, often agreeing to guilty
pleas barring them not only from future criminal activity,
but also from the sale of any kind of sexually explicit
material.
   In some instances, prosecutors are also exploiting
extensions of the federal racketeering law to seize and
forfeit obscenity defendants' legitimate inventories and
other assets, effectively driving them out of business. In a
landmark decision in April, a federal appeals court in
Richmond, Va., upheld the practice, comparing it to taking
assets from "Colombian drug lords."
   Critics charge that the obscenity unit's hardball tactics
breach the First Amendment by bullying defendants into
self-censorship. "There can be a chilling effect on all sorts
of legitimate artistic expression," says Robert O'Neil, a
First Amendment scholar at the University of Virginia. Coming
at the same time as local obscenity prosecutions in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., of the rap music group 2 Live Crew and in
Cincinnati of a gallery director who displayed Robert
Mapplethorpe's homoerotic photographs, Project Postporn
raises the danger that "the conscientious artist will
restrain expression for fear" of punishment, Mr. O'Neil says.
   Patrick Trueman, director of the obscenity unit, offers no
apologies. "If people in America want their communities to
look like Times Square and 42nd Street, they have every right
to do so," says the Reagan appointee. "If they don't, you
have to prosecute obscenity. That's what we do."
   Postporn targets distributors of films similar to those
available in many neighborhood video shops. One of the
X-rated films that was the basis of a conviction earlier this
year, "Prisoner of Paradise," offers "a spoof storyline of
sorts, having to do with American World War II prisoners and
Nazis," as well as "some nice scenery," says Roy Miller, a
postal inspector involved in the case.
   Mr. Miller recalls that as a young postal cop in 1973, he
couldn't interest federal prosecutors in adult obscenity
cases, including one he had built against a distributor named
Myron Shapiro. Times have changed. The same Myron Shapiro was
recently convicted in federal court in Harrisburg, Pa., for
mailing "Prisoner of Paradise" and another film, which,
according to Mr. Miller, are milder than those the defendant
sold 17 years ago.
   Under Supreme Court rulings, juries can convict
pornographers only after finding that the average person
applying contemporary standards of the community would find
the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest,
depicts sexual conduct in a patently offensive way and lacks
serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   Prosecutors contend -- and some federal courts have agreed
-- that since each community has its own standards, a porn
distributor may be tried in each jurisdiction to which he
mails allegedly obscene materials. "It's like a bank robber
who robs in a number of jurisdictions," says Mary Spearing,
deputy director of the Justice obscenity unit. "He could be
prosecuted separately for each robbery."
   Anton Valukas, the U.S. attorney in Chicago until he left
for private practice in December, says that while he brought
some child pronography cases, he did little in the field of
garden-variety adult pornography. Mr. Valukas, now a partner
with a Chicago firm whose Washington office represents Mr.
Harvey, stresses that because obscenity convictions require a
finding of a violation of "contemporary community standards,"
it would be "impossible, at least unlikely, to convict . . .
in a city that would not be offended by your average X-rated
videos."
   Just such a situation arose last year, when a federal
judge in Los Angeles dismissed obscenity charges against a
distributor, saying that he couldn't determine the community
standard in the city that produces most of the country's
sexually oriented films.
   The U.S. porn industry, with annual revenues estimated at
$10 billion, hasn't been noticeably hurt yet by stepped-up
federal enforcement, says Detective Robert Peters, a vice
officer with the Los Angeles Police Department. But the
Justice Department reports that complaints about unsolicited
ads for adult films have fallen.
   Justice Department officials say they launched Postporn in
response to "hundreds of thousands" of citizen complaints and
that cases are brought in areas where large numbers of people
object to unsolicited sexually explicit advertisements. But
defendants claim that major distributors are being
selectively prosecuted and that the government is employing
an old legal trick known as "forum shopping." In the
obscenity context, that means bringing cases in conservative
jurisdictions, where judges and juries are thought to be
hostile to pornography.
   Mr. Harvey's legal counterattack asserts that the Justice
Department's real goal is to pressure him into
self-censorship to avoid multiple prosecutions. Prosecutors
deny it. But in a strongly worded opinion released Monday,
Washington, D.C., federal Judge Joyce Hens Green said Mr.
Harvey had made credible allegations that prosecutors had
violated the First Amendment and acted in "bad faith" by
using threats to try to force him to drop distribution of all
sexually related material, including Playboy magazine.
   Judge Green also preliminarily endorsed Mr. Harvey's
contention that even if he could prevail in different
jurisdictions, the burden of fighting multiple prosecutions
would violate due process and could destroy his company
anyway. Mr. Harvey, the judge wrote, faces "annihilation, by
attrition if not conviction."
   In her opinion, Judge Green cited an earlier Postporn
case, in which another federal judge temporarily blocked the
Justice Department from bringing successive obscenity
prosecutions against a different defendant. But the Justice
Department disputes the significance of that 1988 opinion.
The judge vacated his order when the defendant, Avram
Freedberg, agreed to dissolve his company, have it plead
guilty to federal charges in Utah, Mississippi and Delaware
and pay a fine of $600,000.
   Karl Brussel, a New York porn distributor, similarly
pleaded guilty last month to reduced obscenity charges rather
than face four trials scheduled within seven weeks. Two of
the prosecutions would have been in separate federal courts
in Alabama, a state not known for its hospitality to such
defendants.
   In their plea bargains, Messrs. Brussel and Freedberg
signed away their rights to do any business involving
sexually explicit material, whether deemed obscene or not.
"This violates everything the First Amendment stands for,"
complains Mr. Brussel's lawyer, Martin Garbus. The attorney
says his client, who accepted a one-year prison term,
couldn't afford to stand on principle because of the prospect
of ruinous legal costs and the risk that members of his
family would join him behind bars if he didn't cooperate.
   Mr. Trueman, the Justice Department lawyer who negotiated
the Brussel plea, concedes that the defendant lost basic
constitutional rights. "We don't want to have to re-prove
obscenity in a new trial against the Brussels {family}, so
under the agreement all we would have to show is that they
were back in the `sexually explicit' business," he explains.
"Martin Garbus says these guys are forfeiting First Amendment
rights. That's correct; they are. The reason is that they're
criminals, and they can't be trusted."
   When Postporn defendants choose to go to trial --
relatively few have -- the obscenity unit supplies
experienced out-of-town talent. Myron Shapiro's trial in
January illustrates the risks of fighting the feds in court.
   A grand jury in Harrisburg indicted Mr. Shapiro both for
sending obscene videos through the mail and for merely
offering to sell the films, which is a separate crime. As in
nearly all such cases, there wasn't any doubt that he had
committed the acts in question. Instead, the issue was
whether the acts were illegal. That, in turn, depended on
whether the jury considered the suspect films to be obscene.
   To convince the jurors that the material met the Supreme
Court's obscenity test, prosecutors dimmed the courtroom
lights and let the films speak for themselves. Then Ms.
Spearing, the obscenity unit's deputy director, stepped in to
try to undercut expert defense witnesses who testifed that
the movies in question were acceptable according to community
standards.
   In a preliminary hearing in the Shapiro case, she attacked
one such witness by showing he had testified, for pay,
numerous times for pornographers and had never seen a
sexually oriented film that he thought violated a community's
standards. The Shapiro defense team decided not to use the
witness in front of the jury.
   Joseph Scott, an Ohio State University sociology professor
who did testify for Mr. Shapiro before the jury, ran into a
different Spearing ploy: She asked him about the hidden
premises of a statistical study he had conducted and from
which he concluded that stores in the Harrisburg area on
average carried hundreds of films comparable to Mr.
Shapiro's. Her persistent questioning revealed that Prof.
Scott had excluded from his calculations video stores and
supermarkets that didn't carry any X-rated films.
   Although convicted, Mr. Shapiro won't be sentenced until
November. That's when he is scheduled to be in federal court
in Memphis -- to face another obscenity trial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Profit Gained in Latest Period,
   Delta Net Falls and Midway Posts Loss
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL DAL MDW
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   UAL Corp., aided by the sale of aircraft, dodged the
second-quarter profit declines posted by Delta Air Lines
yesterday and by other major carriers previously. Meanwhile,
Midway Airlines had a hefty loss compared with a year-earlier
profit.
   Industry earnings have been damped by slower-than-expected
June traffic. Traffic rose only 5.4% systemwide last month
from a year ago, a smaller increase than recorded in earlier
months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAL, in the midst of a proposed union buy-out, said net
income rose to a record $148.3 million, or $6.81 a share,
from $141.1 million, or $6.52 a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 8.7% to $2.74 billion from $2.52 billion.
   The profit rise largely reflected a $77.3 million gain,
primarily from the sale of two Boeing Co. 727 jets and seven
McDonnell Douglas Corp. DC-8 aircraft. In the year-ago
quarter, the company had a similar gain of $5 million.
   Excluding the gains, UAL's profit fell an estimated 30% to
$97 million from $138 million a year ago, said Robert Decker,
an airline analyst at Duff &amp; Phelps Inc. in Chicago.
   Other carriers couldn't avert the profit decline. Delta's
fiscal fourth-quarter net plunged 60% to $74.1 million, or
$1.47 a share, from $190.8 million, or $3.87 a share, a year
earlier. The decline chiefly reflected fare wars in
California, higher fuel costs and last year's strike at
Eastern Airlines, which helped boost Delta traffic. Eastern
has since resumed most of its flights. Delta's revenue in the
quarter ended June 30 eased to $2.24 billion from $2.31
billion.
   Previously, AMR Corp., parent company of American
Airlines, and USAir Group Inc. reported significantly lower
profits. Besides UAL, only Southwest Airlines has reported a
gain in June-quarter net.
   Midway, based in Chicago, posted a second-quarter loss of
$11.4 million, largely reflecting continued costs at the new
Philadelphia hub of operations. A year ago, net was $5.1
million, or 46 cents a share. Revenue jumped 35% to $170.6
million from $126.5 million.
   Delta appears to have been hit later than its rivals in
the industry downturn. The Atlanta carrier was one of just
two major airlines to post a profit in the previous quarter,
when sharply higher fuel costs hurt carriers. Overall, the
industry had an operating loss of about $650 million in that
quarter, compared with a $179 million profit a year earlier.
Edward Starkman, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc., estimates
the industry had operating profit of $750 million in the
quarter just ended, down from $980 million a year earlier.
   Fuel prices stabilized in the latest quarter. Delta,
however, felt the effects of an intense fare fight in
California, where it and three other major carriers are
battling for market share. That, plus a limited nationwide
fare promotion that ended in June, shrank Delta's yield, or
profit margin, by 1%. In contrast, United's yields rose 1.3%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Big Newspapers Launch Columns
   To Dissect Negative Political Ads
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   RBK CL FREST WPO KRI MNI TMC
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   The 1988 presidential campaign surely marked a new low in
political advertising. Who could forget the face of Willie
Horton, the convicted rapist who starred in a George Bush
commercial attacking Gov. Michael Dukakis for Massachusetts's
prison-furlough program?
   The legacy of 1988's mud-slinging campaign, and the
hyperbolic regional political ads that followed in 1989, is
making itself felt in 1990: Just this year, a number of major
newspapers around the country have started new columns
devoted to fact-checking and critiquing political
commercials. The Washington Post, the Miami Herald, the
Sacramento Bee and the Los Angeles Times are among those now
regularly picking apart ads in what Miami Herald "Ad Watch"
column reporter Martin Merzer calls "a hyperbole watch, a
reality check."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some political strategists say the fact-checking columns,
which appear regularly and scrutinize virtually every new
political commercial that comes along, are already changing
the commercials viewers see. "It's made everyone more careful
and more conscientious, even in this organization," says Ray
Strother, a Democratic political consultant. "Anybody who
tells you {the columns} haven't changed the way we operate
this year doesn't understand the business. We are much more
cautious, much more careful."
   Among other things, Mr. Strother says he sent all his
clients a memo two months ago telling them that every flier,
brochure and commercial could and very well might be
scrutinized by the press. Those clients include Nebraska Sen.
James Exon and Rudy Perpich, running for re-election as
governor of Minnesota.
   The columns may even cut down on the number of negative
ads, which had been on the rise throughout the 1980s, Mr.
Strother suggests. He gives the press scrutiny credit, for
example, for the recent Democratic primary in Georgia, where
"not one negative ad was run -- and that's a first." He says
he's considering a negative attack ad for one of his clients,
and that "we'll check and double-check. Before, there was an
expression, `close enough for political advertising.' But
close enough isn't enough anymore."
   Most of the newspaper columns kicked off earlier this
year, coinciding with the start of local gubernatorial or
congressional primaries. "It's probably a reaction to the
1988 presidential campaign, where the feeling was that more
so than any other presidential campaign, the ads were at the
center of what the campaign was about," says Paul Taylor, who
contributes to the Washington Post's "30-Second Politics"
column. Generally, the columns show stills from the
commercials, describe the text and tear apart claims line by
line.
   A Sacramento Bee column, for example, skewers an ad for
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dianne Feinstein. The ad
mentions Ms. Feinstein's "innovative plan" to build
affordable housing. The newspaper notes that "the median
housing price in San Francisco remains among the highest in
the nation -- $262,451." The ad says she signed the law
making San Francisco the first major city to divest from
South Africa. The newspaper notes that "she initially
objected to the {law} that finally was adopted."
   A Miami Herald column similarly attacks an ad for Rep.
Bill Nelson, a Florida Democratic gubernatorial hopeful. The
commercial, which portrays him as a legislative leader,
"contains no outright lies, but is tinged with
exaggerations," the newspaper charges. It elaborates: "He
never chaired a major committee in Tallahassee. During 12
years in Congress, he passed only two bills into law. . . ."
   Jay Hakes, Rep. Nelson's campaign manager, says the
columns haven't had any effect on the congressman's ads,
since "we wouldn't make mistakes anyway." But columnists in
California, Florida and Washington all say that since they
started their columns this year, the campaign machines have
been providing voluminous documentation for their
commercials, along with the usual press releases.
   The Washington Post's Mr. Taylor says that when he decided
to review a Michigan gubernatorial race commercial, "in a
24-hour period, I must have gotten 60 to 70 pages of backup
faxed to me, and another 30 pages of contention from the
other side." He adds, "All the political consultants say
they're always careful. I think as the scrutiny gets tougher,
the carefulness gets greater, and maybe the line has moved a
bit. They're very aware of the fact that we're watching."
   How strong an impact the new press coverage has on ads,
though, remains difficult to measure. In California, aside
from a few negative ads -- notably one in which Ms. Feinstein
attacked opponent John Van de Camp's handling of the Hillside
Strangler case while attorney general -- "the primary wasn't
nearly as vicious or as dirty as some of the campaigns have
been around the country this year," says William Endicott,
the Sacramento Bee's capital bureau chief. "We'd like to
think we had some influence in diffusing a lot of {negative
advertising}. Whether we did or not, I don't know."
   The columnists say they aren't crusaders and aren't trying
to change advertising. "My goal is to equip readers with some
ability to evaluate advertising," says John Pancake, state
editor at the Miami Herald. "I'm hoping we'll give people a
little bit better idea of whether this is reliable commentary
or not. You can't ask a 60-second spot any questions."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: Earle Palmer Brown, Bethesda, Md., agreed to
acquire Franklin &amp; Associates Advertising &amp; Public Relations,
a San Diego agency with billings of $35 million. That agency
will give EPB a West Coast presence for the first time. Terms
weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   REEBOK ADS: "It's Time to Play" is the theme of Reebok
International's new ad campaign created by Hill, Holliday,
Connors, Cosmopulos. Reebok says the campaign, which will
begin airing today, features Reebok-endorsed athletes and
regular Joes participating in athletic competitions and dance
rehearsals, among other things.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIET SEAL: Colgate-Palmolive said it's "the first global
company" to receive a product endorsement from the Soviet
Ministry of Health's Central Scientific-Research Institute of
Stomatology. The seal of approval for the Colgate toothpaste
brand will now appear on packs of the brand sold in the
U.S.S.R.
                                                                                                       

   NFL ADS: Martin Mull and Gladys Knight are among the stars
in a new ad campaign for the National Football League's Team
NFL division, which oversees NFL product licensing. With the
new campaign, themed "Not your everyday fan," the NFL says it
hopes to attract a hipper, younger crowd to NFL products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- H.H. Robertson Co.:
   Company to Change Name
   To Robertson-Ceco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   RHH
</CO>
<LP>
   H.H. Robertson Co. said it will change its name to
Robertson-Ceco Corp. following the proposed acquisition of
Ceco Industries Inc., Oakbrook Terrace, Ill.
   Headquarters will remain in Pittsburgh, Robertson said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robertson has agreed to pay $15 million plus 3.4 million
to 4.1 million of its common shares for Ceco, and to assume
$85 million of Ceco debt.
   Robertson is a building-products concern. Ceco
manufactures doors, metal buildings and roofing systems, and
it provides concrete-forming services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   IBM Moves
   To Cap Mental
   Health Costs
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. named a small health
care company to handle its mental health program, reflecting
corporate America's search for ways to contain spiraling
psychiatric costs.
   The computer giant picked American PsychManagement to set
up a network of 10,000 psychiatrists, psychologists and
social workers, as well as hospitals and other treatment
centers, to serve IBM's 700,000 U.S. employees, retirees and
dependents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move to separate mental health and substance abuse
benefits from other health benefits reflects an emerging
trend among companies that have found psychiatric costs
particularly troublesome in the battle to contain overall
health costs.
   IBM is the latest company to arrange for a network of
preferred health care providers and encourage employees
through financial incentives to use them. The networks are
intended to enable companies to manage better their
employees' use of health services and to obtain discounts
from doctors and hospitals in return for a designated flow of
patients. Last week, American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
announced the establishment of a system of networks covering
all health care for its U.S. work force.
   More and more companies say that "the only way we are
really going to be able to offer health benefits is if we
manage them well," said Veronica Vaccaro, manager of mental
health promotion at the Washington Business Group on Health.
   Although terms of IBM's move into managed mental health
care weren't disclosed, Ms. Vaccaro described it as "the
biggest deal dollar-wise" yet for a managed care vendor. "We
expect this will {continue to} happen as companies struggle
with ways to provide benefits and also manage their costs."
   While overall health costs at IBM have increased at a 10%
to 11% annual rate over the past few years, according to W.E.
Burdick, senior vice president for personnel, mental health
and substance abuse costs have soared at a 20% rate. "It's
the single highest cost escalation area of all of our {health
benefit} offerings," he said.
   Among companies with 5,000 or more employees, mental
health and substance abuse costs soared 47% last year over
1988, according to a survey by A. Foster Higgins &amp; Co., a New
York benefits consultant.
   That's one reason some companies have decided to break
mental health and substance abuse out of health benefit
programs. Those problems "are dramatically different from
other acute care medical issues," said Daniel C. Smith,
director of employee assistance and human risk management
resources at McDonnell Douglas Corp., which has developed
innovative mental health treatment programs. "The treatment
of these conditions individually is far less predictable than
it is for acute health problems and there is so much
individual variance in response to treatment. It doesn't make
sense for us to try to make a square peg fit in a round
hole."
   Still, says Foster Higgins, just 5% of all companies, and
10% of companies with more than 10,000 employees, have set up
separate preferred provider networks to manage mental health
costs.
   IBM, based in Armonk, N.Y., coupled the change in its
mental health plan with other benefits revisions, including
new programs for long-term care insurance and assistance with
catastrophic health problems such as spinal injuries, organ
transplants, and premature births. Mr. Burdick said the
overall intent is to meet new benefits needs of employees in
these areas while cutting annual growth in costs to single
digits. IBM spends about $3,400 a year per employee on health
care, or more than $750 million.
   American PsychManagement, a unit of closely held Value
Health Inc., Avon, Conn., was selected from more than a dozen
vendors who bid on the contract, which Value Health said was
"in the tens of millions of dollars."
   Moving to managed care is a "big departure from IBM's
culture," said Bryan Lane, a principal with Towers Perrin, a
benefit consultant that helped the company design the plan.
Although participation in the network is voluntary, the
company is recommending providers for its employees, breaking
from past practice of completely free choice. But Mr. Burdick
said many employees are eager for recommendations, especially
for mental health problems. He said response to the program,
announced this week, is already positive.
   The mental health plan, as well as other benefits changes,
were designed after the company made numerous surveys of its
work force. That groundwork, as well as financial incentives,
should help persuade employees to use it, the company says.
   For instance, for those in the network, the company will
pay 100% of inpatient hospitalization for an unlimited period
after an annual deductible. For those seeking care outside
the network, coverage drops to 80% of hospitalization for up
to 90 days a year. For outpatient care, including visits with
psychiatrists, the plan pays 80% of expenses up to $15,000
and then 50% up to $25,000; non-network reimbursement is 50%
of expenses up to $25,000.
   In addition, employees will be permitted to nominate their
own providers for the network, who would then have to fulfill
criteria specified by American PsychManagement. And officials
believe the sheer number of participants will make it easy
for employees to use the network.
   As one of the nation's largest employers, IBM considers
itself in the vanguard of employee benefits and says it has
pioneered programs in such areas as prevention, child care
networks and geriatric services. By its sheer size, IBM's
work force reflects a variety of health and social trends --
ranging from substance abuse to care for elderly dependents
-- that affect companies and their employees around the
country. How it addresses such issues is of broad interest
among benefits officials and health policy makers, especially
as companies seek successful cost-containment strategies.
   For Value Health's unit, the IBM contract represents
enormous growth. American PsychManagement has set up a unit
devoted exclusively to IBM that will have 100 employees, said
Thomas J. Neville, the unit's chief operating officer. The
unit's current work force is 130.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Conferees Agree on Oil-Spill Measure;
   Bill Would End 16-Year Impasse on Issue
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House and Senate conferees reached an
agreement on comprehensive oil-spill legislation that would
end a 16-year congressional stalemate on the issue.
   Approval of the measure came after the lawmakers agreed to
make vessel owners solely liable for damages resulting from
tanker spills, rather than making cargo owners responsible as
well. The conferees also settled on liability limits that are
significantly higher than those under current law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, the conferees agreed to require that all new
tankers be equipped with double hulls and rejected provisions
that would have provided for U.S. participation in an
international treaty limiting shippers' liability in spills.
That action means states are free to set unlimited liability
for shippers or other parties responsible for spills.
   The congressional effort to pass oil-spill legislation
gained momentum after last year's grounding of the Exxon
Valdez in Alaska and a rash of spills in U.S. waters in the
16 months since. Congressional aides said lawmakers hope to
bring the measure to the House and Senate floors for final
approval as early as next week.
   Conservation groups were cheered by approval of the
measure. Clifton Curtis, an oceans specialist for Friends of
the Earth, called the measure an "environmentally strong
bill." The Bush administration and the tanker industry,
however, strongly opposed the rejection of the treaty,
contending that companies will curtail shipments to U.S.
ports rather than face the potential for unlimited liability
under state laws.
   Galen Reser, assistant transportation secretary for
governmental affairs, said "we may live to regret" the
failure to accept the international accord. At the same time,
he said the administration "is pleased that this has come to
a close" and said the transportation secretary probably won't
recommend a presidential veto of the legislation.
   Under the federal liability limits set yesterday, tanker
owners would generally be liable up to $1,200 a gross ton.
Limits under current law are as low as $150 a gross ton,
congressional aides said. Limits also would be established
for accidents involving offshore facilities. Federal cleanup
and damage assessment costs, plus compensation for damages,
beyond the liability limits would be paid from a new $1
billion fund financed by a five-cents-a-barrel tax on
domestic and imported oil. That fee has been collected since
Jan. 1.
   The fund could pay out the full $1 billion for a single
incident, with as much as $500 million going to repair
natural resource damage.
   The fund could be tapped only if the accident doesn't
involve gross or willful negligence. The bill also improves
contingency planning for spills and enhances the Coast
Guard's ability to respond to accidents.
   Before approving the measure yesterday, the lawmakers
added an amendment that would place a moratorium on oil
leasing in the Outer Continental Shelf off North Carolina
until additional environmental studies can be done. The
proposal was offered by Rep. Walter Jones (D., N.C.).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Backs
   Plan to Alter
   Crop Insurance
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate embraced a proposal to revamp the
federal crop-insurance program and cover its underwriting
losses, putting senators at odds with the House's intention
to scuttle the long-troubled program.
   The Senate adopted an amendment by Sen. Thomas Daschle
(D., S.D.) after voting 55-42 to reject a rival proposal that
would have scuttled federal crop insurance after the 1993
harvest unless Congress found ways to increase farmer
participation in the program and cut its heavy losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As senators drew close to wrapping up the 1990 farm bill,
there was a bipartisan consensus that the insurance program
was unduly complicated, actuarially unsound and, in many
states, unpopular with farmers. Sen. Christopher Bond (R.,
Mo.) complained that the Federal Crop Insurance Corp. has
become a "cash cow" for many farmers, paying $1.56 in
crop-loss claims for every $1 in premiums collected and
costing taxpayers $1 billion a year.
   But the lawmakers differed on how best to ensure that
Congress tackles the task of overhauling the program. In
1988, Congress created a study panel on crop insurance, but
many of its recommendations proved too costly to adopt.
   Mr. Bond proposed an amendment to end the insurance
program in three years, arguing that it would compel
lawmakers to address once again what he called "the
crop-insurance dilemma." But Sen. Daschle and other lawmakers
from the Great Plains, where crop insurance is popular,
warned that farmers would assume the program was all but dead
and stop buying crop insurance.
   On July 19, the House approved a $50 billion agricultural
appropriations bill that would cut off funding for new
crop-insurance policies after Oct. 1. Funding for fiscal 1991
would be cut by more than half to $101.6 million, only enough
to cover policies outstanding.
   But in adopting Mr. Daschle's proposal yesterday, the
Senate signaled to the House its determination to keep the
insurance program afloat. Under his proposal, the Commodity
Credit Corp., the Agriculture Department's lending arm, would
finance the program's operations if Congress appropriates no
funds.
   Rep. Jamie Whitten (D., Miss.), chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee, is the arch foe of crop insurance,
while the administration favors setting up a standby
disaster-relief program for farmers who lose their crops if
the insurance program can't be reformed. House farm leaders
were considering options for rescuing the program. They hope
to wrap up their version of the omnibus legislation today.
   The Senate has completed work on most of the bill, which
amounts to a five-year, $54 billion plan for U.S.
agriculture. But a filibuster last night by Sen. Thad Cochran
(R., Miss.) over the issue of cargo preference temporarily
stalled progress on the legislation. Mr. Cochran and other
Gulf state senators objected to an agreement that would
exempt Food-for-Peace cargoes through Great Lakes ports from
having to be carried on U.S.-flag ships.
   Late Wednesday, Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) and Senate
Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) decided against
adding a provision that would have established a mandatory
seafood-inspection program. The proposal would have given the
Agriculture Department the task of inspecting seafood
processors. But Sen. Ted Stevens (R., Alaska) and other
Commerce Committee members strongly favor making the Commerce
Department the lead agency. Messrs. Leahy and Mitchell
decided to take up the inspection plan later as a separate
bill, rather than risk a farm-bill filibuster by Sen.
Stevens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seven Are Charged
   With Rigging Bids
   For HUD Property
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Seven real estate investors were charged in
federal court here with rigging bids at public auctions, some
of which involved property owned by the troubled Department
of Housing and Urban Development, prosecutors said.
   The case is the first ever in which the federal government
has alleged violations of antitrust laws in connection with
bid-rigging at real estate auctions, according to the Justice
Department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The seven defendants allegedly agreed not to bid against
each other, enabling them to buy HUD-owned property and other
real estate at artificially low prices, the Justice
Department said. After one defendant bought a property at a
low price, he made payoffs to the others, the government
charged. This activity allegedly began in 1977 and continued
until last year.
   Some of the property involved was auctioned by the
Superior Court here on behalf of people under the court's
protection, such as children and people deemed not legally
competent, prosecutors said. "These victims are among the
most vulnerable citizens of our city," said James Rill, the
Justice Department's antitrust chief.
   The seven men charged were: Eric Baer, George Basiliko,
Frank Gittleson, Douglas Goldsten, Irvin Greenbaum, Robert
Greenbaum and Sidney Spiegel. The defendants couldn't be
reached for comment. The crimes charged carry possible prison
terms and fines of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Moves
   To Sell Stake
   In Chicago Bank
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CBK FNB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Continental Bank Corp. moved another step
toward full private ownership as the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. approved a shelf registration for the sale of
its 26% stake in Continental.
   The move follows an apparently unsuccessful effort by the
FDIC's investment bankers at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
to sell the stake to an institutional investor or another
banking concern -- including First Chicago Corp.,
Continental's rival here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A banking official said that Smith Barney recently
approached First Chicago's chairman and chief executive
officer, Barry F. Sullivan, and tried to interest him in the
stock, but that he declined. Mr. Sullivan, who over the years
has expressed a keen interest in combining the city's two
biggest banks, wouldn't comment, nor would Smith Barney.
   Continental announced its intention to make the shelf
registration on the sixth anniversary of its $4.5 billion
federal bailout. A spokeswoman said the actual filing will be
made by the middle of next week, covering all of the FDIC's
common and preferred, which together equal about 14 million
of Continental's 53.7 million common shares outstanding.
   The sale of the stock, however, could well have to wait
months or longer because bank stocks have been depressed.
Continental stock closed yesterday at $13.50 a share, about
$1.50 lower than an offer the FDIC refused early last month.
   The offer was made by Continental, some of its top
officers and some outside investors.
   Last fall, the FDIC refused to let Continental sell the
shares in a public offering when the stock was trading at
around $20.
   Since those two events, Continental's chairman and chief
executive, Thomas C. Theobald, has been critical of the FDIC.
After his offer was turned down last month, he said he was
"dumbfounded" and called the FDIC's continued ownership of
Continental shares "a wholly unwarranted role for a
regulator."
   Yesterday, in a statement, he was more conciliatory,
however, calling the approval of the filing "a milestone with
both financial and psychological significance for us."
   Some customers still limit their dealings with Continental
because of the FDIC's ownership, and the Federal Reserve
Board has indicated it won't look kindly on acquisitions by
Continental as long as it is a partial ward of the
government.
   The FDIC wouldn't say at what price it will sell, and any
public offering of the shares or sale to an investor group is
still up to the agency.
   At yesterday's price, the 26% stake had an indicated value
of about $185 million. The agency previously sold to the
public, to a Continental employee stock ownership plan and to
Continental itself common and preferred stock for a combined
$1.06 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money-Fund Assets
   Rose $1.93 Billion
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Assets of the nation's 513 money-market
funds rose $1.93 billion to $391.84 billion, in the week
ended Wednesday, according to the Investment Company
Institute.
   Assets of 251 general-purpose funds rose $1.21 billion to
$135.91 billion; 102 brokerdealer funds rose $356.6 million
to $160.75 billion; and 160 institutional funds rose $366
million to $95.18 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Jacob Dreyer, vice president and chief economist at
the Washington trade association, said that money funds
posted the third consecutive large increase in assets,
despite lagging yields resulting from declines in yields on
direct money-market instruments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- American Express Bank
Ltd. named Suzan T. Picariello a senior vice president and
region head for consumer financial services in Latin America
and the Caribbean. The position is a new one at American
Express Bank, a subsidiary of the travel, financial and
information services company. Ms. Picariello, 41 years old,
was previously assistant general counsel, American Express
Travel Related Services Co., another unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cabot Corp. Expects to Report
   Net Rose 57% in Fiscal 3rd Period
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   CBT
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Cabot Corp. expects to report that
earnings rose about 57% in its fiscal third quarter, ended
June 30, because of its improving energy business,
cost-cutting measures and other factors, Samuel Bodman,
chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   In an interview, Mr. Bodman said fiscal third-quarter
profit was about $15 million, or 62 cents a share, compared
with $9.6 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales
fell about 11% to $420 million from $470.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the nine months, indicated profit was about $59.7
million, or $2.36 a share, down 2.8% from $61.4 million, or
$2.23 a share, a year earlier. Indicated sales fell about 15%
to $1.27 billion from $1.49 billion.
   Mr. Bodman said the specialty-chemical and energy concern
has almost completed major changes he initiated after being
named chief executive about three years ago. Among other
things, Cabot has consolidated and spun off part of its
energy business, sold its West Texas gas-processing
facilities, invested heavily to refurbish chemicals plants,
and molded its bankrupt liquified-natural-gas operations into
a profitable business.
   Of Cabot's 23 top officers, 20 have been replaced.
Additionally, said Mr. Bodman, "we've taken as much cost out
of this company as we could" by such moves as selling Cabot's
airplane and increasing manufacturing efficiency. Cabot has
restructured its energy side as a "portfolio of investments"
partly run by outsiders, added Mr. Bodman, who was trained as
a chemical engineer and was formerly an executive at Fidelity
Investments.
   Mr. Bodman said some costly problems he "inherited" with
environmental cleanups and unfavorable "take-or-pay"
contracts for natural-gas distribution have now "been dealt
with." The problems necessitated spending about $115 million
over the past three years for additions to reserves to cover
expected liabilities, he added.
   Cabot's improved earnings have been achieved despite
"pretty tough conditions" in the market for its main chemical
product, carbon black, said Mr. Bodman. The substance is a
petroleum derivative used to strengthen tires and in making
other products. Cabot also makes noise-damping polymers,
plastics ingredients and fumed silica, which is used in
making silicone rubber.
   Recently there have been signs of lessening demand for
carbon black in Europe, although prices there remain strong,
he said. Cabot also is facing stiffer competition in the
relatively fast-growing markets for "specialty" blacks used
in inks, plastics and other products. Mr. Bodman added that
Cabot is responding by investing in new technology for carbon
black and other chemicals, and bringing out new products,
such as improved newsprint inks that don't rub off on
readers' hands.
   Cabot's energy business, which contributes more than half
of its revenue but only about 15% of its operating profit, is
on the upswing, Mr. Bodman said. The company's
liquified-natural-gas business, which imports Algerian gas
through a Boston terminal, should have operating profit of
about $10 million in fiscal 1990 after breaking even the
previous year, he added. The business, which is "like having
a {natural gas} well in Boston harbor," should grow as a
centrally placed supplier of relatively low-polluting fuel to
the energy-poor Northeast, Mr. Bodman said.
   The company's energy business also stands to gain from its
large reserves of natural gas and low finding costs for the
fuel, Mr. Bodman said. Total proven and developed gas
reserves totaled 533 billion cubic feet at the end of fiscal
1989. Most of Cabot's reserves are in relatively shallow gas
formations in Appalachia, making them cheap to reach compared
with most competitors' gas, he said.
   Mr. Bodman said Cabot expects capital expenditures of
about $170 million in fiscal 1990, lower than the $200
million projected earlier. He explained that the company has
slowed its plant-refurbishing spending while working out more
efficient ways to achieve the program's goals. Cabot's fiscal
1991 capital expenditures will probably be about the same as
the current fiscal year's spending, he said. Besides
modernizing old chemical plants, Cabot is building new ones
in the United Kingdom, China, Japan and other countries.
   Mr. Bodman said he is "comfortable with the low end" of
analysts' projected fiscal 1990 earnings of $2.75 to $3 a
share. "We'd like to believe Cabot can start to produce
earnings in line with what a company its size should make,"
he said. "But it's hard to forecast when our earnings are so
heavily dependent on gas prices," which are difficult to
predict.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panel Seeks Immunity for 2
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Energy and Commerce Committee
voted to seek immunity for Michael Milken and Ivan Boesky in
return for testimony on junk bonds.
   The two are expected to testify as part of a probe by the
subcommittee on oversight and investigations into questions
surrounding junk bonds and securities underwritten by Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. In particular, the subcommittee has
focused on about 500 partnerships that included Drexel
employees and bought into Drexel-sponsored deals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Milken, who in the spring pleaded guilty to six felony
counts of securities-law violations, is to be sentenced
around Oct. 1, after which he will be immunized and cooperate
with prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Mr. Boesky, a former takeover-stock speculator, pleaded
guilty to insider trading in 1986 and in April was paroled
from federal prison after serving about 18 months. Mr. Boesky
also has agreed to do extensive interviews with the
subcommittee staff before his testimony, a panel staff member
said. Mr. Milken has refused to do staff interviews, the
staff member said.
   A spokesman for Mr. Milken said his client will testify
when the immunity grant comes through. A lawyer for Mr.
Boesky wouldn't confirm whether his client would cooperate
with the subcommittee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Adding `Zeros' to Your Portfolio
   Isn't as Simple as One, Two, Three
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   With the threat of rising taxes, the pitch sounds better
than ever: Buy a "zero-coupon" municipal bond for a fraction
of its face value, stuff it in a drawer, and forget about it.
Then, 15 or 20 years later, when Junior is ready for college
or you're ready to retire, collect the full face amount --
all tax-free.
   What could be simpler? Nothing, if the investment behaves
as planned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But some brokers may not tell investors about the risks,
which can turn these seemingly safe, hibernating bonds into
restless bears.
   Unlike regular bonds, zeros pay no interest. Instead,
investors buy them for a fraction of their face value, and
receive the full face amount when the bonds mature. With no
interest payments to reinvest, investors who hold their bonds
until maturity can count on getting a fixed yield.
   Unfortunately, however, most zero-coupon municipal bonds
contain built-in snooze alarms known as "call features."
These allow issuers to call, or redeem, the bonds before the
maturity date. Although investors get back their principal,
as well as the interest that has accrued to that date,
investors lose out on the interest they thought they had
locked in for years.
   Investors can bypass most of the risks of investing in
zero-coupon municipal bonds by buying only non-callable
issues, say the specialists. But to find non-callable bonds,
investors have to be prepared to look harder, and to give up
a little yield, says Mark Donohue, vice president at bond
brokers Gabriele, Hueglin &amp; Cashman Inc.
   Still, he says, investors can find high-quality, long-term
non-callable bonds yielding 7% or more, which is the taxable
equivalent of 10.4% for taxpayers in the 33% bracket. One
non-callable issue he likes is the Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey zeros of 2009, with a 7.1% yield to maturity.
The bonds are rated single-A-1 by Moody's and double-A-minus
by Standard &amp; Poor's, which makes them medium
investment-grade securities.
   Investors who don't stick with non-callable bonds face
numerous risks, which brokers may not mention, says Mr.
Donohue. "All too often, call protection has not entered into
the discussion," he says. Then, when the bonds are called,
"It's common to hear hard-luck stories."
   Early calls subject investors to "reinvestment risk,"
which is a fancy way of saying that they have to scramble
around to find an alternative investment. "The last thing you
want to worry about is having to reinvest at a lower rate,"
says Michael Feigeles, vice president of municipal bond
marketing at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   The problem of an early call can be compounded for
investors who paid a "premium" for the bonds. Paying a
premium means paying more than the face value. Since zeros
are sold at a discount to face value, the "face" amount is
the purchase price plus interest compounded semiannually at
the original yield until the time of the call.
   If the bonds are called early, bondholders will get back
the "accreted value," but not the amount they paid above
that. This won't come as a surprise if investors know they're
paying a premium. But many don't. Because of the bond's
discounted price, "you can't just look at it and tell whether
you paid more than its face value," says Mr. Feigeles.
   Investors can't always count on their brokers to steer
them clear of this problem, at least partly because many of
the brokers don't know about it themselves.
   "I had no idea this could happen," says a Seattle-area
broker who asks not to be identified. He says he put one of
his customers in muni zeros, thinking nothing could go wrong.
Only after the bonds were called did he realize he'd sold
them at a premium. "They were AAA-rated, safe . . . and then
the investor lost 20%," says the distressed broker. He says
he plans to repay the customer out of his own pocket.
   To protect themselves, investors should buy zero-coupon
municipal bonds only from brokers who know what they're
doing. Ask what the accreted value is, and whether you're
paying more than that for the bonds, advises Mr. Feigeles.
   The risk of early calls is likely to increase over the
next three years, say municipal bond specialists, because
most of these bonds were issued when interest rates were
higher. When rates fall, issuers call the bonds and refinance
the debt at lower rates.
   In addition, zero munis issued by now-insolvent thrifts
can be called by the federal government -- whether or not the
bonds have call protection features, says Andrew Carron,
director of fixed-income research at First Boston Corp.
   Investors who can't find non-callable, high-quality zero
municipals would be better off sticking with Treasury
zero-coupon bonds, says Mr. Carron. These are backed by the
full faith and credit of the U.S. government, and are
non-callable. Those bonds currently yield about 8.75% for
20-year maturities, subject to federal, but not to state
taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Universal Matchbox Group Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UMG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL MATCHBOX GROUP Ltd. (New York) -- Robert B.
Hoffman was named to the board of this toy company,
succeeding Paul L. Hertenstein, who retired at age 69. The
board stands at 10 members. Mr. Hoffman is currently a
business consultant and was previously executive vice
president and chief financial officer of Staley Continental
Inc., a food processing company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   GE Is Fined $10 Million in Criminal Case
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GE AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
INSURANCE (INS)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   General Electric Co. was ordered to pay a $10 million
criminal fine and agreed in a settlement to pay an additional
$20 million in civil penalties in connection with fraudulent
defense contract billings to the U.S. Army.
   The criminal fine is the second-largest ever against a
defense contractor and the largest against a company accused
of fraudulent pricing. Earlier this year, Los Angeles-based
Northrop Corp. was fined $17 million after pleading guilty to
34 counts of making false statements to the government
involving the company's testing of weapons parts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The penalty against GE was announced yesterday in a
federal district court in Philadelphia, where the company and
two suspended employees were convicted of fraud and related
charges last February following a 14-week trial. The two
suspended employees were fined and both received prison
sentences yesterday.
   The trial concerned a 1983 GE contract with the U.S. Army
and GE's aerospace unit, Management &amp; Technical Services Co.,
or MATSCO, to produce a mobile battlefield computer system.
   Prosecutors alleged that the Fairfield, Conn., concern,
the nation's third-largest defense contractor, misrepresented
subcontracting costs and concealed millions of dollars in
cost reductions from government auditors between 1983 and
1985.
   GE was convicted of four counts of mail fraud and 282
counts of filing false claims. Gerald A. Leo, a former
purchasing manager, was convicted of four counts of mail
fraud and one count of submitting false documents to a
government auditor. James Badolato, a former subcontracts
manager, was convicted of one count of obstruction of justice
for trying to cover up the fraud.
   Mr. Leo was sentenced yesterday to 10 months in prison and
was fined $15,000. Mr. Badolato received five months in
prison and was fined $10,000. Both remain free pending their
appeals.
   In addition to paying the $10 million criminal fine, GE
agreed to settle several pending federal civil suits related
to the case for $8.3 million and to pay an additional $11.7
million in connection with several unrelated defense
contracting matters pending in eastern Pennsylvania.
Prosecutors said the latter also involved improper billings,
some of which GE voluntarily disclosed.
   Prosecutors and the company said in a joint sentencing
recommendation to federal Judge Lowell A. Reed Jr., who
presided over the trial, that GE "has taken substantial
measures" since 1985 to ensure ethical conduct in all defense
contracting.
   Nevertheless, prosecutors said that the trial of Messrs.
Leo and Badolato produced evidence of complicity by others at
the company, though not enough to bring additional criminal
charges. "Individuals above Leo and Badolato turned a blind
eye and adopted a look-the-other-way mentality," said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Nicholas C. Harbist, who helped
prosecute the case.
   In handing down his sentence against GE, Judge Reed called
the company's behavior "reprehensible" and said the fine was
a sad commentary on GE's "corporate character." GE's MATSCO
unit, in King of Prussia, Pa., was suspended from defense
contracting for two months in 1989.
   As part of GE's settlement of the cases, the company
agreed to forgo all appeals.
   ---
   REINSURERS win important victory in federal appeals court.
   In a typical reinsurance arrangement, insurers give up a
portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to a
reinsurance company, which promises to take a portion of any
losses.
   The issue in this case, in the Seventh U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in Chicago, involved what actions the reinsurer
can take if an insurance company with which it is working
becomes insolvent.
   State statutes governing the liquidation of insolvent
insurers generally allow the reinsurer to withhold its loss
payments to the insurance company to offset debts the
insolvent company owes it. This leaves the insolvent insurer
with less money for its liquidation.
   But insurance company liquidators have long argued that
money owed to an insolvent insurer by reinsurance firms can't
be offset by obligations or debts the insolvent firm might
have with its reinsurers.
   In the decision earlier this week, the federal appeals
court sided with the reinsurer and allowed the offset.
   A small amount of money is involved in the Illinois case,
which stemmed from the liquidation of Reserve Insurance Co.,
declared insolvent in 1979. But there are millions of dollars
at stake in court battles over the same issue involving some
of the largest insolvencies in insurance industry history,
most notably the liquidation of Mission Insurance Co. in
California. Regulators are trying to recover $300 million
from Mission's reinsurers.
   If courts generally side with the reinsurers as did the
Seventh Circuit, the amount of funds available to liquidators
to settle the claims of insolvent insurers could be reduced.
   "Anything that allows more offsets will reduce the amount
of money" eventually going to policyholders, said Deborah
Anderson, general counsel for Illinois department that
handles the liquidation of insolvent insurers.
   The issue of reinsurance offsets with insolvent companies
is a hotly contested one in the insurance industry these
days. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners at
its annual meeting last month adopted a model law that would
severely restrict offsets. It's now up to the individual
state legislatures to decide if they want to make the
association's guidelines part of their state statutes.
   The Seventh Circuit is the highest court so far to wrestle
with the thorny issue. The California Supreme Court has
agreed to hear the case stemming from the Mission insolvency
that involves this same offset issue. Reinsurance executives
say the California statutes regarding reinsurance offsets are
similar to the Illinois regulations.
   Ronald A. Jacks, a Chicago attorney who represented the
reinsurers in the Illinois case, believes California's
highest court "will have to take into account the decision of
a highly respected court of appeals."
   ---
   KENYAN UNREST has forced a change of venue for September's
International Bar Association meeting. Instead of meeting in
Nairobi, the 12,000-member London-based organization will
assemble in New York City Sept. 19-23. William Reece Smith
Jr. of Tampa, Fla., president of the IBA, cited safety
concerns and the association's disapproval of the recent
imprisonment of several Kenyan lawyers as reasons for the
switch. Three of those lawyers were released yesterday.
   ---
   Michael Siconolfi contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LBO Funds Hang Out the For Sale Sign
   ---
   Strong Stock Prices
   Provide Incentive
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE SIX SWY X.BCI FBR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The 1980s leveraged buy-out boom is a memory,
and now Wall Street's big LBO funds are rushing to cash out
with a burst of big-ticket sales of companies in their
portfolios.
   In the past two months alone, LBO powerhouse Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. agreed to sell its Beatrice Co. to
ConAgra Inc. for $1.34 billion and Motel 6 L.P. to France's
Accor S.A. for $1.3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, KKR sold 10% of Safeway Stores Inc. to the
public in a $112.5 million stock offering.
   And last week, Forstmann Little &amp; Co. agreed to sell Moen
Inc. to American Brands Inc. for $975 million.
   That could be only the tip of the iceberg. From 1981 to
1989, LBO funds and their pension-fund investors took
hundreds of companies private in a buy-out binge totaling
more than $250 billion.
   One reason the companies are so ripe for sale, either to
the public or corporate acquirers, is that LBO funds are
anxious to sell to generate returns for their investors.
That's unlike publicly traded corporations, where managements
often resist takeover bids to avoid losing their jobs.
   Some buy-out funds executives make no bones about their
keen interest in selling some of their holdings in coming
months.
   Brian Little, a founding partner of Forstmann Little, says
buy-out funds typically "start thinking about taking a
profit" within a few years, once they have made any planned
changes in a company and paid down buy-out debt sufficiently
to generate a healthy return.
   Now that Forstmann has agreed to sell Moen, he said:
"We've got two or three other companies which we think over
the next 12 months could also be sold. Our business is
acquiring assets, helping make them worth more, and selling
them."
   Wall Street's investment bankers are licking their chops
over more deals in the offing. "Every investment bank has a
list," says Steven Rattner, general partner at Lazard Freres
&amp; Co.
   One reason for buy-out firms to strike now is the
still-buoyant stock market, which despite this week's
weakness remains within 80 points of the 3000 mark on the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. That should enable buy-out fund
operators to seek substantial prices for their treasure trove
of companies, whether in a public offering or from a
corporate buyer.
   However, what still isn't clear is whether there are
sufficient buyers to go around. Stock-market investors have
been penalizing companies that still carry a heavy debt load,
as they did with KKR's offering of Safeway shares. KKR had to
slash the offering price 22% from the midrange of its
original estimated sale price.
   But whether or not the buyers are ready, there is a bulge
in the number of private companies ready for sale. Scott
Newquist, head of investment banking at Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., says buy-outs typically generate the highest annual
rates of return for their investors over a three-to-five-year
period. The flurry of sales is occurring now, he says,
because "we're at a time three to five years from when a lot
of buy-outs were done."
   James Burke, president of Merrill Lynch Capital Partners,
a leveraged buy-out fund, says: "If you look at the burst of
LBOs that were done in 1984-1987, there are a lot of deals
that should be ripe for the plucking."
   However, other fund operators argue -- perhaps partly as a
negotiating posture -- that they aren't in a hurry to sell.
"You may see some more {sales by buy-out funds} because the
stock market is relatively strong," says KKR partner Henry
Kravis. "But if we don't get the right price, we're not under
the gun to do anything."
   One LBO manager maintains: "If you talk to our partners
and you said to them, would you rather get a quick 60% to 70%
annual return in one or two years, or would you rather have
long-term annual returns of 30%, my guess is they'd pick the
30%."
   Joseph L. Rice, president of LBO firm Clayton &amp; Dubilier,
attributes the recent burst of sales to "just chance." He
doesn't think there is any particular holding period that
will maximize investor returns. "If you have a business that
is performing well, sooner or later something good is going
to happen to you," he says.
   Nevertheless, Lazard's Mr. Rattner says buy-out funds have
good reason to seize an opportunity to cash out. "For people
who want to raise new funds in this suspicious environment in
which we live, it's important to show investors profits. And
one thing you certainly learn watching the events of the last
year or two: things that at one instant look like spectacular
deals can quickly look not so spectacular."
   One buy-out fund executive, who asked not to be
identified, notes that Forstmann and KKR have spent more than
half of their current buy-out funds and may want to post some
hefty return rates on some buy-outs as they prepare to seek
new investment dollars.
   KKR declined to comment. Forstmann's Mr. Little said that
any potential plans to raise more money "are not a factor" in
the timing of company sales.
   In seeking buyers, fund operators' first choice is
generally U.S. or foreign corporations with deep pockets.
Leon Kalvaria, a managing director at First Boston Corp.,
says that corporate acquirers will generally pay a higher
price for any given company than a public stock offering
would attract. The reason, he says, is "a strategic buyer is
willing to pay a premium price" to gain control of an entire
company.
   But another category of buyer -- other LBO funds -- has
faded, due to weakness in the market of high-risk, high-yield
junk bonds whose sale typically used to finance about 30% of
a buy-out. After KKR bought Beatrice in 1986, several of the
food company's larger pieces were sold to other LBO funds,
notes Lazard's Mr. Rattner.
   ---
         Cashing Out: LBO Resales Are On the Rise
                                                                                                       

                                  BUY-OUT
   COMPANY NAME    BUY-OUT FIRM   DATE        OUTCOME
                                                                                                       

   Safeway Stores   KKR           1986    10% stake sold to
                                          public April 1990
                                                                                                       

   Stanadyne        Forstmann     1988    Renamed Moen; sale
                    Little                to american Brands
                                          announced in July
                                          1990
                                                                                                       

   Motel 6          KKR           1985    Sale to French
                                          hotel chain
                                          announced in July
                                          1990
                                                                                                       

   Beatrice         KKR           1986    Broken up; sale of
                                          last piece to
                                          ConAgra announced
                                          in June
                                                                                                       

   First Brands     First Boston, 1986    Sold 20% to public
                    Met Life              in December 1989;
                                          entire company put
                                          up for sale in
                                          June
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CSX EUROP OXY J.THV G.DAI BAC FNB IBM KUB I.CIT R.OKB
TOYOY J.UDN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   CSX Corp. -- $250 million of 9 1/2% notes, due Aug. 1,
2000, was priced at 99.62 to yield 9.56%. The noncallable
notes were priced at a spread of 1.08 percentage points above
the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated single-A-3 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and triple-B-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
First Boston Corp.
   Occidental Petroleum Corp. -- $150 million of senior
notes, due Aug. 1, 2010, was priced late Wednesday at par to
yield 11.125%. The notes, which were issued off the company's
medium-term note shelf registration, were priced at a spread
of 2.55 percentage points above the Treasury's 10-year note.
Rated Baa-2 by Moody's and triple-B-minus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities
Corp.
   BankAmerica Corp. -- $125 million of 10-year subordinated
notes due Aug. 1, 2000, was priced with a coupon of 9.70% at
99.502 to yield 9.779%. The noncallable notes were priced at
a spread of 1.30 percentage points above the Treasury's
10-year note. Rated single-A-3 by Moody's and single-A-minus
by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $61 million of
special act school districts revenue bonds, due July 1,
1993-2003, 2013 and 2015, with capital appreciation bonds,
due 2004-2009, were priced by a Lazard Freres &amp; Co. group.
The bonds are priced to yield from 6.10% in 1993 to 7.17% in
2013. Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from
6.10% in 1993 to 6.95% in 2003. Term bonds due in 2013 are
priced with a coupon of 7% at 98 1/8 to yield 7.17%. Term
bonds due in 2015, are priced with a coupon of 6% at 87 1/4
to yield 7.10%. Capital appreciation bonds are priced to
yield to maturity from 7.00% in 2004 to 7.05% in 2006-2009.
The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                        ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   FCC National Bank -- $700 million of securities backed by
credit-card receivables with a coupon rate of 8 7/8% and a
yield of 8.907% through Salomon Brothers Inc. The offering,
through a special trust called First Chicago Master Trust II,
was priced at a spread of 0.695 percentage point over
three-year Treasury notes. The amount was increased from the
expected $500 million. Expected final maturity is Feb. 15,
1994. Stated final maturity is June 15, 1995. The securities
are expected to be rated triple-A by S&amp;P and Moody's based on
the quality of the underlying credit-card loans and a letter
of credit from Industrial Bank of Japan covering 12% of the
offering. FCC National Bank, a unit of First Chicago Corp. is
the seller and servicer of the underlying credit-card loans.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Toyo Sash Co. (Japan) -- $150 million of bonds with
equity-purchase warrants due Aug. 16, 1994, priced with a 4
3/4% coupon at par. Each $10,000 bond carries two warrants,
exercisable from Aug. 30, 1990, through Aug. 2, 1994, to buy
company shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the
closing share price when terms are fixed Thursday. Also $150
million of bonds with equity-purchase warrants due Aug. 19,
1997, priced with a 5 1/2% coupon at par. Each $10,000 bond
carries two warrants, exercisable from Aug. 30, 1990, through
Aug. 5, 1997, to buy company shares at an expected premium of
2 1/2% to the closing share price when terms are fixed
Thursday.
   Nationwide Anglia Building Society (United Kingdom) -- 300
million marks ($184.7 million) of floating-rate notes at
six-month London interbank offered rate plus 1/32, priced at
100.20 and due Aug. 28, 1995, via Westdeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale. First Libor fixing Aug. 23.
   IBM International Finance NV (U.S. parent) -- One billion
French francs ($183.8 million) of 10% bonds due Aug. 29,
1997, priced at 101 7/8 to yield 10% via BNP Capital Markets
Ltd. Support agreement from IBM World Trade Corp.
   Credito Italiano, Cayman Islands (Italian parent) -- $150
million of variable-rate depository receipts due in August
2000, through the Law Debenture Trust Corp. via Merrill Lynch
International Ltd. Initial coupon 3/16 point above the
three-month Libor. Alternatively, coupon will float 1/2 point
above Libor for the first five years and at a margin of 5/8
point thereafter. Sinking fund beginning in the fifth year
that will retire 20% of the issue each year, giving it an
average life of eight years.
   Osterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OKB) -- 150 million
Canadian dollars (US$130.1 million) of 11 3/4% bonds due Aug.
21, 1995, priced at 101 1/8 to yield 11.96% less fees via
Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Ltd. Guaranteed by the Republic
of Austria. Fees 1 7/8.
   Daimler Benz International Finance B.V. (West German
parent) -- 200 million marks of bonds due Aug. 29, 2000,
priced at 100.80, via Deutsche Bank. Coupon for first three
years is 9 1/2%. The coupon for final seven years is 15 1/8%
less the six-month Libor. Guaranteed by Daimler Benz AG in
Stuttgart.
   Kubota Ltd. (Japan) -- 150 million Swiss francs ($108.8
million) of 7 1/2% privately placed notes due Aug. 9, 1995,
priced at 99 5/8 via Swiss Bank Corp.
   Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (Japanese parent) -- 125 million
Canadian dollars of 11 7/8% bonds due Aug. 24, 1995, at an
issue price of 101 1/4 and fixed reoffering price of 99 5/8
via Wood Gundy Inc.
   Landesbank Rheinland-Pfalz (West Germany) -- 100 million
Swiss francs of 7% privately placed notes due Aug. 21, 1995,
priced at 101 1/4 via Union Bank of Switzerland.
   Yuken Kogyo Co. (Japan) -- $60 million of bonds due Aug.
9, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with a 5 1/8% coupon
at par via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Guaranteed by International Bank
of Japan. Each $5,000 bond carries one warrant, exercisable
from Aug. 23, 1990, through July 26, 1994, to buy company
shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing share
price when terms are fixed Tuesday.
   Uniden 21 Corp. (Japan) -- 55 million Swiss francs of
privately placed convertible notes due Sept. 30, 1995, with a
fixed 5% coupon at par via Union Bank of Switzerland.
Callable after three years at 104 declining by one point
semiannually. Each 50,000 Swiss franc note convertible from
Sept. 5, 1990, to Sept. 13, 1995. Conversion terms fixed
Thursday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Drexel Official Ackerman Is Said
   To Be Subject of a Stock-Price Inquiry
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Peter Ackerman, a former high-ranking Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. official, has become the subject of a new
government inquiry into possible stock-price manipulation,
according to individuals familiar with the investigation.
   Although Drexel is now under the supervision of a federal
Bankruptcy Court, the government continues to study possible
wrongdoing among ex-lieutenants to former Drexel junk-bond
chief Michael Milken, who awaits sentencing after pleading
guilty to securities-law violations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investigation of Mr. Ackerman relates to possible
manipulation of the price of Brintec Corp. common for the
benefit of a Drexel employee partnership in April 1986.
   According to individuals familiar with the matter, former
Drexel trader Peter Gardiner linked Mr. Ackerman, once the
top deputy of Michael Milken, to the alleged price
manipulation. As Drexel's most powerful corporate finance
official, Mr. Ackerman was one of the securities firm's top
earners; former Drexel insiders say his compensation package
for 1988 totaled more than $45 million.
   Individuals familiar with the investigation emphasized
that it is still in the early stages and that no "target
letter" has been issued indicating that Mr. Ackerman is
likely to be indicted. Mr. Ackerman's lawyer, Paul Grand,
said, "This does not amount to anything more than unfounded
rumors and gossip, and I don't comment on rumors and gossip."
Mr. Ackerman, who now lives in London, couldn't be reached.
   Mr. Gardiner, who traded convertible bonds, is said to
have told the government that Mr. Ackerman engineered a
run-up in the price of Brintec common stock prior to the
offering of 1,350,000 shares by certain Brintec shareholders
in April 1986. Drexel helped to underwrite that offering, and
Moredon Partners Ltd., a Drexel-sponsored partnership that
owned 13.3% of Brintec's shares before the offering, was the
largest seller.
   Mr. Gardiner is said to have alleged that Mr. Ackerman
directed him to arrange to have at least one Drexel client
purchase large chunks of Brintec's shares in the days before
the secondary offering in order to boost Brintec's stock
price at the time of the offering.
   Brintec, a Willimantic, Conn., maker of electronic cables,
was acquired last year by BICC PLC, a British cable concern,
for $14.75 a share, or $177 million. Moredon is understood to
have sold its remaining 10% stake in connection with that
offer.
   Brintec, whose stock was sold on the over-the-counter
market, had traded as low as $14.50 in the weeks prior to the
offering. But several days before the offering was set to
occur, the price shot up to $20 a share, and the offering was
priced at $19.50. Brintec's share price began to tumble back
to the earlier level in the days following the offering.
   Mr. Gardiner is understood to have made his allegations in
a so-called proffer to the government. A proffer is an
offering of information that an individual makes when the
government is considering a grant of immunity or a
plea-bargain agreement. Prosecutors are understood to be
negotiating a deal with Mr. Gardiner's attorneys that would
give Mr. Gardiner immunity from prosecution in exchange for
his testimony. That deal is expected to be completed soon,
individuals familiar with the negotiations said.
   Mr. Gardiner left Drexel in 1987 and is now a doctoral
student in political science at Columbia University. The
Justice Department had given prosecutors approval to bring
racketeering charges against him earlier this year, according
to people familiar with the investigation. His attorney,
Henry W. Asbill, didn't return phone calls seeking comment
yesterday.
   According to a prospectus for the stock offering, Moredon
Partners consisted of "two general partners and limited
partners consisting of an officer, certain other employees
and two former employees" of Drexel. Mr. Ackerman was one of
the partners, according to individuals familiar with the
government's inquiry.
   Moredon owned a total of 1.6 million shares of Brintec
prior to the offering and had an agreement to sell 215,292 in
connection with the offering. Moredon was also granted an
overallotment option to sell 202,500 additional shares. That
option was exercised, resulting in the sale by Moredon of
417,792 shares. Moredon is understood to have purchased the
shares at prices substantially below $19.50.
   The stock offering was accompanied by a concurrent
offering of $50 million of convertible debentures, which
Drexel underwrote. The higher stock price allowed for a
higher conversion price.
   Mr. Ackerman, now 43 years old, was until earlier this
year director of international capital market services at
Drexel, which made him responsible for developing the firm's
global junk-bond sales effort and international investment
banking activities.
   Mr. Ackerman started at Drexel in 1973 and was invited by
Mr. Milken in 1978 to join Drexel's junk-bond headquarters,
which eventually moved to Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Mr. Ackerman worked closely with Mr. Milken and other
junk-bond traders and salesmen in Beverly Hills, as well as
with Drexel's corporate finance department. One of Drexel's
top business-getters, Mr. Ackerman played a key role in
structuring the various junk-bond financings that were sold
by Mr. Milken and his assistants.
   Last September, Mr. Ackerman moved to London, where the
company said at the time that he would investigate business
opportunities for Drexel in Europe. But Mr. Ackerman -- who
has a Ph.D. in international politics -- has spent much of
his time there co-authoring a book on nonviolent political
resistance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norwest to Acquire
   Bank in Colorado
   For $420 Million
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   NOB UBKS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Norwest Corp. definitively agreed to acquire United Banks
of Colorado Inc. in a stock swap that, based on yesterday's
closing prices, values the Denver concern at about $23.79 a
share, or $420 million.
   The planned acquisition will provide expansion-minded
Norwest, a Minneapolis bank holding company, with its first
entry into the Colorado banking market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Norwest wants to exploit its marketing muscle in the
state, which opens to nationwide interstate banking in
January. The lowering of those barriers, Norwest said,
"offers many opportunities," which "will continue to increase
as the Colorado economy gains strength."
   Still, the bank it is acquiring is saddled with
significant problem loans, and the price being offered
represents a discount to what stronger regional banks bring.
   Under terms proposed, United Banks holders will receive
1.22 Norwest common shares in exchange for each of their
common shares. The total value of the proposed deal includes
United Banks warrants convertible into 1.6 million shares, as
well as $30 million in cash payments for United's preferred
stock outstanding.
   To add Colorado's largest commercial banking concern to
its stable of companies, Norwest will thus issue about 20
million new shares, representing a 16.3% stake.
   Norwest has assets of $26.8 billion; United Banks' assets
total $6.27 billion.
   United Banks, like its competitors in the state, has been
hurt by the downturn in the energy sector, and the subsequent
erosion of the region's real-estate market.
   Yesterday's merger announcement didn't come as a big
surprise: United Banks disclosed in April that it was holding
discussions with various out-of-state banks, including
Norwest. Earlier this month Norwest and the Denver concern
disclosed they were in formal talks over a possible
acquisition.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, United
Banks shares climbed $1.375 to close at $21.125. Norwest
shares slipped 87.5 cents in composite New York Stock
Exchange trading, to $19.50.
   The agreement is subject to approval both by regulators
and United Banks shareholders.
   Also, United Banks posted second-quarter results, which
included a special $95 million provision to cover loan losses
and write-down of some real estate holdings. The move gave it
a loss of $89.7 million, or $5.86 a share, for the latest
period.
   That trimmed its book value, or shareholder equity, to
$20.51 a share. The indicated $23.79-a-share the agreement
calls for represents only a modest premium to that; healthy
regional banks usually bring two times book value or more.
   United Banks' housecleaning isn't over yet. "Pursuant to
the merger agreement," it said yesterday, it expects to make
further provisions of up to another $95 million, which would
include merger-related expenses, in order to align United
"more closely with Norwest's accounting and credit
standards."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Yamaichi Securities Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.YMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   YAMAICHI SECURITIES Co. (Tokyo) -- Yamaichi International
(America) Inc. named Genji Sugiyama chief executive officer.
Mr. Sugiyama, currently president of this U.S. subsidiary of
Yamaichi Securities, a financial services firm, succeeds
Shoji Hattori, who returned to Tokyo as senior managing
director of Taiheiyo Securities Co. Scott E. Pardee,
previously co-chairman of the U.S. arm, will serve as sole
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Tobacco warnings Don't Pre-Empt Claims, Court Rules
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny and Alix M. Freedman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB BTI RJR
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the first sign of hope for tobacco liability
plaintiffs, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled yesterday that
warnings on cigarette packages don't protect tobacco makers
from product liability lawsuits.
   The decision, which was hailed by smoking foes and
plaintiffs' attorneys, opens the door for a review of the
issue by the U.S. Supreme Court. It also marks a sharp break
from previous circuit court rulings. In recent years, five
federal courts and the Minnesota Supreme Court have ruled
that the 1966 federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act
-- which requires warning labels on cigarette packs and in
cigarette advertisements -- protects the tobacco companies
from liability.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is precedent setting," says Marc Edell, the
plaintiff's attorney, who also represented Antonio Cipollone
in another landmark tobacco case last year. "This is the
first time a state supreme court has held that cigarette
warnings don't preclude plaintiffs from suing manufacturers."
   Yesterday's decision stems from a lawsuit filed by Claire
Dewey against Brown &amp; Williamson Tobacco Corp., American
Brands Inc. and RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. in 1982. Her husband,
Wilfred Dewey, died of lung cancer at age 49, after smoking
Camels, Tareytons and Viceroys for 40 years. The New Jersey
Supreme Court ruling allows Mrs. Dewey to proceed with the
product liability case.
   In the 59-page opinion, a majority of the judges found
that Congress didn't intend to "immunize" cigarette
manufacturers against suits alleging that they had failed to
warn consumers of the risks of smoking. If that had been the
intent, Congress "knew how to do so with unmistakable
specificity," the judges said.
   Tobacco analysts played down the significance of the case,
noting that the decision has no immediate financial
implications because Mrs. Dewey has yet to win her case.
Nonetheless, tobacco stocks were buffeted yesterday. In
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, American
Brands closed at $66.25 a share, down $3.625, and Philip
Morris Cos. finished at $47.25 a share, down $1.75. American
depositary receipts of B.A.T Industries, the parent of Brown
&amp; Williamson, fell 12.5 cents, to $10.875 a share, in
American Stock Exchange composite trading. RJ Reynolds is
privately held.
   "This is a psychological negative," said Diana Temple, an
analyst at Salomon Bros. "But it's only one negative decision
in an overwhelmingly positive flow of liability decisions."
Fifty-three cases are pending against the industry, down from
a peak of 157 in 1986.
   Longer term, however, the implications could prove
significant. Two of the three tobacco companies named in the
Dewey suit -- Brown &amp; Williamson and RJ Reynolds -- indicated
they will consider appealing the decision to the U.S. Supreme
Court. Some legal experts said the high court would be likely
to accept the case.
   Even if the tobacco companies accept the Dewey decision,
there are six cases pending in New Jersey or federal court
that would potentially allow plaintiffs to bring the matter
before the Supreme Court.
   A high court ruling against the tobacco industry would
certainly trigger a flood of new tobacco liability suits,
according to some experts. "If the conflict is resolved
against the tobacco industry, this will be very serious,"
predicted Calvert Crary, managing director of Labe Simpson &amp;
Co. in New York. "The plaintiffs will win these kinds of
cases all day long."
   For their part, attorneys who represent the tobacco
industry conceded that the justices in the Dewey case had
departed radically from previous rulings. But Martin London,
an attorney for Brown &amp; Williamson, summed up the prevailing
sentiment, describing the case as "aberrant." He said the
case isn't precedent setting because federal courts have so
consistently found that the federal warning law protects
tobacco companies.
   "This isn't a chink in the industry's armour because of
its relatively limited applicability," added David Kentoff,
an attorney at the Washington, D.C.-based firm of Arnold &amp;
Porter, which represents Philip Morris. "The decision only
applies to cases brought in state courts in New Jersey."
   In another positive development for tobacco plaintiffs,
the New Jersey justices also held that cases filed before
1987 aren't affected by a state law that makes it more
difficult to file cigarette liability suits. The law shields
tobacco manufacturers from claims that cigarettes are
"defective" products because of their health hazards.
   For smoking critics, the Dewey case is especially welcome
because it comes at a time when tobacco plaintiffs have
suffered a series of crushing defeats. Earlier this year, a
Minnesota court dismissed a similar case against RJ Reynolds,
ruling that the 1966 labeling act preempted claims that
cigarette makers had failed to adequately warn smokers of
health hazards.
   In 1988, a New Jersey jury awarded $400,000 to Mr.
Cipollone, whose wife had died of lung cancer, in the first
defeat for the tobacco industry, but the verdict was later
thrown out by a federal appeals court in Philadelphia.
   "We've been watching one court after another come out with
the wrong decision," said Richard Daynard, chairman of the
tobacco products liability project at Northeastern
University, an anti-smoking activist group. "This is an 11th
hour reprieve for tobacco liability plaintiffs."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Bill to Regulate
   Basic Cable Rate
   Cleared by Panel
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Energy and Commerce Committee
voted to reimpose rate regulation on basic cable-television
service.
   The measure, which also contains provisions that would
benefit fledgling competitors of cable, passed on a voice
vote with no dissent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The impetus for such a measure has been sizable increases
in monthly cable fees since rates were largely deregulated 3
1/2 years ago. In some cases, rates have doubled or tripled,
although increases have been moderating in recent months.
   The National Cable Television Association said it was
"very troubled by the bill and does not support it." Among
other things, NCTA President James Mooney cited the bill's
"preoccupation with holding rates down." Still, the prospect
of cable legislation passing both houses this year has
improved, especially now that telephone companies essentially
have lost their bid to enter the cable business this year.
   The bill calls for the Federal Communications Commission
to establish a maximum fee that cable operators could charge
for a basic tier of cable service consisting of broadcast
signals carried by cable companies and public education and
government channels.
   Fees for other channels carried by cable would be
regulated on a case-by-case basis when authorities suspect
price gouging. The FCC would develop criteria to identify
abusive or unreasonable rates, and states or local cable
franchising authorities would alert the FCC about rate
increases that appeared unreasonable or abusive. Under the
bill, the FCC could review and roll back the recent flurry of
cable rate increases and "re-tiering" -- repacking channels
in a way to boost revenues.
   In a major step to help emerging competitors to cable,
such as so-called wireless cable and direct broadcast
satellite, the legislation calls for cable programmers that
are owned wholly or in part by cable operators to sell
programming to cable competitors. Specifically, it bars
programmers with ties to cable operators from unreasonably
refusing to sell programming to cable competitors, although
it recognizes exclusive arrangements that don't hurt
competition as a legitimate business strategy.
   The measure also would require the FCC to develop
customer-service standards that would be monitored by local
authorities.
   Cable interests were buoyed when a long-shot effort by
telephone companies to drum up votes to allow them into the
cable business flopped, pushing the issue back at least until
next year. "After all the smoke and noise," Mr. Mooney said,
"telco-TV didn't have the votes." Phone companies argue that
they must be permitted to provide video entertainment
services to pay for the additional expenses of updating their
networks with optical fiber.
   Also yesterday, the FCC released a summary of its
long-awaited report to Congress on the cable industry. It
recommended a series of steps to encourage competitors, but
said it didn't endorse reregulation of rates or service. The
FCC didn't address the matter of allowing phone companies
into the cable business but is handling that issue in a
separate proceeding.
   The report isn't likely to have a huge impact on Capitol
Hill. The essence of some of the key recommendations is
already contained in the legislation that has passed both the
Senate and House Commerce panels. An example is requiring
vertically integrated cable companies to sell programming to
competitors but recognizing exclusive arrangements as a sound
business strategy. Besides, major amendments on the floor,
especially efforts to ditch rate reregulation, could torpedo
the whole effort.
   In the 10-page summary, the commission recommended that
Congress bar local franchising authorities from unreasonably
keeping out new cable competitors. It also said that Congress
should limit local governments' regulation of the
installation of multi-channel video reception equipment to
"clearly defined health, safety or reasonable aesthetic
objectives."
   It also recommended must-carry provisions requiring cable
companies to carry local broadcasters, and restricting
changes in channel assignments so that cable operators
couldn't bounce around broadcast stations on the dial.
   Gene Kimmelman, legislative director of the Consumer
Federation of America, predicted the FCC report would have
little influence on current legislation. He applauded the
House committee's bill, saying he was particularly pleased
with language that strengthens consumer protections over
repackaging cable service, specific regulation over
remote-control devices and converter boxes, and an expanded
provision directing the FCC to look for backdoor rate
increases.
   Some lawmakers, however, are concerned that both the House
and Senate legislation include too few consumer protections
and generally do little to help competitors, serving mostly
to entrench cable as a monopoly. Rep. Jim Cooper (D., Tenn.),
a strong critic of the reregulation effort, said "I hope we
are able to have future cable bills -- beginning next year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   HE OC
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES Inc. (Honolulu) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it downgraded its ratings on this
utility holding company's medium-term notes to single-A-3
from single-A-1, and on commercial paper to prime-2 from
prime-1. The rating concern said about $115 million of
securities are affected. Moody's said it believes that the
debt quality of Hawaiian Electric's non-utility subsidiaries
"is sufficiently below that of the utility to justify
assignment of the single-A-3 rating." The utility's senior
secured debt remains rated single-A-1. Hawaiian Electric
Industries is the parent of Hawaiian Electric Co., American
Savings Bank, Hawaiian Insurance &amp; Guaranty Co., and Hawaiian
Tug &amp; Barge Corp. Moody's downgraded its ratings on
securities of the utility subsidiary in December.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ORION CAPITAL Corp. (New York) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
said it raised its ratings on the company's subordinated debt
to double-B-minus from single-B-plus and preferred stock to
single-B-plus from single-B. The change affects about $175
million of debt and $88 million of preferred stock, S&amp;P said.
Orion Capital is a property and casualty insurance holding
company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eli Lilly Stock Plunges $4.375 on News
   Of Another Lawsuit Over Prozac Drug
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Another lawsuit against Eli Lilly &amp; Co. charging that its
new antidepressant drug Prozac causes destructive side
effects helped trigger a sell-off in Lilly's stock.
   The lawsuit, filed in state court in Jefferson County,
Ky., seeks $150 million in punitive damages from the
Indianapolis-based drug maker on behalf of the widows of
three victims in a September 1989 mass shooting by a Prozac
user in a Louisville, Ky., printing plant. The suit was the
second of its kind in recent weeks charging that Prozac
causes patients to engage in violent or self-destructive
behavior.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lilly declined to comment on the suit, saying it never
comments on pending litigation. Edward West, a Lilly
spokesman, however, said the gunman in the mass shooting, who
committed suicide after killing seven people and injuring
about 20 others, had a history of homicidal threats and
suicide attempts before he began taking Prozac. "It wouldn't
appear that Prozac caused this behavior," Mr. West said.
   Nevertheless, nervousness over reports of the lawsuit on
the Professional Investor Report newswire, coupled with a
renewed attack on Prozac by an affiliate of the Church of
Scientology, triggered a wave of selling and a trading halt
in Lilly shares on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
Lilly common closed at $79.625, down $4.375, on volume of
about 1.6 million shares.
   The market reaction arose partly from Prozac's enormous
recent buildup. The drug has been heavily publicized as a
safe, easy-to-use treatment for depression, and some doctors
have been overzealous in prescribing it. Prozac promises to
become a $1 billion product by next year, making it the
best-selling drug for depression. Eli Lilly cited its rapid
growth in reporting a 26% second-quarter profit increase
earlier this month.
   The sudden attention to side effects caused "some nervous
profit-taking" in the stock, said Craig Baskin, an analyst
with Duff &amp; Phelps in Chicago, who said he is still bullish
on Lilly. "This is an idiot-proof drug," easy to prescribe
and use, he said. "It's a great drug. It works for a lot of
people" for whom other kinds of antidepressants aren't
effective."
   In the latest suit, the widows of three of the people
killed in the Sept. 14, 1989, Louiville shootings assert that
Lilly "should have known that Prozac was dangerous and unsafe
for use by members of the general public" and caused "intense
agitation and medically induced preoccupation with suicide."
An autopsy report on the gunman, Joseph Wesbecker, showed
therapeutic levels, or dosages appropriate for medical use,
of Prozac in his blood, B. Hume Morris, attorney for the
widows, said.
   Lilly was sued earlier this month by a New York woman, who
charged that Prozac caused her to commit acts of
self-destruction and to make attempts at suicide. The suit,
filed in state court in Suffolk County, New York, seeks $150
million in damages.
   Separately, the Citizens Commission on Human Rights, a Los
Angeles-based affiliate of the Church of Scientiology,
renewed its attack on Prozac. In a news release, the group
said it had written to Rep. John Dingell, chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, asking for a recall of
the drug.
   In Washington, a spokesman for Rep. Dingell, a Michigan
Democrat, said he wasn't aware of any letter from the group,
adding that the committee isn't examining the Prozac issue.
   A Lilly spokesman, noting that the Church of Scientology
"has a long and well-documented history of criticizing
psychiatric medicine," said the company "sees no useful
purpose in engaging in any dialogue" regarding the group's
views.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Knogo Plans Stock Repurchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   KNO
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. -- Knogo Corp. said it plans to repurchase
as much as $1 million of its common shares in open market
transactions.
   At May 31, the maker of retail anti-theft systems, had 5.3
million shares outstanding. The company said the current
stock price doesn't reflect its "prospects and represents an
excellent long-term investment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Data General Loss
   Exceeds Forecast
   For 3rd Quarter
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   DGN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTBORO, Mass. -- Data General Corp. reported a loss of
$21.4 million, or 71 cents a share, in its third quarter
ended June 30. The loss was far bigger than analysts had
expected, though it shrank slightly from the year-ago
deficit.
   Revenue declined 1.2% to $302.4 million from $306.1
million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, the computer maker reported a loss of
$23.1 million, or 79 cents a share, after a $6.3 million gain
from the sale of a facility in Sunnyvale, Calif.
   Data General reversed an earlier prediction that it might
break even or turn in a profit in the fourth quarter. "Given
the softer demand we are seeing in the continued sluggish
market for proprietary computer systems within the computer
industry, breaking even is not likely in the fourth quarter,"
Data General said. The company declined to give an estimate
for the fourth quarter.
   In the year-ago fourth quarter, Data General had a loss of
$84.1 million, or $2.86 a share, after an $80 million
restructuring charge. Revenue was $357.1 million.
   Data General cited the sluggish proprietary computer
market and competitive pricing pressures industrywide as
reasons for the disappointing third-quarter results.
   "While we remain cautious with respect to the near term,
we are optimistic that demand will improve during subsequent
quarters," said Ronald L. Skates, Data General's president
and chief executive.
   Analysts said the results were in line with "just about
every other computer company." However, earnings were still
"significantly lower than expected," said John Adams, an
analyst at Adams, Harkness &amp; Hill Inc. in Boston.
   Recently, the company met with analysts to discuss its
outlook. However, "no indication at that time" was given of
the extent of the company's expected loss, said Jay P.
Stevens, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "I had a
25 cent (a share) loss estimate," said Mr. Stevens.
   Analysts blamed the company's woes on slower-than-expected
sales overseas and intense product discounting in the U.S.
   In the first nine months, Data General had a loss of $50.5
million, or $1.69 a share, on revenue of $907.9 million. In
the year-ago period, the company had a loss of $35.7 million,
or $1.22 a share, on revenue of $957.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Shares Drop 10.15 Points;
   Tobaccos Plunge on Court Ruling
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A late round of selling pushed stock prices
lower, with tobacco issues pacing the retreat as the market
reacted to an adverse court ruling.
   Many investors sat out the session, traders said, to await
a report due this morning on the economy's second-quarter
performance. As a result, trading was moderate and the
pattern of slowing activity since Monday's sharp downturn
remained intact.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the aftermath of that sell-off, "people are still
looking over their shoulders," said Richard Meyer, head of
institutional trading at Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co. He added:
"There are so many crosscurrents in the marketplace that
people can't seem to get a handle on where things are going."
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 10.15 points lower
at 2920.79 after bouncing off the 2900 level late in the
session. The recovery took place after the average tumbled
more than 30 points in about 20 minutes amid flurries of
futures-related program selling.
   Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 155,040,000
shares, down from 163,530,000 Wednesday. By comparison, Big
Board trading Monday amounted to 209 million shares.
   Declining issues topped advancers on the New York Stock
Exchange by 778 to 701 in the latest session. Among broader
market indexes, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index dropped
1.18 to 355.91, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index
fell 0.55 to 194.55 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
declined 1.05 to 330.19.
   A ruling by the New Jersey Supreme Court that warnings
placed on cigarette packs don't provide tobacco companies
with immunity from product-liability lawsuits -- a stance at
odds with previous federal rulings -- touched off a wave of
selling in tobacco stocks.
   Philip Morris fell 1 3/4 to 47 1/4 on Big Board composite
trading of 3.2 million shares, ranking second to Citicorp on
the list of most-active Big Board issues. Citicorp dropped
1/8 to 20 7/8 on more than five million shares, as
dividend-related trades swelled volume in the bank holding
company's stock.
   Among other tobacco issues, American Brands skidded 3 3/8
to 66 1/4 and Loews, the owner of Lorillard, dropped 2 1/4 to
105 1/2 on the Big Board. B.A.T Industries, the parent
company of Brown &amp; Williamson, went down 1/8 to 10 7/8 in
American Stock Exchange trading.
   Data on second-quarter gross national product are expected
to show that the economy expanded at a 1.8% annual rate,
about even with the first quarter's 1.9% rate, according to
the consensus of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report.
   "People are kind of holding back on doing anything," said
Joseph J. McAlinden, director of research at Dillon, Read &amp;
Co. "In part, people are waiting to see what the GNP number
looks like."
   Analysts also expect two GNP-based measures of inflation
to receive close scrutiny from the market, as inflation
worries have resurfaced lately amid speculation that the
Federal Reserve might be placing less of an emphasis on
keeping inflation under control.
   News that congressional budget negotiators have abandoned
any hope of forging a compromise deficit-reduction plan
before the August recess also received a cool response from
the market. In light of that setback, efforts to bring the
deficit under control are likely to produce "a grand failure,
rather than a grand compromise," said Robert S. Robbins, a
technical analyst and market strategist at Robinson-Humphrey,
Atlanta.
   Du Pont and Merck, the latest players in the
pharmaceutical industry to join forces, both moved higher in
the wake of their agreement. Du Pont rose 1 1/2 to 40 7/8 on
Big Board composite volume of 1.5 million shares, while Merck
gained 7/8 to 89 7/8; the companies will jointly own Du
Pont's entire drug business.
   Upjohn, rumored as another drug-industry merger candidate,
climbed 5/8 to 43 1/2 on 1.8 million shares. Other advancers
in the sector included Pfizer, up 7/8 to 74 1/8, and Syntex,
up 5/8 to 61 5/8.
   But Eli Lilly, whose anti-depressant drug Prozac has been
accused of inspiring suicidal thoughts in some of its users,
fell 4 3/8 to 79 5/8 on 1.7 million shares. The widows of
three men killed in September 1989 at a Kentucky printing
plant filed a wrongful-death suit against Lilly, charging
that the man who was responsible for the shootings was
undergoing treatment with Prozac at the time.
   Oil issues continued to lose ground after rallying
Tuesday. Exxon dropped 3/4 to 48 7/8, Chevron fell 3/4 to 77,
Texaco declined 1/2 to 61 3/4 and Mobil slipped 1 to 65;
within the oil field-services sector, Schlumberger fell 7/8
to 64 1/8 and Halliburton lost 3/4 to 52 1/2.
   PepsiCo climbed 1 3/8 to 79 3/4. The company declared a
3-for-1 stock split.
   On the earnings front, Compaq Computer dropped 1 1/2 to 57
7/8 on 2.1 million shares. Although its second-quarter net
income went up 24% from a year ago and appeared to be in line
with analysts' projections, the company noted that its U.S.
sales rose just 2%.
   Bethlehem Steel, which reported a 74% decline in
second-quarter net, dropped 3/4 to 15 1/4. Goodyear Tire &amp;
Rubber declined 7/8 to 27 1/4; the company posted an
operating loss of $10 million for the quarter, compared with
a year-ago operating profit of $22.2 million.
   Imperial Chemical Industries retreated 4 1/4 to 74 3/4.
Pretax profit at the British company dropped 21% in the first
half from the year-earlier level; the latest results also
fell short of analysts' forecasts.
   Other targets of earnings-related selling included Data
General, which fell 1 to 7 7/8, and Raychem, which skidded 1
7/8 to 26 3/8. On the other hand, Black &amp; Decker advanced 7/8
to 15 7/8, Service Corp. International rose 1 to 19 1/8 and
Unum gained 1/2 to 53 1/2 after issuing their quarterly
reports.
   Panhandle Eastern finished unchanged at 17 7/8 on 2.3
million shares. The company cut its quarterly dividend by
60%, to 20 cents a share, after reporting a second-quarter
loss of $13.6 million.
   Penn Central gained 1 5/8 to 25 on 1.7 million shares. The
company disclosed plans to buy back as many as six million
shares, about 9.6% of its shares outstanding, for $26 each.
   Merrill Lynch lowered its investment ratings on Caesars
World, which lost 1 to 16 1/8, and Circus Circus Enterprises,
which fell 2 1/2 to 65 3/4. The firm also lowered fiscal 1990
and 1991 earnings projections on Caesars.
   Scott Paper rose 1 3/4 to 50 1/8 after Dean Witter
Reynolds began its coverage of the stock with a buy
recommendation. Analyst Evanda Lynn told Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report she views Scott as the "most
attractive paper industry investment at the current time."
   Eldon Industries, which said it is considering its
possible sale or merger along with other alternatives, added
1 5/8 to 17 7/8. The company also said it has hired a
financial adviser, which wasn't identified.
   MNC Financial slid 1 to 10. The company has tentatively
arranged for a capital infusion of at least $200 million from
an investor group, and J.P. Morgan is trying to put together
a $1 billion credit line.
   Norwest fell 7/8 to 19 1/2 after agreeing to acquire
United Banks of Colorado in a stock swap. The company will
exchange 1.22 common shares for each share of United Banks,
which rose 1 3/8 to 21 1/8 in over-the-counter trading.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index eased 0.62
to 356.33. Volume totaled 13,100,000 shares.
   Nichols Institute, the most-active issue in Amex trading,
gained 5/8 to 17 1/4 following the completion of an offering
of 1,770,000 common shares at $16.625 apiece.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Istituto Finanziario Industriale:
   Net Rose 52% in Fiscal 1990
   At Financial Holding Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   I.IFI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Istituto Finanziario Industriale, the key financial
holding company of the Agnelli family, announced it posted
net income of 166.9 billion lire ($140.3 million) in the
fiscal year ended March 31, up 52% from 110.1 billion lire a
year earlier.
   Milan-based IFI, which directly or indirectly owns about
45% of Fiat S.p.A., Italy's largest private-sector industrial
group, said fiscal 1990 earnings included a one-time gain of
51.8 billion lire from the sale of part of its holding in
Gruppo Editoriale Fabbri S.p.A. to Gruppo Rizzoli.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Without the one-time gain, earnings were up 4.5% from
fiscal 1989.
   Revenue was 150.6 billion lire, up 17% from the previous
year; financial charges fell to 8.3 billion lire in fiscal
1990 from 17.7 billion lire in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- National Power PLC:
   British Electricity Company
   Reports $1.09 Billion Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Power PLC reported a #605 million ($1.09 billion)
loss for the year ended March 31.
   The company is the larger of the two British electricity
generating companies getting ready for privatization. The
results were given as if National Power had been an
autonomous business throughout the year. The company was
created by the British government March 31 as part of a plan
for restructuring and selling the electricity supply
industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Power shares will be offered to the public in
February.
   In the year, National Power had operating profit of #456
million on sales of #4 billion. Year-earlier figures weren't
given.
   National Power said the loss for exceptional and
extraordinary items was #914 million, mainly in connection
with costs associated with a restructuring ahead of the sale
and the revaluation of the company's coal stocks.
   National Power also said 5,000 jobs will be cut over the
next five years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Microsoft Starts Effort to Catch Novell
   In Market for PC Networking Software
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Microsoft Corp., turning up the heat on competitors, is
planning a costly campaign to win a bigger piece of the
market for software that links personal computers.
   The campaign will cost an estimated $40 million in the
year that began July 1, but much of this cost will come out
of the company's plan to increase its work force in the
fiscal year to 8,000 from about 5,600. Analysts also expect
added revenue to cover part of the networking costs, so most
didn't revise earning estimates. Still, Microsoft's stock
fell $2.75 a share in over-the-counter trading yesterday to
$68.75.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Microsoft is best known for its DOS operating software,
which controls the basic functions of personal computers and
compatibles made by International Business Machines Corp. and
others. But the Redmond, Wash., company covets the market for
networking software, which it considers a "very logical"
extension of its core businesses, said Steve Ballmer,
Microsoft's senior vice president for system software.
   So far, however, Microsoft has offered weak products and
an ineffective and confusing sales effort, leaving Novell
Inc. to garner most of the software dollars spent on
networking PCs. Microsoft's most recent network offering, Lan
Manager, is widely considered to be underpowered. Sales also
were sluggish because Microsoft relied mainly on PC
manufacturers to sell the product.
   When it first began chasing the network business several
years ago, "Microsoft's view was that Lan Manager would take
over the world, that it would sell itself," said Eric A.
Benhamou, chief executive officer at 3Com Corp., which is
marketing Microsoft's networking products, in a recent
interview. "They thought it would be sold in a shrink-wrapped
box. You can't sell (networking) that way."
   Mr. Ballmer, conceding that past efforts have been
disappointing, vowed the company will win a bigger share of
the PC networking business.
   Microsoft's new version of Lan Manager, to be unveiled
Aug. 14 and shipped to customers later next month, is a
decided improvement over the earlier product and "it will put
performance issues to rest," Mr. Ballmer said. The company
also plans to hire about 300 networking sales and supporting
staff and sign up 600 resellers in the U.S. and 400 abroad to
peddle the product. It also plans to spend about $15 million
advertising Lan Manager over the next year.
   "You really get the sense they are serious about going
after Novell," said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co.
   Though endowed with great marketing clout because of the
sweep of its products, Microsoft faces stiff competition in
the area of network software. Provo, Utah-based Novell
dominates the market with its Netware family of software and
in recent months has been expanding its traditional base of
resellers to include computer manufacturers, who agree to
bundle Novell's software with their hardware.
   "Novell is entrenched," said Richard Edwards, an analyst
at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co. Novell, which had revenue of
$421.8 million in its year ended Oct. 28, is generally
considered to hold about 70% of the market for PC networking
software.
   Because it makes only networking software, Novell believes
it holds a technical edge on Microsoft. "Netware is two years
ahead of Lan Manager," said Darrel Miller, an executive vice
president at Novell.
   Mr. Ballmer disagrees but conceded that with the new Lan
Manager, "I can't say we blow them away."
   Still, on the heels of the Microsoft announcement, Novell
shares fell to $47.875, down $1.375, in over-the-counter
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Norsk Hydro AS:
   Pretax Profit Declined 19%
   In First Half of the Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NHY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Norsk Hydro AS, a Norwegian energy, agricultural products
and metals concern, said pretax profit fell 19% in the first
six months of the year as earnings at its aluminum and
magnesium operations fell sharply.
   Pretax profit for the period dropped to 2.57 billion
kroner ($410 million) from 3.19 billion kroner a year
earlier. After a particularly soft first quarter, pretax
profit in the second quarter declined a slight 1.4% to 948
million kroner from 961 million kroner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after taxes and minority interests, or net income
attributable to shareholders, fell 25% to 1.27 billion kroner
from 1.70 billion kroner. Earnings per share dropped to 6.20
kroner from 8.30 kroner.
   Sales totaled 30.4 billion kroner in the six months, down
about 10% from 33.6 billion kroner a year earlier. The
steepest declines were registered by the company's
agriculture, oil and gas and metals businesses, whose sales
suffered in both the first and second quarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- International Business Machines:
   Company to Reduce Staff
   At European Headquarters
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. said it plans to cut
staff at its European headquarters office, in a
reorganization that decentralizes management of its big
European operations.
   A spokesman for the Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant said
the company's European headquarters in Paris is transferring
direct control of key business segments to selected IBM
managers in West Germany, France, Britain and Italy.
Previously, the Paris headquarters supervised these business
segments, which are Europewide divisions for particular types
of products or customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an internal memo that IBM released yesterday, following
a Reuters news report from New York, IBM Europe President
David E. McKinney wrote that the reorganization will "lead to
a progressive reduction of the size of the European
headquarters." About 170 Paris positions are currently
involved in managing the reorganized business segments; some
of these positions will be transferred around Europe, but
others could be eliminated, the spokesman said. There won't
be any "major relocation of jobs" this year, however, Mr.
McKinney's memo said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atlantic Richfield Co.:
   Unit Sets a Joint Venture
   To Open Stores in Thailand
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The am/pm International subsidiary of Atlantic Richfield
Co. of Los Angeles said it signed a joint venture and
licensing agreement with a Thai investor group to open more
than 500 am/pm convenience stores in Thailand over the next
10 years.
   The new joint venture company, am/pm Thailand Ltd., will
be 80% owned by the investor group and 20% by am/pm
International. The investor group includes Bangkok
Metropolitan Bank, BanChang Ban Pala Group, and Richard Ellis
real estate of Thailand. Several Thai managers will be
trained by am/pm International in Los Angeles. The Thai
stores will feature Western-style fast food, as well as local
fast food such as noodles flavored with chicken, pork and
fishballs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, am/pm International signed similar agreements
for convenience stores in Canada, Spain, Portugal, Japan and
Taiwan. There are more than 720 am/pm mini-markets in the
U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mellon Bank Corp.:
   Branch Banks to Be Opened
   In 21 Stores of Giant Eagle
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   MEL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mellon Bank Corp., a Pittsburgh-based bank holding
company, said it will open full-service branch banks in 21
Giant Eagle Inc. supermarkets in western Pennsylvania.
   The first of the new branches will open in October, and
all are to be in operation by mid-1992, Mellon said. The
branches will operate during evening hours and weekends.
Giant Eagle, also based in Pittsburgh, is a supermarket chain
that owns 53 stores and franchises 70.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mellon already has automated teller machines in 65 of the
78 Giant Eagle stores in Pennsylvania. These ATMs will
continue to operate, Mellon said.
   Mellon has assets totaling $31.7 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Asahi Glass Co.:
   Pretax Profit Gained 2.3%
   To a Record in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   J.AHG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asahi Glass Co. said pretax profit in the first half rose
2.3% to a record 40.14 billion yen ($267.6 million).
   The Japanese chemical and glass maker had profit of 39.23
billion yen in the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 12% to a record 487.68 billion yen from 437.04
billion yen. Net income also grew to a record, at 21.84
billion yen, or 18.74 yen a share, up 3.9% from 21.02 billion
yen, or 18.08 yen a share. The company plans to pay an
unchanged dividend of 4.5 yen a share.
   Sales of glass and construction materials, accounting for
51.6% of total sales, gained 13% to 251.81 billion yen. Sales
of fabricated glass had strong gains, reflecting domestic
automobile sales, which more than compensated for a decline
in auto exports, officials said.
   Sales of chemicals, accounting for 36.2% of overall sales,
gained 6.8% to 176.4 billion yen.
   Earnings were damped by higher labor and transportation
costs, a spokesman said. Higher raw materials costs, largely
reflecting the yen's weakness in the first quarter, also hurt
profit, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Endesa:
   Consolidated Earnings Rise
   For First 6 Months of 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   ELE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Endesa, a Spanish electric utility, said it had
consolidated earnings for the first half ended June 30 of
149.44 pesetas a share, or about $1.46 per American
Depositary Receipt (ADR).
   For the first six months last year, Endesa reported
consolidated earnings of 135.80 pesetas a share, or about
$1.32 an ADR.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Endesa said net income for the 1990 six months was 38.86
billion pesetas, or about $379.3 million, compared with 35.31
billion pesetas, or about $344.7 million, in 1989.
   Consolidated revenue for the first half was 282.87 billion
pesetas, or $2.76 billion, up from 268.25 billion pesetas, or
$2.62 billion.
   Endesa said it reduced debt during the period by about
2.2% of total outstanding debt. Capital expenditures were
about 27.27 billion pesetas, or $266.18 million, down from
27.91 billion pesetas, or about $272.45 million in the 1989
first half.
   The company said pesetas were converted to dollars at a
rate of $1 equals 102.45 pesetas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bank of East Asia Ltd.:
   Hong Kong Bank Says Net
   Gained 15% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   H.BEA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bank of East Asia Ltd. said consolidated profit rose 15%
in the year's first six months.
   The Hong Kong bank said consolidated profit, after
undisclosed transfers to inner reserves, rose to 104 million
Hong Kong dollars (US$13.4 million), or 38 cents a share,
from HK$90 million, or 33 cents a share, a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The board proposed raising the per-share interim dividend
to 25 cents from 21 cents.
   Keith Wu, research manager at Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers
Hong Kong Ltd., said the performance was surprisingly strong,
considering the weakness of the local economy in the period.
But he cautioned that the figures are difficult to interpret
because of local banks' ability to move cash to and from
secret reserves.
   Mr. Wu called the dividend "very generous," adding that he
expects the full-year payout to total around 75 cents a
share. He said he is still forecasting the bank's full-year
profit at HK$388 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Ferruzzi Units
   Set Board Sessions
   To Convene Today
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MNT I.FAF I.FER I.ERI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Montedison S.p.A. and Ferruzzi Agricola
Finanziaria S.p.A., two companies controlled by Italian
agricultural-industrial group Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p.A.,
both scheduled separate board meetings for today.
   Although there was no indication given about what might be
discussed at the meetings, and a Ferruzzi spokesman declined
to discuss the agenda, it has been rumored in recent months
that Ferruzzi Agricola, which owns 45% of Montedison, was
considering a merger with the chemical group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Italian securities regulators yesterday morning suspended
trading in all key issues of the Ferruzzi group, including
Montedison, on the Milan stock market pending an important
announcement. Trading in Montedison was suspended on the New
York Stock Exchange as well.
   The Ferruzzi spokesman said the company had requested that
the Italian securities regulatory agency "take measures to
protect the interests of the market" after Ferruzzi had
learned that "rumors" about any possible decisions by the
boards of Montedison and Ferruzzi Agricola "had reached some
news agencies." The spokesman declined to elaborate.
   Analysts speculated that Ferruzzi Agricola might announce
a public tender offer for the 51.3% of Montedison it doesn't
already own. Ferruzzi Agricola could finance this bid in cash
with the proceeds from the sale, earlier this year, of La
Fondiaria Assicurazioni S.p.A. to Gaic S.p.A., one analyst
with a securities house in London speculated.
   A tender offer to be paid in Ferruzzi Agricola stock isn't
likely, he said, because that would dilute Ferruzzi
Finanziaria shareholding to less than 50%.
   Such a restructuring would turn Montedison into the key
industrial holding company of the Ferruzzi group. It would
then own majority stakes in Eridania, which heads the group's
agro-industrial sector, and its chemical interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Vehicle Exports Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's exports of cars, trucks and buses
declined 5.2% in the first half of 1990, the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers' Association said.
   A total of 2.9 million units were exported in the latest
six months, compared with 3.06 million units a year earlier.
However, the latest period's result was up 2.7% from the 1989
second half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The association also said that in June alone, 11 Japanese
auto makers exported a total of 490,506 units, a 4.1% annual
rise.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Campeau Corp.:
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
   Approves Program for Allied
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal bankruptcy judge in Cincinnati approved an
asset-backed commercial-paper program for Allied Stores
Corp., a retailing unit of Campeau Corp.
   Allied's three-year agreement with Chemical Bank, a
subsidiary of Chemical Banking Corp., initially calls for
$650 million in financing but can be increased to $721
million. The financing will be securitized by Allied
receivables. A spokeswoman for Chemical said this will be the
first time a company in Chapter 11 proceedings has been able
to access the commercial-paper market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mason Funding Corp., a special-purpose corporation, will
issue the commercial paper. The spokeswoman for Chemical,
which structured the deal, said the first issuance is
expected early next week.
   The receivables financing will replace a $700 million
Citibank financing that expires next week.
   Allied and Federated Department Stores Inc., another
Campeau unit, filed for bankruptcy-court protection in
January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOE Market Maker
   Given $35,000 Fine,
   6-Month Suspension
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Board Options Exchange said it
fined Carolyn J. Olshansky, a market maker at the exchange,
$35,000 and suspended her for six months from associating
with any exchange member.
   Ms. Olshansky agreed to the sanction without admitting or
denying that she violated CBOE rules. She allegedly allowed a
floor broker to submit for clearance numerous option
transactions for her account, which she allowed to clear into
her account. She also allegedly knew or should have known
that the floor broker inappropriately favored her account by
making trades with her without using the exchange's open
outcry system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CBOE members said the floor broker, who wasn't named, was
Robert M. Donnelly. He was disciplined by the exchange late
last year, fined $70,000 and suspended from membership or
association with the exchange for a year.
   Neither Ms. Olshansky nor Mr. Donnelly could be reached
for comment.
   In a separate case, Peter H. Wright, a former registered
representative in the Palo Alto, Calif., office of Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc., was censured and suspended for six
months from association with any exchange member. Mr. Wright
allegedly traded options for two customer accounts without
the prior written approval of the customers and Dean Witter,
made unauthorized stock sales in a customer account and
exceeded an agreed-upon loss limitation in a customer
account.
   Mr. Wright agreed to the action without admitting or
denying he violated CBOE rules. Dean Witter wasn't
disciplined.
   In a third case, Darryl N. Myers, a former registered
representative in the Memphis, Tenn., office of Thomson
McKinnon Securities Inc., was censured, fined $20,000 and
permanently barred from association with any exchange member.
   Mr. Myers, who failed to answer or deny the charges,
allegedly assured several customers that option trades for
their accounts would earn a specified minimum return, misled
customers about the performance of trades in their accounts
and used his own discretion in allocating profitable and
unprofitable orders among customers.
   Neither Mr. Wright nor Mr. Myers could be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Barely Move in Dull Session as Investors
   Wait for Cues in Today's 2nd-Period GNP Report
   ----
   By Susan Scherreik and Kevin L. Dunn
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR JAPAN EUROP FNB FRE FNM X.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market barely budged during a
listless trading session yesterday as most prices ended
unchanged or slightly lower.
   "The bond market is moribund," said Christopher Rupkey, a
financial economist at Mitsubishi Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended unchanged
while prices of short-term and intermediate-term securities
ended just 1/16 point lower, a loss of less than 63 cents for
a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The yield on the benchmark
30-year bond stood firm at 8.54%.
   Robert T. McGee, a senior vice president at Tokai Bank
Ltd., attributed the sparse activity largely to investor
caution ahead of this morning's release of second-quarter
gross national product.
   "People don't want to stick their necks out," ahead of
potentially market-moving economic data, he said.
   Investors and bond traders will be scrutinizing the GNP
data for further signs that the economy is weakening
following the unexpected 3.2% decline in June durable goods
reported on Wednesday.
   Economists polled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report
expect, on average, that inflation-adjusted GNP advanced at a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.8% in the latest
quarter, down marginally from 1.9% in the first quarter.
   Among other things, the GNP data are expected to reflect
sluggish sales. If that proves true, bond market players will
try to determine whether the slow sales are a correction to
the robust sales in the first quarter, or a sign of a
weakening economy.
   Dealers said bond-market players focused on the GNP report
because there was little else to discuss.
   The only other point of interest, they said, were reports
suggesting that there won't be quick progress on the federal
budget-reduction talks. The reports caused a minor flurry of
selling in the cash market after bond futures had finished at
their session peaks.
   The budget-summit negotiators had hoped to reach an
agreement before the Congressional summer recess, which
begins Aug. 3. But congressional and administration officials
now say a compromise may not be reached until Oct. 1, the
beginning of fiscal 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The price of the benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at
102 5/32 to yield 8.54%, unchanged from Wednesday. New
two-year notes ended slightly lower at 99 26/32 to yield
8.09% compared with 99 28/ 32 to yield 8.07% on Wednesday.
   Treasury bills were slightly higher. The discount rate on
six-month bills rose to 7.58% for a bond-equivalent yield of
7.81% while the rate on six-month bills inched up to 7.47% to
yield 7.85%.
   The Treasury sold a record-size $10.5 billion of 52-week
bills yesterday at an average rate of 7.34%. The average rate
was down from an average rate of 7.52% at the previous
52-week bill auction held June 28. Yesterday's rate was the
lowest since 7.21% at the Jan. 11 auction.
   Here are details of yesterday's 52-week bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                      52-Week Bills
                                                                                                       

   Applications .................... $30,568,015,000
   Accepted bids ................... $10,544,145,000
   Accepted at low price ...........             39%
   Accepted noncompetitively .......    $719,615,000
   Average price (Rate) ............  92.578 (7.34%)
   High price (Rate) ...............  92.589 (7.33%)
   Low price (Rate) ................  92.568 (7.35%)
   Coupon equivalent ...............           7.88%
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated August 2 and mature August 1, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Japanese government bonds ended weaker in heavy selling as
comments by Bank of Japan officials reinforced perceptions
that interest rates will be moving higher.
   The selling reversed the market's advance of the previous
day and lifted the yield on Japan's benchmark 10-year bond to
a new six-year high of 7.505%. Meanwhile, officials at
Japan's long-term credit banks, which reset their prime
lending rate at the end of each month, said it is highly
likely that they will set the rate at 7.9% next week, up from
its current level of 7.6%.
   Bond prices started to fall after Bank of Japan Governor
Yasushi Mieno said that price stability is the central bank's
highest concern. Speaking at a private forum in Tokyo
Thursday afternoon, Mr. Mieno noted that Japan is facing an
acute labor shortage and that money supply growth is very
high, factors that could cause prices to rise quickly, he
warned.
   His remarks were taken as an indication that the central
bank is disposed to guide interest rates higher to reduce
inflationary pressures.
   On top of that, another Bank of Japan official suggested
that the central bank may be forced to slow the economy in an
effort to slow money supply growth. That was interpreted as a
indication that the Bank of Japan is willing to guide
interest rates higher even at the risk of reducing business
activity.
   At the 3 p.m. JST close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
Japan's benchmark No. 119 10-year bond was quoted at a price
of 85.79, down 0.21 point, to yield 7.46%. In interdealer
trading after the exchange's close the yield rose to 7.505%.
(When calculated using the semiannual compound method, the
yield was 6.97%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   West German, British and other major foreign bond markets
were somewhat quiet yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The Junk bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. gave back early gains
to close sharply lower on news of an adverse court ruling
against the company and the tobacco industry.
   The New Jersey state Supreme Court ruled yesterday that
warnings on cigarette packs don't protect tobacco companies
from liability suits. That was a major setback for RJR and
two other cigarette makers named in a 1982 lawsuit.
   The news not only sent RJR bonds lower but dragged down
the broader junk bond market, which finished unchanged to
modestly lower. Junk bonds are speculative-grade issues with
low ratings or no ratings at all. In early trading, most junk
bonds had posted gains.
   RJR's 17 3/8% convertible payment-in-kind debentures
finished down 2 1/4 points to close at 115 3/8 on the New
York Stock Exchange. The company's 17% exchangeable
payment-in-kind debentures ended 1 3/4 points lower to close
at 92 3/4. Payment-in-kind bonds pay interest in the form of
additional securities instead of cash.
   RJR's cash-paying 13.5% subordinated debentures fell 1 1/4
points to 100.
   The junk bonds of casinos operated by real estate
developer Donald Trump were also battered. The bonds slid on
a report, which appeared in this newspaper on Thursday, that
Mr. Trump may ask bondholders to accept equity in his casinos
in exchange for letting him cancel some interest payments.
   Trump Taj Mahal Funding Inc.'s 14% first mortgage bonds
fell 1 1/2 points to 46 1/2.
   Trump Castle Funding Corp.'s 13 3/4% first mortgage bonds
fell three points to 55 while Trump Plaza's 12 7/8% first
mortgage bonds were down one point to 83.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended a lackluster session with slight
price gains.
   In the primary market, pricing details of just one sizable
offering were unveiled -- a $700 million First Chicago Master
Trust II 1990-B issue backed by credit-card receivables
issued and serviced by FCC National Bank, a unit of First
Chicago Corp.
   The new securities have a coupon rate of 8 7/8% and a
yield of 8.907%. The amount of the offering was an increase
from the expected $500 million.
   Lead underwriter Salomon Brothers Inc. had no comment on
investor response to the deal, but market players said the
increase in size and post-pricing indications reflect strong
investor demand.
   In the secondary market, Government National Mortgage
Association 9.5% issues were up 2/32 at 99 23/32, Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5% issues were up 2/32 at 99 2/32
and Federal National Mortgage Association 9.5% issues were up
2/32 at 99 18/32.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended unchanged to 1/4 point higher in
light trading.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, the New Jersey
Turnpike Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were 1/4 point
higher at 99 5/8 to yield 7.22%.
   A lack of supply is keeping municipal prices firm, traders
said.
   In new issue dealings, a Lazard Freres &amp; Co. Inc. group
repriced $61 million of New York State Dormitory special act
school districts revenue bonds to lower some yields by two to
five basis points.
   The issue is priced to yield from 6.10% in 1993 to 7.17%
in 2013.
   No large competitive issues were priced yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Revco D.S. Inc.:
   Affiliated Food Stores Buys
   13 Drug Stores in Arkansas
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   RDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Revco D.S. Inc., Twinsburg, Ohio, said it agreed to sell
13 drug stores in Arkansas to Affiliated Food Stores, Little
Rock, Ark., but didn't disclose the price.
   The drugstore chain operator said it has disposed of 538
of the 712 stores it plans to shed as part of a restructuring
disclosed in January. Revco is operating with protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy statutes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it will reduce its store base to 1,100
outlets in 10 Eastern states to improve efficiency and
increase its return on assets. Revco is trying to sell stores
in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and Texas as well as two
remaining outlets in Arkansas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eldon Industries Inc.:
   Office-Products Company
   Looks at Business Options
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ELD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eldon Industries Inc., an office-products maker, said it
is evaluating a number of strategic alternatives, including a
sale or business combination.
   The Inglewood, Calif., company said it has had preliminary
discussions with several companies, but that it has reached
no definitive agreements and can give no assurance any sale
or transaction will occur. Eldon said it has hired a
financial adviser to assist in the evaluation. It did not
identify the adviser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eldon posted net income of $2.1 million, or 23 cents a
share, for the first quarter ended March 24 compared with
year-earlier profit of $1.9 million, or 21 cents a share.
Sales were $26.3 million compared with $25.1 million a year
earlier.
   For the 53-week period ended Dec. 30, Eldon had net income
of $8.6 million, or 91 cents a share, compared with year-ago
profit of $7.6 million, or 81 cents a share. Sales were
$112.6 million compared with $101.4 million a year earlier.
   Eldon closed yesterday at $17.875, up 62.5 cents, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB WNEWS DIS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGAZINES: Capital Cities Media Inc., a Capital Cities/ABC
Inc. unit, agreed to sell Travel Agent magazine to a
partnership led by Richard Friese, a travel-industry
publisher. Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ESQUIRE: Hearst Corp. named Lee Eisenberg editor in chief
of a British edition of Esquire, to be launched in March. His
successor as editor of the U.S. Esquire hasn't been named.
Adam Moss, former editor of the defunct 7 Days and now a
consultant with Time Warner Inc., said he discussed the job
with Hearst executives. A Hearst insider said Mr. Moss was
among those being considered, as was Gregory Curtis, editor
of Texas Monthly.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Donald De Line was named senior vice president
of production for Walt Disney Co.'s Touchstone Pictures. He
was president of production for Snowback Productions. David
Vogel, vice president of production for Walt Disney Pictures,
was promoted to senior vice president of production for the
unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First National Pennsylvania Corp.:
   Unit in Erie, Pa., Increases
   Provisions for Loan Losses
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   FNPC
</CO>
<LP>
   First National Bank of Pennsylvania, Erie, Pa., said it
added $8.4 million to its provisions for loan losses for the
quarter ended June 30.
   The special provision increases the quarter's total
reserve for loan losses to $14.1 million. The parent company,
First National Pennsylvania Corp., said it will report a loss
for the first six months and anticipates a loss for the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank, which is expected to release second-quarter
results next week, said the special provision was prompted by
a regular review by the comptroller of the currency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cie. Generale d'Electricite:
   GEC-Alsthom Wins Accord
   For Moroccan Power Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CGE U.GEL AFRIC EUROP MDR E.DRC N.GEC
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   GEC-Alsthom N.V. said a consortium it leads won a turnkey
contract valued at 3.6 billion French francs ($660.8 million)
for a power station in Morocco.
   The company, a joint unit of France's Cie. Generale
d'Electricite and General Electric Co. of the U.K., said the
thermal power station will use coal, oil, and natural gas as
fuels. The plant will be situated at Jorf Lasfar, south of
Casablanca.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The power station will comprise two generating units, each
with an output capacity of 330 megawatts, and will be the
first of a series of six identical power generating stations.
   GEC-Alsthom said its partners in the contract are Babcock
&amp; Wilcox Espanola (Instituto Nacional de Industria), a
Spanish unit of Babcock &amp; Wilcox of the U.S., which is a unit
of McDermott Inc., as well as Dragados &amp; Construccionnes
S.A., a Spanish construction group.
   GEC-Alsthom said the project will be financed jointly by
France and Spain within the framework of bilateral financial
protocols among Morocco and the French and Spanish
governments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Prices Jump on Rumors That Soviets May Buy
   Soybeans, Grain With Diamond-Sale Proceeds
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rumors that the Soviet Union may buy soybean products with
a portion of the proceeds from its planned diamond sales sent
soybean futures prices sharply higher in active trading.
   Corn futures prices also gained ground on rumors of
planned Soviet purchases. Wheat futures prices lagged behind,
closing only marginally higher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Futures analysts said Soviet plans to borrow $1 billion
from the Swiss arm of De Beers, the South African mining
consortium, fueled rumors that a significant amount of that
money would go toward soybean and grain imports over the next
several months. The loan was coupled with the Soviets' plan
to sell $5 billion of diamonds through De Beers over the next
five years.
   Soybean futures for November delivery gained 10 cents a
bushel to close at $6.0925.
   Reports in the Soviet media this week about millions of
tons of grain going unharvested because of a lack of fuel for
farm equipment also supported soybean and corn futures
prices, analysts said.
   December corn futures gained 2.75 cents a bushel to close
at $2.5875.
   Domestic demand is buoying U.S. soybean futures prices as
well. Figures released Wednesday indicated that U.S. soybean
oil consumption last month was the fourth largest ever
reported for June, said Richard Loewy, president of
AgResource Co. in Chicago.
   Yesterday's diamond-sparked rally may be just a flash in
the pan, warned one analyst. With prospects for a large U.S.
soybean harvest undiminished, "soybean futures are not
something you want to own for the longer term," said Mickey
Luth, a futures analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in
Chicago.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were mixed, with those of
gold and platinum easing while silver edged higher. After
stronger gold price movements earlier in the week, trading
turned quieter yesterday. Indications that OPEC members will
seek a crude oil price around $20 a barrel, and possibly as
high as $22, was in line with traders' expectations. As a
result, precious metals prices weren't much affected, William
O'Neill, senior futures strategist for Merrill Lynch, said.
"That anticipated result is already in the market, and any
OPEC decision isn't expected to have any effect -- unless of
course there are some surprising developments," he said. The
dollar was mixed, which was about neutral for gold, Mr.
O'Neill said. One interesting development, according to Mr.
O'Neill, is that the Soviet Union appears to be getting its
credit house in order, as indicated by the reported $1
billion loan that was collateralized by Soviet diamonds. "If
this improvement continues, it will diminish some of the
Soviet Union's urgency to sell precious metals, which would
be a long-term positive factor for the market," he said. In
platinum, the fact that the dollar was slightly higher
against the yen tended to soften Japanese demand for the
metal, said Nina Lipton, research manager, Platinum Guild
International, an industry group. Ms. Lipton said that when
the dollar declines against the yen, the Japanese are
inclined to buy platinum because it is cheaper in yen terms.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices rose. The September contract rose
2.05 cents a pound to 90.85 cents, just 0.05 cent shy of the
day's high. The contract traded in a range of slightly more
than two cents. Providing some support for the market was
uncertainty about the size of the 1990-91 coffee crop in
Brazil, whose season began July 1, an analyst said. Brazil is
the world's biggest coffee producer. According to Sandra Kaul
of Shearson Lehman Hutton, estimates of the harvest range
from 22 million to 33 million bags; a bag is 132 pounds. "The
11 million-bag difference between these estimates is equal to
the output of Colombia, the world's second-largest producer,"
Ms. Kaul said. "It's unclear how much low prices that have
prevailed over the past year, since the International Coffee
Agreement quota and price clauses were suspended in July
1989, have affected the care of the coffee trees. Also,
recent rains may have had an impact on the quality of the
recently harvested Brazilian coffee being dried." A recent
Brazilian government decision to pay farmers from the coffee
development fund has tempered the farmers' urgency to sell
coffee, and many are withholding the beans, which has
influenced prices, Ms. Kaul said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Holdouts Vow to Remain All-American
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   KYC CMDL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Myron Berman says, "We believe in America," it isn't
idle talk.
   Mr. Berman is chairman of Keystone Camera Products Corp.,
a Clifton, N.J., maker of under-$50 cameras. Despite
intensifying competition from imports, a partnership he heads
has invested $14 million in Keystone since early last year,
pledging to keep Keystone's production on U.S. soil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're going to fight," Mr. Berman says. "We're not going
to throw in the towel."
   In defying global economics and foreign competition, Mr.
Berman isn't alone. Against all odds, a brash band of
entrepreneurs vows to stay all-American in manufacturing even
though almost all of their competitors either are foreigners
or have moved production abroad. These diehards' products are
often the last in their categories with "Made in USA" labels.
   Behind the resistance are several factors besides sheer
cussedness. Some holdouts say the manufacturing methods they
use aren't available elsewhere. Some worry about quality
control in foreign factories or believe a U.S. base allows
them to react quicker to changes in the U.S. market. Others
say remaining U.S.-made can be a big selling point for their
products.
   Nobody seems to know exactly how many holdouts there are,
but authorities think there are dozens or even hundreds.
"There are a significant number of companies like these that
are out on a limb in market sectors once entirely dominated
by American companies," says Christopher Burke, executive
director of Made in the USA Foundation, a Washington
not-for-profit promoter of U.S. products. He adds: "Their
success or failure is an indicator of how American business
will compete in the global market of the 21st century."
   Says Keystone's Mr. Berman: "I have never owned a foreign
car. I'm a career reserve officer in the Army. I believe what
I'm doing is right."
   Even so, an "all-American" strategy is no sure winner, as
Keystone, for one, has learned. Once one of the dominant
producers of focus-free cameras, 70-year-old Keystone now is
besieged by competitors -- including big Eastman Kodak Co. of
Rochester, N.Y., whose cameras are made in Asia with low-paid
labor. Keystone has had to slash prices 25% in the past two
years; in 1989, the company reported a net loss of $4.3
million on $40.5 million in sales, its fifth consecutive year
of red ink. With a negative net worth of nearly $1 million,
Keystone also has violated a covenant for its $16.4 million
in bank debt.
   In March, the troubled company asked the International
Trade Commission, a federal agency, to restrict imports of
budget cameras into the U.S. for five years. Mr. Berman said
such a move would allow Keystone to increase its production
to four million cameras in 1991, from the three million
expected this year. If its plant output improved, Keystone
could sell cameras at import prices and still make a profit.
   But last Tuesday, the commission rejected the company's
petition, saying poor management in the past, and not imports
alone, had caused the company's plight. Mr. Berman still
plans to hire 270 more workers, a 50% increase, to turn out
two new camera models.
   Comdial Corp. had better luck, largely because it won
import protection last December. The Charlottesville, Va.,
company and American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., the only
other major U.S. maker of small-business phone systems,
persuaded the trade commission to impose anti-dumping duties
on imports from Japan and South Korea. The ruling stabilized
prices, says William Mustain, Comdial's president. Moreover,
Mr. Mustain says, the erratic supply of imports after the
ruling prompted some phone-system dealers to switch to
Comdial.
   The ITC decision, in addition to a restructuring that
reduced Comdial's work force to 600 from 2,500 in 1983, has
helped turn around the company's performance. After five
consecutive years of losses -- in 1989 the company reported a
loss of $1.9 million on sales of $81.4 million -- Comdial
earned $301,000 on sales of $42.1 million in the first half
of this year.
   Even without the government's aid, Mr. Mustain says he has
good reason to stay put in Virginia: With a plant in the
U.S., the company can respond faster to changes in the
market. American companies that manufacture in the Far East
wait six to nine months to take delivery of products. At
Comdial, assembling and delivering a new phone system to U.S.
customers takes three weeks.
   James Davis, president of New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.,
Boston, fears that turning over production to Asian factories
-- which supply Nike Inc. and his other competitors -- would
compromise quality. New Balance, whose shoes retail for as
much as $150 a pair, says it is the only athletic-shoe
company to make shoes in a variety of widths. Also, with
annual sales of only $120 million, "We're not such a large
company that we can dictate to the factory," Mr. Davis says.
   Robert Wischnia, a senior editor at Runner's World
magazine, says Mr. Davis's fears are unfounded. "I honestly
don't understand why New Balance keeps making their shoes
here," he says.
   Meanwhile, Cannondale Corp.'s incentive to keep making all
of its high-performance bicycles in the U.S. is two-fold. For
one thing, industry people say the Taiwanese plants that
crank out frames for such competitors as Trek Bicycle Corp.
and Specialized Bicycle Components Inc. haven't matched
Cannondale's pioneering techniques for producing lightweight
welded aluminum frames.
   The Georgetown, Conn., company's lightest frame weighs
about a pound less than the lightest steel frames found in
Far Eastern factories. "We had to write the book for the
technology we use," says Cannondale's president, Joe
Montgomery. "There isn't anybody our size doing this kind of
thing."
   Mr. Montgomery also found that his all-American mountain
bikes are a big hit among Europeans; foreign business
accounts for 35% of Cannondale's $40 million in annual sales.
"These people want American products," he says. "
`Made-in-the-USA' is a very important sales tool."
   Lionel Trains Inc. found that out the hard way. Formed in
1986, the Mount Clemens, Mich., company makes the celebrated
brand of toy trains formerly made by General Mills Inc. and
Lionel Corp. (no relation). In recent years, the company's
competitors have shifted production to the Far East. The
latest to switch was MDK Inc., Chapel Hill, N.C. By next
year, virtually all of its manufacturing will take place in
Hong Kong and China. "We can get far better quality than we
can get here at one-third to one-half the price," says Maury
D. Klein, MDK's owner.
   In 1983, Lionel itself decided to relocate production to
low-wage Tijuana, Mexico. But it moved back to Michigan two
years later. The company had not only run into huge
logistical problems supplying trains to dealers, it also
suffered a backlash from patriotic train collectors.
   Now the company swears it is in Michigan to stay. "We are
one of the last companies to make these trains in America,"
says John Brady, Lionel's vice president of marketing. "Maybe
that's reason enough to continue doing it."
   ---
                       American Made
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-made products' share of total U.S. sales in their
categories in 1989
                                                                                                       

        Steel ................................ 50%
        Clothing ............................. 35%
        Shoes ................................ 25%
        Consumer electronics .................  2%
        Cameras ..............................  1%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Venture Resource Associates, Grantham, N.H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Savings Had
   Second-Quarter Loss
   Totaling $40 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ASB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -- American Savings Bank reported a $40
million second-quarter net loss, reflecting an increase of
$41 million in reserves against possible losses on bad loans.
   American Savings and many other Northeast banks and
thrifts have been hurt by the slump in the region's real
estate markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New York state chartered bank made loan-loss
provisions of $54.3 million in 1990's first six months.
American Savings said it will proceed with a "back to basics"
strategy, consolidating its Riverhead Savings operations and
pursuing the sale of other subsidiaries to cut costs and pare
assets.
   American's second-quarter net loss equals $6.89 a share,
compared with net income of $7.4 million, or $1.01 a share,
in the year-earlier period. The year-earlier period included
a one-time gain of $3.5 million before taxes from an
insurance settlement for a subsidiary.
   The latest quarter's net interest income before provision
for loan losses fell 18% to $19.5 million from $23.7 million
in the yearearlier period.
   For the first six months of 1990, American Savings
reported a loss of $49.4 million, or $8.67 a share, compared
with earnings of $13.9 million, or $1.88 a share. The
year-ago period reflects the one-time gain. Net interest
income excluding provisions for loan losses declined 21% to
$39 million from $49.6 million.
   At June 30, American's assets totaled $4.14 billion, down
6.5% from Dec. 31 and 9.5% from June 30, 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE HOUSE VOTED to reprimand Rep. Frank, rejecting a
censure penalty.
   Frank, a liberal Democrat from Massachusetts and an
acknowledged homosexual, was punished for using his official
influence on behalf of a male prostitute. The 408-18 vote,
which came after the House rejected a GOP-backed motion
calling for the harsher censure penalty, upheld the
recommendations of the Ethics Committee. The issue split the
chamber emotionally and reflected more partisanship than in
any ethics case in the past decade. The censure motion, which
failed 287-141, was opposed by all but 12 Democrats, while
Republicans were almost 3-1 in favor of it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement before the vote, Frank explained that he
took some of the actions in part to "conceal" his
homosexuality, which he later disclosed.
   ---
   Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
which bans discrimination against the nation's 43 million
disabled people in employment, public accommodations,
transportation and telecommunications. The legislation
includes a variety of sanctions for violators and provides
new protection for AIDS-infected workers.
   ---
   Souter brushed aside questions about a letter he wrote
nearly a decade ago opposing legislation that would have
forced judges to make decisions on abortions for teenagers.
The Supreme Court nominee said he would disclose what is
"constitutionally appropriate" at his confirmation hearings,
expected to begin in September.
   ---
   The EPA said last month's easing of federal controls on
low-level atomic wastes raises public health concerns.
Meanwhile, members of a House subcommittee said at a hearing
that the new policy could turn some states into dumping
grounds for radioactive waste in landfills.
   ---
   Waldheim met in Salzburg, Austria, with the presidents of
Czechoslovakia and West Germany in a break with the
international diplomatic isolation imposed on the Austrian
leader because of his wartime past. Waldheim has acknowledged
he concealed his World War II service as an officer in a
German army unit linked to atrocities.
   ---
   Iraq prepared for direct talks with Kuwait on ending a
dispute over land rights and oil production. Egyptian
President Mubarak sent an adviser to Baghdad and Kuwait to
help organize the talks, expected to start over the weekend
in Saudi Arabia.
   ---
   Armenia's Parliament set up a panel to respond to Soviet
leader Gorbachev's threat to use force against illegal groups
unless they surrender their arms. One Parliament member said
"we can't be left defenseless," adding that Armenians had
lost faith in Soviet security forces on the Azerbaijan border
and had to rely on armed nationalists.
   ---
   A federal jury in Los Angeles found a Honduran, Juan
Ramone Matta Ballesteros, guilty of racketeering, kidnapping
and conspiracy in the 1985 murders of U.S. drug agent Enrique
Camarena and his pilot. But the jury acquitted Matta on a
single charge of murdering Camarena. Three other defendants
are awaiting verdicts in the case.
   ---
   Researchers said a woman apparently got AIDS from her
dentist during a tooth-pulling procedure, though he wore
gloves and a mask. The case has prompted the government to
review its recommendations for AIDS prevention. American
Dental Association officials said the Centers for Disease
Control may have jumped to conclusions.
   ---
   North and South Korea reached an accord to have their
prime ministers meet in a bid to end hostilities, but a new
dispute developed soon after the pact was signed in
Panmunjom. The controversy erupted after a plan by five North
Koreans to cross into South Korea was scrapped because of a
feud involving their accommodations.
   ---
   A juror was dismissed from deliberations in a
money-laundering trial in federal court in Tampa, Fla., after
reports that a member of the jury apparently telephoned
people linked to a Colombian drug ring. The judge decided not
to declare a mistrial and ordered the 11 remaining jurors to
continue deliberations.
   ---
   Secretary of State Baker rejected criticism from Asian
allies over how to deal with Vietnamese boat people seeking
refuge in neighboring countries. Baker said the U.S. remained
opposed to forcibly repatriating the bulk of the refugees to
Vietnam. He arrived in Indonesia for a conference of foreign
ministers scheduled to start today.
   ---
   East Germany's coalition appeared likely to survive after
politicians from both German states narrowed their
differences on how an all-German Parliament will be elected
in December. The two governments agreed they should conclude
a treaty by the end of August outlining voting procedures.
   ---
   The U.S. death rate from asthma rose over 30% in seven
years, and nearly 10 million Americans are affected by the
disease, the Centers for Disease Control reported. Officials
said a number of factors may be contributing to the increase,
including air quality and exposure to infections and other
"triggers" for bronchial constriction.
   ---
   Salvadoran officials and rebels agreed to have a U.N.
commission monitor human rights in El Salvador, where tens of
thousands of civilians have died in a decade-old civil war.
The commission wouldn't begin work until a cease-fire
agreement is reached between the government and the
guerrillas, who are holding talks in Costa Rica.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Cetus's Flagship Drug Faces Tough Fight
   ---
   FDA to Take Hard Look
   At Kidney-Cancer Therapy
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTUS
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cetus Corp. is scheduled to ask a Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel Monday to back its bid for
approval of its first proprietary drug, interleukin-2, or
IL-2, for advanced kidney cancer. It may be an uphill fight.
   It's the moment of truth for the 20-year-old biotechnology
company, which has spent $120 million to develop the drug as
its flagship product. IL-2 has been given to more than 4,000
patients and approved for sale in seven European nations. But
Monday's FDA hearing promises to be its most crucial and
difficult test. At stake are major issues for the company,
the medical community and the biotechnology field.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Cetus, which has tallied up $137.6 million in
cumulative losses, IL-2's approval is necessary to become
profitable. The company's only other major product,
gene-ampification technology known as PCR, is licensed to
Roche Holdings Ltd.'s U.S. unit and mainly yields royalties
to Cetus.
   For biotechnology, the IL-2 story is a classic case of the
difficulty of transforming the lab work of synthesizing human
proteins into practical products that work for patients and
that pass scientific and regulatory muster.
   For patients, doctors and regulators, the story rekindles
debate over how drugs are scrutinized, approved and made
accessible to the terminally ill.
   "It's been a real conflicting story," says Nicholoas
Vogelzang, associate professor of medicine at the University
of Chicago. "There is good news and bad news. But my sense is
that IL-2 is crucial for the survival of certain patients
with renal-cell carcinoma. These patients have no other
therapy known to be curative."
   Kidney cancer strikes about 25,000 people a year in the
U.S. and causes about 10,000 deaths. It's curable when caught
early, but it often goes undiagnosed until it has
metastasized and spread to other organs, where treatment
becomes difficult or impossible. While doctors try various
chemotherapy drugs or interferon, no products have been
approved by the FDA for treating such advanced renal-cell
tumors.
   IL-2 itself only helps a fraction of kidney-cancer
patients. Between 10% and 20% of patients may experience a
response with some tumor shrinkage, says Bruce Chabner,
director of the division of cancer treatment at the National
Cancer Institute. Very small numbers -- perhaps less than 5%
-- enjoy a complete remission.
   Thus, Dr. Chabner concludes, "IL-2 is probably a small
improvement, but certainly not an ultimate therapy for the
disease. It is not a major step forward." Compared with 10%
response rates from interferon or other chemotherapy, "it's a
little bit better . . . a reasonable thing to do if you can
take the side effects."
   Side effects of IL-2 include large but temporary
water-weight gains, which stress internal organs and require
the drug to be given in an intensive care unit. A few
patients -- perhaps 1% -- have died of cardiac or pulmonary
complications.
   Dr. Chabner says NCI's view is "we have to look for better
drugs." But in the meantime, "patients should have access to
all possibilities, as long as they know the risks."
   A few take a dimmer view. Charles Moertel, professor of
medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, says IL-2 should
"certainly not" be approved at this time. "If the FDA
approved this drug, they'd be flying in the face of their own
rules and regulations that require improvement in the
duration and quality of life be shown in two randomized
studies," he says. Unless Cetus scientists can come up with
such data, Dr. Moertel argues, IL-2 "must be disapproved."
   Cetus, Emeryville, Calif., won't comment on Dr. Chabner's
figures or on Dr. Moertel's positions, citing the FDA's ban
on prehearing publicity.
   Some Wall Street analysts are cautious on the outlook. The
lack of a large study showing improved survival rates is one
reason Robert Kupor, a biotech analyst with Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co. in New York, gives the Cetus product a 25% chance of
being turned down this time. Still, he and Denise Gilbert, an
analyst with County NatWest Securities USA, believe it will
be approved, perhaps with restrictions, simply because
there's nothing else.
   While the scientists weigh data and Wall Streeters
calculate the odds, IL-2's fate is most important to such
patients as Eugene Schonfeld. The 47-year-old entrepreneur,
who runs a publishing company in suburban Chicago, has lost
his right kidney and a rib to kidney cancer. "My perspective
is simple," says Mr. Schonfeld, spokesman for the newly
founded National Kidney Cancer Association. "If you've got a
fatal disease, you'd like as many treatment options as
possible. If IL-2 can help, it's rational to want it."
   He says he's lucky, because his tumor hadn't spread to
other organs. "Others aren't so fortunate," he says. "What do
you say to people with metastatic disease? Go home and die?"
   If IL-2 isn't approved, Mr. Schonfeld says his group may
follow the lead of people with acquired immune deficiency
syndrome and "become very obstreperous." He says that "it's a
shame" because he fears rational discourse would suffer but
that he and others like him have little choice. "Activism in
cancer patients will become more important."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GM AND FORD POSTED sharply lower second-quarter earnings,
reflecting hard times in the U.S. market and economic unrest
in Brazil. Ford's profit tumbled 45% while GM reported a 38%
decline. The remainder of the year could be difficult, too,
amid weak demand in the U.S. and competition from Japan.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A former Drexel official, Peter Ackerman, has become the
subject of a new government probe into possible price
manipulation, according to people familiar with the
investigation. Mr. Ackerman was once top deputy to ex-junk
bond king Michael Milken.
   ---
   A plan to propose higher taxes on alcoholic beverages and
limits on deductions for state and local taxes was
tentatively agreed to by the administration and congressional
Republicans, according to people close to the plan. But
support was shaky.
   ---
   OPEC ministers neared agreement on a new production
ceiling intended to reduce the current world oil glut and
push up crude oil prices.
   ---
   Growing real estate problems in California are hurting
lenders. Coast Savings Financial reported a $28.7 million
second-quarter loss, following losses by CalFed and HomeFed.
   ---
   GE was ordered to pay a $10 million criminal fine and
agreed to pay $20 million in civil penalties in connection
with fraudulent defense contract billings to the U.S. Army.
   ---
   Sallie Mae has proposed taking over the portfolio of a
troubled student-loan guarantor, a move that would greatly
expand its influence in the education financing field.
   ---
   House and Senate conferees agreed on comprehensive
oil-spill legislation that would end a 16-year congressional
stalemate on the issue.
   ---
   Cigarette package warnings don't protect tobacco makers
from product liability lawsuits, New Jersey's Supreme Court
ruled. The decision opens the door for a review of the issue
by the U.S. Supreme Court.
   ---
   A House panel voted to reimpose rate regulation on basic
cable-TV service. The measure also would benefit fledgling
competitors of cable.
   ---
   UAL's profit rose slightly in the second quarter, aided by
the sale of aircraft. But Midway Airlines recorded a hefty
loss for the period.
   ---
   Westinghouse agreed to acquire Knoll International,
doubling the size of its office-furniture business.
   ---
   Eli Lilly was named in a second lawsuit charging that its
popular new antidepressant drug Prozac can cause violent and
destructive behavior. Lilly's stock fell $4.375 to $79.625.
   ---
   The Senate embraced a proposal to revamp the federal
crop-insurance program and cover its underwriting losses,
putting senators at odds with the House's intention to
scuttle the long-troubled program.
   ---
   Microsoft is planning a costly campaign to win a bigger
piece of the market for software that ties together personal
computers. The effort will cost the company up to $50
million.
   ---
   Continental Bank moved closer to full private ownership as
the FDIC approved plans to sell a 26% stake in the Chicago
banking concern.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 155,040,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2920.79, off 10.15; transportation 1142.15, up 0.54;
utilities 203.16, up 0.51.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3438.01, up
2.96.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.26, up 0.65; spot
index 132.81, up 0.51.
   Dollar: 150.37 yen, up 0.48; 1.6245 marks, off 0.0005.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Go-Video Wins Round
   Against Japan Firms
   In Lawsuit on VCRs
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   GOVO J.SRP MC J.VIC SNE NIPNY SANYY
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Go-Video Inc. said it won a round in
federal court against five Japanese electronics companies it
has sued for allegedly blocking its efforts to market a
dual-deck videocassette recorder in the U.S.
   A federal court in Phoenix, Ariz., denied the motions of
the defendants to have Go-Video's antitrust suit dismissed,
Go-Video said. The ruling means that the case will go to
trial before a federal jury in Phoenix within 120 days, to
determine if the Japanese VCR manufacturers conspired in
violation of federal antitrust laws to block the marketing of
dual-deck VCRs in the U.S., Go-Video said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court also rejected the defendants' challenge to
Go-Video's basic dual-deck VCR patent, the company said.
However, the court refused to reconsider a previous decision
dismissing Go-Video's claims against Sharp Corp. Go-Video
said it intends to appeal the court's dismissal of Sharp. The
defendants remaining in the case include Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co., Victor Co. of Japan, Sony Corp., Sanyo
Electric Co., and NEC Corp.
   In addition, Go-Video said the court lifted a stay on a
second lawsuit Go-Video brought against these same companies,
including Sharp, alleging a world-wide conspiracy to
monopolize consumer electronics products.
   R. Terren Dunlap, chairman and chief executive officer of
Go-Video, said the company "won the first half of the battle"
by bringing its dual-deck VCR to market on June 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alcan Aluminium Ltd.:
   Union Approves 3-Year Pact
   And Ends Strike at Smelter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   T.AL AL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   Unionized workers at Alcan Aluminium Ltd.'s smelter in
Kitimat, British Columbia, approved a revised three-year
contract proposal, ending a strike that began at midnight PDT
Monday.
   The revised accord, which follows a proposal that was
rejected Wednesday, calls for annual wage increases of 6%, an
immediate signing bonus of 1,750 Canadian dollars (US$1,517)
per worker, and inflation-indexed payments in the second and
third years of the pact, Alcan's spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Montreal-based aluminum maker's original offer also
provided for 6% annual wage increases, though the signing
bonus was C$250 less for each worker, and inflation-indexed
payments were to occur only in the third year of the pact.
   The Kitimat smelter, which produces about 260,000 metric
tons of aluminum ingots annually, accounts for about 18% of
Alcan's total primary aluminum capacity. It is expected to
lose only minimal output as a result of the short strike,
Alcan's spokesman said.
   Management workers have kept most of the smelter running
normally since the strike by 1,600 members of the Canadian
Association of Smelter and Allied Workers began.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Alcan closed at $23.75 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retrial Ordered in Cases
   Of Three Futures Traders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A federal judge ordered three Swiss-franc
futures traders to be retried March 5 on fraud and
racketeering charges on which a jury earlier this month
couldn't reach a verdict.
   In the first courtroom test of the federal investigation
of alleged futures trading fraud, two of the traders, Robert
Mosky and Danny Scheck, were found guilty of eight counts of
violating the Commodity Exchange Act out of more than 100
counts against them. The third trader, David Zatz, wasn't
found guilty on any of the charges against him. The jury was
deadlocked on 86 counts against the three traders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The jury's unwillingness to convict any of the traders on
fraud charges, or to find Mr. Mosky, a floor broker, guilty
of racketeering conspiracy, was widely seen as a blow to the
government's multimillion-dollar trading probe.
   The government said it would modify the indictments
against the traders, and defense attorneys said they would
move to have the charges dismissed.
   Two more trials of indicted futures traders are scheduled
to begin in September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BIC Corp.:
   Company Posts Small Drop
   In Second-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BIC Corp., Milford, Conn., said second-quarter earnings
dropped slightly as substantial sales and earnings decreases
in its lighter-manufacturing segment offset increases in
writing and shaving instruments.
   Earnings for the second-quarter were $7.6 million, or 62
cents a share, down from $7.7 million, or 63 cents a share,
in the year-earlier period. Sales fell 4% to $91.6 million
from $95.5 million. Net income includes an extraordinary gain
of $498,000, or four cents a share, attributable to a Mexican
tax-loss carry-forward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bruno Bich, president of BIC, attributed the earnings
decreases in the lighter segment to a reduction in the number
of smokers in the U.S. and to an increase in the number of
inexpensive lighters from China, Thailand and Korea. "Sales
and earnings gains from writing instruments and shavers, plus
reduced losses in perfume, were not sufficient to offset"
these losses, he said.
   Earnings for the first half fell 3.9% to $13.6 million, or
$1.12 a share, from $14.17 million, or $1.17 a share, for the
year-earlier period. Sales fell 3% to $170.9 million from
$175.9 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mary Kay Seeks
   To Refinance
   Part of Debt
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Mary Kay Corp. is seeking to refinance about
$172 million of the debt it took on to go private in a
leveraged buy-out five years ago.
   The company said it is "actively exploring" the
possibility of acquiring a "substantial amount" of the
publicly traded, 15% deep-discount debentures it has
outstanding and will seek amended terms on the remainder. The
refinancing is intended to lower the cosmetics company's debt
costs and ease some operating restrictions that came along
with the borrowing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This fall, the company must start calling some of those
bonds at a cost of nearly $25 million a year, said a person
familiar with the company's refinancing plans. Because of
that, he said, company officials considered it an appropriate
time to refinance at a lower rate.
   First Boston Corp. has been retained by Mary Kay as an
adviser on the refinancing.
   A spokesman for the company said the refinancing isn't
related to the option Mary Kay holds to acquire 1.2 million
shares of Avon Products Inc. from financier Irwin Jacobs and
Amway Corp. The company has a 45-day option, which began July
5, the spokesman said, but can be extended.
   Mary Kay owns a 25% stake in Chartwell Associates Limited
Partnership, which in turn is Avon's largest holder. If Mary
Kay, or another Chartwell partner buys the 1.2 million-share
block, the group would then control 19.8% of Avon's voting
shares.
   Although the company could exercise the option without the
refinancing, said the person familiar with Mary Kay's plans,
transactions of that nature would be easier, both because of
the anticipated easing of some operating restrictions and
because of the improved balance sheet. For the time being, he
said, any takeover ambitions on Chartwell's part have been
stymied by Avon's anti-takeover defenses, which are triggered
when a potential suitor acquires more than 20% of the
company's stock.
   Mary Kay has been portrayed as an LBO that worked. The
company, with its huge sales force, has doubled its operating
cash flow since the leveraged buy-out and has nearly doubled
its sales. In 1989, the company spokesman said, sales were
more than $450 million, up from $255 million in 1986;
operating cash flow has risen in that time to $72 million
from $35 million. The spokesman said that Mary Kay's sales
force also grew in that time, to nearly 200,000 from 140,000.
   In a leveraged buy-out, a small group of investors
acquires a company in a transaction financed largely by
borrowing. Ultimately, the debt is paid with funds generated
by the acquired company's operations or sale of its assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Anchor Savings Bank:
   Asset Sales Help Boost Net
   To $40.9 Million in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ABKR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Anchor Savings Bank reported fourth-quarter net income of
$40.9 million, compared with a year-earlier net loss,
reflecting gains from asset sales plus improved operations.
   The earnings for the quarter equal $2.15 a share, compared
with a loss of $26.9 million, or $1.75 a share, in the
year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Hewlett, N.Y., savings bank said that excluding $45.7
million of pretax gains on asset sales and a $3.8 million
addition to its provision for credit losses, it reported
profit for the quarter of $1.9 million. The comparable figure
for the year-earlier period was a $3 million net loss.
   The asset sales are part of Anchor's plan to bring it into
full compliance with federal capital requirements.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Anchor
shares closed at $1.6875, up 31.25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Martin Marietta Corp.:
   Firm Is Chosen to Develop,
   Build Jet Thrust Reversers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   ML UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Martin Marietta Corp., Bethesda, Md., said it got a
contract valued at about $300 million to design and develop a
new jet engine thrust reverser for Pratt &amp; Whitney and to
produce 200 units.
   The thrust reversers, which redirect the flow of jet
engine exhaust and help brake aircraft after landing, will be
designed and produced by Martin Marietta Aero &amp; Naval Systems
in Baltimore.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Martin Marietta said production will begin in 1993. The
contract includes provisions for follow-up production of as
many as 300 additional thrust reversers, potentially doubling
the value of the contract.
   Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp., is
based in East Hartford, Conn. The company designs and
produces commercial and military aircraft engines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cigna Corp.:
   Firm No Longer Plans Sale
   Of Financial Services Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cigna Corp., Philadelphia, said it no longer plans to sell
its individual financial services division, which had been on
the block for the past 18 months.
   Cigna said that while there had been several interested
buyers for the division -- including a group that would have
involved some management members -- none matched the price
that the company was seeking. Also, financing, which might
have included high-yield bonds, became harder to arrange
during this time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The division markets individual life and disability
insurance. It also markets investment products and financial
planning to small business owners, high net-worth individuals
and corporations. In the last few years, Cigna has been
working to position itself as a seller of commercial
property/casualty and group health insurance to major
corporations.
   Wilson H. Taylor, Cigna's chairman and chief executive
officer, said, "The outlook for the life and disability
business has improved," due to market changes, as well as
steps taken internally to improve the division's operations.
He added that the division's 1989 results were strong,
posting a more than 15% return on equity, and its 1990
performance suggests continued good results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abbott Labs, Schoellhorn
   Reach Lawsuit Settlement
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ABT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORTH CHICAGO, Ill. -- Abbott Laboratories and its ousted
chairman, Robert A. Schoellhorn, settled name-calling
litigation in an agreement that would seem to allow him to
keep contested stock worth about $4.4 million.
   The bizarre dispute between Mr. Schoellhorn and Abbott's
board burst into the open earlier this year when he sued the
company and some directors in Cook County, Ill., court,
trying to stop them from firing him. He accused some
directors of being liars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company retaliated by calling Mr. Schoellhorn a thief,
saying he misappropriated Abbott property, and tried to deny
him 51,600 restricted shares of Abbott common stock.
   The stock has since split two for one. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, Abbott stock closed at
$43, down 50 cents. At that price, the post-split 103,200
shares are valued at about $4.4 million.
   Abbott is a pharmaceutical and hospital products concern.
   In a single-paragraph statement issued late yesterday,
Abbott said the settlement called for dismissal of Mr.
Schoellhorn's lawsuit and that he would "retire from Abbott
Laboratories effective August 31, 1990."
   Neither Abbott nor Mr. Schoellhorn's lawyer, John H.
Mathias Jr., would elaborate on the statement. But the
wording implies the executive would be entitled to benefits
he would have received had he retired normally, including the
stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Raychem Corp.:
   Loss of $13.6 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RYC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Raychem Corp., Menlo Park, Calif., continuing to suffer
because of declining defense spending, said it had a loss in
the fiscal fourth quarter of $13.6 million, or 38 cents a
share.
   Raychem had net income of $13 million, or 37 cents a
share, a year earlier. Sales in this year's quarter, ended
June 30, slipped about 2% to $295 million from $300.8
million. The quarterly loss swelled Raychem's loss for the
fiscal year to $111.4 million, or $3.12 a share, compared
with year-earlier profit of $36.3 million, or $1.04 a share.
This year's loss included a $90 million charge from
restructuring and divestitures in the fiscal third quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The aerospace and electronics concern said sales for the
year totaled $1.1 billion, up 3% from $1.08 billion the year
before.
   Robert J. Saldich, president and chief executive officer,
called the fourth-quarter results "disappointing" and said
the company has yet to see much positive impact from the
restructuring moves. However, he said he expects results to
improve gradually in fiscal 1991.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, Raychem closed at
$26.375, down $1.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Chairman Will Drive
   First Saturn, as Promised
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp. chairman Roger B. Smith, who vowed
for years to drive the first of GM's Saturn small cars off
the assembly line before his retirement, will keep his
promise -- just in time, and in private.
   Saturn confirmed that Mr. Smith is scheduled to go to
Saturn's Spring Hill, Tenn., factory Monday to drive the
first ready-for-sale Saturn car off the line. That's one day
before his scheduled retirement. Incoming GM chairman Robert
C. Stempel and top United Auto Workers union leaders also are
invited. But reporters and camera crews aren't, a Saturn
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Saturn officials have said they don't want to give away
any details about the new cars, which GM has spent seven
years and $3.5 billion to develop. Privately, some also have
worried that media coverage associating the car with GM and
its chairman could hurt the new GM division's effort to woo
buyers of Japanese cars.
   The fate of the first Saturn car isn't clear. Mr. Smith
told the Nashville Banner he didn't plan to keep it.
   Saturn is expected to begin selling its two-door and
four-door compact cars in late October for $10,000 to
$13,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Trade Officers Warn
   Of `Fight' Over Farm Aid
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. trade officials warned that a "big
fight" with the European Community could ensue if the EC
continues to hold up a global agreement to phase out billions
of dollars in agricultural subsidies.
   The officials were reacting to the failure of a key
negotiating session in Geneva to produce a "framework
agreement" on reducing these subsidies as agreed upon at the
international economic summit earlier this month in Houston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This week's meeting, held under the auspices of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, also failed to
resolve differences between the U.S. and other countries on
how to craft other agreements, including those on investment
flows and on the textile and services trades.
   EC officials said, however, that there weren't any grounds
for the U.S. to be "unduly pessimistic," claiming that there
has been progress even in the agriculture sector. The U.S.
has argued that the EC's unwillingness to scrap farm
subsidies as fast as the U.S. wants has been a major obstacle
to the success of the four-year round of talks which ends in
December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Banner Industries Inc.:
   Cleveland Company to Offer
   52.8% Interest in Subsidiary
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   BAR BNR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Banner Industries Inc., Cleveland, said it plans to sell a
52.8% interest in its aircraft-parts subsidiary for $133
million through a public stock offering.
   Banner is offering 9.5 million shares of common stock of
Banner Aerospace Inc. at $14 a share. The company said the
offering is being managed by Salomon Brothers Inc., Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets and Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. Expected to be
completed Aug. 2, the offering will produce a pretax profit
of $60 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it intends to use proceeds from the sale,
together with current cash of $90 million, for repurchasing
debt, acquisitions and other corporate purposes.
   Banner Industries said Banner Aerospace, a distributor of
new and overhauled replacement aircraft parts, had pro forma
net income of $12.7 million, or 71 cents a share, on sales of
$172.4 million, for the nine months ended March 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Octel Communications Corp.:
   California Concern Says
   4th Period Net Rose 50%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   OCTL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Octel Communications Corp., continuing a string of strong
performances, said net income in its fourth quarter ended
June 30 rose 50% to $4.9 million, or 29 cents a share.
   In the year-earlier period, the maker of voice processing
systems earned $3.3 million, or 21 cents a share. Revenue
surged 40% to $36.2 million from $25.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the full year, profit climbed 50% to $17.7 million, or
$1.04 a share, from $11.8 million, or 78 cents a share, in
fiscal 1989. Revenue rose 47% to $127.8 million from $87.2
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UPS and Teamsters Agree
   To Extend Ballot Deadline
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- United Parcel Service of America Inc.
said it agreed with the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters to extend by 10 days the deadline for the return of
ballots on a three-year UPS contract. The deadline, which was
July 30, will be extended to Aug. 10.
   The agreement removes the possibility that teamsters would
strike the country's largest deliverer of packages when the
current three-year UPS contract expires at midnight Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UPS said the union sought to extend the deadline because
many teamster members had failed to receive their ballots in
the mail. The extension would allow more time for UPS
teamster workers to receive those ballots.
   About 140,000 UPS workers are eligible to vote on the
contract. The union has advised its members to reject the
company's "final" wage and benefit offer.
   UPS said it agreed that the contract, if approved, would
be retroactive to Wednesday.
   "We think it's a reasonable request under the
circumstances," said Kent C. Nelson, chairman and chief
executive of UPS. "We're glad it will enable more of our
people to cast votes on this important offer," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ciba-Geigy Struggles to Satisfy Its Critics
   ---
   Openness on Environment
   Yields Renewed Scrutiny
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG Z.SAN Z.HR
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASEL, Switzerland -- Ciba-Geigy AG went out of its way to
satisfy environmentalists.
   The Swiss chemical giant more than doubled its
anti-pollution spending last year to 1.3 billion Swiss francs
($935 million). Chairman Alex Krauer opened company factories
to public visits, installed a hotline to reassure worried
neighbors and declared himself ready for dialogue. When
Greenpeace activists climbed a company smokestack, Mr. Krauer
invited the trespassers to his office for coffee and cake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But today, Ciba-Geigy finds itself under attack from the
same environmentalists it tried to woo. Stiff opposition has
foiled its plans to build a biotechnology research institute
and a waste incinerator. An angered Mr. Krauer has begun
threatening to move the company's headquarters out of
Switzerland.
   "There are days where you are just fed up," laments Urs
Gujer, the company's vice president for environmental
affairs. "We tried to do the right thing. We consulted with
everybody, we picked the most environmentally sound projects,
the ones which would leave the least contamination -- and
look what happens."
   Throughout Europe, companies of all kinds are rushing to
respond to stricter legislation and increased public concern
about the environment -- only to confront an obstacle course
of often contradictory choices. Chemical producers typically
find themselves on the front lines in this battle. No matter
how great an effort they make, it seems, they can't shake
their reputation as polluters and sources of serious
accidents.
   Here at the home of Switzerland's three large chemical
companies, the environmentalists attacking Ciba-Geigy compare
its cleanup efforts favorably with those of its neighbors,
Sandoz Ltd. and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. But as Ciba-Geigy's
experiences illustrate, efforts aimed at showing sensitivity
to environmental concerns can sometimes bring not only praise
but also added scrutiny and criticism.
   "It's terrible to say, but if they had just gone ahead
with their two projects without saying anything, they
probably never would have faced any problems," says Guy
Morin, an independent member of the local Basel legislature.
   Dealing with the environment poses delicate questions
about finance as well as about politics and public image.
"Environmentally safe growth will be one of the big issues of
the 1990s," says Sumantra Ghoshal of the INSEAD business
school in Fontainebleau, France. "The question is whether
it's better to spend $100 million on a new plant to reduce
pollution and please the `greenies' or forgo the expense and
please the stock analysts."
   Public sentiment often demands that businesses face up to
this question. For this sedate Swiss city of 200,000 people,
where the chemical factories' smokestacks tower over medieval
half-timbered houses, the real awakening came Nov. 1, 1986,
when a devastating fire broke out at the Sandoz warehouse in
nearby Schweizerhalle. By the time the blaze subsided, more
than 30 tons of mercury and pesticides had poured into the
Rhine River.
   Since the disaster, all three of Basel's chemical giants
have increased anti-pollution spending, to the point where
safety and environmental-protection costs now account for
more than one-fifth of their total outlays.
   At Schweizerhalle, for example, Sandoz is spending 40
million Swiss francs to build a 1,250-square-meter
(13,500-square-foot) water-retention basin. Now, water used
to fight a chemical fire wouldn't spill directly into the
nearby Rhine, carrying pollutants with it; instead, the water
would be caught in the basin and purified before being
discharged.
   "You have to be ahead of the laws to show people you
really care," explains Armin Hofstetter of Hoffmann-La
Roche's Sisseln plant, where a $17 million water-retention
and cleaning system has just become operational. "We're proud
to say that the water we send back into the Rhine is cleaner
than the water we take out."
   Although all three Swiss chemical companies are taking
more precautions, their efforts are perceived differently by
the public. Ciba-Geigy has been widely praised for being
open, forthright and friendly, while environmentalists
criticize rival Sandoz for being closed, secretive and
antagonistic. Hoffmann-La Roche tries to keep a low profile,
emphasizing how it produces mostly drugs, not chemicals.
   These differing public images stem, in large part, from
the personalities of the chief executives. Ciba-Geigy's Mr.
Krauer is a popular hometown personality who participates in
many Basel activities and impresses locals as a warm and
generous man. Sandoz is led by Marc Moret, a businessman from
Fribourg in the French-speaking section of Switzerland. Mr.
Moret is uncomfortable speaking German in public and spends
most of his free time out of town.
   "Whenever I see Krauer in public, he seems to care, to
want dialogue," says Jorg Stochlin, a Green Party member of
the local parliament. "Moret, in comparison, is stiff and
silent."
   Ciba-Geigy managers have been authorized to take personal
initiatives in dealing with environmental issues. Werner
Rothweiler recounts how he stopped production of a red dye
used in automobile lacquers, overruling pleas of marketing
executives.
   "The stuff was so loaded with sulfur that it would have
cost a fortune to treat the waste," Mr. Rothweiler explains.
"Marketing people said: `But it's so beautiful. What will our
customers say?' I told them, `You shouldn't only think in
terms of turnover and profit.'" Reassuring the public is
another Ciba-Geigy priority. Hans-Rudolf Hitz, the
environmental-safety director at the company's Basel plant,
explains how he started a monthly newspaper to inform locals
of factory plans.
   In contrast, Sandoz managers take a much dimmer view of
environmental protests. Company officials, for example,
turned away the uninvited Greenpeace guests. "They just
showed up and demanded to see me," says Hans Winkler, the
company's executive in charge of environmental matters. "We
are busy businessmen."
   Such attitudes have soured Sandoz's relations with local
residents, but so far the company has remained almost immune
to attacks by environmentalists. When activists recently
tried to oppose the construction of a laboratory where work
is now done on a drug called Sandimun, executives threatened
to move their investment overseas -- along with the jobs it
represented. The complaints were quickly dropped.
   Ciba-Geigy's cooperative attitude, by contrast, has
resulted in protracted litigation for the company. In 1987,
it requested a building permit for an $80 million incinerator
to burn toxic wastes. Instead of shipping the waste abroad --
a dangerous and politically unacceptable process -- the
project would permit the company to dispose the waste at
home. An environmental-impact study was carried out, and
Swiss authorities approved the project.
   "We took the lead on the issue, because we thought this
was the most responsible position," says Mr. Gujer, the
project's director. "It was part of our strategy of saying,
`OK, we have a problem. Let's deal with it.'"
   Worried residents, both at home and in neighboring West
Germany, saw only the problem. They hired Reinhold Zweidler,
a lawyer active in environmental affairs. He criticizes the
incinerator's "outdated" technology and its planned location,
near populated neighborhoods. Ciba-Geigy, which responds that
the incinerator needs to be placed near production sites, has
held public meetings with neighborhood residents to get its
point across.
   Last December, city officials dismissed the critics'
complaints. Mr. Zweidler appealed the decision and says he
will take the case all the way to the Swiss Supreme Court. He
concedes that he will probably lose, but adds that the entire
process could take three or four years. That delay annoys
Ciba-Geigy officials. "The critics have no credible
alternative," Mr. Rothweiler complains. "All they want is to
drag it out so long as to cause us problems."
   Nevertheless, Ciba-Geigy officials insist that they will
stick to their policy of dialogue and openness. "We're not at
the end of the day yet," says Gottfried Eigenmann,
Ciba-Geigy's director of environmental affairs. In the long
run, "a company which is reckless with the environment will
pay."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Big Board's David Marcus
   Is to Join Shearson Sept. 4
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SLH AXP
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- David Marcus, an executive vice president at
the New York Stock Exchange, soon will oversee Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc.'s legal and compliance departments.
   He also will be a senior executive vice president and a
member of the firm's executive committee, reporting to Howard
L. Clark Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Marcus succeeds David Hershberg, who resigned after
six years as general counsel. Mr. Hershberg's political base
within the firm decayed when Peter Cohen, Shearson's former
chairman, was ousted in January. Mr. Hershberg will remain
until Mr. Marcus joins the firm Sept. 4.
   At the Big Board, Mr. Marcus handled relations with
institutional investors and international regulatory
organizations, among others. He joined the exchange in 1982
from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., where he was counsel,
secretary and senior vice president for 13 years. Previously,
Mr. Marcus was branch chief and enforcement attorney at the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- International Banknote Co.:
   Merger With U.S. Banknote
   Approved by Shareholders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   UBK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Banknote Co. shareholders approved a merger
with U.S. Banknote Co. L.P.
   Under the terms of the agreement between the two New York
companies, each International Banknote common share has been
converted into one-fourth preferred share with a liquidation
value of $18 a share and one-half common share of the
combined company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shares of the new company, U.S. Banknote Corp., will trade
on a "when issued" basis on the American Stock Exchange under
the symbol UBK; yesterday the shares were quoted at an
indicated range of $2.50 to $3 a share. The company will have
eight million common and 1.5 million preferred shares
outstanding.
   U.S. Banknote Co., a printer of securities and currency
and producer of three-dimensional holograms used on credit
cards, will have estimated combined sales of about $135
million this year, said Morris Weissman, former chairman and
chief executive officer, who retains those titles at the new
company. Stanley Kreitman, former president, was named
president and chief operating officer of the new company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FAA Adopts Rule for Pilots
   Tied to Driving Violations
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Aviation Administration
adopted a rule designed to ground pilots who violate
drunken-driving laws or are convicted of traffic offenses
involving drugs.
   "This kind of behavior indicates an attitude that we
believe is not compatible with safe flying," said FAA
Administrator James B. Busey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Individuals applying for an FAA-required medical
certificate must consent to the release of information from
the National Driver Register to enable the FAA to obtain and
review motor vehicle offense information.
   Pilots also would be required to provide written
notification to the FAA on each alcohol or drug-related
driving conviction or administrative action within 60 days
after it occurred.
   The FAA could deny an application for a pilot certificate
or take action to suspend or revoke an existing certificate
if the pilot received two or more alcohol or drug-related
convictions or administrative actions within three years
after the effective date of the rule.
   The Air Line Pilots Association called the rule a "witch
hunt" and said, "The existence of alcohol-related driving
convictions does not correlate to flying a commercial
airliner while intoxicated. A federal district court upheld
this principle when it ruled that there was no basis for
drawing a similar connection for commercial truck drivers."
   The union said it would help any pilot who "falls victim
to the FAA's oppressive and invasive ruling."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Concurrent Computer Corp.:
   Substantial Loss Expected
   For Fiscal Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CCUR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Concurrent Computer Corp. said it expects to report a
substantial loss for the fiscal fourth quarter because of a
shortfall in estimated revenue.
   The supplier of real-time computer systems, based in
Tinton Falls, N.J., said it will cut its world-wide workforce
by about 15% to 20%, or between 435 and 580 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James K. Sims, chairman, president and chief executive
officer of Concurrent, attributed the revenue problem to
"confusion and hesitation" in the market for midsize
computers, caused by the trend toward products based on
certain software standards.
   The company has retained Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. to look at
ways to create a more conservative balance sheet. At the end
of the third quarter, Concurrent had approximately $35
million in equity and $180 million in debt.
   Concurrent posted a loss of $600,000 million, or three
cents a share, for the fourth quarter of 1989. Net income for
the fiscal 1990 third quarter was $200,000, or one cent a
share. Concurrent shares closed yesterday at 69 cents, down
75 cents, in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RMED International
   Says Net to Be $90,000
   For the Third Period
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEDONA, Ariz. -- RMED International Inc. expects to report
profit of $90,000, or two cents a share, for the third
quarter ended June 30.
   Barry Plaga, chief financial officer, said the result is
primarily attributable to the sale of a 50% interest in a
flushable-diaper patent to a Canadian investment firm in June
for $225,000. A year ago, the company had a loss of $415,562,
or 12 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, RMED conceded it is having problems bringing the
flushable diaper to market. In March, the company said the
diaper would be in production in May, but Edward Reiss,
chairman and president, said RMED couldn't find anyone to
make the diaper machine. The company is now building one from
"parts of old parts," a process that will take a few more
months, Mr. Reiss said.
   Messrs. Plaga and Reiss said they expect revenue to drop
sharply this year because three new competitors have entered
the biodegradable-diaper market. RMED's TenderCare diapers,
which the company claims decompose in landfills, had been its
core product, but "we lost the momentum," Mr. Reiss said.
   In the year ending Sept. 30, Mr. Plaga expects a loss of
$510,000, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $1.9 million to
$2 million. Last year, RMED had a loss of $1.6 million, or 48
cents a share, on revenue of $3.3 million.
   Mr. Reiss said consumer skepticism about products called
"biodegradable" also hurt sales. In March, for instance,
environmentalists specifically denounced TenderCare diapers,
charging that they don't truly break down in landfills.
   In response to such criticism, Mr. Reiss said RMED is
shifting advertising emphasis to stress that TenderCare
diapers have fewer chemicals than competitors'.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BSN Investor Group
   Boosts Stake, Seeks
   List of Shareholders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BSN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A Houston investor group increased its stake in
BSN Corp. and demanded a list of shareholders.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Pelham Investment Associates Limited Partnership said it
acquired 46,700 shares of the sporting-goods maker between
May 11 and July 16 for $5.28 to $5.77 a share. That increased
its stake in BSN to 7.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investment group said it is seeking the shareholder
list to solicit consents or proxies. The group said
previously that it had discussions with Michael Blumenfeld,
the company's president, about buying a substantial block of
BSN stock and gaining board representation. Mr. Blumenfeld
owns or controls about 15% of BSN stock.
   "We're not going to give them anything," Mr. Blumenfeld
said.
   Separately, BSN reported net income of $522,000 for the
second quarter, a 13% increase from the prior year's
$461,507. Per-share net rose 40% to 14 cents from 10 cents on
nearly one million fewer shares outstanding. Revenue rose
11%, to $25.2 million from $22.7 million.
   For the first half, net income was $347,076, or 15 cents a
share, up from $424,995, or nine cents a share. The most
recent period included an extraordinary credit of $198,924,
or five cents a share, from the early extinguishment of debt.
Revenue rose 11% to $47 million from $42.2 million.
   Mr. Blumenfeld attributed the gains to the cumulative
effect of a restructuring that began in 1988 and included
plant consolidations and management changes, among other
things. Having reached its projected goal of $3 million in
cash flow for the second quarter, and with a $9 million order
backlog, the company said it expects the third quarter to
produce "favorable operating comparisons" to year-earlier
results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Armacost to Join
   Investment Firm
   As General Partner
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MER
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Samuel Armacost is moving again.
   Yesterday, Mr. Armacost said he was leaving Merrill Lynch
to become a general partner at New York-based Weiss Peck &amp;
Greer, a closely held investment concern that specializes in
management buy-outs and venture capital, among other things.
Mr. Armacost said he will work out of Weiss Peck &amp; Greer's
office here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Armacost, 51 years old, said he's making the move
because it is a "unique opportunity . . . to work with people
who are friends and for whom I have high regard."
Additionally, he said the position gives him a chance to be
an owner. "I've been a hired management gun in two gigantic
operations," he said. "I think the trend is more toward
boutiques" that specialize in particular areas of finance,
"and I think being an owner will be a lot of fun."
   Mr. Armacost, who, rightly or wrongly, will probably be
forever branded as the man who took BankAmerica Corp. to the
brink of collapse, has been working as managing director for
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets since 1987, when he was forced
out as chief executive officer and president of BankAmerica.
At the time, BankAmerica was suffering from huge losses and
was in danger of failing. It has since recovered.
   Mr. Armacost always maintained that problems he inherited
from his predecessor, A.W. "Tom" Clausen, led to the bank's
later troubles. Mr. Armacost was succeeded by Mr. Clausen.
Though many of the restructuring moves and cost-cutting
measures that helped pull BankAmerica out of the mire were
initiated by Mr. Armacost before he was forced out, Mr.
Clausen now receives much of the credit for saving the bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   News Corp. Prepares to Upvalue Assets
   ---
   Its Acquisition Drive Slowed,
   It Now Seeks Stability
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. is
nearing the time when it customarily raises the value of its
assets, an exercise that supported acquisitions in its
empire-building past. Now, however, that revaluation practice
is part of the debt-laden media giant's efforts to shore up
its finances.
   Every three years, News Corp. revalues its publishing
rights, television licenses and titles. Analysts who track
the company expect it to write up the value of some of its
assets by a total of about 1 billion Australian dollars
(US$797.5 million). That's roughly the same Australian dollar
increase as in the 1987 revaluation, though because the base
amounts have grown, the expected write-up translates into a
smaller percentage increase in shareholders' equity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Richard Sarazen, a News Corp. director, says the
revaluation "is a policy we established six or seven years
ago." The company has been particularly tight-lipped about
the size of the latest planned revaluation, and Mr. Sarazen
declines to comment beyond saying, "We won't know the final
numbers until mid-August," when News Corp. will release
results for its 1990 financial year, ended June 30.
   In the past, the revaluation helped fuel the company's
rapid, debt-financed global expansion, often to the
disadvantage of U.S. competitors, who must adhere to stricter
accounting standards. Although most of News Corp.'s assets
are outside Australia, under Australian accounting rules the
company can periodically write up the value of certain assets
if its directors think the assets are worth more than the
purchase price. That practice, in turn, increases holders'
equity -- and News Corp.'s borrowing power.
   These days, though, the company, which is off the
acquisition trail, is depending on the revaluation as a
defensive tactic to reduce its leverage. Despite a flurry of
asset sales since March to further that reduction, the
company's debt is estimated to have ballooned to A$9 billion
from A$5.4 billion in 1988. The estimate excludes preference
shares that if counted as debt would raise the total to about
A$10 billion. And it doesn't take into account any financial
liability News Corp. might bear for its 50%-owned domestic
airline, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd., or its
joint-venture aircraft-leasing company, Ansett Worldwide
Aviation Services.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Murdoch could be forced to write down
certain of his U.S. assets, some analysts warn. And in
Australia, relatively high domestic interest rates are
putting pressure on asset values. The Australian government
also is maintaining a hard line on foreign ownership of the
country's newspapers, which could hold down the value of
those assets.
   In broadcast media, the government recently restricted
foreign ownership to 15% by any one party and a 20% total for
any company, but Australia hasn't any such legislated policy
on newspapers. However, a spokesman for Treasurer Paul
Keating, who is the final arbiter on foreign investment, says
the government intends to hold total foreign ownership in any
Australian newspaper below 15%.
   The Labor Party government of Prime Minister Bob Hawke has
spurned several overtures from foreigners who want to take
big stakes in local newspapers. The latest rebuff came in
June when British publisher Robert Maxwell proposed to
acquire 49% of the daily West Australian in Perth.
   Mr. Murdoch controls News Corp., which accounts for about
60% of Australia's newspaper sales. The Australia-born
entrepreneur changed his citizenship to American in 1985 to
comply with U.S. television-ownership rules. But Mr. Hawke
says Mr. Murdoch, the son of one of Australia's most famous
reporters, is a special case because he "started off as an
Aussie" and isn't considered a foreigner.
   Mr. Sarazen discounts the potential impact of foreign
ownership limits on News Corp.'s Australian media assets. But
analysts and bankers, who say the limits could make it more
difficult to write up those assets in the future, raise the
specter that their current value could be eroded.
   Restricting newspaper ownership "will rule out a lot of
buyers," says Viktor Shvets, who tracks News Corp. for Baring
Securities Ltd. Consequently, he says, "It will have a
detrimental impact on the value of the asset backing."
   Moreover, Mr. Shvets says News Corp. could come under
pressure to write down some of its investment in Triangle
Publications Inc., a U.S. publisher whose crown jewel is TV
Guide. In 1988, News Corp. paid US$3 billion for Triangle
Publications, a figure Mr. Shvets thinks was much too high.
   Based on analysts' projections, if News Corp. revalues its
assets by A$1 billion, that will increase shareholders'
equity by less than 15%, to A$8.2 billion, excluding
preference shares; that compares with 1987's revaluation that
increased shareholders' equity by 25%, to A$4.9 billion.
   George Batsakis, an analyst at the Melbourne brokerage
firm J.B. Were &amp; Son, is looking for an increase on asset
valuations, including News Corp.'s Fox Broadcasting Co. and
Fox TV stations in the U.S. and at Herald &amp; Weekly Times
Ltd., an Australian newspaper company that News Corp.
acquired in 1987 for A$2.3 billion.
   News Corp. has raised about A$1 billion from asset sales
since March, including the sale of 49% of its Hong Kong-based
South China Morning Post newspaper. But News Corp. also had
to bring its book-publishing arm, Harper Collins Publishers
Inc. -- and its estimated A$700 million debt -- onto its
books during the year ended June 30.
   According to Baring Securities estimates, News Corp. ended
its 1990 financial year with debt of A$9 billion and total
equity of A$9.5 billion, including A$1.2 billion in
convertible notes and A$1.3 billion in preference shares.
That gives News Corp. a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.95 to 1,
well below the 1.1 to 1 that News Corp.'s bank lenders
stipulate must exist every year on June 30.
   Meanwhile, some analysts are slashing their earnings
forecasts on News Corp. Last month, investment bank Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. cut its 1990 earnings estimate after tax, but
before extraordinary items, to A$215 million, or 76
Australian cents a share, from A$250 million, or 86 cents a
share. News Corp. earned A$496 million, or A$1.58 a share, in
the year ended June 30, 1989.
   Carla Bakker, the investment bank's London-based analyst,
still has a buy recommendation on the stock, but she is
cutting her estimates mainly because of "lower earnings than
expected in the U.S., due to the slowdown in advertising
growth which is affecting the company's magazines, newspapers
and TV stations."
   While she says the overall outlook on News Corp. is
"promising," she also trimmed her profit estimates for fiscal
1991 to A$490 million, or A$1.56 a share, from A$510 million,
or A$1.62 a share.
   J.B. Were's Mr. Batsakis is looking for an estimated A$250
million, or 84 cents a share, for the year just ended and
A$390 million, or A$1.21 a share, next year. With News
Corp.'s share price climbing above A$12, Baring Securities
says the stock is "a little expensive." In the currently
tight international credit environment, News Corp. is faced
with selling assets to finance its funding commitments, but
the cash-flow base will expand to meet those needs if the
company "can buy itself a grace period of 12 to 18 months,"
Baring said in a recent report.
   Still, Baring's Mr. Shvets expects News Corp. to "emerge
in the next two years as a much leaner and more concentrated
vehicle, with greater emphasis on the broadcasting side of
the business" including Sky Television, the company's
fledgling British satellite-TV service. Mr. Murdoch now says
Sky TV should break even by late 1991 or early 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bolar Pharmaceutical
   Recalls Four Drugs
   After Audit Process
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BLR
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   COPIAGUE, N.Y. -- Bolar Pharmaceutical Co. said it is
recalling four drug products that accounted for about 5% of
its sales and about 16% of income before taxes and
extraordinary items in 1989.
   The generic drug company, which in February stopped
selling all but about four or five products while it
continues to conduct an audit of its products, also said it
elected to stop manufacturing 14 additional drug products for
economic reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bolar said the products it was recalling aren't currently
being sold. Last year, before the company began recalling and
reviewing its products, Bolar had a line of more than 70
products.
   The recalls Bolar announced resulted from the audit
process. Bolar also said it was starting to submit
applications to the Food and Drug Administration for
reapproval of some drugs, which it didn't name, following the
audit.
   The FDA in March withdrew approval of Bolar's generic
version of Dyazide, a blood-pressure medicine. Bolar recalled
that drug in February as evidence mounted Bolar had passed
off brand-name drugs as its own to the FDA.
   Bolar said three of the products it is recalling are
pharmaceutical; their recall results from the company's
determination that the drugs weren't manufactured in
accordance with FDA approvals, or that Bolar's records don't
accurately reflect the composition or processes by which the
drugs or batches of them were manufactured.
   The fourth recall comes as a result of Bolar's
determination that test results on the drug, which were
necessary for FDA approval, can't be considered reliable.
Bolar said it had information indicating that the
Bolar-imprinted capsules may have contained material
manufactured by the brand name company to which the Bolar
version was compared.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Canadian Currency Nears 10-Year High
   Against Dollar, Backed by High Rates
   ----
   By Charles Tenny
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Canadian dollar, backed by high interest
rates, climbed closer to a 10-year high against the U.S.
currency.
   The U.S. unit was mixed against other major currencies in
quiet trading ahead of the scheduled release of U.S. gross
national product figures today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in the New York trading day, the Canadian dollar
stood at 86.75 U.S. cents, up from 86.69 cents in New York
late Wednesday. The Canadian dollar hasn't closed above 87
cents since July 10, 1980, when it finished at 87.14 cents.
Yesterday's rise prompted a modest intervention by the Bank
of Canada early in the North American trading day.
   The U.S. currency slipped to 1.6245 marks in late New York
trading from 1.6250 marks late Wednesday. Against the
Japanese currency, the dollar was changing hands at 150.37
yen, up from 149.89 yen. Sterling was trading at $1.8140, up
from $1.8117.
   In Tokyo Friday, the dollar was trading at 150.45 yen soon
after the opening; it closed at 150.11 yen in Tokyo Thursday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6253
marks, up from Tokyo's Thursday close of 1.6248 marks.
   Commenting on the Canadian currency's rise, David
Glowacki, a foreign-exchange trader at National Bank of
Detroit, said the market is bound to try to push the currency
higher. However, "the fact that we're so close to the
{10-year} high is also scaring some people off," he said.
   Canada has joined Australia and Britain as countries whose
currencies have strengthened largely because of high domestic
interest rates.
   For weeks, investors unsure of U.S. interest rates and
German economic stability have favored short-term investments
denominated in Canadian dollars.
   In fact, some traders attribute the Canadian dollar's
strength mostly to short-term worries about other currencies.
These jitters stem from mixed signals on U.S. rates by
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, some evidence
that German monetary union may be less than smooth, the
potential effect on Europe of Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev's domestic troubles and uncertainty about the
timing of Britain's full entry into the European Monetary
System.
   Margaret Stur, vice president for foreign exchange at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in New York, said she
expects the Canadian dollar to stay within a narrow range
against the U.S. unit for the near future. She added, "We
have no corporate interest, long-term, in selling {U.S.}
dollars for Canadian."
   The Bank of Canada intervened to damp its currency's rise
early in the North American session, traders said, by selling
Canadian dollars for U.S. dollars. The traders described the
intervention as "modest."
   In Europe, the dollar was modestly higher, helped largely
by the weakness of the yen against other major currencies.
   Traders in London, as in North America, said they were
hesistant ahead of the release of preliminary U.S.
second-quarter gross national product figures today.
   The dollar finished higher in Asia Thursday, ending in
Tokyo at 150.11 yen, compared with 149.13 yen Wednesday.
   Traders in Tokyo said the dollar will test the 151 yen
level over the next few days, with the next major target at
151.50 yen. The Japanese stock market's continued weakness
contributed to the yen's decline against most currencies. The
yen has also weakened on signs that the Bank of Japan won't
raise interest rates in the short term.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $369.30 an ounce, down $2.70. Estimated
volume was a moderate four million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at
$369.05 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arms Test:
   Doubts Are Raised
   About the Reliability
   Of the Cruise Missile
   ---
   Northrop's Navigation Unit
   May Balk in Deep Cold,
   Internal Documents Show
   ---
   Air Force Sheds Little Light
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC BA DOW GLW
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Air Force likes to boast of the years of "rigorous and
redundant testing" done to ensure the pinpoint accuracy of
its 1,715 nuclear-tipped cruise missiles.
   Maintaining such high standards is essential, of course,
given that each of the weapons carries a 200-kiloton warhead,
10 times more powerful than the bomb that exploded over
Hiroshima.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But heretofore secret Pentagon and corporate documents
raise disturbing questions about whether the cruise missile,
a mainstay of America's nuclear arsenal, is reliable when
exposed to the prolonged sub-zero temperatures at which it
was designed to operate. A fluid inside the weapon's
high-tech navigational system, these papers indicate, may
freeze long before it is supposed to.
   The Air Force and Northrop Corp., which supplied the
navigational system to prime contractor Boeing Co., have gone
to great lengths to mask the problem. A Boeing internal
report from January 1989, for example, shows that when the
suspect system was exposed to extremely low temperatures for
a prolonged period, its failure rate increased to the point
of being "unacceptable." But instead of fixing the part, the
Air Force simply decided to make the test less stringent
"until the cold-temperature behavior . . . was more fully
understood."
   The Justice Department has looked into aspects of the
problem in the past, and Northrop even pleaded guilty to
criminal charges of falsifying test results on the cruise
missile. But a decade of foot-dragging by the Pentagon and
Northrop has prevented Justice Department investigators and
lawmakers from fully understanding the low-temperature issue.
The air-launched cruise missile has become a glaring example
of how the military and its suppliers frequently work
together to keep vital but embarrassing information out of
the public eye.
   "It can only be called a cover-up," charges Rep. John
Dingell, chairman of a House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee, which will hold a hearing today delving into
the cold problem and other Northrop dealings with the
Pentagon. "I can't think of another word to apply to it."
   The Justice Department is expected to tell the panel that
Northrop's cozy relationship with Pentagon officials was
"highly damaging to our ability to prosecute" the company,
and that military officials, by providing Northrop with
"formal and informal waivers" of low-temperature
requirements, allowed the company to reduce its criminal
liability. A Northrop spokesman bristles: "They appear,
unfairly, to be trying us outside the courtroom."
   Despite the easing of U.S.-Soviet tensions, the cruise
missile remains a central element of what Defense Secretary
Dick Cheney calls a "strategy of fostering democracy and
peace . . . by maintaining nuclear deterrence." It is also an
important potential bargaining chip in arms-control talks.
Some argue further that weapons such as the air-launched
cruise missile, commonly called the ALCM, remain powerful
deterrents to Third World countries developing their own
nuclear weapons.
   In case of a crisis, high-flying B-52 bombers might linger
for hours over frigid terrain before releasing some of the 12
cruise missiles that hang under their wings. A militarywide
standard dictates that the missiles must be able to function
down to 65 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, a temperature often
encountered as the bombers soar six or seven miles above the
earth. Although there are safeguards to prevent a faulty
launch, the glitch with the navigational fluid could
conceivably throw a nuclear weapon off course.
   "We conclude that the fluid would not allow proper
operation below -35 F for extended periods of time," an April
1990 internal Air Force memo states. The document, which was
reviewed by this newspaper, notes that some Air Force experts
are concerned the missile may not have an adequate "safety
margin" to guarantee dependable operation.
   Officially, however, the Air Force insists that the ALCM
is "a reliable and fully mission-capable weapons system in
which we have complete confidence." According to the
Strategic Air Command, typical test flights subject the
missile to five hours of "sub-zero degree temperatures prior
to launch," and "as far as we can determine," there have been
no problems with its operational capability after hundreds of
flight tests.
   Northrop, which has argued that its manufacturing
processes were thoroughly checked out and approved by both
Boeing and the Air Force, points to the same numbers. Boeing,
though it declines comment, has echoed those statistics, too.
   Yet there is no doubt the Justice Department has
encountered opposition when trying to get behind those
figures.
   Northrop was indicted in April 1989 on charges of
falsifying test results on two weapons systems, including the
cruise. The government also accused the Los Angeles aerospace
company of providing navigational units for the missile that
didn't meet the 65-below-zero requirement.
   But nine months before those charges were brought, a
Justice Department letter to Tinker Air Force Base in
Oklahoma complained that "affirmative steps were taken" by
military officials there "to conceal" from criminal
investigators damaging information that the Northrop
navigational units "may freeze" and become "inoperative"
under certain conditions.
   A second Justice Department letter, written in November
1988 to the general then in charge of keeping the ALCM fleet
in tip-top shape, assailed the Air Force for ignoring
warnings that the missile could fail to function under
"likely combat conditions."
   A Los Angeles assistant U.S. Attorney, William Fahey,
wrote that some Air Force personnel seemed to believe that
because the Northrop-made parts "function well at room
temperature . . . therefore there is no need for concern
about performance in cold temperature." Such a stance, Mr.
Fahey added, "could undercut our legal position" in
prosecuting Northrop.
   Even after Northrop's indictment, Mr. Fahey was still
complaining to the Pentagon that if the Air Force wasn't more
careful in how it dealt with the company's requests for
waivers from cold standards and other requirements, it risked
"undermining our case." (The letters were obtained by Mr.
Dingell, who agreed to answer questions about them. Mr. Fahey
has been unreachable this week, his office said.)
   The prosecutor also accused Boeing, Northrop and Air Force
officials of negotiating a "confidence building" test plan
that "would not subject the {navigational units} to
cold-temperature testing under realistic conditions." Stung
by the criticism, the Air Force responded at the time that
its testing procedures "should be viewed as neutral,
independent assessments . . . made without reference to any
pending legal proceeding."
   Pentagon acquisition chief John Betti acknowledges that
over the years "there may have been isolated problems" when
defense officials hampered Justice Department investigators.
   "Our people aren't there only to help Justice make a
case," Mr. Betti says. He adds that the two agencies are now
determined to find "how we can work better together."
   Although Northrop eventually pleaded guilty to falsifying
certain tests on the cruise and the Navy's Harrier jet and
coughed up $17 million in penalties, the government signed a
settlement that dropped all the cold-temperature-related
charges. At the time, Mr. Fahey said abandoning the
cold-temperature allegation was simply a matter of "how much
you really need to squeeze out of a corporation before you've
made your point."
   Still, the haze surrounding the missile program leaves the
most important question of all unanswered: How well does the
air-launched cruise work in the real world?
   The cold-temperature standard seeks simply to assure that
the missile will work right at 65 below zero. But there has
been much dispute among Northrop, the Pentagon and the
Justice Department over how that temperature should be
measured, how long the parts need to be subjected to cold in
testing, and whether there should be a brief warm-up before
the navigational system has to perform. Northrop has
maintained that its scientists believe that the 65-below-zero
specification is meaningless because the navigational fluid
never gets anywhere near that cold, regardless of the
altitude or duration of a bomber flight.
   Yet the internal Boeing report, which reviews 41 bomber
missions, lists a dozen instances during the 1980s where the
temperature outside the aircraft was measured or estimated to
be lower than 65 below zero.
   The standard is "based on a world climatological study,"
explains Air Force Gen. Charles Franklin, who is in charge of
another project, the Amraam missile. Even Thomas V. Jones,
Northrop's chairman, conceded in a sworn deposition taken
last December: "I have seen 87 degrees minus {outside} our
own airplane."
   How much warmer it might be inside the missile, where the
Northrop navigational unit controls the autopilot, has been
the subject of intense debate. Congressional investigators
say the Air Force has told them heat generated by the
missile's electronic inner workings raises the internal
temperature at least 20 degrees.
   But in light of the temperatures recorded by Boeing, even
a 20-degree differential means the fluid in the ALCM's
navigational unit still could freeze, considering the
35-below-zero threshold that the Air Force document
identifies.
   The cruise missile, which weighs 3,000 pounds and is
nearly 21 feet long, is designed to drop down and hug the
ground as it speeds toward its target. The Northorp-built
navigational unit, formally called a flight-data transmitter,
helps keep the missile on a stable pre-planned path. It
consists of several gyroscopes surrounded by the viscous
fluid, known as DC-200.
   This silicone damping fluid sells for $3.40 a pound. But
on it center doubts about a $1.7 billion weapons program.
   Produced by Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical
Co. and Corning Inc., DC-200 comes in many versions and has
thousands of military and industrial uses, from clocks and
timers to transformers and switches. The manufacturer
contends Northrop was warned when it ordered the fluid that
it wouldn't function properly at colder than minus-40. "We
provided these specs to Northrop," says a Dow Corning
spokesman. "They took it from there."
   Northrop disputes that. In an internal report three years
ago, it said Dow Corning "has always provided our engineering
personnel with the assurance that our gyros would
successfully meet operating requirements at -65 F." A letter
from Dow Corning to Northrop, written years before
cruise-missile production even began, supports this
contention. It says data collected by Dow Corning showed
DC-200 to have "a freeze point of -67 F," adding that "this
material, if cooled rapidly, will remain liquid at
temperatures as low as -85 F due to supercooling."
   In any case, somewhere along the line, Northrop came to
realize it had a problem. Although the company insists that
its navigational unit meets all the tests required by the
government, Northrop's 1987 internal report, which has been
filed in U.S. district court in Los Angeles, states flatly:
"DC-200 does not meet the -65 F requirement and never did."
   Later tests provided corroboration. The January 1989
Boeing study, obtained by The Wall Street Journal, shows that
six out of nine gyroscopes failed after being kept at
minus-65 degrees for up to two hours; technicians at the
Seattle company had to raise the temperature to minus-40
before the DC-200 would thaw enough for all the gyros to spin
freely.
   Boeing, Northrop and the Air Force all discount the
significance of cold-temperature tests conducted in the
laboratory. Instead, the companies emphasize that frigid air
has triggered only two failures during hundreds of actual
test flights.
   But some wonder how valid the test flights have been.
Congressional investigators say the Air Force, apparently
wary of colder temperatures at higher altitudes, has urged
that the bombers carrying cruise missiles fly at a ceiling of
roughly 32,000 feet. Before the cold-temperature issue
erupted, Strategic Air Command crews were authorized to take
their planes to 50,000 feet.
   Further fallout from the cruise-missile imbroglio is
imminent. The House Government Operations Committee is
planning its own hearings this fall, examining the missile's
cold-temperature track record and whether the Air Force
should continue to provide new contracts to some Northrop
divisions. To continue things as usual with Northrop "creates
the spectacle of the government doing business with the very
same {individuals} who mugged the taxpayers in the first
place," says Rep. Frank Horton of New York, the ranking
Republican on the committee.
   The General Accounting Office is beginning to try to
determine whether other weapons that use DC-200 might
possibly be impaired, such as the B-1 bomber and the Harpoon
missile. Significantly, the nextgeneration air-launched
cruise missile doesn't include any fluid in its flight-data
transmitter.
   But the most serious repercussion could be on Northrop's
bottom line. Air Force Secretary Donald Rice is currently
weighing Justice Department suggestions to bar the subsidiary
that made the navigational components from new federal
contracts, say congressional investigators; the unit has been
suspended for the past year. Some prosecutors take the
extreme position that the entire corporation should be
barred.
   The strangest consequence of all, though, may stem from a
recommendation that some midlevel Air Force officials are now
passing up the chain of command. They want Northrop to
replace the DC-200 fluid in every air-launched cruise
missile. The company has balked, arguing that although there
are lots of fluids on the market that can better withstand
cold, such a switch might force other, more complex changes
to the missile.
   The Air Force, after long dancing around the problem, has
told the General Accounting Office that the move could cost
as little as $10 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900727-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900727-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MCU AMH TKR SLTI ASTA CBL EC LLTC AQM NWK U BS STO ALNT
MDU LEAF NUE NBL SDW ALS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Magma Copper B        $ .76  $ .54  (3) $ .49  (5)   40.74
  Amdahl Corp             .42    .34  (4)   .34 (10)   25.53
  Timken                  .85    .76  (3)   .79  (4)   11.84
  Surgical Laser          .17    ...        .10  (3)   70.00
  AST Research           1.18    ...        .88  (7)   34.09
  Corroon &amp; Black         .51    ...        .42  (7)   21.43
  Engelhard               .41    ...        .35  (6)   17.14
  Linear Technology       .20    ...        .18  (7)   11.11
  Nucor                   .87    ...        .81  (6)    7.41
  QMS Inc                 .34    ...        .32  (7)    6.25
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Netwk Equip Tech      ($.94) ($.09) (3) $ .07 (11)    ...
  USAir Group           (1.86)  (.68) (3)  (.15)(10)    ...
  Bethlehem Steel         .21    .49  (3)   .39  (5)   57.14
  Stone Container         .49    .56  (5)   .54 (10)   12.50
  Alliant Computer       (.09)   ...        .03  (4)    ...
  MDU Resources          (.20)   ...        .30  (3)    ...
  Interleaf              (.25)   ...       (.16) (3)    ...
  Noble Affiliates        .04    ...        .07  (6)   42.86
  Southdown               .38    ...        .49  (4)   22.45
  Allegheny Ludlum        .68    ...        .77  (3)   11.69

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
