<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Protein May Limit Damage
   In Heart Attacks, Arthritis
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TCEL SBE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scientists armed with a new genetically engineered protein
believe they have found a new way to manipulate the human
immune system to treat heart attacks and a range of
inflammatory diseases.
   Researchers at Johns Hopkins University medical school in
Baltimore and T Cell Sciences Inc. in Cambridge, Mass.,
reported that they used the new protein in rats to limit the
damage from heart attacks, and suggested that the protein
could do the same in humans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The research, which is being funded by SmithKline Beecham
PLC, also could lead to new therapies for arthritis and other
inflammatory diseases, the scientists suggested in their
report in this week's issue of Science. The report is an
elaboration of experiments briefly described by the
researchers last fall at the annual meeting of the American
Heart Association.
   The research involves a new way to block the action of a
part of the immune system known as the "complement system."
This is a collection of proteins that are activated when the
body is invaded by bacteria, fungi, viruses or other foreign
substances. Among other actions, the complement proteins
activate certain special blood cells to rush to an injured
area to clean up the debris left after the assault on, say, a
bacterium.
   One adverse side effect of activating these specialized
blood cells is that the cells can inadvertently trigger an
inflammation of normal tissues. This is believed to be the
cause of some inflammatory diseases such as certain types of
arthritis, and of disorders involving inflammation of the
blood vessels (vasculitis), the kidneys (glomerulonephritis)
and muscles (myasenthia gravis).
   Douglas T. Fearon and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins
reported that they had pinpointed one of the complement
proteins that can be used to block the complement system --
preventing, they hope, or at least damping the damaging
inflammatory response. The blocking protein engineered by T
Cell Sciences is a shortened version of a natural human
protein called complement receptor one (CR1).
   In its first animal test, the engineered CR1 protein
successfully limited the damage of a heart attack in rats. In
this test, Dr. Fearon teamed up with Myron R. Weisfeldt and
his colleagues at Johns Hopkins who have been exploring a
phenomenon called "reperfusion injury."
   In a heart attack, the initial damage to the heart muscle
is caused by a sudden blockage of blood flow by a blood clot.
Dr. Weisfeldt and others believe that additional damage to
the heart muscle occurs when blood flow is restored, as
happens when the new clot-dissolving drugs are used to get
rid of the blocking clot. This additional damage --
reperfusion injury -- is thought to be caused by
complement-activated blood cells that rush into the damaged
area with the restored flow.
   In the rat experiment, blood flow to part of the heart
muscle was temporarily stopped to simulate a heart attack and
then restored. In the animals treated with the engineered
CR1, the area of damage in the heart muscle was more than 30%
smaller than in animals that had "heart attacks" but weren't
treated with the protein, the researchers reported.
   In a second experiment, far fewer complement-activated
cells were found in the damaged area of the hearts of
CR1-treated rats than in untreated rats, indicating the
protein was, indeed, limiting heart damage by blocking the
complement system.
   At T Cell Sciences, Scientific Director Patrick Kung said
the company had licensed rights to the proteins from Johns
Hopkins and from Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston,
where Dr. Fearon began his research. Mr. Kung said the
biotechnology company hopes to begin trials of the CR1
protein in human heart-attack patients late next year.
   SmithKline Beecham, the big Anglo-American drug company,
is providing $10 million to $12 million to T Cell Sciences
for the preclinical studies of the complement-blocking
proteins and will fund human testing of the protein in return
for world-wide marketing rights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mainframe Memory Problems Mount
   As Computer Viruses Spread in Moscow
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The first attack came two years ago, at a
computer training center. Although the invader was quickly
neutralized, "we realized this was a real menace," recalls
one of the Soviet defenders.
   The intruder was a "virus," a software program designed to
infiltrate a computer's memory and disrupt the system, that
somehow got into the center's personal computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The event alarmed Soviet computer scientists; though
common in the West, this form of computer sabotage had been
little known in the East. After all, a computer virus needs
computers -- and computers haven't exactly been plentiful
here.
   But the number of Soviet computers is growing, and with
them are beginning to appear viruses and other hazards
familiar in Western computing. Since 1988, Soviet computer
scientists have recorded 15 virus attacks around their
country. Soviet media have even reported on the disgruntled
Volga Auto Works employee who sabotaged the computer running
a car-production line.
   To cope, a tiny industry is emerging here, much as in the
West, to offer protection for harried computer managers.
   After years of unconcern, "there's a lot of interest" in
viruses now among Soviet computer scientists, says Prof.
Seymour Goodman, a specialist on Soviet computing at the
University of Arizona. While Soviet expertise in this area is
still limited, he notes, "they seem to sense it's something
they ought to know about."
   Even the KGB is interested. One Soviet computer scientist
says he was questioned by his country's intelligence service,
which wondered if the viruses could be Western sabotage. He
told them that was implausible -- but that their suspicions
were understandable.
   The U.S. Army's Center for Signals Warfare recently
announced plans to study the feasibility of computer-virus
warfare. The $50,000 technical study isn't aimed specifically
at the Soviet Union or any other country, says Richard
Poisel, the center's research chief. But he adds, though he
doesn't know for sure, that the Soviet military may have
begun similar studies.
   Viruses appeared in the U.S. in the early 1980s. Initially
a hackers' diversion, they can be as innocuous as a program
that flashes a rude message on the monitor or as destructive
as one that garbles a computer's memory. Typically, they
escape notice as part of a legitimate program, and they
spread from computer to computer on floppy disks or over
electronic networks.
   Moscow once insisted that computer viruses were a uniquely
Western problem. Computer hackers, mischievous or not, are
rare in the Soviet Union, as are the machines themselves (the
country has at most one million personal computers -- about
as many as in one average U.S. state). Big computer networks,
a common vector for viruses in the West, are rarer still.
   Besides, computers occupied until recently a sacrosanct
place in Kremlin ideology: They were regarded as space-age
management tools that would perfect communism, giving Soviet
central planners unprecedented power to monitor and direct
the nation's economy.
   Thus, the awakening was a rude one. "We have read some
incredible stories of computer viruses causing billions of
dollars of losses to computer centers in some remote
capitalist countries, but we never took them seriously,"
wrote several researchers at the U.S.S.R. Academy of
Science's Program Systems Institute, in an article published
in an academy journal.
   The big computer-research institute was the first to
discover that the Soviet Union isn't immune to viruses. In
the summer of 1988, it was running a computer training
facility outside Moscow for bright youngsters from 20
countries. One personal computer began to malfunction,
apparently stuck on a command to keep restarting itself.
Subsequent research found that the cause was a virus,
imported inadvertently on a floppy disk carried by one of the
foreign computer students. Institute specialists, who
expunged the virus after 18 hours, found the experience
disturbing. "The PC seemed to have a will of its own," the
scientists wrote. "We felt like doctors confronted with an
unknown disease."
   Sergei Abramov, an institute official interviewed here,
says that since then he and his colleagues have recorded 14
other cases of virus attack in the Soviet Union. The targets
included an institute that designs civilian-aircraft engines,
and another that designs components for the Soviets' ES range
of mainframe computers. Almost all the viruses whose origins
could be traced emanated from the West. One, however, came
from Bulgaria. Called Dark Avenger, it was carried into the
Soviet Union by a Soviet marine-research vessel plying the
Black Sea near Bulgaria; the ship's computers were using
floppy disks obtained locally.
   In response, the country's computer labs and a few private
cooperatives have begun mobilizing. Already, computer
specialists say, as many as 150 "anti-virus" programs are
circulating in the Soviet Union -- some pirated from the
West, others designed locally.
   But sometimes the cure can be worse than the disease. An
early version of an anti-virus program designed by Mr.
Abramov's colleagues was itself found to be inadvertently
carrying a virus. The researchers didn't intend the program
for release, but in a country where software piracy abounds,
the virus quickly spread outside the lab on a pirated floppy
disk.
   Now, Mr. Abramov explains, he can track the pirated
version's spread around the Soviet Union by reports of its
accompanying virus. "The last time we saw it," he says, "was
in Vladivostok."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Skids After Greenspan Testifies
   That Fed Might Let Interest Rates Fall
   ----
   By Charles Tenny
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar dropped against all other major
currencies after U.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan said the Fed stands ready to ease monetary policy
if market conditions warrant.
   "The dollar was absolutely crushed" by the comment, said
Charles Lieberman, an economist at Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Co. in New York. Cynthia Johnson, vice president and
corporate manager at Lloyds Bank in New York, called trading
"very, very active."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dollar, which was higher Wednesday, held most of those
gains in Asian and European trading, as those markets closed
before Mr. Greenspan addressed the Senate Banking Commitee in
Washington.
   He told the senators there is "some evidence" that banks
in the U.S. are keeping credit tighter than the Fed expected
and that the U.S. central bank might therefore have to
consider bringing down its interest rates.
   "The initial shock of the statement," said Jack Stapleton,
chief corporate dealer at Standard Chartered Bank PLC in New
York, "scared everyone into oblivion." Falling U.S. interest
rates could prompt some conversion of funds from dollars into
higher-yielding currencies.
   The dollar reached its intraday lows 25 to 30 minutes
after the Greenspan statement, sinking as far as 1.6310 marks
and 146.75 yen from 1.6609 marks and 148.80 yen about an hour
earlier. At the same time, the British pound strengthened to
an intraday high of $1.8180 from $1.7885.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.6340 marks, down from 1.6560 marks late Wednesday. The U.S.
currency was also changing hands at 147.30 yen, down from
148.50 yen a day earlier. Sterling was trading at $1.8133, up
from $1.7990.
   In Tokyo Friday, the dollar was trading at 147.35 yen soon
after the opening, down from Thursday's Tokyo close of 148.90
yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6383
marks, down from Thursday's Tokyo close of 1.6568 marks.
   Currency traders have been saying for months that easier
U.S. credit was coming, but hearing it from Mr. Greenspan
triggered rapid selling of dollars. "He said the `E' word,"
said David Gilmore, a foreign exchange analyst for McCarthy,
Crisanti &amp; Maffei in New York. By "`E' word," Mr. Gilmore
meant easing of credit.
   Still, traders said the fall in the dollar doesn't
necessarily mean any erosion of confidence in the strength of
the U.S. economy. "It's not a confidence question,"
Manufacturers Hanover's Mr. Lieberman said. "It's a question
of portfolio managers taking advantage of yield
differentials" in seeking out higher interest rates.
   Mr. Greenspan's comments helped the pound recover losses
it had in European trading. Sterling reached its intraday low
of $1.7755 soon after the beginning of London trading.
   Along with a growing expectation that Britain's high
interest rates will soon decline, the currency's fall was
attributed to comments by Nicholas Ridley, Britain's trade
and industry secretary. Mr. Ridley was highly critical of
West Germany, France and the European Community Commission in
an interview published in the conservative U.K. weekly
magazine The Spectator.
   Mr. Ridley retracted his comments and issued an apology,
but the pound was sold amid speculation that the comments
reflected the thinking of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
and that she might seek to delay sterling's entry into the
exchange-rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   In answer to a question in the House of Commons, however,
Mrs. Thatcher said she doesn't share Mr. Ridley's views on
Europe and denied that he was speaking for the government.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery rose $4 to $358.10 an ounce. Estimated volume was a
moderate 4.2 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at
$357.55 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, July 12, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/4% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.15% 30 to 44 days; 8.125% 45 to 59days;
8.075% 60 to 89 days; 8.05% 90 to 119 days; 8% 120 to 149
days; 7.95% 150 to 179 days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.10% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.69% one month; 7.71% two
months; 7.73% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.18% one month; 8.18% three months;
8.23% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.08% 30 days; 7.98% 60 days; 7.94%
90 days; 7.90% 120 days; 7.85% 150 days; 7.78% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% one month; 8 3/8%
- 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8 3/8% - 8
1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8 7/16% - 8
5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 1/2% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.81% 13 weeks; 7.75% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.12%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.07%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.80%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.78%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Surplus
   In Trade Rose
   By 28% in June
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's trade surplus for June surged, and some
economists say the politically sensitive trade surplus, which
has eased substantially since 1988, is likely to grow again
in coming months.
   The 28% increase in the June surplus, to $6.72 billion
from the year-earlier $5.27 billion, occurred despite a 10%
decrease in the bilateral surplus with the U.S. That was more
than offset by a 57% surge in Japan's surplus with other
Asian nations and a 4% increase in its surplus with the
European Community.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The overall June increase "puts the trade surplus back on
a rising path for the second half of the year," said Kermit
L. Schoenholtz, an economist with Salomon Brothers Inc. in
Tokyo. "I think we're getting exactly the kind of switch
toward exports and away from imports that you'd expect as a
result of 15 months of a soft yen." The lower value of the
yen makes imports to Japan more expensive while making the
price of Japanese exports more competitive on world markets.
   The Ministry of Finance said exports during June rose 4.8%
to $23.76 billion from the year-earlier $22.68 billion,
marking the first year-to-year increase in nine months.
Imports, which had shown strong growth for most of the past
year, fell 2.2% to $17.04 billion from $17.42 billion.
   Kenneth Courtis, a Tokyo-based economist for Deutsche Bank
AG, said the June figures also reflect strong growth in
Europe and "exploding" demand in Asia.
   "Three to four years ago, if the U.S. had slowed down as
it has now, Japanese exports would have gone into the tank,"
Mr. Courtis said. But with Japan's total trade with Asian
nations having surpassed its total trade with the U.S. last
November, "there is a tripod structure in Japanese exports
that wasn't there in the past." Trade between Japan and the
rest of Asia during June totaled $12.27 billion, with
Japanese exports exceeding imports by $2.86 billion. By
comparison, two-way trade with the U.S. totaled $11.56
billion for the month.
   Although the trade surplus with the U.S. continued to
shrink, to $3.25 billion from the year-earlier $3.62 billion,
that trend is likely to reverse during the second half of
1990, Mr. Schoenholtz said. "Concerns about that {imbalance}
aren't going to go away very soon," he said. Exports to the
U.S. in June fell 6.7%, to $7.4 billion from $7.93 billion,
while imports declined 3.7%, to $4.15 billion from $4.31
billion.
   The U.S. and Japan last month agreed to take steps to
solve structural problems in both countries that are believed
to contribute to the trade imbalance. But any sustained
widening of Japan's bilateral surplus could once again fuel
political pressures for protectionism in the U.S.
   Some economists, however, predict Japan's surpluses will
continue to shrink gradually over the long term -- even if
they do rise again during the next few months. In the short
term, the surplus "won't shoot up the way it did in the
past," said Nobuyuki Ueda of the Long-Term Credit Bank of
Japan. And over the next four or five years, he said,
structural factors such as increased overseas production by
Japanese companies should bring the surplus down -- at least
as a percentage of the nation's total output.
   The June figures leave Japan's surplus for the first half
of 1990 at $25.79 billion, shrinking 23% from $33.39 billion
in the year-ago period. Exports for the six months declined
1.4%, to $133.94 billion from $135.83 billion, while imports
rose 5.6%, to $108.15 billion from $102.43 billion.
   After seasonal factors were taken into account, the June
surplus stood at $6.92 billion -- more than double the $3.39
billion figure for May. Adjusted exports rose 10.9% to $23.85
billion, while imports dropped 6.6% to $16.93 billion.
   Mr. Schoenholtz said the monthly trade surplus is unlikely
to stay as high as the June figure in the next few months,
but he predicted it would "rise on average toward $6 billion"
-- substantially above the average levels of recent months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Investors
   Raise $1 Billion
   For Workout Fund
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chicago investors Samuel Zell and David Schulte have
raised $1 billion for a so-called workout fund, aimed at
rescuing financially troubled companies.
   The Zell/Chilmark Fund obtained institutional investors'
commitments yesterday for one of the largest capital pools in
the burgeoning business of restructuring companies that took
on too much debt in the late-1980s heyday of high-risk,
high-yield junk bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Zell, chairman of Chicago-based Equity Financial and
Management Co., promotes himself as "the Grave Dancer" and
delights in profiting from business wreckage. Investors, he
says, have called his new fund "the Grave Dancer Fund."
   The fund will attempt to make investments to gain
operating control of companies and resolve their financial
problems at the same time. "The thesis of this whole fund is
`good company, bad balance sheet.' This is not a turnaround
fund or a company-doctor fund," Mr. Zell said.
   One of the Zell/Chilmark investors said yesterday that the
type of situation ripe for an investment by the new fund is
Interco Inc., a St. Louis furniture and shoe company, which
took on $1.8 billion in debt to fight off a 1988 bid by a
corporate raider, but defaulted on its debt last month.
   Mr. Schulte, managing partner of Chilmark Partners, a
Chicago-based investment banking boutique specializing in
reorganizations, said he believes "cash will make a great
deal of difference" in persuading holders of bonds of
distressed companies to accept new securities. Before forming
Chilmark in 1984, Mr. Schulte led a reorganization group at
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Mr. Zell is best known for an investment in Itel Corp., a
container-leasing company that filed for bankruptcy-law
protection from creditors in 1981 and emerged through
reorganization in 1983. Mr. Zell, who became chairman in
1985, claims an annual return on his investment of more than
70%.
   The fund aims to put the money to work within six years,
and will have an estimated life of ten to twelve years before
its investments are sold and the capital returned to its
investors. The fund's goal is an annual return rate of 40%.
   Placement agent for the fund was Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
Management fees for the partnership start at 1.9% annually of
commitments under $20 million, declining to 1.25% for
investments greater than $125 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Crude Steel Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French companies produced 1,713,000 metric tons
of crude steel in June, up 1.7% from a year earlier, the
National Steel Manufacturers' Association said. A metric ton
is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   The June result brings French output for the first half of
this year to 9,947,000 metric tons, down 3.7% from a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Lazare Kaplan International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   LKI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAZARE KAPLAN INTERNATIONAL Inc. said it plans a public
offering of one million common shares, with proceeds to be
used to pay down short-term debt. The New York-based
distributor of diamonds and jewelry said it filed a
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and expects the offering to begin in mid-August.
It currently has about 3.1 million shares outstanding and
short-term debt of about $22.5 million. Lazare said the
offering will be managed by Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Futures Aren't Bright at This Exchange
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There were plenty of grand pronouncements 10
years ago when the New York Stock Exchange held a gala
opening for its financial-futures market, the New York
Futures Exchange.
   "Whatever Chicago can do, we can do better," boasted
then-Mayor Ed Koch as the new market burst upon the scene.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Today, however, Mr. Koch isn't in office, the Chicago
financial-futures pits remain teeming, and the New York
Futures Exchange has become nearly invisible.
   Traders at the NYFE (pronounced "knife") are so upset
these days with the faltering trading volume that they're
nearly rebelling against the futures exchange's owner, the
Big Board. Traders have even bantered about a "dues" strike,
although longtime trader Clay Tompkins, a vice chairman of
the exchange's floor committee, says there aren't any real
plans for such a strike.
   Traders and futures-industry executives wonder how long
the Big Board will support an exchange where seat prices have
fallen to $100 apiece from as much as $35,000 a few years
ago. Volume accounts for less than 1% of the U.S. futures
industry's total.
   "The reason the New York Stock Exchange maintains NYFE is
because it gives them a private lookout into the futures
industry," says a former member of the NYFE board, which once
boasted 31 members but now is down to six. The once-grand
aspirations of the market have long evaporated.
   Trouble erupted most recently on June 26 at a members'
meeting here. Only about 60 traders showed up, and most of
them seemed to have complaints. Lewis Horowitz, a Big Board
executive vice president and NYFE chairman, tried to assure
the traders that the exchange continues to have the backing
of Richard Grasso, the Big Board's president. Mr. Horowitz
said, "There is not now, and never has been, any talk of
closing the exchange down."
   Still, members' dissatisfaction with NYFE continues to
grow. Complaints have been aired about Mr. Horowitz's salary
and bonus, believed to total more than $550,000 for 1989. One
former board member notes that Leo Melamed, president of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange where 60 times as many contracts
are traded as at NYFE, gets a salary of $500,000. (A Big
Board spokesman says Mr. Horowitz's salary also reflects his
other duties as Big Board executive vice president for equity
sales.)
   Members' complaints cover nearly every aspect of the
exchange -- from the contracts it trades to the way the
exchange is managed. High on the dissatisfaction list is the
lack of support for NYFE contracts, especially the futures
contract on the Big Board's composite index of stock prices.
(NYFE also trades futures on the Commodity Research Bureau,
or CRB, index of commodities prices.)
   Mr. Grasso, the Big Board president, declined to be
interviewed for this article.
   Unlike other futures exchanges, NYFE isn't owned by its
members, but by the Big Board. NYFE seats don't confer
equity, or ownership -- only the right to trade.
   Warren Seeley, the largest trader in the CRB futures
contract on NYFE, says the result is unresponsive
administration. "The current management of the exchange has
to answer only to the officers of the Big Board and not to
the members {of the NYFE}," he says. The stock exchange
appoints members to NYFE's board.
   Many exchange members believe that the only way NYFE can
be saved is by structural changes that make it more like
other exchanges with the members' being the owners. Mr.
Tompkins, the floor vice chairman, met this past week with
Mr. Grasso for a "philosophical discussion" of the NYFE's
future. According to Mr. Tompkins, Mr. Grasso told him the
stock exchange wasn't willing to sell NYFE at any price the
members could afford to pay. The Big Board in any case wants
NYFE to keep its presence in the futures industry, Mr.
Tompkins says he was told.
   Mr. Tompkins says NYFE is doomed unless a way is found to
lower margins, or good-faith deposits needed to trade, on the
Big Board composite contract to around $3,500 from a current
level of $9,000. Mr. Horowitz, the NYFE chairman, doesn't
agree. "Reductions in margins don't increase business," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Euralair Upgrades Airbus Order
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ABI F.ASP G.MES U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Airbus Industrie said the French charter carrier
Euralair upgraded previously announced commitments for two of
the European aircraft consortium's A-321 jets into two firm
orders and an option on one additional plane. Financial
details weren't disclosed, but people in the industry
estimate an A-321's price at about $40 million.
   Airbus, based in Toulouse, said the planes will be
delivered in the spring of 1995 and used on flights to
Mediterranean resorts. Each plane will be equipped to seat
about 200 passengers in an all-economy layout. Airbus said
Euralair hadn't made an engine choice.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Airbus is a consortium among Aerospatiale of France,
Messerschmitt-Boelkow Blohm G.m.b.H. of West Germany, British
Aerospace PLC and Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stephens Holding Co. Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Stephens Holding Co., parent of the
investment banking firm Stephens Inc., said it acquired
Dallas-based First Continental Financial Corp. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   First Continental, which underwrites tax-exempt leasing
deals for government entities, will operate as a wholly owned
subsidiary of Stephens.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Declined in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 350,000
the week ended June 30, from 365,000 the previous week, the
Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended June 23 rose to a seasonally adjusted
2,440,000, or 2.3% of those covered by unemployment
insurance, from 2,439,000 the previous week, when the insured
unemployment rate was also 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended June 23 rose to 2,234,400, from 2,218,200 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lockheed Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOCKHEED Corp. (Calabasas, Calif.) -- Gary Bowring was
named president of a newly formed unit, Lockheed Commercial
Aircraft Center Inc., which will modify and maintain Boeing
747 aircraft. The new subsidiary will be based in San
Bernardino, Calif. Mr. Bowring joined Lockheed from the Dee
Howard division of Aeritalia in San Antonio, Texas, where he
was general manager and chief operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Diasonics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DIA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DIASONICS Inc. (Milpitas, Calif.) -- Roderick A. Young, 46
years old, was named president and chief executive officer of
this maker of medical-diagnostics equipment. Mr. Young
succeeds Ruediger Naumann-Etienne, 43, who left the company
to form an international investment advisory firm. Mr.
Naumann-Etienne will remain a member of the Diasonics board.
Mr. Young was president of Toshiba America MRI Inc., the
former Diasonics MRI division that Toshiba Corp.'s U.S. unit
acquired last year.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   RODERICK A. YOUNG was named president and chief operating
officer of Diasonics Inc. Mr. Young's title was misstated in
Friday's edition.
   (WSJ July 16, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ross Stores Inc.'s Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROST
</CO>
<LP>
   NEWARK, Calif. -- Ross Stores Inc., which operates a
national chain of retail apparel stores, said sales for the
five weeks ended last Saturday rose 11% to $73 million from
$66 million a year earlier. Sales at stores open at least one
year were flat.
   The company had 161 stores in operation at the end of the
latest period, up from 143 a year earlier. For the five
months ended last Saturday, sales rose 7.4% to $304 million
from $283 million a year earlier. Comparable-store sales fell
3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Firm Offers a Car
   As an Incentive to Recruits
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's labor shortage has become so acute that
one company is offering recruits a brand new car.
   Maruwa Orimono K.K., a small producer of synthetic-fiber
fabrics in western Japan, said it took the step "to enhance
our corporate image and thus to help secure workers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While it has been common for companies to offer corporate
housing to attract workers to crowded Japanese cities, this
appears to be the first time a company has offered cars as an
employment incentive. (Kentucky Fried Chicken recently sent
some of its first-year employees on an all-expenses-paid trip
to Hawaii.)
   A spokesman for the company, which has 110 employees, says
the labor supply situation in the area is "so bad" that for
the past three years the company hasn't been able to hire a
single high-school graduate. He says that with major
companies hiring away most fresh graduates from the region,
the ratio of job offers to applicants in the area now stands
at about three to one. It is far higher than the nationwide
figure of 1.41, which is the highest in the past 16 years.
   After a three-month probation period, a Maruwa Orimono
recruit is entitled to the car, but the recruit must be
younger than 35 years.
   Recruits can choose any car they like with a price ceiling
of about 1.5 million yen ($10,095). They aren't required to
return the car if they quit.
   Since the decision was publicized in a local newspaper
Monday, the spokesman said, two or three people have made
inquiries with the company, but by Tuesday no one had been
hired yet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lydall Inc. Says Second-Quarter Profit
   Was Flat or Up a Bit on 8% Sales Drop
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LDL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANCHESTER, Conn. -- Lydall Inc., citing a general
slowdown in the economy, said its second-quarter net income
was flat to slightly higher on a sales decline of about 8%
from the year-ago period.
   The maker of fiber-based industrial products expects to
report net income of $2.2 million to $2.3 million, or 76 to
79 cents a share, on sales of about $32 million, Leonard
Jaskol, president and chief executive officer, said in an
interview. Analysts were expecting net income of 80 cents a
share, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-ago quarter, Lydall earned $2.2 million, or 75
cents a share, on sales of $34.9 million.
   Mr. Jaskol asserted that sales have slowed because of the
phasing out of several product lines and because some markets
aren't as "vibrant" as last year, although he said the
company isn't losing market share.
   Lydall still expects earnings for all of 1990 to grow 11%
to about $3 a share from $7.9 million, or $2.70 a share, in
1989. Sales will be about the same as last year's $128.4
million.
   Mr. Jaskol noted that in the past year, Lydall has phased
out three product lines in its Manning non-wovens division.
The products, inherited when Lydall acquired Manning Paper
Co. in 1986, didn't fit with Lydall's technology and were
draining too many resources, the company said. Mr. Jaskol
said the phase-outs cost the company about $2 million in
sales for the second quarter.
   Lydall's strongest business segments are air and liquid
filtration media -- used in applications such as genetic
engineering and medical laboratories -- and thermal barriers
-- used in the automotive and refrigeration industries, among
others.
   Lydall's filtration media business, which grew 38% last
year, is growing at a slower pace this year, in part because
of a slowdown in sales in South Korea after a record year
last year.
   Mr. Jaskol said Lydall's blood filter media, which filters
out contaminants in blood, is becoming increasingly popular
with hospitals as concern about AIDS and other blood-related
diseases becomes more acute. Lydall recently agreed in
principle to become sole supplier of filtering media for
oxygenators and cardiotomy filters to a unit of medical
supplier Baxter Travenol Inc. for at least two years.
   Lydall is developing a number of other medical filter
media, including a blood filter that will filter out white
blood cells from blood.
   Lydall's thermal barriers -- which are used in numerous
industries as shields from intense heat or cold -- are also
selling at a slower pace this year because of a slowdown in
the auto industry, the company said. The segment grew 52% in
1988 and 25% last year. Mr. Jaskol said he sees continued
growth this year and in 1991, but to a lesser degree.
   The company said it has an agreement with Ford Motor Co.
to help solve heat management problems in Ford's products.
Mr. Jaskol said Lydall may soon get approval to place a new
exterior shield product on some of Ford's noncommercial vans
and trucks -- a "significant" move that would boost revenue
and possibly persuade other U.S. auto makers to buy the
shield as well.
   Lydall said it expects to receive a $500,000 grant from
the New York State Energy Commission to help develop a
product that provides insulation in refrigerators considered
superior to the commonly used chlorofluorocarbon foam. This
foam is considered environmentally damaging and may soon be
banned, said Mr. Jaskol.
   If the foam is banned, Lydall's thermal barrier could be
in widespread use within two years, said Mr. Jaskol. Lydall's
product, however, will cost more than the currently used
foam, Mr. Jaskol added.
   Lydall said it is interested in acquiring related
companies, particularly in Europe, where Lydall sees growth
potential. Lydall has begun talking to several companies
already but hasn't made a decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Medical Journal's Relman
   Plans to Retire Next Year
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Arnold S. Relman, editor in chief of the
New England Journal of Medicine, announced plans to retire
from the post next June.
   Dr. Relman, 67 years old, was named editor of the medical
journal in 1977 and assumed his current post in 1988. In
announcing his decision, he said he plans to devote himself
"more to writing and teaching, and to participate more fully
in public policy debates on American health care." Dr. Relman
is also a part-time professor at Harvard Medical School.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New England Journal of Medicine is published by the
Massachusetts Medical Society. As the journal's chief, Dr.
Relman is one of the nation's most prominent doctors. His
views have helped shape medical opinions and policies at a
time when the health-care system has undergone rapid changes.
   During his tenure, the journal has emphasized issues of
broad medical and scientific interest. Among other things, it
published articles that helped identify and explain acquired
immune deficiency syndrome, toxic shock syndrome and
Legionnaires' disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stone Container Corp.
   Lines Up $400 Million
   In Standby Financing
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   STO
</CO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Stone Container Corp. said banks are willing to
lend it an additional $400 million, an amount that could help
it ride out an earnings slump and repay other debt coming due
in September.
   Investors appeared to welcome Stone's announcement of
additional financing. The paper and packaging company's stock
closed at $17, up 87.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stone grew rapidly over the past five years, mostly by
making acquisitions with borrowed money. After its biggest
and most recent purchase, the $2.2 billion takeover of
Consolidated-Bathurst Inc. in 1989, Stone emerged as the
second-largest paper company in North America.
   But Stone's business outlook has weakened this year amid a
general downturn in the paper industry, and the company
reported a 58% drop in first-quarter earnings. In recent
weeks, Wall Street analysts have been cutting their earnings
estimates for Stone "pretty severely," says Robert Schifini,
a researcher at Institutional/Brokers/Estimate/System.
   Arnold Brookstone, Stone's chief financial officer, said
the new $400 million standby credit facility "isn't an
expression of any inability to make our payments. We are a
very conservative company. We believe in planning for
contingencies before anything happens."
   In recent weeks, attention has focused on Stone's
scheduled repayment of its $2.6 billion in senior long-term
debt, much of which was taken on to pay for the
Consolidated-Bathurst acquisition. Although Stone has been
able to make interest payments with ease, it also is
obligated in September to repay $175 million of its bank
debt, with more repayments to follow.
   The new credit facility, Mr. Brookstone said, provides an
additional possible source of cash to make its $175 million
debt repayment this year. He said the repayments could also
be made from operating cash flow or by temporarily borrowing
more money under a bank revolving-credit facility.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Destructive Viruses
   Have Now Spread
   To Japanese PCs
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY J.SRP J.FUT JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Personal computer viruses, virtually unheard of a
few years ago in Japan, are spreading here, government and
industry officials fear.
   NEC Corp., Japan's largest PC maker, announced this week
that an unspecified number of its flagship 9800-series models
are infected with a "Christmas" virus that can wipe out
certain large application programs when the computer's
calendar reaches Dec. 25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, Sharp Corp. said a game program compatible with
its X-68000 PC was infected with a virus, and press reports
said about half the 3,000 programs sold were tainted. In May,
Fujitsu Ltd. discovered a virus in 20 on-site computers that
would become active on any Friday the 13th.
   "Those three cases may be a warning," said Shinjuro Ogino,
director of the software technology center of the
government-affiliated Information-Technology Promotion
Agency. "I'm afraid there will be an increase of computer
viruses for Japanese personal computers."
   Japan has lagged far behind other developed nations in
personal computer use, but sales are now taking off, and with
the growing popularity may come growing computer crime.
   An agency survey of nearly 400 Japanese companies reported
only one virus complaint in 1986, two in 1987, and seven in
1988. But the survey showed 30 complaints in 1989, and six in
the first three months of 1990. Mr. Ogino said most of those
cases involved machines imported from the U.S., where viruses
are far more common. He said he worried that the recent
viruses may have targeted Japanese machines specifically.
   Fujitsu and NEC said the cases announced this year were
the most serious they had ever found.
   In the NEC virus, when the computer's calendar turns to
Dec. 25, the words "A Merry Christmas to You]" appear on the
screen, and applications larger than 30,720 bytes are
destroyed.
   Sharp discovered two similar viruses in programs for the
computer game Farside Moon for its machines. One strain,
designed to turn on once a month beginning this month, is
supposed to destroy data on the floppy disk and could also
damage the machine's components, according to Japanese press
reports.
   The Fujitsu virus gradually expands to fill the computer's
memory and prevent the PC's use. On a Friday the 13th, which
occurs this week, the application program is destroyed.
   Spokesmen for Fujitsu and NEC said no damage had been
done. A Sharp spokesman couldn't be reached for comment.
   "Software delivered by the software vendors or
manufacuters is okay," said a Fujitsu spokesman, but
"software is becoming more popular to share among colleauges,
so there's more possibility that the virus move from one PC
to another PC."
   But an official in the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry who is following the issue said the number of
reported cases may be increasing simply because of greater
awareness. "I think in past days, people regarded some
trouble as bugs and not as a virus."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Titan Completes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TTN MAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- Titan Corp., which makes computer products
and provides services for defense programs, said it completed
the acquisition of M/A-Com Government Systems Inc. from
M/A-Com Inc. of Burlington, Mass. Terms weren't disclosed.
   M/A-Com Government Systems, a supplier of earth-based
satellite communications equipment to the U.S. government,
with about $40 million in annual revenue, was renamed Titan
Linkabit Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AIG Extends Fischbach Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG FIS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American International Group said it is
extending its $11-a-share tender offer for the stock of
Fischbach Corp. The offer, as extended, will expire at
midnight Monday.
   As of 2 p.m. yesterday, about 1.32 million shares had been
tendered, AIG said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Housing Starts Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian housing starts declined 7.3% in June to
a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 190,000, which was their
lowest level in more than four years and down from a May rate
of 205,000, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp., a federal
agency, said.
   The decline in new housing construction is expected to
continue in coming months, said Mark Burchinshaw, the
agency's chief economist. He attributed the drop in starts to
slower Canadian economic growth, higher interest rates and
reduced consumer confidence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   S&amp;P Affirms Bond Rating
   For State of Connecticut
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. affirmed its double-A
rating on $2.8 billion of Connecticut's general obligation
bonds outstanding and also assigned a double-A rating to the
state's $325 million of general obligation bonds Series 1990B
due 1991-2010.
   The move reflects the state's "fundamentally strong
economic base, well above-average wealth levels, a rising but
manageable debt burden and historically solid but weakened
financial posture," the rating concern said. "Economic
sluggishness and revenue shortfalls in the sales and
corporate taxes occurred throughout fiscal 1990."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P estimates Connecticut closed the fiscal year ended
June 30 with a $129 million budget deficit. The fiscal 1991
budget, reflecting the carry-over, is now $185 million in the
red.
   The rating concern expects Connecticut to close the gap,
however. "The fiscal year's just starting, so they've got
plenty of time," says Sally Rutherford, analyst at S&amp;P. She
added, "It might be politically easier" to deal with the
budget gap "after the elections."
   "The magnitude" of Connecticut's problems remains
"manageable, and the state's other primary credit factors
remain intact," S&amp;P said.
   Gov. William O'Neill's office declined to comment. Anthony
V. Milano, secretary of the Office of Policy and Management,
the state's budget arm, was unavailable for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Sidewalk Confession
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I love to read the menus on
   The windows from outside;
   My friends indulge me every time
   And take it in their stride.
   I murmur, "Lovely `l'entre-cote',"
   Point "Caviar's on ice,"
   "Salad Nicoise]" But to myself,
   I'm checking out the price.
   -- Ralph Shaffer.
   ---
   Human Percentages
                                                                                                       

   Regarding interest, most of us
   Are ambivalence prone;
   We favor high rates for our savings,
   But lower rates for a loan.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Alliance of Textile and Apparel Makers
   Splits as Senate Mulls Import-Quota Bill
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The once-solid alliance between textile and
apparel manufacturers is coming apart at the seams over
congressional legislation that would tighten restrictions on
textile imports.
   For the first time since this powerful lobbying bloc
formed in the mid-1980s, some apparel makers are breaking
with the fabric producers and siding with the U.S. retail
industry against anti-import legislation. The clothing
makers' trade group, the American Apparel Manufacturers
Association, says it isn't supporting this latest attempt to
curb imports because it prefers to see the issue resolved in
multilateral trade negotiations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're in a world-wide economy that can't deal with
protectionism for textiles or any other industry," argues
Linda Wachner, president and chief executive officer of
Warnaco Inc., which makes women's wear and men's shirts.
Underscoring the split, Ms. Wachner and Harvey Falk,
president of Liz Claiborne Inc., a maker of women's apparel,
recently joined retailing executives in lobbying Senate
Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) and other
congressional leaders.
   Daniel Frierson, chairman of the Fiber, Fabric and Apparel
Coalition for Trade, which represents textile manufacturers,
cotton and wool producers, labor unions, and others, concedes
that his group is missing the support of some of the big,
import-dependent apparel makers. But he insists that the bill
still is backed by a majority of the group's members, which
produce mostly for the domestic market.
   The Senate is tentatively scheduled to debate the bill
this week or early next week. The bill would effectively
scrap the bilateral textile and apparel accords that the U.S.
has negotiated with 38 exporting countries and replace them
with a more restrictive system of global quotas for all
imports except from Canada and Israel. The congressional
textile caucus has amassed a predictably large number of
co-sponsors for the bill -- 55 in the Senate and 244 in the
House -- so its passage is all but assured.
   So is its eventual veto by President Bush, but that
doesn't really concern the bill's backers. Vetoes of textile
bills are familiar in Washington; President Reagan did it
twice. The bill's real purpose appears to be to pressure U.S.
Trade Representative Carla Hills against making concessions
on textiles and apparel in the current "Uruguay Round" of
multilateral trade talks held under the auspices of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
   The textile crowd is worried that Ms. Hills will cave in
to the demands of Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand and others
to rapidly phase out the current system of bilateral import
quotas. Those countries are in a strong bargaining position
because the U.S. needs their votes on other issues being
negotiated in this round of GATT talks.
   Yet, looking back home, Ms. Hills doesn't see Americans
standing shoulder-to-shoulder on the issue. The difference is
that the world is starting to look different to apparel
houses. "The apparel industry has become globalized as never
before. Cost is just part of it. They're also going offshore
for variety and quality," says Joseph Scheines, a spokesman
for Kurt Salmon Associates Inc., a New York consulting firm
specializing in the textile trade.
   A waning of enthusiasm for the textile mills' legislative
strategy was evident in last spring's AAMA convention in
Naples, Fla. There was a roar of applause when retailing
executive Leslie Wexner, chairman of Limited Inc., twitted
Roger Milliken, one of the most hawkish coalition leaders,
for urging stiff restrictions on imported textiles and
apparel while insisting on being free to buy his own textile
machinery anywhere in the world.
   In response, Mr. Milliken, chairman of Milliken &amp; Co.,
says the mills have to purchase certain spinning and weaving
machines overseas because foreign competition has forced U.S.
machinery makers out of those lines. "We don't want to see
the same thing happen to textiles," he argues.
   Apparel makers note that they can offer the same argument:
They can't always get what they want in the U.S., either.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Allegheny Ludlum Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ALLEGHENY LUDLUM Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Arthur H. Aronson,
executive vice president and chief operating officer of this
specialty steel producer, was elected a director, expanding
board membership to 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.K. Trade Secretary Ridley Draws Fire
   For Lambasting EC and West Germany
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's trade and industry secretary Nicholas
Ridley stirred a political whirlwind with a strident attack
on the European Community Commission and West Germany.
   The close political ally of Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher said in an interview with the Spectator magazine:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- Plans for European monetary union are "all a German
racket designed to take over the whole of Europe. It has to
be thwarted. This rushed takeover by the Germans on the worst
possible basis, with the French behaving like poodles to the
Germans, is absolutely intolerable." Germany, he said in the
Spectator interview, is becoming "uppity" and is "already
running most of the {European} Community."
   -- The EC Commission in Brussels consists of "17 unelected
reject politicians with no accountability to anybody, . . .
who are pandered to by a supine parliament. . . . I'm not
against giving up sovereignty {to the EC} in principle, but
not to this lot. You might just as well give it to Adolf
Hitler, frankly."
   -- West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl will "soon be trying
to take over everything." And Bundesbank President Karl Otto
Poehl could cause "a bloody revolution" if he's allowed to
influence U.K. monetary policy. The British people "can be
dared; they can be moved. But being bossed by a German -- it
would cause absolute mayhem in this country, and rightly, I
think."
   For months, Mrs. Thatcher and her cabinet colleagues have
been struggling to stifle speculation that they hold exactly
such outlandish views. While urging caution about proposals
for political union, they have been proclaiming themselves
committed Europeans who soon would take the next big step
toward economic union: linking the pound fully to other EC
currencies in the European Monetary System.
   Mr. Ridley's comments -- though quickly repudiated by Mrs.
Thatcher and retracted by the abashed minister -- undercut
all that careful diplomacy. On world currency markets, the
pound dived. In Strasbourg, seat of the European Parliament,
Euro-politicians took turns bashing Mr. Ridley and demanding
his resignation.
   "Outrageous and deeply offensive," huffed Bruce Millan, an
EC commissioner.
   In Germany, the Bundesbank's Mr. Poehl icily called Mr.
Ridley's views "not appropriate for a cabinet minister of a
country of the EC."
   Mrs. Thatcher was forced to spank her aide in public.
   To a packed House of Commons, the prime minister announced
that "my right honorable friend has expressed his very great
regrets and unreservedly withdraws his remarks." Opposition
Labour Party politicians jeered and shouted uproariously.
Mrs. Thatcher said Mr. Ridley's comments don't "represent the
government's views, nor my own views."
   Rumors flew that Mrs. Thatcher soon would expell Mr.
Ridley from her cabinet. But in perhaps the strangest
development of the day, a phalanx of Ridley supporters in the
Tory Party rallied to his defense.
   "Nick Ridley's a valuable man," said Kenneth Warren, a
prominent Tory and chairman of the House of Commons trade and
industry committee. "I don't think you should get rid of
somebody because he's a free thinker and ready to speak his
mind in an open democracy."
   Mr. Ridley's outburst struck a sympathetic chord in many
Tory breasts. Though the minister's language was "over the
top," said Jonathan Aitken, another Conservative member of
Parliament, "he does represent a significant segment of
public opinion in both the House of Commons and the country."
   Opinion polls show a small core of Tory loyalists loathes
Brussels. And many Britons are uneasy about Germany's growing
might. A poll conducted last April by Market &amp; Opinion
Research International Ltd. found 50% of Britons worried
about a unified Germany becoming a dominant power in Europe.
Of those, 53% feared a return to Nazism or fascism.
   After nine years in the Thatcher cabinet, Mr. Ridley is a
veteran of rows over his words. As environment secretary from
1986 to 1989, the chain-smoking politician dismissed some
environmentalists' views as "unscientific rubbish based on
myths, prejudices and ignorance." He made many political
enemies as an architect of the controversial British "poll
tax," instituted this year. And he even managed to rile
supporters of public footpaths -- a near-sacrosanct
institution in Britain, giving nature buffs rights to wander
over private land -- by ordering one footpath re-routed to
make room for an extension of his own house.
   "An environmental Genghis Khan," was the judgment of one
environmental group. As trade and industry secretary, he has
tried to keep a lower profile -- with little success. He
attacked the "open and covert subsidies" of other EC
countries, while defending a government decision to grant
concessions to British Aerospace PLC in its purchase of Rover
Group Ltd.
   Mr. Ridley's embarrassment was undoubtedly heightened by
the Spectator's handling of the interview. The magazine ran a
cover cartoon, depicting Mr. Ridley painting a Hitler-like
moustache and forelock over a poster of Mr. Kohl. "Saying the
Unsayable about the Germans," was the Spectator's headline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Rate Easing
   Is Unlikely After Report
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- The unexpected rise in Australian
employment in June reduces the chance that monetary policy
will be eased before late August when the federal
government's budget is reported, economists say.
   But the latest labor force report notwithstanding, there
is still opportunity for a further reduction in rates this
year, they maintain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This {employment} number just reduces the likelihood of
an easing" in the short run. But "we still think the economy
is quite weak and we will get an ease" after the budget is
reported Aug. 21, that will take interest rates down to
around 14%, says Jeff Schubert, chief economist for HongKong
Bank of Australia Ltd. The unofficial overnight bank lending
rate is currently just under 15%.
   The Australian Bureau of Statistics announced that the
number of persons employed in June rose 3,000 on a seasonally
adjusted basis. Market participants generally had been
looking for a decline of about 20,000, and some had expected
a greater fall. A rise in employment wasn't expected.
   The bureau also reported that the nation's unemployment
rate rose to an adjusted 6.6% in June, in line with
expectations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kinark Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KIN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   KINARK Corp. (Tulsa, Okla.) -- Harry D. Jones, 53-year-old
president, and Paul R. Chastain, 55, former executive vice
president and deputy chief executive officer of this chemical
and steel galvanizing concern, were named co-chairman and
co-chief executive officer, succeeding Robert G. Walker, 65,
who retired. Mr. Walker, the company's largest stockholder,
will continue as an outside board member.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Exxon Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XON WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EXXON Corp. (New York) -- M.E. Gillis was named vice
president, human resources, at this oil company, effective
Sept. 1, succeeding T.H. Tiedemann Jr., who is to retire. Mr.
Gillis was previously president of Exxon Chemical Americas in
Houston, and senior vice president of Exxon Chemical Co. in
Darien, Conn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Service Corp. International Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SRV TMK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Service Corp. International said it completed
the sale of its Family Service Life Insurance Co. unit to
Liberty National Life Insurance Co. for about $165.1 million,
less 1990 dividends. Liberty National is a unit of Torchmark
Corp. of Birmingham, Ala.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Alberta Natural Gas Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.ANG WNEWS PCG
</CO>
<LP>
   ALBERTA NATURAL GAS CO. (Calgary, Alberta) -- Norman E.
Wagner, the 55-year-old chairman of this natural gas pipeline
concern, was named to the additional post of chief executive
officer. Mr. Wagner, formerly president of the University of
Calgary, and a company director since 1986, succeeds Douglas
R. Fenton. Mr. Fenton resigned as president and chief
executive, effective immediately. A company spokesman
wouldn't elaborate, and Mr. Fenton wasn't immediately
available. Separately, Mr. Fenton also resigned as president
and chief executive of a related concern, Alberta &amp; Southern
Gas Co., a gas marketing company. He is succeeded by Donald
McMorland, formerly Alberta &amp; Southern's executive
vice-president and chief operating officer. Alberta Natural
Gas and Alberta &amp; Southern are both units of San
Fransisco-based Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movies:
   Disney Strategy to Increase Film Output
   Gets First Test in Spider Thriller-Comedy
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Ricardo Mestres's office, all cool black
marble and stark white walls, feels eerily unlived in, though
he's toiled there for a year and a half.
   The movie company he heads, Hollywood Pictures, has itself
been a blank slate since it was formed by Walt Disney Co. in
February 1989 to boost the company's output by 10 to 12 films
a year. But with the release next week of "Arachnophobia,"
Hollywood Pictures will start to become more than a flashy
logo and silent partner to its sister Touchstone label.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Forming the new unit was a risky move, since bifurcated
studios generally haven't worked before. And Hollywood
Pictures nominally has the same franchise as Touchstone:
light, bright entertainment with few rough edges and
ruthlessly contained costs.
   But Disney officials were intent on increasing output
without yielding control to outside production companies. And
they dismissed the idea of expanding Touchstone. "Movies get
made on a pyramid basis," says Jeffrey Katzenberg, chairman
of Walt Disney Studios, who supervises both Touchstone and
Hollywood Pictures. "The critical decisions are made by two,
three and four people at the top. The notion that building a
bigger pyramid to make more product of more quality had never
worked before. We set out to build two separate pyramids."
   "Arachnophobia," about a small town terrorized by killer
spiders, appears likely to lay a solid foundation for the new
venture. Mr. Mestres, though only 32 years old, has been a
studio executive long enough to know that the movie isn't a
sure thing. But the response at previews has been strong:
Teen-agers at one screening mobbed the scriptwriter, Don
Jakoby, for autographs. "I realized my name didn't mean
anything," a shell-shocked Mr. Jakoby said the next day, so
he included the film title in his inscriptions.
   At another screening, Mr. Katzenberg emerged and clapped
Mr. Jakoby on the back. "If you aren't happy right now," Mr.
Jakoby remembers him saying, "you better go off and write
poetry." Mr. Jakoby recently signed on with a new agent known
for conducting "auctions" that have been winning writers
million-dollar fees.
   Of predictions that the movie will be one of the summer's
big hits, Mr. Mestres, ever controlled, says only: "I hope
so, I hope so."
   Hollywood Pictures is aiming to be a major presence in the
film industry, with three pictures this year, six to eight
next year and up to a dozen in 1992. But it isn't clear how
the unit will distinguish itself from its sibling. "The
Touchstone experience has to be the template of this
company," says Mr. Mestres.
   At Touchstone, brooding artiness or shoot-'em-up action
pictures are rare, and most film makers are kept on a tight
leash. Critics complain this approach gives some films a
pandering, middle-of-the-road feel, but for others -- unique
genre pictures such as "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids" and perhaps
"Arachnophobia" -- it turns difficult ideas into crisp,
streamlined movies.
   The formula has worked: Disney films, including
Touchstone, led all studios in market share two years ago,
were a respectable third last year and are first so far this
year. Touchstone, with which Hollywood Pictures shares
distribution and marketing, tends not to spend money on big
stars -- it built its franchise by resurrecting the careers
of such actors as Richard Dreyfuss and Bette Midler.
Hollywood Pictures, which has signed Tom Selleck, Goldie Hawn
and Angela Lansbury, will be no different.
   "Arachnophobia" stars Jeff Daniels and John Goodman and,
even with a lot of special effects, cost about $25 million.
The second Hollywood Pictures film, "Taking Care of
Business," stars Charles Grodin and Jim Belushi; the third is
"Run" with Patrick Dempsey; then "The Marrying Man," an
original screenplay by Neil Simon, starring Kim Basinger and
Alec Baldwin. "We have no mandate," Mr. Mestres says, "other
than volume and quality."
   Disney's thinking in starting the new division was that
with increasing consolidation in the business, rising costs
and the demise of many independent producers, the volume of
motion pictures had shrunk drastically. At the same time,
multiplex cinemas were proliferating -- the number of screens
across the country increased by nearly one-third in the '80s.
Keeping the pipeline full was an obvious goal.
   Other studios such as Warner Bros. and Columbia Pictures
were distributing up to 40 films a year, but many of those
were developed and produced outside the studios. Disney
generally shuns such "pickups" -- it likes to control its
product -- and because much of Disney films' production costs
are financed by limited partnerships, the risks to the
company are reduced.
   For now, Hollywood Pictures' only defining characteristic
is the tenacious, button-down personality of Mr. Mestres.
"He's very dry, literal and professional," says an agent. "He
could be from Brown Brothers Harriman."
   Indeed, Mr. Mestres is the son of a Sullivan &amp; Cromwell
lawyer. He attended Exeter and Harvard, then moved right to
Hollywood. "I knew exactly what I wanted to do," he says, and
he did it quickly. He wrote to Don Simpson, then the
production chief at Paramount, and just a few months after
graduation, he became an executive there. Mr. Katzenberg, his
first boss at Paramount, calls him "maniacally focused and
extremely well-organized. When you have a lot of balls in the
air, you can't help but have some fall through the cracks.
With Ricardo, there are no cracks." When Mr. Katzenberg and
Disney Chairman Michael Eisner left Paramount for Disney, Mr.
Mestres went with them.
   Mr. Mestres worked with Touchstone President David
Hoberman on such films as "Outrageous Fortune, "Three Men and
a Baby" and "Good Morning, Vietnam," and it was widely
believed that the ambitious pair couldn't coexist for long.
Mr. Mestres won't comment.
   Without the creation of the new unit, "you can feel
confident that a piece of manpower like Ricardo would have
been gone in a minute," says producer Robert W. Cort of
Interscope Productions, which is producing several movies for
Hollywood Pictures.
   Mr. Hoberman and Mr. Mestres defer to each other when they
begin pursuing the same projects. On "The Hand that Rocks the
Cradle," a suspense thriller about a woman who poses as a
nanny to take revenge on a family, Touchstone was interested,
but stepped back. Another Hollywood Pictures project, "Hell
Bent . . . and Back," is a World War II ensemble picture
about a mission behind enemy lines. It's the kind of action
movie Touchstone hasn't tried.
   "Arachnophobia" didn't even come to Hollywood Pictures
until May 1989, when the little-known Mr. Jakoby finished the
script and agent Phil Gersh held a miniauction. Mr. Mestres
had put out the word that he was looking for a sophisticated
horror film, something like "The Exorcist" (though
"Arachnophobia" came out like a comedy version of "Jaws" or
"The Birds"). Mr. Gersh sent the script to Mr. Mestres at 5
p.m. on a Friday, and the next day Mr. Mestres began
peppering him with phone calls. Mr. Gersh stalled, waiting to
sift other offers, but Hollywood Pictures' persistence paid
off, helped somewhat by the fact that Mr. Jakoby knew Disney
wouldn't make a "B" horror film.
   Frank Marshall from Steven Spielberg's Amblin
Entertainment stepped forward to direct the movie. A
heavyweight producer in the role of director for the first
time, Mr. Marshall had to balance the laughter and chills,
and the film has the feel of a heavily managed picture that
actually benefits from all the attention. Amblin took control
of the movie, and when Disney executives wondered whether the
title of the movie was too obscure and suggested "Along Came
a Spider," Mr. Marshall responded, "When they made `Jaws,'
did they call it `Along Came a Shark'?" Was it also to avoid
having "spider" in the title, which might put off some
arachnophobics? Mr. Mestres just smiles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Centel Moves
   To Strengthen
   Its Local Lines
   ---
   Firm's Plan to Also Focus
   On Cellular Operations
   Is on Track, Chief Says
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNT GTE CTC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Centel Corp.'s strategy of focusing on its
local-phone and cellular communications operations is
proceeding "right on track," said John P. Frazee Jr.,
chairman and chief executive officer.
   In an interview -- conducted before GTE Corp.'s about $6
billion bid yesterday for another telecommunications concern,
Contel Corp. -- Mr. Frazee outlined Centel's efforts to
strengthen its cellular capabilities, seek regulatory changes
for its telephone operations, and boost its technological
position in an industry that he expects to prove "more and
more competitive."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GTE's Contel offer pushed up the stocks of many cellular
and telephone concerns yesterday, and Mr. Frazee's enthusiasm
for the industry's prospects seem buttressed by yesterday's
developments. Contel closed at $36.875, up $2.25, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   Mr. Frazee also addressed the concerns recently voiced by
both major ratings agencies about the company's near-term
prospects. Moody's Investors Service recently downgraded
about $1.2 billion in Centel debt, citing the company's
"aggressive expansion of its cellular operations."
   Moody's said it thinks the "capital expenditure
requirements, external financing burden, and earnings
pressure accompanying the development of these properties
will result in increased business risk," although it noted
that the cellular operations "can provide Centel with
considerable cash flow and profit potential over the longer
term." Standard &amp; Poor's expressed similar concerns.
   Much of Centel's debt stems from the company's $775
million acquisition of United Telecom Inc.'s cellular-phone
operations in 1988 -- a move that vaulted it into the top
ranks of the fledgling industry. The leverage is also linked
to Centel's subsequent outlays to solidify its position
through construction and staff increases, as well as an
additional $225 million in smaller cellular acquisitions.
   "Any time your debt is increased, risk is increased," Mr.
Frazee said. "I certainly can't dispute" the rating
companies' contention that Centel's enlarged debt has
increased its downside exposure. But "we believe the ultimate
rewards of the cellular communications business far and away
justify the attendant risks," he said.
   In the United Telecom deal, Centel paid an average of
about $93 a "pop," the industry term for potential
subscribers. Analysts now put the value of those holdings at
between $175 and $225 a pop.
   The cellular operations "may be double their worth," says
Mr. Frazee, but "we don't think they're anywhere near the
longterm value they're going to have."
   Mr. Frazee says the company's cellular operations have
recently achieved a positive cash flow, on an operating
basis, although it hadn't originally expected to reach that
mark until the end of the year. And "we look forward to
positive earnings before interest and taxes by the end of
next year," also ahead of original plan.
   The cellular industry "is proving itself to be more than
just a service for the business person or the affluent."
Propelling the growth is an ongoing decline in the price of
cellular equipment for consumers.
   The industry, however, "isn't without its problems," Mr.
Frazee concedes. Regional-service quality concerns and
inadequate staffing, he feels, reflect a business that has
experienced "growth so rapid that the industry has suffered
from the same maladies cable TV suffered from" in its early
years. Centel's heavy outlays in cellular construction and
hiring are aimed at defusing such potential problems, he
said.
   The company, having repurchased about 16 million common
shares in the past two years under a 21-million-share
authorization, has slowed its share purchases as it spends on
internal projects, Mr. Frazee said. But he continues to feel
the stock's recent price doesn't fully reflect the company's
potential.
   So do some analysts. "We think that stock should be worth
at least $45 a share," said Joel D. Gross of Donaldson
Lufkin, adding that investors made skittish by the company's
current price-to-earnings ratio aren't properly valuing the
cellular operations' potential.
   In the interview, Mr. Frazee also discussed the efforts of
the company's Central Telephone unit to seek regulatory
changes. "Telecommunications consumers need a regulatory
scheme that rewards, rather than penalizes, efficiency," he
says.
   Central Telephone, which operates in nine states, is
seeking changes in utility regulations that would permit
incentives that would split cost savings between shareholders
and customers. The Central Telephone unit, which has spent
heavily to establish modern digital and fiber-optic networks,
would be in a strong competitive position if such incentives
are ultimately approved, Mr. Frazee said.
   Mr. Frazee said he expects Centel's second-quarter results
will be at the "high end" of the 10 cents to 15 cents a share
analysts have projected. "Given everything, I would
characterize us as having a strong quarter . . . It's hard
for people to understand because of the losses {being
incurred for expansion}, but we're right on track and very
pleased with our units."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lukens to Post Increase in Net
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   LUC
</CO>
<LP>
   COATESVILLE, Pa. -- Lukens Inc., a maker of steel plates
and other industrial products, said its net income for the
second quarter will exceed the $1.06 a share a year earlier
and the $1.26 a share in the 1990 first quarter.
   In the year-ago quarter, Lukens earned $8.9 million on
sales of $163 million; the results included a pretax gain of
$900,000 from the sale of a subsidiary. In the 1990 first
quarter, the company earned $10.9 million on sales of $170.6
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lukens expects to report its second-quarter results
Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bill to Bar Bias Against Disabled
   Voted by House-Senate Conferees
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved legislation designed to
bar discrimination against disabled people.
   Lawmakers voted 377-28 to approve a compromise version of
the bill that was hammered out in a House-Senate conference
committee. The bill also is expected to clear the Senate and
win President Bush's signature. Mr. Bush has supported the
legislation, which would guarantee access to employment and
public accommodations for 43 million people with
disabilities, since his 1988 election campaign.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before approving the measure, the House rebuffed, 224-180,
a Republican attempt to send it back to conferees with
instructions to revive an amendment designed to let employers
transfer employees with AIDS from food-handling jobs. Earlier
yesterday, the conferees approved compromise language
protecting workers with AIDS from being shifted from such
jobs.
   The provision would allow employers to reassign workers
who pose a threat to the health of others, but it would
instruct the secretary of health and human services to list
diseases that can involve such a threat. Secretary Louis
Sullivan has said that AIDS isn't transmitted by casual
contact, such as handling food.
   The conference version of the bill also would establish a
Senate board to handle employment-discrimination complaints
lodged by disabled job-seekers or workers against senators.
Conferees earlier approved a similar arrangement for the
House. The decision would deny disabled people the right to
sue lawmakers for discrimination, but they would have the
right to sue when their grievances involve private employers.
   Otherwise, the basic provisions of the Americans with
Disabilities Act apply to Congress and private employers and
establishments alike. The bill guarantees access for disabled
people to public places, such as theaters, zoos, government
buildings and grocery stores.
   The bill also assures deaf people access to
telecommunications and bans discrimination in hiring or
promoting qualified disabled people. Employment provisions
will apply eventually to all employers with 15 or more
workers. There are some narrow exemptions in the
public-accommodations section of the bill for small
businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Index on Optimism
   About Sales Rises
   For Third Quarter
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.'s sales-optimism index
rose for the first time in five quarters, as 67% of
executives in a survey predicted increased third-quarter
sales.
   Only 7% of the 1,536 respondents predicted lower sales,
and 26% foresaw no change.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result, Dun &amp; Bradstreet's sales-optimism index stood
at 60 -- the difference in percentage points between the 67%
predicting increases and the 7% predicting decreases. For
last year's second quarter, the index stood at 74, but then
it fell four times and stood at 57 for this year's second
quarter.
   "Sales expectations have picked up, the profit outlook is
solid, fewer executives expect price increases, and new
orders are expected to be stronger," said Joseph W. Duncan,
corporate economist and chief statistician for Dun &amp;
Bradstreet, a business-information marketer.
   Even so, the company's profits-optimism index fell
slightly. Of 1,428 respondents to this part of the survey,
60% predicted an increase and 7% predicted a decrease in
earnings.
   Not all types of businesses were equally bullish about
sales. While manufacturers were more optimistic, Mr. Duncan
said, retailers were less so, the result of recent weakness
in retail sales.
   Expectations were mixed geographically, as well. Optimism
increased in New England, but remained lower than in any
other region. "At the same time, the mountain region, which
was the least optimistic in the third quarter last year,
posted the sharpest gains in 1990 third-quarter
expectations," Dun &amp; Bradstreet said. Indeed, the latest
optimism reading was stronger in the mountain states than
anywhere else.
   Among other survey findings:
                                                                                                       

   PROFITS: Manufacturers of nondurables were much more
bullish than in the previous quarter, and durable-goods
makers were slightly less optimistic. Fewer retailers were
bullish, and wholesalers' expectations were unchanged.
                                                                                                       

   PRICES: Expectations of higher selling prices lessened
from the previous quarter. Of 1,462 respondents, 34%
predicted higher prices and 4% lower prices, with 62% seeing
no change. Inflationary pressures have ebbed, Dun &amp;
Bradstreet said.
                                                                                                       

   INVENTORIES: Expectations of higher inventories lessened
for retailers, wholesalers and nondurables makers, but not
for makers of durable goods. Overall, 32% of respondents
predicted higher inventories, 15% predicted lower
inventories. The majority, 53%, foresaw no change.
                                                                                                       

   EMPLOYEES: Optimism regarding employment rose, with 23% of
firms expecting increases in the third quarter, 6% expecting
decreases, and 71% expecting no change.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ORDERS: Manufacturers' optimism about receiving new
orders increased sharply. Of 622 respondents, 67% predicted
increases, 5% predicted decreases and 28% predicted no
change.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Mysterious Deaths on Reservation and Set
   ----
   By Tom Nolan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   "Coyote Waits" (Harper &amp; Row, 292 pages, $19.95) is the
10th of Tony Hillerman's police-procedural novels set
primarily among the Native American peoples of New Mexico. It
proves to be as smoothly written and satisfying as any of its
predecessors in this interesting and well done series.
   Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee are the Navajo
tribal policemen assigned to solve Mr. Hillerman's puzzles,
cases made more baffling and exotic by the Indian beliefs and
traditions woven through the narratives. The veteran Leaphorn
and the somewhat impulsive Chee alternated as detectives in
Mr. Hillerman's earlier books. For the past three titles the
two characters have been loosely paired, working along
parallel lines toward the same conclusions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chee and Leaphorn eventually are partnered in this new
book as well. Each is thinking of leaving police work near
the beginning of "Coyote Waits." Leaphorn, a recent widower,
is contemplating retirement. Chee, guilty over his
inadvertent failure to prevent the death of a fellow officer,
is considering turning in his badge.
   At first, it seems, there's no mystery at all. Chee's
fellow officer has been killed, but a suspect -- drunk, and
in possession of the murder weapon -- has been immediately
arrested, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (in charge
of felonies committed on the reservation) is convinced of his
guilt. The suspect's lawyer, though, is a friend of Chee's,
and she prompts the policeman into seeing if there might be
more to this matter than meets the FBI. Leaphorn, unbeknownst
to Chee, begins his own investigation into the same events as
a favor to the suspect's niece, a member of his late wife's
family clan.
   What's gradually uncovered is a skein of connections
between the suspect (a part-time shaman), rival academics who
used him as a source for native lore, a possibly crazed
painter who's furtively defacing desert rock formations, a
Vietnamese family receiving CIA protection, and some
historically interesting corpses that may have been preserved
for decades up a remote canyon pass.
   Here, as in all of Mr. Hillerman's tales, the ways things
are revealed are as interesting as the things themselves.
Navajo conversational etiquette requires patience and tact
from the listener and affords the speaker a good deal of
discretionary space. This leads to interrogation sessions
rather different from those on "Miami Vice." In charting the
nuances of such interchanges, Mr. Hillerman conveys more
genuine tension and suspense than are contained in any number
of ammo-laden thrillers. When a vital fact is at last
discovered or a crucial event occurs, it comes with the
sudden force of a thunderclap above a quiet mesa.
   As usual, Mr. Hillerman conveys wonderfully the weather
and geography of his Southwestern setting. His very prose --
lean sentences without an apparent ounce of fat -- seems to
mirror the stark New Mexico terrain.
   Less compelling is the latest entry in another popular
series, the Spenser private-eye novels of Robert B. Parker.
"Stardust" (Putnam, 256 pages, $18.95) has the sardonic
Spenser trying to protect a foul-mouthed alcoholic TV actress
from an unknown someone who may or may not be harrassing her.
The actress is Jill Joyce, "America's honeybun," a
small-screen star for 20 years and possessor of "the highest
TVQ of anyone now on television."
   Surly, sluttish and often soused before noon, Joyce is
playing "a woman shrink" in a show being filmed on location
in Spenser's Boston. It's hard to believe such an indiscreet
and unpleasant character could hide her checkered past and
preserve her wholesome image in an era of tell-all tabloids
and gossip snoops. It's also tough to imagine even a nasty
star surviving for two decades without acquiring some sort of
support entourage.
   Be that as it may, Spenser hires on to look into the
threats Joyce supposedly has been receiving. Things get more
serious when the star's stunt double is found murdered on the
set. Spenser's cohort, Hawk, is deputized to keep an eye on
the client, while the PI hunts up suspects on both coasts.
When the murder finally is solved, its resolution hinges on
the killer's having read news accounts that are news to the
reader, too.
   The hero's better one-liners meanwhile prompt a few
chuckles. (On a postmodern house in the country, all slabs
and angles and slants: "The place looked like it had been
designed by Georges Braque while drunk." On his own clipped
speech: "I felt like I was trapped in a Hemingway short
story. If I got any more cryptic I wouldn't be able to talk
at all.") A poignant ending somewhat redeems a rather
listless story.
   For the most part, though, the obligatory wisecracks --
the put-downs, the put-ons, the snappy comebacks -- and the
sexy banter between Spenser and his girlfriend, Dr. Susan
Silverman, all seem familiar and forced. The hero comes off
less as a believable private investigator than a parody of a
fictional gumshoe. This tough guy's charm is wearing thin.
   ---
   Mr. Nolan is a contributing editor at Los Angeles
Magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Is Sold for $135,000
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $135,000, down $5,000 from the previous sale on June
18. Seats currently are quoted at $128,000, bid, and
$137,500, asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer Firms
   Expected to Post
   Mixed Results
   ---
   Makers of Desktop Machines
   Prospering, Analysts Say,
   But Others in Slowdown
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder and G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC SUNW UIS IBM AAPL SQNT TDM PYRD CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The gap between the haves and the have-nots continues to
widen in the computer industry.
   Analysts say results for the June quarter will provide
fresh evidence that companies making desktop computers are
prospering while makers of traditional machines, such as
mainframes and minicomputers, are posting smaller gains or
even losing business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consider the contrast between Digital Equipment Corp. and
Sun Microsystems Inc. Digital, once a high-flier and a Wall
Street darling, is expected to post a 50% earnings drop for
its fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30. Analysts, meantime,
expect Sun to show a profit of as much as $47 million for its
fiscal fourth quarter, compared to a year-earlier loss.
   The key difference: Sun sells desktop workstations and
networking computers; Digital still depends heavily on
expensive minicomputers. "DEC isn't competitive on the
desktop," where the growth and profits are, says analyst
Robert Herwick at Hambrecht &amp; Quist. "DEC is just not there,
whereas Sun is very much there."
   The story holds true among other makers of desktop
machines, both workstations and personal computers. Analyst
Michelle Preston of Cowen &amp; Co. estimates that Apple Computer
Inc.'s net income in its fiscal third quarter ended June 30
rose more than 15% to $114 million, or 90 cents a share, and
that revenue increased 10% to $1.4 billion. Compaq Computer
Corp.'s profit for the June quarter, she predicts, grew 21%
to $102 million, or $2.30 a share, on a 28% rise in revenue
to $926 million.
   Sun's expected healthy gains apparently confirm its
rebound from last year's painful manufacturing and
product-transition snafus. Peter Rogers, an analyst at
Robertson Stephens &amp; Co., estimates that Sun will earn $47
million, or 50 cents a share, on revenue of $700 million. In
the year-ago period, Sun had a loss of $20.3 million on sales
of $431 million.
   Sun's rebound was fueled by improved operations and new
computers that are eating away at the competition in the
burgeoning market for workstations, machines used by
engineers and scientists. "Sun finds itself in a very strong
leadership position in the workstation market despite
everybody else all taking their best shots," says Mr.
Herwick, the Hambrecht &amp; Quist analyst.
   Growth comes harder for computer companies that depend on
sales of more expensive machines. International Business
Machines Corp., for instance, is the largest maker of
personal computers but because it relies heavily on sales of
larger computers it is expected to show slowing growth.
Analyst Daniel Benton of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. estimates that
Big Blue's second-quarter revenue grew only 6% to $16.2
billion. Net income is expected to be down 7% to $1.3
billion, or $2.20 a share, he said.
   The earnings picture is even more dismal for Unisys Corp.,
which depends more heavily on sales of expensive computers
than IBM. Mr. Benton estimates that Unisys will break even
for the quarter on slightly lower revenue, which he expects
to total $2.5 billion. "The picture is scary," said Mr.
Benton. "Unisys isn't showing any signs of rebound."
   Unisys earned $27 million in the year-ago period and Mr.
Benton believes it's possible the firm lost money in this
year's June quarter, its second of the fiscal year. "We may
see another restructuring of (the company) before year end,"
he said.
   In addition to its poor showing in the desktop market,
Digital was hurt by production glitches in its VAX-9000
minicomputers, says analyst Barry Willman of Sanford C.
Bernstein &amp; Co. He estimates Digital earned about $155
million, or $1.25 a share, in the June quarter, down from
$313.2 million, or $2.51 a share, last year. Mr. Willman
estimated revenue at about $3.4 billion, down from $3.49
billion.
   Not all makers of more expensive machines will be hurting.
Companies such as Sequent Computer Systems Inc., Tandem
Computers Inc. and Pyramid Technology Corp. are expected to
benefit from a move by banks, financial institutions and
other computer users toward on-line processing systems. Those
systems perform such tasks as credit-card verifications and
run automated teller machines.
   Tandem's net income should rise about 55% in the fiscal
third quarter ended June 30 to $48 million, or 43 cents a
share, from $30.8 million a year ago, or 31 cents a share,
estimates analyst John Jones of Montgomery Securities.
Revenue will grow 24% to $520 million in the quarter, he
says.
   Hambrecht &amp; Quist expects Sequent's net income in the
period to rise 56% to $5.4 million, or 23 cents a share, on
revenue of about $54 million, up 73% from the year-ago
period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   If This Show Isn't Another Bomb,
   They'll Do `Back to Grenada' Next
   ----
   By Bill Richards
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   TACOMA, Wash. -- Every action epic has a sequel these
days, so it should be no surprise that the Air Force is
producing "Panama II."
   Military officials at McChord AFB here thought they had a
swell idea to help celebrate the military airfield's 50th
anniversary. "The most spectacular event scheduled,"
trumpeted a McChord news release last month, "will be a joint
services re-enactment of the invasion of Panama. The actual
aircraft, aircrews and soldiers who were there
participating]"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But as with the original, there have been problems with
the sequel.
   Local newspapers began calling the exercise, scheduled for
this Sunday, a "pseudo invasion." And there were also some
troublesome details: Who would play Gen. Manuel Noriega? How
would several hundred Panamanians be tastefully done away
with?
   To simplify matters, Air Force officials decided to leave
Panamanians out of the new invasion altogether, and McChord's
public-relations staff was ordered to stop mentioning the
original locale.
   "Our guys will parachute in, deploy on the ground and then
walk into the crowd and shake a few hands," says Maj. Morris
Bedard, the Air Force impresario who dreamed up the concept
of a second Panamanian go-around. "They're calling me Cecil
B. de Mille the second," he boasts. The idea behind the
concept: "To let the taxpayers see what it is that we do
around here."
   With or without Gen. Noriega and his countrymen, the
re-enactment will have plenty of action. Hundreds of
paratroopers will drop onto the base runway in front of
thousands of expected onlookers. "The real spectacular part
will be the strafing runs by the fighter planes," Maj. Bedard
says. The planes are scheduled to swoop in over the crowd and
blast away at the nonexistent Panamanian enemy.
   Reminded that when the Air Force dispatched a Stealth
fighter to Panama to do just that during the real thing, the
plane missed its target, Maj. Bedard says: "We won't have any
Stealths." Besides, he says, the fighters will be shooting
blanks.
   Without ammunition, a location or half the original cast,
can the Air Force's sequel live up to the original? Maj.
Bedard dismisses the question with a de Mille-like shrug. "I
wasn't there," he says. "I came up with the concept. It was
up to the flyboys to restage the thing right."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Jazz:
   My Daughter the Musician
   ----
   By Nat Hentoff
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   The tent in which the Great South Bay Jazz Festival had
been held was nearly empty. The only musician left was tenor
saxophonist and arranger Al Cohn. Walking toward the exit, we
were talking about the players -- Coleman Hawkins, Rex
Stewart, J.C. Higginbotham. All had been, to use Hawkins's
phrase, "full of the spirit." I had been listening to them
since I was 12 years old, and I knew I'd always be listening
to them.
   "Sure," Cohn said, "We're most comfortable with the music
we've grown up on. You try to get with the new sounds, but
when you're by yourself, you play Billie Holiday and Lester
Young and Count Basie."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That conversation took place a little more than 30 years
ago. Even then, I realized -- though I was much taken with
the startling new sounds of John Coltrane and Cecil Taylor --
that it was Duke Ellington I played late at night when I was
no longer working as a critic.
   Writing about the music had been the only way I could
become part of it. I had been a classical clarinetist since
childhood, but I couldn't improvise worth a damn. My fantasy
had been to be hired by Duke Ellington and, bowing, to take a
seat alongside Johnny Hodges. But I finally acknowledged that
I'd have to go into another line of work, off the bandstand.
   I had another fantasy -- that one of my children might
become so striking a jazz musician as to be hired by
Ellington or Basie. Now I have four children. One is a circus
performer and the other two are in law. But Miranda is a
musician -- a pianist, singer and composer . . .
   In the early stages of her obsession with music, she may
well have listened to every recording that jazz pianist Bill
Evans had ever made, along with an abundance of Billie
Holiday, Sarah Vaughan and Duke Ellington. And she was "full
of the spirit" when she played gigs.
   At first, those engagements were in Chinese restaurants,
where a number of jazz musicians, through the decades, have
served apprenticeships. Then there were dates at jazz clubs
where the food wasn't as good, but the audience sometimes
actually listened.
   Meanwhile, she got a master's degree in education at the
Manhattan School of Music, to make sure she'd be able to pay
the rent. She then taught for four years at the Harlem School
of the Arts, and continues to be a "teacher artist" at
Lincoln Center as well as at a number of public schools,
including magnet schools, in and out of New York.
   But, always, her eye was on the performance prize. Hearing
her in clubs, I started thinking that rather than work in
Basie's band, she ought to go on the road with her own combo.
She already was talking like a jazz musician. Reading some of
my reviews of various players, she'd shake her head and say:
"How can you criticize somebody else's performance when you
can't play yourself?" That reminded me of Horace Silver, the
gentlest of jazz pianists off the stand, saying to me years
ago when I worked for Down Beat magazine, "You wrote that I
play `angular' piano. What the hell is that? Can you show me
how to play `angular' piano?"
   Going to some of her gigs, I began to hear that jazz was
less and less on her mind. And she was singing more. It is
her most immediately identifiable sound, dark and resonant.
All the songs were her own, and most were about largely
unrequited love. Her other songs were just plain funny and
self-deprecating.
   Okay, I thought, even though there's not much cabaret
anymore, she can, over time, build up a small but steady
following of listeners who can't stand what's on the radio.
The kind of urbane audience that used to stay for both sets
of Mabel Mercer, and has had hardly anywhere else to go
since.
   But then there was another change. She plunged into rock.
I could no longer hear the lyrics, but I sure could hear the
synthesizers. I told her she had gone into territory far
beyond my ken.
   It wasn't my fault, she told me. It's the way people of my
generation hear music. She and people of her generation
listen in a fundamentally different way so far as textures,
rhythms, the inner meanings of words, and especially feelings
are concerned. Different generations, Dad, look for different
kinds of emotions in music.
   I was too old, in sum, to know when a synthesizer was
singing to me. I tried Ellington's apothegm: "There are only
two kinds of music -- good and bad."
   "To whom?" she said.
   Well, I figured, she's changed before, maybe she'll change
again. On two nights in recent months, I heard her in
Greenwich Village clubs with her new combo, the Miranda
Hentoff Band. I liked seeing that in print, but I wondered if
they swung at all.
   It's not jazz, but these players are musicians, a
description that can be applied to many rock players only
with highly irresponsible kindness. On keyboards, guitar,
bass and drums, the proudly disciplined members of Miranda's
band, who do a lot of studio work on their own, play with
crisp, often exhilarating drive.
   The singer, who also plays acoustic and electric piano
with elan (and no angularity), still features her own songs.
But now I can hear the lyrics again ("I used to think that
time is all you need/Finally I see how many ways you leave").
   As the music spiraled on, I was tapping my foot, like
people of my generation do. This would be a good band to take
on the road, I was thinking. It doesn't have to be jazz to
make people feel good. What they need is a recording date.
   Now there's a refrain that bridges musical generations,
with plenty of feeling.
   ---
   Mr. Hentoff is a New York-based writer and jazz critic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cascades Acquires Rest of Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAS F.BSA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KINGSEY FALLS, Quebec -- Cascades Inc., a pulp and paper
concern, said it acquired the 50% of Cascades P.S.H. Inc.
that it didn't already own from the Kaysersberg S.A.
subsidiary of Beghin-Say of France. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Cascades said Cascades P.S.H. has annual sales of about 20
million Canadian dollars (US$17.3 million) and makes sanitary
napkins and adult diapers, or disposable briefs, for the U.S.
and Canadian markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Cascades said it intends to develop the
unit's adult diaper business and may seek to acquire a maker
of private-label adult diapers. He wouldn't elaborate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Meritor to Post
   $138 Million Loss
   For 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   MTOR
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Meritor Savings Bank said it expects to
report a widened second-quarter loss of about $138 million,
or $3.94 a share, reflecting heavy charges for
recapitalization and restructuring.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Meritor had a loss of $21.2
million, or 61 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Roger S. Hillas, Meritor's chairman and chief executive
officer, said Meritor has now completed the second stage of a
difficult restructuring that began in late 1987. A debt
recapitalization plan, approved by federal regulators
Tuesday, will increase Meritor's shareholder equity by about
$98 million, which will be reflected in the third quarter.
Thus, Meritor will be in compliance with all the new capital
requirements under the thrift bailout law passed last year.
   The first stage of the restructuring was to shrink
Meritor, which in the early 1980s was the nation's largest
thrift. Total assets have been reduced by nearly 70% to about
$7 billion at the end of June from a peak of $21.5 billion.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved a plan to
recapitalize a Meritor savings and loan unit, Meritor Savings
FA, headquartered in Winter Haven, Fla. The recapitalization
allowed the thrift to exchange about $172 million of debt for
$42 million in cash and $18 million in new debt.
   The regulatory approval for this debt swap gave Meritor
enough capital leeway to take other steps needed to complete
its restructuring and eventually return the company to
profitability, Mr. Hillas said.
   Those steps include an increase of $35 million in its
provision for loan losses. Other costs and charges for the
quarter include: the termination of interest-rate swap and
floor contracts at a cost of $55 million, the creation of a
$54 million reserve for expenses from unused office space,
and $303 million in costs and charges, including a goodwill
write-off of $172 million connected with the company's sale
of 54 branches to Mellon Bank Corp.
   "Now the balance sheet is really representative of what
the company's worth," said Mr. Hillas.
   Mr. Hillas must turn his attention to making the
now-smaller thrift profitable again. He said he expects
Meritor could be showing an operating profit by the second
half of 1991. "But we can't control interest rates and the
real estate market malaise," he said. The challenge for Mr.
Hillas will be to rotate low fixed-income assets and
high-rate liabilities with assets that provide a higher rate
of return and lower-cost liabilities or deposits.
   David Penn, a bank analyst with Legg Mason in Baltimore,
says Meritor has another hurdle it must overcome before it
returns to profitability: A high level of nonperforming
assets, about 5%, of total assets, which are a drag on
earnings.
   Mr. Hillas noted that there were some large nonperforming
real estate loans, which the bank has helped customers work
out in recent years, that could begin accruing interest once
again before year end. Yet he admits that while Meritor
doesn't have any "undue" real estate problem, "they could go
on for a while."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Vogue's Ads Sag in the Battle With Elle
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA TWX S OAT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   This month's issue features a spread on sexy
crushed-velvet playclothes and an update on go-go boots.
Which magazine is it: Elle or Vogue?
   As it happens, both of the fashion leaders include those
almost identical articles this month. And that may be part of
the problem at Vogue, the nation's No. 1 fashion book.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Almost two years after ultra-chic editor Anna Wintour was
brought in to transform the staid Vogue into a younger,
hipper book, its ad pages are declining at a rapid clip.
Although the magazine industry as a whole is suffering,
Vogue's drop is steeper than most -- and is in sharp contrast
to its major competitors. Elle, whose trendy young design
helped prompt the Vogue overhaul, saw a 2.7% increase in ad
pages for the first seven months, for example, while Vogue's
pages dropped about 10%, according to Media Industry
Newsletter.
   The decline comes despite more than a year of almost
unfailing accolades for Ms. Wintour. The cool, British-born
editor has garnered scrapbooks full of fawning articles
chronicling her transformation of tired Vogue, which had
become the embodiment of the staid fashion doyennes to whom
it catered. Earlier this year, Adweek dubbed her Editor of
the Year, crowing, "Wintour's brought springtime to Vogue."
Under her stewardship, Vogue took on a fashion-forward look
sometimes reminiscent of Elle, smattering its pages with
models dressed in combinations of couture and kitsch.
   But for all the publicity and plaudits, "she's had no
impact on advertising," contends Martin Walker, a Manhattan
magazine consultant. "The changes she's wrought in the
magazine haven't resulted in any meaningful impact, or
increase in market share."
   Some advertising executives say that Vogue's younger look
made it too similar to Elle, which had staked out that
territory first. At the same time, they contend, Vogue
abandoned its base of older, monied fashion matrons, who are
now being wooed by older-skewing books such as Mirabella and
Lear's.
   "For so long, they were clearly the fashion arbiter, but
they vacated that. They went after the younger, hotter
segment and left those high-end fashion dollars behind," says
Paul DuCharme, vice president and director of print media at
Grey Advertising. "They had developed a franchise -- the
doyenne, the arbiter, the class of the field -- and they just
gave it up."
   Verne Westerberg, Vogue's publisher, says the ad decline
has nothing to do with Ms. Wintour's reign. Advertising
"isn't her job. Her job is to help circulation," he says. He
notes that Vogue increased its rate base to 1.1 million last
fall from one million, and says actual circulation for the
first half will be even higher.
   Still, the Conde Nast publication remains the nation's
largest fashion magazine and carries by far the most ad
pages. Mr. Westerberg concedes that this year, Vogue will be
down from the 3,320 ad pages it ran in 1989, which in turn
was flat from 1988. But he says that the slip for the year
was expected, saying: "We're alive and well financially."
   He says the decline is due mainly to the troubles at the
nation's big retailers, which in turn have scared away small
manufacturers who used to advertise in Vogue. The magazine
may also be suffering because it isn't as willing to
negotiate its ad rates as its competitors.
   For her part, Ms. Wintour dismisses ad executives'
complaints, saying that anyone who confuses Vogue with Elle
"obviously doesn't read either of the magazines. We're more
sophisticated than Elle; we take a totally different
approach." She notes that Vogue includes features "rather
than just pretty pictures," and that it explores social
issues such as abortion and adoption, while Elle usually
sticks to fashion. Couture designers, along with the older,
monied crowd they serve, Ms. Wintour adds, "love the
magazine."
   Not surprisingly, Elle's publisher, Anne Sutherland Fuchs,
begs to differ. Vogue has "gone more mass" by increasing its
circulation and putting celebrities like Madonna and Ivana
Trump on its cover next to headlines such as "Dress for
Less," she says. Elle, on the other hand, is gunning for a
more affluent audience; it even rejects mass advertisers like
tampon companies in a bid to appear more upscale. Ms. Fuchs
makes no bones about who she thinks is taking the right road.
   After a poor first quarter, she says, Elle has seen
advertising increases in each of its issues since March, and
ad pages will be on the rise at least through October, with
the exception of September, which will be flat. "We decided
we didn't want to be fatally middled," Ms. Fuchs says. "We
have made some decisions which have proven to be correct
decisions."
   ---
   Saatchi Wins New Business
                                                                                                       

   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co.'s flagship London agency won new
business assignments from a variety of clients totaling about
#20 million ($36 million). The wins should restore the shop's
leadership in new-business rankings among British ad
agencies.
   Britain's biggest agency, known informally as Charlotte
Street because of its address, led the pack for the past
three years. But the agency had sunk to seventh place so far
this year due to an overall advertising slump and new-client
skittishness about the parent company's financial ills.
   Yesterday, a Saatchi official said the agency had won the
Royal Insurance PLC account, valued at #10 million. The
agency was also awarded additional business from three
existing clients: Swiss watch maker Swatch, LA Gear and Racal
Telecom PLC.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   REVIVED JINGLE: In a new TV campaign for Rice-a-Roni
beginning next week, Golden Grain Co. will revive its "San
Francisco Treat" theme. Golden Grain used that theme in the
1960s and 1970s. Goldberg Moser O'Neill, Golden Grain's ad
agency, put a spin on the old tune, though, and the
revitalized jingle has a more contemporary beat. Golden Grain
said it decided to bring back the jingle after consumer
research indicated high "awareness and equities" associated
with the theme.
                                                                                                       

   TIME: Time magazine said it will publish a special issue
on "the changing role of women in society" this October.
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. will be the sole advertiser in the
issue. Time called the Sears deal a multimillion-dollar
advertising program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Curtiss-Wright
   Slates Payout
   Of $30 a Share
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CW UNIT
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Curtiss-Wright Corp., signaling "a clear break from the
past" less than four months after the death of T. Roland
Berner, declared a special dividend of $30 a share and
pledged to focus on manufacturing operations rather than an
investment portfolio.
   The thinly traded shares moved up sharply on the news and
closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
at $69, up $5.75. Volume was only 22,700 shares; about five
million are outstanding, giving the special payout an
aggregate value of about $150.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The March death of Mr. Berner, the company's longtime
chairman, sparked speculation that part or all of
Curtiss-Wright would be sold. And in late March the company
said it had received "a memorandum" from an agent claiming to
represent a possible bidder.
   But Chairman Shirley D. Brinsfield, who succeeded Mr.
Berner, has repeatedly said the company has no interest in
being acquired or in selling operations. Some companies, such
as Union Carbide Corp., have paid huge special dividends to
make themselves less attractive to raiders.
   However, a Curtiss-Wright spokesman said the company's
special dividend isn't connected with any concern about a
possible takeover. No bidder ever materialized after the
March memorandum, which the company now thinks was frivolous,
he said.
   The company, based in Lyndhurst, N.J., said the dividend
-- no part of which represents a return of capital -- is
payable Aug. 15 to shares of record Aug. 1.
   The biggest beneficiary of the pay-out will be Unitrin
Inc., a Los Angeles insurance company formerly owned by
Teledyne Inc. Unitrin owns about 2.2 million Curtiss-Wright
shares, a 44% stake. Its share of the pay-out will be $63.2
million. Unitrin shares rose 50 cents in heavy
over-the-counter trading to close at $34.
   Curtiss-Wright, which makes precision parts used in
aerospace, flow-control and other industrial applications,
reported 1989 net income of $30.4 million, or $6.09 a share,
on sales of $187.1 million. But of the $37.3 million that the
company earned before taxes and extraordinary credits, some
$10.9 million came from interest, dividends and investment
transactions.
   The company warned that "earnings from interest and
dividends will no longer be realized on the substantial funds
used to pay the special dividend."
   Even so, one of the few securities analysts who follow the
company said Curtiss-Wright will be more attractive to
investors after the dividend. Edward B. Keaney, director of
research at Pauli &amp; Co. in St. Louis, said Curtiss-Wright
under Mr. Berner long confused investors with a whirl of
investment activity that complicated its earnings picture.
Mr. Berner, he said, compounded the problem by refusing to
talk to analysts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cray President Gumucio Packs His Bags
   As Chairman Cites Conflicting Styles
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Cray Research Inc.'s president and chief
operating officer, Marcelo A. Gumucio, is leaving the
supercomputer maker because of disagreements with the
chairman on how to carry out a strategy they jointly
developed.
   "This wasn't spurred by an event," said John A. Rollwagen,
chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Rollwagen said he
decided Mr. Gumucio should go because their different
management styles were "creating confusion" within the ranks.
"We're on track -- in total agreement about our strategy.
It's the style issue that makes it rather squishy."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Style" is a key word at Cray, which has painstakingly
created a work environment designed to foster creativity in a
highly competitive leading-edge technology. Seymour R. Cray,
its flannel-shirted founder, started the company in the woods
of western Wisconsin after fleeing the bureaucracy of a large
company.
   As the Japanese shortened the U.S. lead in supercomputing,
Mr. Rollwagen apparently came to believe that the company
could ill afford delays because of what he called "mixed
signals" from top management. "We needed some clarity," he
said.
   The departure of Mr. Gumucio, 52 years old, is Cray's
third major personnel jolt in as many years. In 1987 Steve
Chen, the architect of Cray's best-selling machines, left in
a dispute over technical directions. Then, Mr. Cray left the
company last year, when his latest research project -- which
Mr. Gumucio and others saw as an increasing drain on company
resources -- was spun off.
   Yesterday Mr. Rollwagen, in an interview, drew a parallel
between the Chen and Gumucio departures; both men represented
challenges to the "Cray style." While Mr. Rollwagen practices
what he calls an "intuitive" style, he said Mr. Gumucio
represented a "more formal, structured approach" that the two
found increasingly in conflict.
   Last Monday, after they had been away for several weeks,
the two men got together and agreed that a change was
necessary, both said.
   Disputes with the boss aren't unusual, but Mr. Gumucio's
departure is. Although his resignation as an officer and
director was immediate, Mr. Gumucio spent much of yesterday
in his office, explaining to visitors the "philosophical
differences" that led to what he called an "irreconcilable
divorce." In an adjacent office, Mr. Rollwagen was doing the
same.
   The 49-year-old chairman said he would assume many of Mr.
Gumucio's duties, but has no immediate plans to name a
successor. "We don't have to have a president," he said.
   Mr. Gumucio was named president in November 1988, as
recognition of his success in leading Cray's marketing
efforts world-wide, and because his bottom-line orientation
was seen as helping the company cope with a period of slower
growth.
   Analysts credit Mr. Gumucio with convincing the company to
make a smaller, less expensive supercomputer so as to broaden
sales prospects. That machine is due out shortly. He also is
considered a key architect of Cray's effort to plug its
machines into more computer networks world-wide. Mr. Gumucio
takes credit as well for the decision to spin off Mr. Cray's
project.
   "We have a great strategy that we've carved out," Mr.
Gumucio said yesterday, contending it will take the company
into the 21st century. But differences over the timing of
those plans led to growing disagreements with Mr. Rollwagen,
he said. "I'm more of a pusher than John is," Mr. Gumucio
said. "He allows a little more time."
   Mr. Gumucio also was more demanding in holding the sales
force to quotas, and over such nuts-and-bolts issues as
compensation -- matters that eventually got back to Mr.
Rollwagen, who in recent months had been spending more time
making the rounds of the company.
   Gary P. Smaby, a Minneapolis-based supercomputer industry
consultant, said the management change "should say to
customers that the company has again indicated its intention
to stay on target." But he also predicted that Mr.
Rollwagen's "style will have to evolve to adapt to the
market."
   Mr. Gumucio said he has no plans to sell his Cray stock,
which amounted to 8,957 shares as of the most recent proxy
statement. Cray closed yesterday at $48, up 62.5 cents in
composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
   A native of Bolivia, Mr. Gumucio is a naturalized U.S.
citizen. He joined Cray in 1983 from Northern Telecom Ltd.,
where he was executive vice president, marketing. Previously,
he worked for Memorex Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Express
   Posts 5% Increase
   In Quarterly Profit
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   FDX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Express Corp. said it had a slight increase in net
income in its fiscal fourth quarter, ended May 31, but it
reported a drop in operating profit, reflecting continued
losses overseas.
   The Memphis, Tenn.-based air-express concern reported net
income of $43.1 million, or 81 cents a share, up 5% from $41
million, or 78 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed
15% to $1.91 billion from $1.67 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the earnings gain, Federal's first year-to-year profit
growth since November 1988, masks some underlying problems.
Federal's operating profit declined 7% in the period. It is
still being hurt by its attempts to expand abroad, and a
sudden downturn in its domestic business in recent months is
compounding its problems.
   "The sluggishness in the domestic economy is showing up
and they don't see any pickup," said Kevin Murphy, a
transportation analyst with Morgan Stanley. "This is a
company in the throes of a transition to a new type of
business. It's still a good game plan, but I don't see any
reasonable signs that it's bearing fruit right now."
   Federal was able to report a profit boost in the quarter,
despite the drop in operating profit, by reducing interest
expenses and adjusting some liabilities from its acquisition
last year of Tiger International Inc. In all, it reported
$14.4 million less of what it calls "other expenses" in the
period, compared with a year ago.
   For the year, Federal had net income of $115.8 million, or
$2.18 a share, down 31% from $184.6 million, or $3.53 a
share, in fiscal 1989. Revenue rose 36% to $7.02 billion from
$5.17 billion.
   Mr. Murphy estimated that Federal had losses of $150
million in its most recent fiscal year from overseas
expansion. Much of those losses came in Europe, where freight
forwarders -- the middlemen that book freight transportation
for clients -- have been reluctant to use the heavy-cargo
operation that Federal acquired with Tiger, because they view
Federal as a potential competitor in door-to-door service.
   "Forwarders are watching the situation very, very
closely," said Manfred Engst, executive vice president of
Schenkers International Forwarders Inc., Frankfurt, West
Germany, a freight broker and a large Federal customer.
   On Federal's trans-Pacific routes, cargo shipments have
fallen nearly 20% since February, analysts say, because of
sluggish import demand in the U.S. that's affecting all
carriers.
   Thomas Oliver, Federal's senior vice president,
international, said the company has found that for every 1%
that the U.S. economy slows down, imports drop 10%. He said
Federal's business is slowly improving in Europe, but still
has a long way to go.
   Mr. Oliver refused to predict when Federal's struggling
international operations would become profitable, saying
only, "I'm quite positive about what we can accomplish in the
next few years."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Federal closed at $45.50, up 87.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Caution Urged in Assessing
   Tax Debt of Foreign Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration's top tax official
urged Congress to use "extreme caution" before concluding
that U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies are evading U.S.
taxes.
   Testifying on the second day of hearings at a House Ways
and Means subcommittee, Kenneth Gideon, assistant Treasury
secretary for tax policy, said "it might be tempting to
infer" from data that foreign-controlled firms are illegally
shifting income out of the U.S. by paying excessive prices in
transactions with their overseas parents. But he said there
may be other explanations for the low tax bills, such as
"start-up expenses, acquisition indebtedness, the age of the
investment."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, Mr. Gideon said, "There's certainly data
there to indicate we should be looking carefully at the
transfer-pricing practices of foreign firms."
   The hearings follow a nine-month investigation by the
subcommittee of 36 U.S. subsidiaries of foreign automobile,
electronics and motorcycle companies. On Tuesday,
subcommittee investigators testified that more than half of
the companies paid little or no tax over a 10-year period,
largely by inflating the prices they paid their parents for
goods, services and technology to reduce their U.S. incomes.
U.S. tax law requires companies to charge market prices in
transactions with related firms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Program Trades
   Were 14% of June Volume
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- June was one of the busiest months for program
trading since the New York Stock Exchange started releasing
reports on the computer-aided trading activity two years ago.
   Program trading in June accounted for about 14% of Big
Board volume, or 21.4 million shares daily, according to
exchange data.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In contrast, program trading accounted for an average of
only 9.9% of exchange volume in 1989 and 10.7% in the last
half of 1988. Program trading has been controversial because
of the market gyrations associated with some of its forms,
particularly stock-index arbitrage.
   For the week of June 25-29, program trading accounted for
13.7% of Big Board daily volume, the exchange said. That is a
high figure for a week that doesn't include program trading
associated with the quarterly expiration of stock-index
futures and options.
   The most active program traders for the week were Morgan
Stanley Group Inc. (22.4 million shares), General Electric
Co.'s Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. unit (15.3 million), Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. (11.9 million), Salomon Brothers Inc. (8.9
million) and Susquehanna Investment Group (8.4 million).
These five firms accounted for 70% of Big Board program
activity for the week.
   About 77% of all stock-index arbitrage activity was done
by Morgan, Kidder and Susquehanna.
   Program trading is the nearly simultaneous purchase or
sale of 15 or more, and often hundreds, of stocks. In index
arbitrage, stocks are bought and sold with offsetting trades
of futures and options to profit from price discrepancies in
different markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OSHA Proposes
   New Safety Rules
   At Chemical Plants
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR P RCM ARC
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
WATER UTILITIES (WAT)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department proposed rules
requiring chemical-plant managers to adopt rigorous safety
programs.
   The department's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration had promised the rules in a report to
President Bush in April. That report covered explosions at a
Phillips Petroleum Co. plastics complex near Houston in
October. The explosion, one of the worst chemical-facility
disasters since World War II, killed 23 workers and injured
more than 130.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OSHA completed work on the proposal following an explosion
last week at an Arco Chemical Co. plant in Channelview,
Texas, in which 17 workers died. Arco Chemical is a unit of
Atlantic Richfield Co.
   An OSHA spokesman said the timing of the government's
action wasn't influenced by the Arco explosion, though he
said the Phillips and Arco incidents tended to "crank up the
anxiety level" at the agency.
   Gerard Scannell, an assistant labor secretary who heads
OSHA, said the proposed standard culminates 18 months of
"intense, expedited work."
   Hundreds of workers were killed or injured in accidents at
chemical plants and refineries in the past two years. OSHA
and industry critics have singled out increased reliance by
companies on contract workers as one possible cause. A
preliminary report prepared for OSHA recently concluded that
the contract workers get less safety training than permanent
workers and are more loosely supervised.
   Safety-management plans advocated by OSHA would
incorporate policies already followed voluntarily by many
companies. These involve such steps as evaluating plant
valves for safety hazards, keeping equipment in good shape
and properly training both contractors and company workers.
   The agency estimated that the rules could prevent more
than 200 deaths and at least 720 injuries and illnesses a
year. The rules would cover about 2.2 million workers and
would cost chemical companies $233 million annually. OSHA
said the cost figure included a conservative estimate of
economic benefits that it said partly would offset direct
costs.
   OSHA said its proposal would require companies to conduct
"process hazard analysis," which it said will mean "a
thorough, orderly, systematic approach for identifying,
evaluating and controlling processes" that involve highly
hazardous chemicals.
   Besides covering chemical companies, the proposal would
affect workers in oil refining and related work, farm-goods
warehousing, wholesaling, liquid natural-gas production and
electric and water services, OSHA said.
   OSHA said it will take comments on the proposal through
Oct. 15, and a hearing is set for Nov. 27.
   Sylvia Krekel, an occupational health and safety official
for the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union, criticized
the OSHA plan. "It's not going to stop the carnage," she
said, because it is "essentially written by the industry" and
puts no "great burden" on chemical plant managers to improve
safety. Ms. Krekel said it doesn't provide for input from
workers, and she predicted it would be "weak" on ensuring
that contract workers are well trained and adequately
supervised.
   Akio Konoshima, an OSHA spoksman, said the agency had
cooperation from unions and the industry in developing the
proposal, and he said the comment process and hearing will be
a forum for any such criticisms to be expressed.
   ---
   Allanna Sullivan in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   IMF Never Proposes
   A `Shock' Treatment
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM TAXES FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   I noted in David Asman's June 11 editorial-page article,
"Is Mexico's New Market Economy Here to Stay?" a sentence
implying the International Monetary Fund routinely recommends
"higher taxes and severe currency devaluations," which you
term "the recessionary `shock' formula."
   Permit me to correct your misapprehensions about the role
and effect that currency devaluation and tax policies have in
the reform efforts of a country seeking to correct severe
payments imbalances.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A country's exchange rate is its most strategic price.
When that key price gets out of line because of inflation,
imports become too cheap and exports unprofitable; the
country runs into financial difficulties as its need for
foreign currencies to pay its bills outstrips what it can
earn from exporting or what foreigners are prepared to invest
or lend. Among other dire effects, savings flee abroad
because the country's savers know the situation cannot last,
and resources vitally needed for investment are lost. This is
only one of the ways that an overvalued currency undermines a
country's economy, and why the IMF recommends devaluation
when it is needed.
   The IMF never proposes devaluation to give a country an
artificial trade advantage, but to get the exchange rate to a
level that no longer distorts trade. Of course, devaluation
by itself does not work, and may indeed feed inflation. But
no one, certainly not the IMF, has ever suggested or
recommended devaluation alone as a remedy. On the contrary,
the IMF strongly urges that devaluation be accompanied by
budget and monetary restraint and other measures to contain
price increases.
   A root cause of inflation and overvalued exchange rates
often is underdisciplined budget policy. A country must raise
the money it needs to pay for government services. The
decision regarding the level and scope of public services
that are provided is up to the country's government, and is a
function of the government's social and political priorities.
The IMF has no say in these matters. But to ensure an
appropriate overall fiscal balance, the IMF sometimes
supports both tax increases and tax-reform efforts. In so
doing, the IMF encourages broad-based tax systems and
discourages excessively high marginal rates that reduce work
incentives, promote tax cheating, and penalize saving and
investment. Devaluation and tax raises are not routinely
advocated by the IMF, as Mr. Asman implies. They are
recommended only where needed, and then as essential elements
of comprehensive reforms to stabilize economies and restore
growth.
   Azizali F. Mohammed
   Director
   External Relations Department
   International Monetary Fund
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Transamerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TRANSAMERICA Corp. (San Francisco) -- Richard H. Finn, 55
years old, was named chief executive officer of this
financial services concern's Transamerica Finance Group Inc.
unit. Mr. Finn will also remain president of the unit. Mr.
Finn succeeds Arthur E. Van Leuven, 64, who will remain
Transamerica Finance's chairman until he retires Nov. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   MBIA Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MBI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MBIA Inc. (Armonk, N.Y.) -- Freda S. Johnson was named a
director of this insurer of municipal securities, expanding
its board to 12 members. Ms. Johnson, 43 years old, currently
a public finance consultant, was former head of the public
finance department for Moody's Investors Service Inc., the
New York-based rating agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Scientists Find Gene That Can Cause
   Skin Tumors and Learning Disabilities
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Scientists have found the gene that causes
neurofibromatosis, a disease that produces birthmarks, tumors
of the skin and nerve cells and learning disabilities in
about 100,000 Americans.
   The gene discovery is expected to lead to better diagnosis
and, perhaps, the first effective therapy for the relatively
common, inherited disorder. Scientists who found the
so-called NF gene also said it may play a surprisingly broad
role in the development and inheritance of several common
types of cancer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The scientists speculate that the NF gene may be part of
recently identified class of genes that, when defective, can
unleash a cancer. Molecular biologists chasing after these
genes believe a cancer develops after a cell accumulates a
number of these mutated "tumor suppressor" genes, either
through inheritance or some type of damage to a person's
genetic material.
   "The NF discovery seems to provide a bit of the molecular
pathway that transforms normal tissue to tumor tissue," said
Ray White, a molecular biologist at University of Utah who
led one of two research teams that simultaneously reported
finding the NF gene. "With each discovery the picture of how
a cancer occurs at the most basic level becomes more clear."
   Finding the NF gene culminates a race involving a handful
of major research institutions over more than five years,
part of the world-wide hunt by biologists, geneticists, and
doctors to map the entire human genome, the collection of all
50,000 to 100,000 genes that direct the moment-to-moment
functions of human life.
   Mr. White's group in Utah, along with researchers at the
National Cancer Institute, reported their findings in the
current issue of the scientific journal Cell. At the same
time, Francis Collins and colleagues at the University of
Michigan and Washington University School of Medicine,
reported finding the gene, by using different techniques, in
this week's issue of Science magazine.
   Both Messrs. White and Collins said they believed the NF
gene signals cells to produce a protein that controls some
aspect of cell growth. The disease causes numerous problems,
they said, because the gene is active in cells in numerous
organs.
   The scientists said they believed further work will show
that the disorder erupts in tissues only when both copies of
the gene -- each cell contains a gene passed on from each
parent -- becomes damaged. Thus, people who inherit an
already-defective gene from one parent are particularly
susceptible to the disease. If the second copy of the gene
inherited from the other parent is somehow damaged, cells
normally under control can grow into a tumor or behave in
some aberrant fashion.
   "For years doctors have been puzzled by the fact that
people with NF have a 50% higher rate of cancer, such as
cancer of the colon, prostate and breast," said Mr. Collins.
"Now we think we know why." Mr. Collins said he will now
search for the protein produced by the gene and look for ways
to repair or reintroduce healthy versions of the protein as
therapy for those with the ailment. The protein also may be
helpful in treating cancer, he said.
   Neurofibromatosis, in rare instances, can cause terribly
disfiguring tumors on the face and upper body, a condition
that has led people to erroneously call the disorder the
Elephant Man's disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OECD Urges Expansion of Work Force
   ---
   Fear of Wage Inflation Prompts
   Agency to Alter Its Advice
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FORGN LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France officially has 2.3 million people, equal
to 9.3% of the work force, seeking jobs. French employers,
meanwhile, say they're having more trouble finding enough
people to hire than at any time since 1979. West German
employers, despite an unemployment rate of about 6%, higher
than that in the U.S., have absorbed hundreds of thousands of
East German refugees this year, and still say they're short
of skilled help.
   After nearly a decade of steady economic growth,
unemployment continues to fall throughout the industrialized
world, but still remains historically high in spots. Even
massive programs aimed at removing barriers to job creation,
such as the European Community's 1992 program, either haven't
worked yet or haven't worked well enough.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nonetheless, with some economies, such as those of Germany
and France, now working at or near their total production
capacity, worries have developed that job shortages may soon
lead to higher wage settlements. Those wages could in turn
fuel higher inflation that could eventually choke off the
economic recovery.
   Paradoxes like these have led the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development to shift the emphasis of
its advice to its 24 industrialized members on how to cut
unemployment. The OECD for the past decade has urged policies
that stimulated macro-economic growth, coupled with the
removal of regulations or other internal impediments to
creating jobs, all softened by generous unemployment benefits
to tide people over until the jobs were created.
   Now, though, after six years in a row in which higher
economic growth has cut unemployment rates nearly everywhere
in the OECD, the government-sponsored research body is
suggesting that governments worry more about ensuring a
continuing supply of future workers.
   Governments currently spend about 2% of their gross
national products on job programs, the OECD says, with
two-thirds of the money going to benefit payments, and
one-third to training. The OECD's annual Employment Outlook
suggests that governments would do better shifting direct
payments to programs to train workers or expand the work
force. More women should be tempted back into the workplace
by offering better child care. Unemployment payments should
be increasingly tied to training programs. The efficiency of
public and private job-search and job-matching agencies
should be increased.
   "The demographic trends show clearly that there will be
fewer young people coming along at the same time that
technological advances are demanding different kinds of
skills and different kinds of work arrangements," says Tom
Alexander, head of the OECD's Directorate for Social Affairs,
Manpower and Education. Meanwhile, the economic boom is
drawing more and more migrants, from North Africa, Eastern
Europe and Latin America, into the OECD. These migrants often
take low-skilled, low-paid jobs that have previously gone
begging, even in European countries with high unemployment
rates.
   Both anecdotal and statistical evidence suggests that,
particularly in Europe, the people who've been out of work
the longest either don't have the skills employers are
looking for; or won't trade unemployment benefits for
low-paying manual jobs; or won't move to where the jobs are,
even within their own countries. This lack of labor mobility
-- mobility that is one of the great strengths of the U.S. --
isn't expected to improve much in Europe even after the 1992
program removes most barriers to the movement of people
across European borders.
   Meanwhile, necessary jobs are being filled from outside,
even as national unemployment rolls remain long. Paris's
street cleaners are nearly all immigrants. West Germany's
vast, usually family-owned machine tool industry desperately
seeks tool-and-die makers, thin on the ground in Duesseldorf,
but plentiful in Dresden and elsewhere in East Germany. The
long-term unemployed in Europe don't all have to become
street sweepers, but thousands could be retrained as
technical workers. Unemployed Germans can't all set dies, but
they could be drawn back into the work force through
subsidized on-the-job training programs, the OECD says.
   The trend toward some sort of "workfare" is increasingly
well-established in Europe. Sweden has long tied unemployment
benefits to training programs, France last year introduced a
sort of minimum wage for the down and out, requiring
recipients to participate in counseling or training to
reabsorb them into the work force. The Dutch have transferred
much of their benefits program from a government agency to a
tripartite body involving employers and unions as well.
   The OECD's report projects a virtually stable unemployment
picture for this year and next, after a sizable fall in 1989.
U.S. unemployment is expected to rise to 5.4% in 1991, from
5.3% this year. West German unemployment is projected to rise
to 6.1% this year from 5.5% last year, reflecting the
absorption of East Germany, but then to begin falling in
1991.
   However, OECD officials added that their official
projections on German unemployment may be overly pessimistic.
"There's really no sign yet of increasing unemployment in
West Germany," says Mr. Alexander. As for fears in many
Western European countries that jobs will flee to the East in
search of lower-paid workers and lower government social
charges, so far there isn't any evidence of that, either.
   Western European labor leaders want to make sure it never
happens. "Some employers look on Eastern Europe as an
inviting pool of cheap labor," says Gavin Laird, general
secretary of Britain's Amalgamated Engineering Union. "But
the people of Eastern Europe haven't thrown off their
Communist oppressors simply to be conned by some Western
industrialist offering Third World wages. They've had 45
years of watching a privileged Communist elite skim off the
cream. Now they want to be the new Japan, with economic
prosperity for all, not just the few."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Neither Left Nor Right Claims Voters' Hearts
   On Today's Burning Social and Cultural Issues
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Neither liberals nor conservatives can claim
to dominate the social and cultural issues that most stir
American voters' emotions, according to a new Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll.
   The poll on social issues found that most Americans these
days seem generally tolerant on a wide range of issues, from
sexuality to race. Meanwhile, those issues that do push
voters' "hot buttons" don't seem to primarily favor either
political party.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The story on social issues is fascinating because it
reveals a country that is not ideologically aligned with the
left or the right, but that has a fundamental sense of what
should constitute public morality in 1990," say pollsters
Peter Hart and Robert Teeter, who conducted the survey for
the Journal and NBC.
   The poll, one of four special quarterly surveys the
Journal and NBC conduct on various topics, found that some
issues seem to represent part of a core set of beliefs or
standards for Americans. When these are violated, more
conservative attitudes seem to prevail. For example, 71% of
voters surveyed favor the death penalty; 57% support a
constitutional amendment to prohibit burning the flag; 54%
favor restrictions on public funding for art that some people
may deem obscene.
   But on issues involving health and welfare, or affecting
privacy and personal rights, more liberal views seem to hold
sway. A principal example is abortion. While 52% of those
polled said they personally consider abortion to be wrong --
a figure that has remained constant in nearly a decade of
surveys -- an even larger majority of 60% said abortion
shouldn't be made illegal.
   When asked to choose which among three statements came
closest to their own views, 57% said abortion should be left
up to the woman and her doctor, 33% said it should be
available only in cases of rape and incest, and 8% said it
should be illegal in all circumstances. Americans turn more
conservative, however, when the question of abortion rights
is mixed with that of parental rights. By a margin of 75% to
21%, they support laws requiring that parents be notified
before a girl under age 18 can have an abortion.
   Abortion remains an issue of great intensity at both ends
of the spectrum. Yet the Journal/NBC poll also shows its
divided political impact: Asked which party best deals with
the issue, 27% of voters said Democrats, 20% said
Republicans, and 35% said both or neither.
   Race relations present Americans with a different set of
conflicts. Most voters see the nation making some strides:
Asked whether blacks are better off than they were a decade
ago, 69% of whites and 60% of blacks said yes. But on other
issues, sharp racial divisions are evident. "When it comes to
race, whites tend to see the glass as half full, blacks tend
to see the glass as two-thirds empty," say Mr. Hart and Mr.
Teeter.
   For example, 40% of whites, but only 20% of blacks,
believe relations between their races are either good or very
good; just over a quarter of the whites, but half of the
blacks, say relations are fairly poor to poor. The black
skepticism cuts across all age groups and is particularly
pronounced among men.
   And while 76% of blacks believe they are discriminated
against, only 29% of whites agree with them. On the other
hand, whites as well as blacks solidly back
affirmative-action plans in business, providing they contain
"no rigid quotas." And only 15% of whites said they believe
blacks are getting too much special treatment.
   While the poll found that whites have roughly the same
views toward Asian-Americans and Hispanics as toward blacks,
black voters' attitudes toward these other ethnic groups are
more complex. While they tend to see Hispanics as
discriminated against, they take a more critical view toward
Asian-Americans, with 28% saying they receive too many
special advantages.
   On a number of other social issues, the Journal/NBC poll
found that Americans seem to share a number of broad
attitudes that don't fit neatly into a liberal or
conservative profile. In some cases, in fact, large
majorities of voters took the same view despite stark
differences in how they viewed themselves ideologically:
   For example, 73% of voters support banning the sale of
so-called "assault" weapons and semiautomatic rifles. The
figure was 86% among those the pollsters identified as social
liberals; more surprisingly, even 61% of social conservatives
agreed. Equally surprisingly, 58% of social liberals back the
death penalty. (Black voters, however, are split down the
middle on the question.)
   The proposal for a law requiring employers to give unpaid
leave to new parents or those caring for sick relatives is
another example of an issue that is popular across the board.
Overall, 71% of voters in the poll favor the measure, and
majorities support it in all categories.
   "When you find that even 52% of social conservatives favor
parental leave, and 58% of social liberals favor the death
penalty, you have a pretty good consensus," the pollsters
say.
   Compared with other major issues, though, few voters
volunteer the social issues when they are asked to name the
most important matters facing the country. Few also give
either political party a huge edge in addressing such issues.
The result, Mr. Hart says, is that neither political party
enters the next election with a clear advantage on the
social-issues debate.
   Instead, the Journal/NBC poll suggests that many voters
seem to be searching for a broadly tolerant middle ground.
For example, 57% of those polled favor rating and restricting
music containing obscenities, much as movies are rated and
restricted now. Fewer than one in three voters would ban such
music. On the question of AIDS, 78% said the federal
government should continue to make research and treatment a
top priority, rather than divert some of the resources to
other diseases.
   Lost in the sometimes wrenching debates over social-policy
questions in recent years is the fact that on many of these
issues -- abortion, for one -- attitudes haven't shifted
substantially in a decade or more. But the Journal/NBC poll
found one area where views clearly have sharply changed:
premarital sex. In a September 1978 Gallup poll, 50% of those
polled said sex before marriage was wrong and 41% said it
wasn't; in the new Journal/NBC poll, 60% don't object to
premarital sex, while only 33% say it is wrong.
   But as some things change, some constants remain. Of those
surveyed in the Journal/NBC poll, 60% say religion is
extremely or very important in their lives. An even larger
percentage, 69%, say religion is either as or more important
to them than it was to their parents when they were growing
up.
   ---
 Which party best represents your views on the following
issues?
                                                                                                       

                       DEMOCRATS  REPUBLICANS  BOTH  NEITHER
                                                                                                       

 Abortion                27%         20%       17%     18%
                                                                                                       

 Family leave            34          15        12      10
                                                                                                       

 Gun control             26          25        15      10
                                                                                                       

 Death penalty           18          29        16      11
                                                                                                       

 Passing a
  constitutional
  amendment on
  flag burning           23          29        26      11
                                                                                                       

 The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Plan to Eradicate Andean Coca Could Be Sheer Folly
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   COCHABAMBA, Bolivia -- Amid thorny Prosopis and cactuses
here in the Andean foothills, the talk of the U.S. unleashing
its might to eradicate coca plantations sends botanist Hardy
Eshbaugh bristling. "It's the ultimate in ugly American," he
says of the U.S. plan to release viruses and microbes to kill
the coca plants or mysteriously take away their ability to
yield any cocaine.
   Mr. Eshbaugh, a botany professor at Miami University in
Oxford, Ohio, isn't here to save coca; he is combing the
scorched sierra for wild pepper. Pepper has little in common
with coca, except that both are indigenous to the region. And
the natives have an indispensable affinity for both. But as a
botanist, he sees great folly in America's latest anti-drug
efforts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Besides disregarding the South American natives' extensive
cultural and religious use of the coca plants, U.S. policy
recommending crop eradication ignores the potentially
catastrophic effect that such a policy could have on the
ecology of the region. This also could affect the well-being
of millions of people outside this region in ways as yet
unexplored by eradication proponents.
   The targeted area -- here in Bolivia and in neighboring
Peru -- is a cradle of many valuable food crops now common
the world over. Here, the plants' wild ancestors remain as a
repository of valuable genes. These genes can be used to
strengthen existing varieties or create entirely new strains
more resistant to disease. What the U.S. proposes, as Mr.
Eshbaugh and other scientists see it, threatens to create
nothing short of havoc in the region.
   The Bush administration earlier this year proposed a $6.5
million fund to develop biological efforts at the U.S.
Agriculture Department. A deadly herbicide called "Spike,"
made by the pharmaceutical concern Eli Lilly, already has
been tested by the agency. But given the controversy that has
erupted over its indiscriminate destructive power (coca
plantations are interspersed with subsistence crops), an
agency spokesman says a decision about its use will be made
only by the international narcotics office of the State
Department.
   Before proposing the use of such biological and chemical
techniques, the USDA tested swarms of coca-eating
caterpillars on plots in the Upper Huallaga Valley of Peru.
The plan was scuttled, says an agency spokesman, "because the
caterpillars can be killed easily."
   But in contemplating biological and chemical attacks, the
U.S. might be endangering a region that, if anything, needs
more protection. Potatoes, pepper, lima beans and tomatoes
are among the betterknown crops that have evolved in the
region. "Dozens more have the potential of becoming major
commercial crops one day," says Noel Vietmeyer, a specialist
on Inca crops at the National Research Council in Washington.
While he doesn't know enough about viruses and microbes to
comment on their potential impact on the region, Mr.
Vietmeyer cites example after example of important genetic
materials that are disappearing in the "cradle regions" due
to human interference.
   The Andean region itself is getting a lot of attention
lately from international botanists and plant breeders.
That's because many of the widely commercialized crops, such
as potatoes and pepper, have lost their natural variability
and are succumbing to viruses and other diseases. The genes
that can improve them reside in their wild ancestors -- here
in the Andes. It's this that brings Mr. Eshbaugh here. He
thinks Bolivia is the region where peppers originated and
hence is likely to have plants with the greatest genetic
diversity. (A 1983 report by the U.N.'s International Board
for Plant Genetic Resources singled out pepper "as a crop
rating high global priority" in collecting and saving
ancestral genes of modern crops.)
   While a potent herbicide like Spike can cause
indiscriminate damage, U.S. officials argue in defense of
biological techniques that a virus or a microbe "tailored" to
attack a specific plant wouldn't spread to any other. But it
doesn't go unnoticed among the botanists in South America
that the U.S. applies different standards within its own
borders.
   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency keeps a tight lid
on American biotechnology companies' experiments that involve
releasing micro-organisms. In 1983, the California-based
Advanced Genetic Sciences Corp. researchers sprayed a
frost-fighting bacteria on a patch of strawberry plants. The
scientists who did the spraying wore spacesuits. The
experiment itself drew public outcry, and the company had to
shelve the project. Environmental restrictions on tests
involving release of microbes in crops -- justified or not --
have set back quite a few American biotechnology companies.
Although less restrictive today, the EPA still requires
"barrier" crops around genetically altered plants.
   It isn't surprising that Bolivia and Peru, pressured
though they are to cooperate on a program of coca eradication
in return for much-needed economic aid, are reacting strongly
to the U.S.'s latest plans. Alberto Fujimori, the newly
elected president of Peru, has declared that he won't allow
the spraying of herbicides or biological agents detrimental
to the environment. The ambassadors of the two countries
recently said in a letter to the Washington Post that while
their governments pledged cooperation at the drug summit in
Cartagena, Colombia, the U.S.'s latest drug-fighting tactics
"would destroy the working partnership that now exists."
   Both Bolivia and Peru have proposed plans to encourage
farmers to grow substitute crops as a way of slashing coca
production. But in both countries, conventional crops have
lost out to coca, a hardy plant that's easy to grow. A
serious lack of adequate farming machinery and pesticides --
as well as a poor export infrastructure -- hampers
conventional farming. This is precisely where the U.S. could
make a difference in limiting coca production.
   Crop substitution won't be an easy thing to accomplish as
long as North America and Europe keep demanding cocaine, the
agricultural experts here believe. Nevertheless, the price of
coca is on the decline, and this might be a good time for the
U.S. to reallocate its resources from crop destruction to
crop substitution. At least one crop is already economically
more attractive than coca.
   In a vast field of "locoto" peppers nestled in a mountain
range, not too far from the coca-growing Chapare region, a
farmer says of his lush waist-high crop: "This is the most
profitable of all crops, more than tomatoes and beans."
   "Even coca?" he is asked.
   The coca-chewing farmer, who's constantly reaching into a
small plastic bag of dried leaves he's carrying, nods in
agreement: "For 50 kilograms {of locoto peppers} I can make
between $20 and $80, depending upon the season." This is far
more than what he could get for a comparative amount of coca.
Later, Mr. Eshbaugh says of the farmer and his family: "They
were unusually educated. Growing locoto requires a very
specialized knowledge of pesticides and growing conditions."
This is the kind of technical assistance coca-growing
peasants need.
   ---
   Mr. Naj is a Journal reporter who is completing a book on
pepper for Alfred A. Knopf.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Advance in Light Volume;
   Nikkei Fluctuates in Index-Linked Trade
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks finished higher in light and non-focused
trading, with the Nikkei Index fluctuating largely because of
index-linked trading, observers said.
   In London, stocks ended moderate activity with prices just
off the day's lows. Traders said sentiment was mixed with the
pound's decline providing support but economic fundamentals
still overshadowing the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's market lacked investors' enthusiasm as interest
rates in the bond market showed little sign of declining,
despite the yen's continued strength against the dollar,
traders said.
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues gained 281.14 points to
32575.32 Thursday, finishing just below the intraday high. In
early trading in Tokyo Friday, the index advanced another
182.66 points to 32757.98.
   Thursday's volume on the first section was estimated at
430 million shares, up from 386.9 million shares Wednesday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues 503 to 421,
while 197 issues remained unchanged. The Tokyo Stock Price
Index of all issues in the first section rose 2.67 points, or
0.11%, to 2354.24.
   The second section index was up 11.97 points, or 0.27%, to
4418.71. Volume was estimated at 35 million shares, down from
39.7 million shares Wednesday.
   The Nikkei Index, which climbed above 32500 in the
midmorning, declined as low as 32266 late in the afternoon as
bond prices softened, traders said.
   The index jumped about 300 points during the last 30
minutes of trading. But traders attributed the advance to
buying linked to the July options trading that expired
yesterday.
   "The gain was solely technical. The sentiment wasn't
strong," said Takashi Hayano, a futures and options trader at
Dai-Ichi Securities.
   Large-capital shares that firmed Wednesday on the yen's
advance fell back as investors took profits, judging that the
strengthening of the yen is unlikely to pull down interest
rates, traders said.
   Shipbuilders, electric utilities and largesize
construction companies ended lower.
   Investors went after the shares of companies that are
considered likely to maintain strong earnings prospects
regardless of changes in exchange rates and interest rates,
Mr. Murai said.
   High-tech shares advanced briskly because of strong
earnings outlooks.
   Sony was up 100 yen to 8800 yen (67 cents to $59.36).
Kyocera soared 220 yen to 9000 yen. TDK gained 90 yen to 7440
yen, while Fanucrose 90 yen to 7550 yen.
   In London, sterling's decline in early trading provided
encouragement for the overseas earners. But not all of the
stocks in the sector benefited from the pound's easing, as
some came under pressure from profit-takers after Wednesday's
rally on a sharply lower pound.
   Wall Street's firm performance provided considerable
support late in London's trading day.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index ended
at 2370.5, up 10 points, after gaining as much as 25.8
points. The Financial Times 30 Share Index fell 7.3 points to
1870.4.
   Volume rose modestly, with 460.6 million issues traded
compared with 449.1 million shares Wednesday.
   One of the main corporate highlights was Hawker Siddeley
issuing a profit warning for 1990, saying its earnings "will
fall short" of 1989 figures. The electrical and mechanical
engineering concern had 1989 pretax profit of #202.1 million
($364 million) on sales of #2.15 billion. The stock fell 62
pence to 548 pence.
   One dealer said one reason for the stock's decline was the
placement of a chunk of shares by broker Cazenove.
   Rank Organisation eased 48 pence to 789 pence. The
communications and entertainment concern said pretax profit
for the six months ended May 12 increased 24%, though the
company forecast growing difficulties stemming from poor
economic conditions in the U.K. and the U.S.
   Great Universal Stores gained 20 pence to #10.63, as
investors bought stock ahead of the company's results, widely
anticipated to be disclosed next week.
   Elsewhere, stocks closed higher in Paris, Zurich,
Brussels, Milan, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Madrid. Frankfurt
closed mixed. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   And shares ended higher in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore
and Wellington, and lower in Manila, Seoul, and Taipei.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                % This
                            Jul 11     Jul 10    Year

   U.S. .................   334.4       330.1    + 2.9
   Britain ..............   702.1       693.0    - 2.6
   Canada ...............   389.9       387.9    - 9.8
   Japan ................  1304.0      1296.0    -21.2
   France ...............   552.0       549.7    - 2.6
   Germany ..............   306.7       307.1    + 7.5
   Hong Kong ............  2570.9      2543.9    +22.6
   Switzerland ..........   232.1       231.3    + 5.2
   Australia ............   329.0       326.1    - 0.7
   World index ..........   528.3       524.5    - 6.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   An Adaptable House
   Spans the Generations
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IMAGINE A HOUSE you can live in all your life.
   America is already designing products and houses for the
aged or disabled. But single-purpose design has a limited use
and stigmatizes the old or infirm. So a handful of
architects, product designers and planners are trying to
promote "universal" or "life span" design -- or at least the
"adaptable" house.
   "The trick is to build it right when you're young, to make
it more convenient later on," says Margaret Wylde, vice
president of the Institute for Technology Development in
Oxford, Miss.
   All the products and technology needed for such a house
are currently on the market. In a universal house, light
switches, fuse boxes and thermostats are placed lower to
serve people of all ages and conditions, including those in
wheelchairs. In the kitchen, stove tops are flat sheets of
"induction" glass, to prevent burning and lessen the chance
of spills. Cabinets, sinks and counter tops rise or fall
mechanically, depending on the user's height.
   In the bathroom, the life span house has a shower head and
soap dish that adjust up or down and a walk-in tub with a
watertight door. For the disabled and able-bodied, it has a
paperless toilet that uses warm water for cleaning and warm
air for drying.
   The adaptable house leaves space under cabinets and sinks
for an eventual seat or wheelchair. The walls are reinforced
from the start against the day when grab bars may be needed.
The hallways are designed wide enough for wheelchairs.
There's a separate apartment that can be rented out or used
by children at first, by care-givers later. Gerontologist
William Wasch plans to build such a house for himself and his
wife in Middletown, Conn.
   If all this sounds expensive, well, in the short run it
may be. In the long run, says Paul Grayson, a Winchester,
Mass., architect, a universal house can save money, if it
keeps you out of a nursing home.
                                                                                                       

   Seeking to Make It Safe
   To Dial While Driving
                                                                                                       

   CHRISTOPHER Delaney took her eyes off the road only long
enough to dial a number. But that was long enough for the San
Francisco architect's car to do $2,000 worth of damage to the
"old hippie van" ahead.
   Such accidents have the cellular-phone industry scrambling
to find safer ways of dialing from car telephones. It wants
to head off proposed laws like one in Minnesota that would
require drivers to park their cars when dialing.
   Hands-free phone systems allow drivers to look straight
ahead while talking. But dialing "can cause a distraction,"
notes Lynn Ryan of the Cellular Telecommunications Industry
Association.
   To minimize the distraction, Toyota's Lexus offers an
optional "command module," which lets a driver make calls
with both hands on the wheel. Chrysler owners can have their
phone on the sun visor, close to the line of sight.
Oldsmobile will put a touch-screen dialer with big numbers on
the console to the right of the steering wheel. Still, all
these designs require drivers to take their eyes off the
road, if only for a moment.
   The best solution may be voice activation. A number of
manufacturers offer phones that will, for example, dial the
office when someone in the car says "office." The problem:
Most phones can be programmed to accept only one
pronunciation of a command, and outside noise can trigger
unwanted calls.
   But By-Word Technologies of Dallas has begun selling an
attachment that is supposed to ignore the background noise
and can respond correctly to various pronunciations. The
company hopes, by year end, to have the product compatible
with 80% of car phones sold in the U.S.
                                                                                                       

   A Juiced-Up Design
   Strives for Better Aim
                                                                                                       

   SOMEDAY, THEY may grow oranges on the Moon. If they do,
Phillippe Starck will be there to make them into juice.
   Mr. Starck has designed a citrus juicer that's like a
cross between a lunar landing module and a three-legged
creature of the deep. Heavy aluminum, the "Juicy Salif"
stands 11 1/2 inches high and has little rubber feet. It also
has a deeply furrowed squeezing cone, to coax juice downward
into a glass while keeping it from squirting sideways into
the eye of the beholder.
   Mr. Starck, who lives in Paris, also redesigned French
President Francois Mitterrand's apartment and New York's
Royalton Hotel. He did the juicer for the Italian firm
Alessi. The U.S. importer is Markuse of Woburn, Mass.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ROSE Enterprises of Bloomsburg, Pa., is testing a plastic
highway divider that can be filled with sand or water to
better absorb the energy of a car crash. . . . Design
students at Rochester Institute of Technology say the U.S.
could use 80% less plastic by packaging milk and other
liquids in plastic bags instead of rigid jugs, a method
already in use in Canada. A permanent rigid shell would house
the bag in cupboard or refrigerator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Yeltsin Quits Communist Party
   ---
   Split, If Many More
   Radicals Follow, May
   Wound Gorbachev
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Just when President Mikhail Gorbachev seemed to
have stitched the divided Soviet Communist Party together,
Boris Yeltsin has started tearing it apart, perhaps for good.
   Mr. Yeltsin, the radical former Politburo member who was
recently elected president of the Russian republic, announced
last night that he is resigning from the Communist Party. "I
cannot be guided in my decisions by (the party) alone," he
told delegates at the party's 28th Congress in Moscow. As an
elected government leader, "I must obey the will of the
people," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Yeltsin has a huge popular following in the nation,
and his decision seems likely to spark a wave of defections
from the party. Within an hour of his announcement, several
leaders of the radical Democratic Platform grouping inside
the Communist Party announced that they were formally
splitting and intended to set up an independent party.
   Such moves come as a blow for Mr. Gorbachev, who has
struggled to maintain party unity in the face of mounting
difficulties. The Soviet leader has spent the past 11 days at
the congress fighting off a hard-line conservative challenge
to his rule and forging elaborate compromises between right
and left.
   Until Mr. Yeltsin's announcement, he seemed to have
largely succeeded. Relying on personal loyalty and party
discipline, Mr. Gorbachev won endorsement for his policies
and was easily re-elected party leader. Just Wednesday,
congress delegates overwhelmingly approved his candidate for
the post of deputy leader, Vladimir Ivashko, rebuffing the
hard-line Politburo member Yegor Ligachev, who was also
running for the post.
   "There is every reason to believe that the (Communist
Party) will avoid the lot of its East European sisters and be
able to prevent a split and preserve its influence among the
grass roots," crowed the official Tass news agency after that
vote. Even some would-be defectors seemed happier. "The
congress started on the right and is finishing on the left,"
said Georgy Gusev, a Democratic Platform member. "I think
that most people will stay in the party and continue to
fight."
   But the decision to quit the party by Mr. Yeltsin and the
other radicals, including the mayor of Leningrad, Anatoly
Sobchak, and Vyacheslav Shostakovsky, rector of Moscow's
Higher Party School, has thrown such predictions into doubt.
Just 2% of congress delegates are Democratic Platform
members, but the group claims a large nationwide following.
   Not all its supporters have decided to join them, however.
Mr. Gusev told the Congress -- to loud applause -- that the
statement by the group's leaders hadn't been coordinated with
other members, and he personally wouldn't leave the party.
Prior to the congress, radicals had weighed a mass walkout
and a formal split with the party.
   Whatever happens to the attempt to set up an alternative,
the Communist Party -- and Mr. Gorbachev -- seem headed for
turbulent days. Both he and his liberal aide, Alexander
Yakovlev, had publicly urged the radicals not to leave, but
to stay in the party to help fight the increasingly
vociferous conservative majority. If a formal split does
materialize, it will leave Mr. Gorbachev at the head of a
rump party dominated by hard-line Marxists and provincial
officials deeply ambivalent about his reform program. But the
Soviet leader didn't appear immediately fazed by the
prospect, coolly chairing the congress proceedings as if
nothing out of the ordinary had occurred.
   Behind Mr. Yeltsin's move lies a growing national
disaffection with the party, which itself concedes that it
has lagged behind many of the changes in Soviet society
introduced by Mr. Gorbachev. In a self-critical statement
approved by delegates this week, the congress declared that
the party "was taken unawares" by problems such as growing
ethnic conflicts. It blamed the leadership for "failing to
use all the posibilities for radical transformation."
   But Mr. Yeltsin, who has hinted for weeks that he might
resign, was demanding more than just a mea culpa. In a
hardhitting speech to the Congress last week, he warned
delegates that the party faced "historic defeat" at the hands
of the people unless it agreed to a drastic overhaul. He
called for the party to drop the word Communist from its
name, relinquish control over the armed forces, the KGB and
Soviet factories, and create a "union of democratic forces"
to lead the nation out of crisis.
   "Those who think about other variants should look at the
fate of the Communist Parties in Eastern Europe," he told the
congress. "They were separated from the people . . . and
found themselves sidetracked."
   Mr. Gorbachev did manage to swing the Congress closer to
some of Mr. Yeltsin's positions. One resolution it approved
proposes that "all champions of the socialist idea should
rally within a broad coalition." But on such key issues as
Communist influence in the army and industry, delegates
refused to approve any changes, following the lead of Mr.
Gorbachev.
   Even some prominent reformists in the party expressed
quiet disappointment with the lack of radicalism at the
congress. "There are so many resolutions and some of them
contradict each other," Interior Minister Vadim Bakatin said
in an interview. "I think that the decisions of the 28th
Congress have exhausted themselves. They have already been
overtaken by life . . . I think everybody now understands
there is a need for a radical turn in goals."
   In many ways, Mr. Yeltsin seems better attuned to the
national mood than Mr. Gorbachev. The one-day strike by
thousands of coal miners around the nation Wednesday was
driven by demands for a thorough reform of the party along
the lines proposed by Mr. Yeltsin.
   "It's good that there's a split," said Yuri Boldyrev, one
of the miners' strike leaders from the Ukrainian town of
Donetsk. "But it would be very good if the party is
disbanded." Mr. Boldyrev said he now expects miners in the
region to move rapidly to shut down Communist Party offices
on mine premises.
   Popular reaction to the largely conservative majority at
the congress has been one of alarm and indignation. "For the
first time it has become clear what our bosses are like. For
the first time it has become obvious why perestroika is
skidding," one woman, Valentina Larina, complained in a
phone-in about the congress organized by the paper Evening
Moscow. Another caller, Nikolai Minayev, an invalid who
fought in World War II, complained that his bed had broken
and he couldn't afford a new one. "Ask the congress what I
fought for," he griped.
   Many such ordinary people look to Mr. Yeltsin, 59 years
old, as their champion. Since being unceremoniously ousted
from the Politburo in 1987, he has fought bitter battles
against the entrenched party bureaucrats whom he claims are
out to get him. Last year he staged an astonishing comeback,
a novelty in Soviet political life, by winning 90% of the
vote in elections to the Soviet Parliament. He completed his
triumph this May, when he was elected president of the
Russian republic, a position of enormous power.
   Until his resignation announcement at the congress, he
appeared to be taking pains to get along with Mr. Gorbachev.
The Soviet leader originally brought Mr. Yeltsin onto the
Politburo, giving him the job of Moscow party leader. But the
relationship between the two men quickly deteriorated, with
Mr. Yeltsin accusing the Soviet president of betrayal after
his ouster. In turn, Mr. Gorbachev dismissed Mr. Yeltsin as a
hothead.
   Following Mr. Yeltsin's election as Russian president,
however, the two men have appeared eager to heal the rift. At
a meeting of leaders of the republics soon after Mr.
Yeltsin's election, Mr. Gorbachev went to shake Mr. Yeltsin's
hand first and congratulate him on his victory. According to
people present, Mr. Yeltsin said: "I am with you." Mr.
Gorbachev quickly replied: "I hear that with pleasure."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Broken Promises Break Presidents
   ----
   By David Frum
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   "I'm a Ford, not a Lincoln," Gerald Ford observed when he
became president. George Bush seems to feel no such modesty.
At his June 29 press conference, Mr. Bush said he had changed
his mind about raising taxes. But Lincoln had changed his
mind about freeing the slaves: "I'm doing like Lincoln did,
`think anew.' And I'm thinking anew." What was the big deal?
   Not even Mr. Bush's most fervent admirers -- of whom there
are appreciably fewer today than there were two weeks ago --
had ever before noticed much similarity between him and the
Great Emancipator. But Mr. Bush needn't have stretched so far
-- there are plenty of likelier comparisons. Unlike Lincoln,
though, these other presidential promise-breakers didn't win
the posthumous plaudits of a grateful nation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Take James Polk for example. In the 1844 election, Polk's
Democratic handlers came up with the slogan, "54-40 or
fight]" -- a message so bold and straightforward that people
remember it long after they have forgotten what it meant.
What Polk was saying was that he was prepared to go to war
with Britain unless it recognized the American claim to the
whole of the Oregon territory, all the way up to the mouth of
the Columbia River at latitude 54' 40 (just shy of what is
now the southern tip of the Alaska panhandle).
   The promise to demand all of Oregon was important because
the Democrats were simultaneously planning to admit Texas to
the Union. Texas added hugely to the potential power and size
of the slave states; Oregon would counterbalance Texas by
adding to the number and weight of the free states. But when
Mexico threatened to go to war over the Texas annexation,
Polk, a Southerner, broke his 1844 promise and struck a deal
with Britain that set the border at the 49th parallel.
   Polk's double-cross saved the U.S. from fighting Britain
and Mexico at the same time, but it also confirmed Northern
voters' fears that the Democratic Party cared only for
Southern interests, crippling the Northern wing of the
Democratic Party, hastening the division of the U.S. along
sectional lines and moving the country closer to civil war.
   In character, Mr. Bush resembles the bellicose Polk rather
less than he does the high-minded Rutherford B. Hayes, an
Ohio lawyer nominated in 1876 by a Republican Party a little
embarrassed by some of the excesses of its previous eight
years in office. Both the party and Hayes himself were firmly
committed to carrying through with Reconstruction and equal
rights for the newly freed slaves. But a controversy over the
counting of the vote forced the Republicans into secret
negotiations with the Democrats after the election. The
bargain enabled Hayes to enter the White House; in return,
the Republicans jettisoned their commitment to Reconstruction
and freed Southern whites to run their states their way.
   For sheer brazenness, perhaps the closest parallel to Mr.
Bush's flip-flop on taxes is Woodrow Wilson's handling of the
American entry into the First World War. Unlike his fellow
Democrat Franklin Roosevelt in 1940, Wilson made an explicit
commitment in the 1916 election not to intervene in the
European war. Within five months of Wilson's re-election, the
U.S. had declared war on Germany. The Republicans won the
next three presidential elections.
   The historical record is, of course, mixed. But there's no
lack of evidence that presidential promise-breaking is
neither honorable nor profitable. Polk and Wilson wrecked
their parties by breaking promises; Hayes saved his party,
but only by sacrificing the rights of black Southerners.
   The problem with all of these examples, as well as with
the Lincoln precedent that Mr. Bush understandably prefers,
is that the issues at stake today are, obviously, much
smaller. If Mr. Bush does in the end break his promise not to
raise taxes, he will not cause civil or foreign war or the
persecution of any minority. All he will do will be to throw
away his own reputation for good faith and, quite probably,
the prospects for Republican control of the Senate in 1992.
But then, that really ought to have been enough to stop him.
   ---
   Mr. Frum is an assistant features editor of the Journal's
editorial page.
   ---
   Correction
   In Friday's editorial-page feature "Broken Promises Break
Presidents," the river mouth at latitude 54' 40 was
misidentified. The river is the Skeena.
   (WSJ July, 17, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Approves
   Allegheny International Reorganization
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Joseph L. Cosetti
effectively ended Allegheny International Inc.'s bitter and
combative two-year bankruptcy case by confirming the
company's reorganization plan.
   The plan, approved by the judge yesterday, calls for the
maker of Sunbeam and Oster products to pay creditors holding
about $711 million in claims newly issued common stock valued
at about $7 a share. The confirmation represents a final
chapter in a tortured reorganization that has seen nine
previous company plans beaten down by various dissatisfied
creditor and shareholder groups.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But, in a bizarre twist, arch-rival Japonica Partners
could end up running Allegheny. The partners, who had a
competing reorganization plan, were given 45 days by Judge
Cosetti to produce an estimated $130 million to $150 million
in financing to buy the stock they don't already own.
   The partners, two former Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. merger
specialists, spent recent months buying enough claims to
effectively give it 50% of Allegheny in an unsuccessful
effort to block the company's plan and have its own
confirmed.
   The judge, who reprimanded Japonica for having "abused and
manipulated" the bankruptcy process, issued an ultimatum,
ordering Japonica to buy the remaining stock at $7 a share
and warrants at $1.53 a warrant. If Japonica can't come up
with the financing within the stipulated 45 days, the
partners' 50% stake will be put in a non-voting trust for
three years. That, in effect, would prohibit Japonica from
trying to take over the company's board and management. In
the meantime, the judge said Japonica would still benefit
from dividends and proceeds of asset sales.
   One question mark, though, is whether Japonica will
appeal. Japonica officials said they were "reviewing the
opinion" and had no immediate comment. If Japonica does
appeal it's not clear whether Allegheny's bankers will be
willing to finance the plan with litigation pending.
   One way to avoid an appeal, which would prolong an already
belabored case, is for Japonica to strike an agreement with
the banks and unsecured creditors. Indeed, Japonica has
apparently been trying to reach an accord that would pay
those groups slightly less than $7 a share for stock and
$1.53 for warrants, in exchange for forgoing a costly and
lengthy appeal. The partners have apparently received an
additional $97 million to buy the shares.
   Robert Sable, an attorney representing the unsecured
creditors, says he expects an appeal. "I have to say it's
likely," he said. Noting that the case is littered with
dashed agreements, he said, "you can't guarantee that
Japonica can strike a deal."
   In the past two years, Allegheny has seen nine
reorganization plans fizzle and a half dozen prospective
buyers come and go, including one investment bank three
times. Creditor groups have sued each other, making the
reorganization even more contentious.
   The process became even more embattled when Japonica
offered its own cash reorganization plan earlier this year.
After buying up a majority of the company's claims, the group
insisted last month that one partner be named chairman of
Allegheny's board and that Allegheny's management team
resign. Meanwhile, Allegheny kicked Japonica out of its
offices where the group had been studying the company's
books.
   In confirming the company's plan, the judge ruled that
Japonica had bought its claims in bad faith, trying to
conduct an "end run" around the bankruptcy process.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Viewers Will Get
   To Place Orders
   For News Stories
   ---
   CNN's Interactive Program
   Will Be Shaped by People
   Voting Via a 900 Number
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Putting a Burger King twist on the news, Cable
News Network is telling late-night viewers: "Have it your
way."
   In a first for television news, viewers of CNN's midnight
newscast later this month will be able to vote for some of
the news stories they want to watch by dialing a 900 number.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The so-called viewer-interactive newscasts, on its
Newsnight program, will open with the top six stories of the
day in 25-to-30-second summaries. In the next five minutes or
so, late-night couch potatoes can dial the 900 number and,
for 95 cents a call, make their picks.
   CNN will then run the top vote-getting story, which may be
several minutes long, in the first half of the hour-long
show, and the runner-up during the second half.
   "The viewer votes right now with a (remote) control
device," said Joshua Loory, Newsnight's executive producer.
"If there's a story on the air that they're not interested
in, they're gone before you know it."
   Some media industry people were unenthused. "I'm glad I'm
retired," said Reuven Frank, a former NBC News president, on
hearing CNN's plans. "It's an abdication of their
professional responsibility" to judge what is important for
the audience to know and to present it in an interesting way,
he said.
   CNN, a unit of Turner Broadcasting System Inc., disagrees.
"We are still going to produce the majority of the newscast.
But we're going to give our viewers a choice on two stories,"
Mr. Loory said.
   Others believe the public may gyp itself, by voting
against important stories and gravitating to the less
hard-hitting ones -- like the recent CNN feature on the
Alabama store that buys lost luggage from airlines and
resells it to shoppers. Or the gripping piece on the health
dangers of tying a necktie too tight.
   If the vote-TV approach works, said Sanford Socolow, a
former executive producer for CBS Evening News, "every local
station in the country will pull something like this." He
added: "If you've got a limited news budget, which most
(local) stations do, and you have one story on city hall and
another on some bear loose in the woods, it's sad, but
understandable, that people will want to hear about the
bear."
   For his part, Mr. Loory says he isn't certain which
direction Newsnight's viewers, in some 260,000 households,
will take. But "my gut tells me they'll go after some of the
harder stories," he said.
   The whole idea was the outgrowth of the 900 telephone
polls that have become popular on television news shows. Some
recent Newsnight polls have focused on AIDS, civil rights and
controversial rap groups. The show even used its 900 poll
once to ask viewers if 900 polls had gotten out of hand. Some
60% said yes.
   The 900 phone number approach to news selection bothers
Lawrence K. Grossman, senior fellow at the Gannett Center for
Media Studies and a former president of NBC News. A special
interest group, he said, could organize a 900 number campaign
and distort the presentation of the news.
   And although NBC Nightly News doesn't have any plans to
copy the new CNN format, the network show's executive
producer, Steve Friedman, said, "It's kind of interesting and
fun. It's democracy in action."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 224,171
metric tons in the week ended Saturday, down 20% from 280,137
tons in the preceeding week and down 27% from 306,731 tons a
year earlier, said Statistics Canada, a government agency.
   The cumulative total in 1990 was 7,493,148 tons, down 9.5%
from 8,279,327 tons a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Transaction Tax's Evil Twin
   ----
   By Martin Mayer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The suggestion that one of the revenue raisers in the next
budget might be a transaction tax on tradeable instruments
has awakened in its opponents memories of President John F.
Kennedy's Interest Equalization Tax, probably the most
important (and wrongheaded) economic initiative of that
administration. The tax bore the fingerprints of able people
-- Douglas Dillion, Robert Roosa, Paul Volcker -- and the
problem they were trying to solve was both real and
troublesome. But the results were, literally, monstrous.
   Kennedy's problem was that interest rates were lower in
the U.S. than they were in Europe, while exchange rates
between the dollar and the European currencies had been set
in concrete. Europeans could therefore gain by borrowing
dollars in the U.S. and exchanging them for their own
currencies in their own countries. The foreign central banks
that would end up owning these dollars could use them to buy
gold, which the U.S. was officially but unhappily pledged to
sell to official purchasers for $35 an ounce. Or they could
make dollar-denominated loans to their own nationals, in
effect exporting their inflationary pressures to the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The administration wanted to maintain the exchange value
of the dollar without raising interest rates. So, on July 18,
1963, Kennedy announced the "temporary" imposition of a 1%
tax on foreign borrowings (Canada and Japan were exempted).
The theory was that by making it more expensive for
foreigners to borrow dollars, the U.S. would persuade them to
borrow in other currencies.
   Those were the days of the imperial presidency. Taxes can
be imposed only by Congress, but the bills put in the
congressional hopper at Kennedy's request made the tax
effective as of the day of their introduction, freezing the
market. Nevertheless, foreigners kept borrowing dollars. But
they didn't borrow them in the U.S. They borrowed them from
the stashes of dollars held in Europe. A fairly large number
of dollars had been retained in Europe over the years -- by
Russians afraid that the Americans would forcibly settle
disputes over old lend-lease debts if U.S. authorities got
their hands on the cash, by Arabs concerned that their assets
could be frozen in the event of a Middle East war and by
businessmen who found it convenient to use the one currency
accepted everywhere in the Common Market.
   The Interest Equalization Tax created a difference between
the plain vanilla dollar and dollar held in Europe, or the
"Eurodollar." Deposits in Eurodollars were free of the
reserve requirements and deposit insurance premiums the U.S.
government imposed on plain vanilla dollars. And they yielded
better interest income, because lending them did not incur
the IET. The key question was whether American banks would be
permitted to accept Eurodollar deposits in their foreign
branches.
   Banking regulations said no. But according to Ron
Chernow's "The House of Morgan," J.P. Morgan's Walter Page
told then-Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Paul Volcker
that the old rules risked "the end of the American banking
system." "You will throw us out of Europe and Singapore and
Japan," Page said, and -- as he recalls -- Mr. Volcker
rewrote the regulations on the spot. The Euromarket was born.
   In 1965, President Lyndon Johnson, feeling increasing
pressure on the dollar from foreigners who wanted to exchange
their holdings for gold, instituted a voluntary Credit
Restraint Program. Everything backfired and the dollars kept
draining away. On New Year's Day, 1968, the president ordered
a mandatory Credit Restraint Program, plus limits on direct
investment abroad by U.S. companies.
   The more impediments on lending the U.S. government
devised, the higher the rates the Eurobanks (American and
foreign) offered for dollar deposits to be kept and lent
abroad. In the first six months of 1971, as Richard Nixon
hastened toward domestic price controls and the end of
American gold sales, European central banks put more than $10
billion into Euroaccounts in private banks.
   This gigantic dollar-denominated Euromarket became the
engine for recycling the money OPEC extorted for oil.
Eurodollars became the medium for the Third World debt that
still sits on the shoulders of our money-center banks like
the unshakable Old Man of the Sea who bedevilled Sinbad the
Sailor.
   Because of the Euromarket, the U.S. lost control of its
own money supply. As early as 1969, the Eurobanks discovered
that they could repatriate dollars to help American banks
fight back against a Federal Reserve money crunch. The only
anti-inflation weapon that remained in the Fed's arsenal was
interest rates. Twenty years later, the IET is still plaguing
financial markets: Aware of what the Euromarket did to U.S.
monetary sovereignty, the Japanese and Germans keep their
interest rates higher than they would otherwise be in order
to discourage the international use of the yen and the mark.
   Analogies can be drawn between the IET and the proposed
transaction tax, but the transaction tax of course has
domestic purposes. Its proponents hope to loosen the ties
between the futures markets and the stock market, which is a
consummation devoutly to be wished. Properly executed, it
might help level the playing field between the tax-exempt
institution and the tax-paying trader who is being driven
from U.S. markets, reduce the amount of trading against the
customer that now disfigures agency relationships on Wall
Street and increase the influence of the individual investor
with his higher time horizon. If the tax were applied at the
Depository Trust Corporation, where the ownership of shares
is transferred, the markets could not escape overseas.
   European governments are hastening to reduce or eliminate
their transfer taxes, essentially to facilitate the index
arbitrage business-innocent academics have made fashionable
everywhere. But some of these steps may well be reconsidered
in the light of the obvious manipulation of the London stock
market by the futures players there two weeks ago.
   The history of the IET does serve as a warning that when
the government makes a mistake, the mistake can reverberate
for generations. The proposal to tax futures transactions,
for example, would drive significant markets overseas,
because these stateless, standardized contracts have no
ownership component and can be cleared and settled in the
mid-Atlantic. Especially in tax questions, where the massed
cleverness of the best lawyers and accountants awaits the
tocsin of avoidance, the consonance of purpose and result
requires much understanding and a little bit of luck.
   ---
   Mr. Mayer writes frequently for the Journal on
international economics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE FED IS POISED to ease interest rates modestly in
response to growing evidence of a credit crunch, Greenspan
said. The Fed chief also said the agency is working to boost
capital rules for banks and to toughen their enforcement.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks and bonds rallied on Greenspan's statement on
interest rates. The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 37.13
points to close at 2969.80, a record. The dollar declined.
   ---
   GTE and Contel agreed to merge in a $6.2 billion stock
swap that would create the biggest local-exchange phone
company in the U.S. and combine two large cellular units.
Contel's stock soared, but GTE shares slipped.
   ---
   GOP budget negotiators have discussed giving up on a
capital-gains tax cut if Democrats stop seeking higher income
taxes for the rich.
   ---
   Saudi Arabia accepted a temporary reduction in its share
of OPEC output after winning a pledge from other exporters to
freeze production. Oil prices surged, as did oil stocks.
   ---
   Motel 6 agreed to be acquired by Accor for nearly $1.3
billion. The deal will make the French buyer one of the
world's largest lodging companies.
   ---
   Castle &amp; Cooke may sell Dole Food rather than spin it off.
Several companies are interested in the unit.
   ---
   Computer Associates stock plunged nearly 40% after the
firm said it will post lower first-quarter revenue.
   ---
   Double hulls would be required for new oil tankers, and
phased in for most existing ones, under legislation approved
by legislative conferees.
   ---
   Big retailers reported a 5.8% average sales gain in June,
as sunny weather boosted buying of apparel. Wal-Mart, K mart
and Dayton Hudson's Target did particularly well, while
Limited's same-store sales fell.
   ---
   A mistrial was declared on 26 charges against John A.
Mulheren Jr. after the jury deadlocked. The judge let stand
his conviction Tuesday on conspiracy and securities fraud.
   ---
   Blinder Robinson and its chairman were sued by the SEC for
$20 million in profit from alleged illegal stock activity by
the penny-stock firm.
   ---
   Kubota was sued by the founders of a U.S. computer firm,
who say the Japanese giant appropriated their technology
through a minority stake.
   ---
   Soybean futures are expected to rally today after the
government raised its estimate of exports and trimmed its
projection for stockpiles.
   ---
   Curtiss-Wright declared a $30 special dividend and pledged
to focus on manufacturing rather than investing.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 211,510,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2969.80, up 37.13; transportation 1164.96, up 9.67; utilities
206.49, up 1.70.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3432.80, up
22.50.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.00, up 0.64; spot
index 132.38, off 0.08.
   Dollar: 147.30 yen, off 1.20; 1.6340 marks, off 0.0220.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Would Murdoch `Tell All'
   In Possible Autobiography
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Will media baron Rupert Murdoch tell all,
joining the list of moguls publishing their memoirs? The odds
look good.
   The chairman of media giant News Corp. is considering
writing an autobiography, according to his public relations
adviser in New York, Howard Rubenstein. "He may or may not do
a book, but he's certainly considering it," Mr. Rubenstein
said. He said Mr. Murdoch is working with senior editor Peter
Brimelow of Forbes, but he has "no advance and no contract."
Mr. Rubenstein quoted Mr. Murdoch as saying that if he does
such a book, he may do it with British publisher Weidenfeld &amp;
Nicholson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although News Corp. owns a very large book publisher,
Harper-Collins Publishers, with operations in both the U.S.
and the United Kingdom, "an independent source suggested he
should have it (his autobiography) published elsewhere," Mr.
Rubenstein said.
   The reasons for a Murdoch autobiography have "nothing to
do with money or vanity," said Mr. Rubenstein. "There are
many things that have been published about him that are
highly inaccurate. This would be a way to straighten out some
of the incorrect things that have been written."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Don't Fool With the Interest Rate
   ----
   By Daniel J. Mitchell
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Last week, the Federal Reserve Board's commitment to
fighting inflation met criticism from Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady, who would like the Fed to engineer a
short-term drop in interest rates to help take the sting out
of the looming tax hike. Higher taxes, Mr. Brady and Co.
apparently feel, won't cause so serious a political backlash
if voters can be persuaded that those taxes are part of a
budget deal leading to lower interest rates. Yesterday, Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan allowed that the Fed might act to
"offset" the alleged credit crunch. It's hard to read Mr.
Greenspan's mind. But it is possible that he is using the
credit crunch as an excuse to lower interest rates without
appearing to knuckle under political pressure.
   If that's what happening, it is wrong. Political
manipulation of monetary policy might indeed seem to yield
short-term positive results. But long-term costs are
enormous. The drop in interest rates would be engineered by
inflating the money supply -- a move that will eventually
push interest rates and prices higher.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Politically motivated efforts to lower interest rates are
doomed to failure. An easy-money policy could temporarily
lower rates by flooding credit markets with new funds, but
there would certainly be a rebound as reality and the laws of
economics hit home. In other words, interest rates would rise
because lenders would be forced to add an "inflation premium"
-- extra percentage points of interest to compensate them for
the devaluation of their capital -- to the rate they charge
borrowers. An easy-money policy designed to lower rates will
ultimately result in higher rates.
   In fact, long-term interest rates would probably rise
right away, since those rates are sensitive to expected
inflation -- and largely immune to credit-market
manipulation.
   On financial markets, artificially lower interest rates
may result in temporary increases in stock prices, as
investors shift assets from bonds and certificates of deposit
to equities. But markets also will eventually be hurt.
Periods of inflation are almost always followed by economic
downturns; 1982 is the most recent example.
   The best way to ensure lower interest rates is to
eliminate inflation. It's no accident that countries with
very low interest rates, such as Switzerland, Japan and West
Germany, also have strong records of price stability, while
nations that follow easy-money policies, as the U.S. did in
the late 1970s, have high interest rates.
   Some budget-summit supporters claim that big tax increases
really will lower interest rates because a smaller deficit
reduces government borrowing. While intuitively appealing,
this assertion is hard to support. It is almost a foregone
conclusion that Congress will spend any additional money it
can extract from taxpayers -- rather than use it for deficit
reduction. But even if it doesn't spend revenues, the
relationship between the deficit and interest rates is not
what conventional wisdom suggests.
   Look at some shifts from the past decade: In 1982, the
prime rate was 14.86%, down from 18.87% in 1981. The deficit
traveled in the opposite direction. As a percentage of gross
national product, the deficit rose to 4.1% in 1982 from 2.6%
in 1981. In 1985 the prime rate was 9.93%, down from 12.04%
in 1984. In the same period, the deficit grew to 5.4% from 5%
of GNP.
   Most advocates of higher taxes probably realize that a
budget deal, by itself, would neither boost financial markets
nor lower interest rates. The politicians must realize, too,
that unless they can create the illusion that a budget
agreement has resulted in something positive, they will have
a hard time persuading voters that a tax hike accomplishes
more than giving Congress money to spend. This is why
participants in the budget summit desperately want the Fed to
give them a reason to justify higher taxes.
   Pursuing irresponsible monetary policy to rescue bad
fiscal policy is like using gasoline to put out a fire. If it
doesn't blow up in your face, it will at least make things
worse.
   ---
   Mr. Mitchell is a research fellow at the Heritage
Foundation in Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Separate Entrepreneurship, Ideology
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   In regard to Martin Morse Wooster's May 25 editorial-page
article "Chairs of Entrepreneurship Are Bad Business": As
president of the Association of Private Enterprise Education,
I feel some responsibility to respond to his conclusion that
the chairs collectively deserve such a label.
   First, each chair of private enterprise and
entrepreneurship is a unique entity, established by an
educational institution with funding from one or more donors.
Each has its own objectives, and its character generally is
derived from the individual who holds the chair. Since I
personally know a number of the chairholders, I can say that
among this group are individuals dedicated to research and
scholarship, to generating programs for student audiences as
well as public forums, to teaching in the classrooms on their
campuses, and some who may do all of the above.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These chairs are part of a much broader effort to educate
Americans about how the private-enterprise system works and
how it might be improved to benefit each citizen. Perhaps a
role that differentiates chairs of private enterprise or
entrepreneurship from the think tanks Mr. Wooster has
described is that chairholders frequently assume
responsibility for taking economic research, wherever
generated, and translating it for presentation to the public
and, particularly, to our young people. It is all too
frequent that individuals cloistered in research environments
focus on very narrow topics, the findings of which have
little or no application to the real world. Chairholders need
not apologize for believing it is important to work with
elementary and secondary schoolteachers to better prepare
them to teach our children about our institutions and the
tools of analysis and critical thinking.
   I find it a rare case in which a chair's only purpose is
to expound a particular ideology. Indeed, I am sure Mr.
Wooster is well aware that many of the first-rate research
organizations to which he referred, including his own Reason
Foundation, are not immune from being described in the press
as "right wing" or "conservative" think tanks, a label with
which they may or may not agree. Labels are one means of
attempting to discredit individuals, groups or products. I
draw a very simple conclusion. There is so much to be done
with respect to improving our private-enterprise system that
no single group can accomplish this objective. It is
unfortunate Mr. Wooster has taken the tack of negative
campaigning: trying to get ahead by distorting the goals,
activities and achievements of others. I believe that
research organizations, university chairs and public and
private schoolteachers all have distinct and important roles
to fill in improving our economic well-being.
   Francis W. Rushing
   President
   Association of Private-Enterprise Education
   Professor of Economics
   Georgia State University
   Atlanta
   ---
   Research shows that activities of "entrepreneurship"
centers are oriented toward research, not away, as with
private-enterprise centers as Mr. Wooster mentions. Herbert
Kierulff (1985) found 11 chairs specifically mentioning
"entrepreneurship" in the title. Of the 11, the majority
mentioned research in their mission.
   Mr. Wooster's statement that "no one offers doctorates in
free enterprise or entrepreneurship" is incorrect. I am a
Ph.D. candidate at the University of Pittsburgh Joseph M.
Katz Graduate School of Business, and my area of
concentration is Entrepreneurship and Marketing. I know of
several others across the country who have also combined a
study of entrepreneurship with one of the more traditional
areas of study. Interest in the advanced study on this topic
is growing and students of today will be conducting research
on the topic of entrepreneurship in the future.
   Cynthia Iannarelli
   Training Coordinator
   Small Business Development Center
   University of Pittsburgh
   Pittsburgh
   ---
   By describing chairs in "free enterprise" and
"entrepreneurship" as if they were the same thing, Mr.
Wooster failed to recognize the clear differences between
them and erroneously attributed the alleged flaws of the
former to both.
   As he correctly indicated, chairs carrying the
free-enterprise title are funded principally to foster
pro-market, pro-capitalist positions. Chairs in
entrepreneurship, in contrast, are funded primarily to foster
concerns for risk-taking, whether in the formation of new
enterprises or in the renewal and revitalization of existing
ones.
   While it is certainly arguable that free-enterprise
economies tend to stimulate more entrepreneurial activity,
the fact remains that the study of entrepreneurship is not
synonymous with espousing pro-capitalist positions. As Mr.
Wooster noted, Beloit College's Prof. Jerry Gustafson, who
holds a chair in entrepreneurship, stated that the foundation
funding him "isn't interested in being ideological at all."
   Given Mr. Wooster's final paragraph, it is clear that his
real message is that those who want to espouse
free-enterprise positions would be better off funding
organizations such as the Cato Institute rather than
supporting chairs at universities. Perhaps he is right.
However, making the same case for not supporting chairs in
entrepreneurship is an altogether different story.
   Richard R. West
   Dean
   Leonard N. Stern School of Business
   New York University
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Unit Is Denounced
   On Bid for New York Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- State Attorney Gen. Robert Abrams denounced a
proposed rate increase of about $1.4 billion being sought by
Nynex Corp.'s New York Telephone Co. unit, urging that Nynex
cut waste and eliminate "its unconscionable business
practices" instead of seeking "a bailout from ratepayers."
   At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Abrams said the
average consumer's monthly bill would go up about 36% if the
request were granted. He also said Nynex officials have
"resisted us every inch of the way" as his office has tried
to gather information about New York Telephone's allegedly
improper dealings with the parent company's purchasing arm,
Materiel Enterprises Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those dealings and other questionable Nynex activities
were the subject of an article yesterday in this newspaper.
   Describing the investigation and review process in
connection with the rate case, Mr. Abrams said Nynex has
suppressed as "trade secrets" many facts that the company
"would find embarrassing if the public knew."
   In White Plains, N.Y., Nynex criticized Mr. Abrams for
making what it characterized as "wrong and disingenuous"
allegations.
   In a statement, Nynex didn't say which specific
allegations made by Mr. Abrams it considers to be inaccurate
or disingenuous. But the company said the charges by Mr.
Abrams that it disputes pertain to "the business practices of
Nynex companies and their impact on the people of New York."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Jack Murtha:
   He's Our Guy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your May 22 editorial "Besieged Incumbents" contained a
misleading piece about Rep. Jack Murtha, Democrat of
Pennsylvania. While technically correct that Mr. Murtha got
only 51% of the votes cast in a three-man race, he handily
defeated his nearest opponent 29,239 to 24,530 -- a
comfortable margin. It was closer than it should have been,
but it was not close. Robert Burkley got only 43%, and an 8%
margin in a presidential election would be considered a
landslide.
   The Johnstown, Pa., newspaper's new editor, while a friend
and a man I admire, was wrong throughout the primary campaign
in his perception of Mr. Murtha and what he has done for his
district. The congressman's contributions to his district are
and have been enormous.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the newspaper in the end did endorse Mr. Murtha,
that was too late to help much -- the damage had been done.
   As a Republican, I suggest our district is indeed
fortunate to have a man of Jack Murtha's quality to represent
us. There are none in Congress better informed on the Defense
Department; the nation is well served to have this winner of
the Purple Heart -- with two volunteer combat tours as a
Marine in Vietnam as well as his Korean War service -- as
chairman of the Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations.
   John E. Sheehan
   Former Member
   Board of Governors
   Federal Reserve Board
   Johnstown, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kumagai Gumi (Hong Kong) Ltd.:
   Earnings for Fiscal Half
   Fell 41% to $6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KMG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kumagai Gumi (Hong Kong) Ltd. said its profit for the half
ended March 31 slumped 41% to 47 million Hong Kong dollars
(US$6 million) from HK$79 million a year earlier.
   Earnings per share of the local arm of the Japanese
construction giant dropped 41% to 15.9 Hong Kong cents from
27.1 cents. The company didn't provide a reason for the
decline in profit, but predicted an improvement in the second
half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue grew 3.1% to HK$1.48 billion from HK$1.43 billion.
   Kumagai's board proposed an interim dividend of 10 Hong
Kong cents a share, down 33% from 15 Hong Kong cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MNC Financial Inc.:
   Quarterly Loss to Result
   From Loan Reserves Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   MNC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MNC Financial Inc., a Baltimore-based financial services
company, said it expects to post a second-quarter loss of
about $75 million, or 90 cents a fully diluted share,
primarily because of a 71% increase in loan-loss reserves,
and a write-off.
   In the year-earlier quarter, MNC earned $66.6 million, or
78 cents a fully diluted share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it completed a review of its loan
portfolios and expects to increase second-quarter loan-loss
reserves by about $230 million, bringing total reserves to
about $550 million. MNC also said it plans to report a $94
million write-off for nonperforming loans in the quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Unocal UXP Partnership Units Fall Sharply
   Ahead of Planned Conversion to Corporation
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   UXP UCL
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Are the public investors in Union Exploration
Partners being shortchanged by Unocal?
   The Los Angeles-based oil and gas giant created the
partnership and sold a small stake to the public in 1985 as
part of a plan to ward off a raid by T. Boone Pickens Jr.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unocal put some of its choicest gas-producing properties
in the partnership, known as UXP. And though Unocal held a
controlling 95% stake, UXP appealed to small investors who
wanted a steady stream of tax-deferred cash payments.
   UXP did make big distributions, but prices of the publicly
traded units, initially $22 each, headed south as oil and gas
prices slumped. The cruncher came in June, when Unocal
disclosed that on Aug. 1, it will convert UXP into a
corporation.
   In the month since then, the market value of UXP has
plunged to less than $12 a unit from $18.25, though the units
have regained ground this week to $13.
   "The new company will have exactly the same assets, and
the price has fallen to 13 from 18. Can capital markets be
that inefficient?," wonders PaineWebber analyst Bryan
Jacoboski.
   Capital markets, in fact, recognize that the income from
UXP will plunge too. Previously, it was expected to pay about
$1.65 a unit this year. But the new company expects to pay a
yearly corporate dividend, fully taxable, of only 40 cents a
share.
   Unocal has contingently promised to compensate holders for
any drop of as much as $3 in the unit price from $18.20. At
current prices, holders are still out more than $2 a unit, or
$27 million for the 12 million units in public hands.
   Steven Spence, a stockbroker for PaineWebber in Portland,
Ore., has written the Securities and Exchange Commission,
claiming that Unocal violated its fiduciary duty by taking an
action that caused the market value of the units to decline.
   Clients of the PaineWebber branch own 1.5 million units.
They are also unhappy because Unocal's original prospectus
didn't mention the possibility of such a conversion. In
Unocal's behalf, the prospectus didn't preclude a conversion.
   Salomon Brothers, Unocal's paid adviser, says the
conversion is fair to unitholders. Unocal says it can't
comment until a filing is approved by the SEC.
   Analysts say Unocal's privately expressed position is that
investors should "calm down and be patient." Although unit
prices have dropped as income-oriented investors have
deserted UXP, Unocal is planning a road show to pitch the new
vehicle to large investors. The company's position, one
investor says, is that "it's only a function of time before
institutions understand the new vehicle."
   Analysts can see why a unitholder would be griping, but
they are hardly shedding tears. "Anyone who bought the units
knew that 95% were owned by Unocal," notes Kidder Peabody's
Marc Cohen.
   With only 5% of the new company's shares to be traded
publicly, analysts say they doubt whether institutions will
jump in. "The float is small," says Prescott Ball &amp; Turben's
Bruce Lazier. "That's why I think this is a first step."
   The Street is betting that, some time after UXP is
converted, Unocal will sell off more UXP shares to raise
cash. With 29% of Unocal's U.S. oil reserves and 59% of its
U.S. gas reserves, UXP is a large entity with a tiny public
float. Enlarging that float would be an attractive way to
raise money for drilling for oil and gas.
   The oil giant seems motivated by a desire to invest more
in exploration. "Corporations are more efficient vehicles for
reinvestment than partnerships," its filing says.
Partnerships, however, are better suited to paying money out
to holders than taking it in.
   When the partnership was formed, raiders such as Mr.
Pickens were arguing that exploration was a waste, that "the
cheapest oil" was on the New York Stock Exchange. The best
oil companies could do, it was said, was to pay out their
cash flow. Hence, Unocal and others rushed to form
partnerships.
   But Salomon analyst Bernard Picchi says exploration
opportunities in the '90s loom large. UXP, he says, has
"enormous exploration potential" because its Gulf of Mexico
gas properties are long-lived and close to a network of
pipelines. Drilling in the ground has again become cheaper
than drilling on the stock exchange, he quips.
   Thus, Mr. Picchi sees Unocal's move as the beginning of
the end for other oil partnerships. "By 1995, none of them
are likely to exist."
   ---
   Union Exploration Partners
   (NYSE; Symbol: UXP)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Oil and gas exploration
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $753.2 million
   Net income: $253.7 million; $1.03 a unit
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-unit earnings: 28 cents vs. 43 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   34,552 units
                                                                                                       

   Common units outstanding: 245.7 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iceland Has Elves,
   Who Live in Rocks,
   Nowhere to Be Seen
   ---
   Roads Are Diverted to Avoid
   Disturbing Elf Dwellings;
   `Odd Shapes in the Stone'
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   EGILSSTATHIR, Iceland -- It is a mile between farms in
this bleak outpost of fog and stone, but just a few paces to
the nearest hidden home.
   "A family moved in here years ago," says Helgi
Hallgrimsson, tapping a large boulder. "They raise cows, I
think." A family down the road herds sheep. They live in a
tree trunk. Generally, though, elves prefer stones. "It is
easier to find such housing," Mr. Hallgrimsson says, standing
on a hill that is bare except for a few Siberian pines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Returning to his own simple farmhouse, Mr. Hallgrimsson
dines on bread made with sheep's blood, and curdled milk
mixed with moss. Asked if the rock dwellers eat similar fare,
he responds: "Probably so. But you know, they have never
invited me to visit."
   Mr. Hallgrimsson's neighbors are "huldufolk," a word
meaning "hidden people." They also are known as "alfar," or
elves. While Iceland isn't the only country with elves --
Ireland and Sweden have them, too -- few are so accommodating
to unseen citizens. Icelandic highways dogleg to skirt large
rocks, lest engineers dislodge the occupants of "enchanted
spots." Farmers politely leave fields unplowed because hidden
people need hay for their hidden cows. Huldufolk homes appear
on environmental-impact statements, and factory construction
can sometimes halt while elves find someplace else to live.
   "The only thing we haven't done is give huldufolk the
vote," says Stefan Stefansson, a fisherman in Reykjavik, the
nation's capital. Like many Icelanders, he is slippery on the
subject of elves. "Do I believe in huldufolk?" he asks,
staring into his beer. "I am one."
   When more than 900 people were asked the question in a
University of Iceland survey, 55% said the existence of
huldufolk (and fairies) is possible, probable or certain.
Only 10% answered, "impossible." Erlendur Haraldsson, the
psychologist who conducted the survey, wasn't surprised. Nor
does he think Icelanders are particularly superstitious.
"This isn't America," he says. "We have very few UFOs."
   If aliens ever should land here, they would no doubt feel
at home. When work began last year on an asphalt path in
Reykjavik, surveyors' instruments vanished and computers
developed glitches. The landscape architect directing the
project suspected supernatural mischief. She called in a
well-known psychic, Erla Stefansdottir, to investigate.
   Visiting the site, the 53-year-old piano teacher pats the
top of a rock mottled with lichen. "Just knocking to see if
anyone is home," she says. Thereupon a man with a long beard
and breeches emerges from the rock -- visible to her though
not to this reporter. "He's laughing at us," she says. "He
thinks we're crazy to be standing here staring at him."
   On her advice, the city rerouted the path to skirt this
and another inhabited rock. In the nearby town of Kopavogur,
"Elf Hill Road" narrows to one lane as it passes a rocky
outcropping. An attempt last year to widen the road ended
abruptly when a new jackhammer broke on the first day of
work. Town officials refer to the unseen rock dweller on an
adjoining lot as "the old man at No. 102."
   Elves in Iceland are as old as the hills. According to
Nordic lore, some of them are hills. Elves arrived in Iceland
with the Vikings and Celtic slaves who settled here 1,000
years ago. Extreme isolation, and Iceland's sagas and oral
lore, kept supernatural beliefs alive. So did Iceland's weird
landscape. Bubbling with volcanoes, geysers and boiling mud
pits, Iceland is so lunar in parts that it has been used to
train astronauts.
   Iceland also is sparsely populated, with just 250,000
people occupying an area the size of Ohio. "In such a lonely
place, it is natural to fill out the landscape with elves,"
says Hallfredur Eiriksson, a leading Icelandic folklorist.
   Perhaps it is only natural that Icelandic elves resemble
humans, rather than the dwarfish, often malevolent goblins of
Scandinavian legend. Country huldufolk fish for herring,
raise sheep and attend church, just like other folk. And in a
society so peaceful that it has no army and few police
stations open on weekends, humans and huldufolk usually get
on well. Midwives have told Mr. Eiriksson about delivering
elf babies. Farmers say they have milked elf cows. Sometimes,
the two peoples fall in love, though affairs of the heart
often end badly.
   "It should be nice to have invisible in-laws, but really
it can create problems," says Mr. Eiriksson.
   Icelanders who are skeptical about elves treat the issue
delicately, as an American parent might field a child's
questions about Santa Claus. Haukur Gudmasson, a Shell Oil
salesman, is that rare Icelander who openly declares: "This
talk of huldufolk is nonsense." But, later in the
conversation, he recalls his 16 years in the merchant marine:
"Whenever I worked in the engine room," he says, "there was
another man -- not a real person -- there at my side." The
fellow was blond, wore a wool sweater and helped Mr.
Gudmasson with his work. Could he have been an elf? The
salesman bristles. "A ghost, maybe," he says. "But I
certainly don't go around seeing people in stones."
   Very few Icelanders do, but almost everyone can tell when
elves are about. Guthmunder Svafarsson, a veteran road
engineer, remembers the time he tried to blast through a
ridge while building a highway in the north. Bulldozers broke
down, and residents had nightmares. Normally, he says, a
simple elf-diversion would have done the trick. But this was
a major project, with an added complication: The rock wasn't
merely occupied, it was cursed.
   "We had discussions," the engineer says, by which he means
that a medium contacted both the elves and the deceased woman
who had hexed the rock. They were of one mind: Build over,
rather than through, the ridge. "I was furious," says Mr.
Svafarsson, who has encountered elf delays on other
occasions. "But what could I do? Everyone except me believed
in elves."
   Work on a fish-meal factory in nearby Akureyri also ceased
when elves sabotaged machines. In that case, however, talks
proved fruitful. The elves said construction could resume,
but that they first needed three weeks to vacate. Workmen
obliged.
   Through one man's efforts, elf advocacy is becoming a
sophisticated science. Mr. Hallgrimsson, the farmer in stony
Egilsstathir, began his career as a botanist, specializing in
mushrooms. While gathering fungi, he collected folk tales as
well. Drawing on oral testimony and written records, he now
is mapping Iceland's supernatural population.
   He presented road builders in Akureyri with a detailed map
of the elf harbor and metropolis their highway would bisect
(they built it anyway). When plans were drawn up for an
aluminum smelter, which has yet to be built, he inserted a
map with a legend that includes: "Huldufolk Dwellings, Other
Spirits, Odd Shapes in the Stone." In Egilsstathir, he has
also gathered data on dwarfs, trolls and a humped serpent,
called "the Worm," that lives in a lake.
   Mr. Hallgrimsson, a 55-year-old with merry blue eyes and a
pointy gray beard, looks rather like a storybook elf himself.
Oddly, given all his research, he remains an agnostic on the
question of whether huldufolk truly exist. As a scientist, he
is most comfortable with empirical evidence, and so far all
his information is secondhand.
   "It would be enough," he says wistfully, "to see one elf."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudis Appear to Have Won Campaign
   To Freeze OPEC Output, Boosting Prices
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saudi Arabia apparently has succeeded in its campaign to
lift world oil prices.
   After winning pledges from other oil exporters to freeze
output at current levels, Saudi Arabia, the chief producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, agreed to
a temporary reduction in its percentage of OPEC output. That
agreement made room for a bigger quota for the United Arab
Emirates, a chronic overproducer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Finally, the kingdom nudged the UAE into accepting the new
quota of 1.5 million barrels a day that it had previously
rejected.
   These developments set the stage for a likely new
production agreement when OPEC's oil ministers meet late this
month in Geneva, Switzerland. The expected accord would
establish a new output ceiling of 22.5 million barrels a day
-- an increase of 400,000 barrels aimed at accommodating the
UAE's return to the fold.
   Oil prices exploded on the news. In the U.S. stock market,
oil stocks rallied sharply for the second consecutive
session. Some oil prices surged as much as $1 a barrel. In
the U.S. futures market, crude oil for August delivery
settled 99 cents higher at $18.46 a barrel.
   Petroleum prices had dropped by one-third since the
beginning of the year because of an oil glut brought on by
OPEC overproduction. But prices began firming this week as
Saudi Arabia hosted a meeting of five Persian Gulf oil
ministers to try to lay the groundwork for a solution to the
output problem.
   Among the ministers at the Jeddah meeting were those from
Kuwait and the UAE, the two nations that have been blamed for
much of the overproduction that has kept OPEC output well
above 23 million barrels a day.
   In a grueling 12-hour session, according to people
attending the meeting, Kuwait's new oil minister pledged to
hold that country's output to its quota of 1.5 million
barrels a day no matter what the UAE might do. Kuwait has
been producing about 1.7 million barrels a day, and the UAE,
about two million a day.
   "That took care of 50% of the problem," said a source
close to Saudi Arabia's oil-policy decision makers. "The
other 50% was the UAE," he said -- until late yesterday, when
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia made a phone call to Sheik Zayyed
Bin Sultan Al-Nayyan, the president of the emirates.
   The UAE has been insisting on a quota of two million
barrels a day, its current level of output. OPEC had been
offering it a quota of 1.5 million to put it at parity with
Kuwait, but the emirates rejected that, and so OPEC had
continued to list the UAE at its old quota of 1.1 million
barrels a day.
   Shortly after King Fahd's phone call, Mana Said Otaiba,
the UAE oil minister, told Hisham Nazer, the Saudi oil
minister, that he agreed to a national quota of 1.5 million.
According to Mr. Nazer, OPEC's Vienna-based headquarters will
be informed of the UAE decision today.
   It's hardly likely the UAE will quickly cut output by
one-fourth, to 1.5 million barrels from two million. But even
if it only trims 200,000 barrels a day, that reduction
combined with cuts expected from Kuwait would drop OPEC's
daily output to 23 million barrels or less for the first time
this year. Oil economists say that should satisfy the oil
markets because it's in line with expected demand for OPEC
oil.
   "What they {the Persian Gulf producers} have done is
decide that price should have priority over volume," said
John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research
Foundation.
   In a maneuver not unusual for OPEC, the lower production
level would be obtained by raising the production ceiling.
That ceiling, now 22.1 million barrels a day, is expected to
be boosted to 22.5 million for the third quarter. Then around
Sept. 14 -- which will be the 30th anniversary of OPEC's
formation -- the oil ministers probably will meet again to
establish the ceiling for the fourth quarter.
   "The intention now is to lift the price to September,"
said a senior OPEC delegate from a Middle East producing
country. "Hopefully, by September, all the OPEC members will
be tending to their commitments, and the price will be higher
than $18."
   The oil ministers meeting in Saudi Arabia this week said
earlier that their intent was to raise the price of the OPEC
basket of crudes to "at least" $18 a barrel from the recent
average of $14. OPEC prices usually trail U.S. prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTE, Contel Agree in Principle
   To Merge in $6.2 Billion Stock Swap
   ---
   Transaction Would Create
   Largest Local-Exchange
   Telephone Firm in U.S.
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CTC GTE CCXLA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GTE Corp. and Contel Corp. agreed in principle to merge in
a transaction valued at about $6.2 billion that would create
the largest local-exchange telephone company in the U.S.
   The proposed exchange of stock also would consolidate two
large cellular-phone businesses, expand
telecommunications-satellite opportunities and eventually
could yield more efficient services to local customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The memorandum of understanding approved by the boards of
both companies calls for GTE to issue 1.27 common shares for
each of Contel's 160 million common shares outstanding, or a
total of about 200 million GTE shares. The exchange would be
tax-free to shareholders.
   In response to the announcement, Contel's stock soared in
active trading on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at
$35.125, up $7.125. The news initially sent GTE stock
tumbling $3.375 to $27.625 a share, but it recovered steadily
throughout the day, closing down $1.25 at $29.75. The merger
is likely to lead to dilution in GTE shares next year, and
some analysts figure it could be about 10%. The news also
sparked trading interest in several other telephone-company
stocks.
   Spokesmen for both companies said a definitive agreement
is expected to be drawn up and approved by their boards
within a few weeks. The merger could be completed by year
end, they indicated. In the meantime, the companies must
obtain permission from stockholders and state and federal
regulators, as well as antitrust clearance from the Justice
Department. The companies said they anticipate no problems in
winning the various approvals.
   Analysts said the proposed merger is likely to kick off a
major round of consolidation within the local-exchange
telephone industry. "Telephone access lines are vastly
undervalued by investors," said Jack Grubman, a PaineWebber
analyst. "Clearly, this merger is a groundbreaking event as
the first combination of major telephone companies."
   The combined company, which would operate as GTE Corp.,
would have a total of 17.7 million access lines, more than
any of the seven giant regional Bell companies. And its
cellular-phone operations would serve about 50 million
potential subscribers.
   James L. "Rocky" Johnson, GTE's chairman, would be
chairman and chief executive officer of the combined company.
Charles R. Lee, GTE's president and chief operating officer,
would retain those titles after the merger, the companies
said in a joint announcement.
   Contel's chairman, Charles Wohlstetter, and its vice
chairman, John L. Segall, would become vice chairmen of the
combined company. Donald W. Weber, Contel president and chief
executive, "will occupy a key position in the merged entity,"
according to the statement.
   GTE, based in Stamford, Conn., with operations in 46
states and 41 nations, posted 1989 earnings of $1.4 billion,
or $4.16 a share, on revenue of $17.4 billion. Atlanta-based
Contel, which has telephone operations in 30 states and
cellular operations in 36 metropolitan areas, had earnings of
$287 million, or $1.80 a share, on revenue of $3.1 billion
last year. It operates its cellular systems through a
90%-owned unit, Contel Cellular Inc.
   GTE's Mr. Johnson said in a statement that the combination
"will both position the company strategically and enable us
to exploit more fully the many opportunities for growth that
exist in the world-wide telecommunications marketplace." He
noted that the companies' businesses and organizational
structures complement each other.
   Contel's Mr. Wohlstetter said the merger "will provide the
critical mass and financial strength Contel has sought in
order to accelerate the many initiatives we have taken
recently" in telecommunications. Earlier this year, the
company bought metropolitan cellular properties in the South
from McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.
   For consumers, the combination could eventually lead to
more sophisticated telephone services, such as computerized
information services. But for both companies, the merger is
certain to create some short-term havoc. Frank Governali, an
analyst for First Boston, who changed his recommendation on
GTE to "sell," said that meshing the companies is likely to
be a long, costly project.
   "GTE just announced a major restructuring of its own
telephone operations and expects it to take four years," he
said. "Absorbing Contel will be as long and as expensive." In
the end, he said, the merger "makes them a bigger company,
but I don't think it gives them a better strategic position."
   Others noted some regulatory risks for Contel. In states
where both companies operate, Contel's business is generally
small. "They're invisible to regulators and can earn a high
rate of return," said Edward Greenberg of Morgan Stanley. "As
part of GTE, they will be subject to greater regulatory
scrutiny."
   One reason the companies chose to announce the memorandum
of understanding before reaching a definitive agreement,
traders said, may have been to test Wall Street's reaction.
If GTE investors disliked the idea, for example, the
companies could still modify terms of the proposal or scrap
it.
   A benefit for Contel holders could be a higher dividend.
GTE's current payout is $1.46 a share annually, compared with
Contel's $1.10. The GTE spokesman said the merger plan would
have no effect on the board's dividend decision, noting that
GTE has increased its dividend in 34 of the past 35 years.
   Contel has been in the middle of a $400 million equity
offering to help finance its $1.3 billion purchase of
cellular operations from McCaw. That offering would now be
scrapped. GTE had a stock-market capitalization of nearly $20
billion before this agreement, and the new company's
capitalization would be roughly $26 billion.
   Word of the proposed merger pushed up stocks of other
independent local exchange carriers, including Southern New
England Telephone Co., Centel Corp., and even McCaw, which
last year agreed to buy Lin Broadcasting Corp. in a bold
expansion.
   Meanwhile, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it is reviewing
the securities of GTE for possible downgrade and those of
Contel for a possible boost. The move affects $11.2 billion
of debt at GTE and its subsidiaries and $3.7 billion at
Contel and its units.
   The senior debt ratings for the parent companies currently
are single-A-minus at GTE and triple-B at Contel.
   ---
                     Telephone Merger
                                                                                                       

                 How the Companies Compare
                                                                                                       

   All dollar amounts in billions
                                                                                                       

                                       GTE         Contel
                                                                                                       

   1989 Revenue                      $17.42         $3.11
                                                                                                       

   1989 Net Income                     3.19          0.29
                                                                                                       

   Access Lines (millions)            15.10          2.60
                                                                                                       

   Cellular Customers               319,000       105,420
                                                                                                       

   States Served (telephone only)        46            30
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Soybean Contracts Are Expected to Rise
   On U.S. Estimates of Supply and Usage
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Prices of soybean and related futures contracts
are expected to rally at the opening today on lower supply
and higher usage estimates in a new government report.
   The U.S. Agriculture Department report, released after the
markets closed yesterday, contained the first production
estimates of the spring wheat crop, which is grown in the
Northern Plains. But analysts said the report's biggest price
impact is likely to be in the pits where soybean, soybean oil
and soybean meal futures are traded.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Agriculture Department raised its estimates of U.S.
exports and trimmed its estimate of U.S. stockpiles. The
government said U.S. soybean stockpiles, by Aug. 31 will have
fallen to 275 million bushels, down 20 million bushels from
its earlier estimate.
   The government's most surprising move was to slash its
estimate of U.S. stockpiles for August 1991 by 80 million
bushels to 265 million.
   "Given the fact that prices have declined fairly sharply
this week, we'll probably see a rally as a result of this
report," said Anne Frick, soybean analyst for
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York.
   In part, analysts said, the figures reflect the fact that
an unusually wet spring prevented farmers from planting as
many acres of soybeans as expected.
   Among other things, analysts said U.S. exports of soybeans
are being helped by the problems of its biggest competitor.
Farmers in Brazil have been roiled by the country's campaign
to fight hyper-inflation. As a result, importers are expected
to buy an additional 10 million bushels of U.S. soybeans,
said Daniel Basse, director of market research for AgResource
Co.
   "On the opening I think it {the price of soybean futures
contracts} will be three to five, maybe even 10 cents higher
because not only did they estimate a lower crop but also
raised the usage," said Steve Freed, of Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc.
   The government report estimated a total 1990 wheat harvest
at 2.7 billion bushels, up 33% from last year's production,
but analysts said the market had already taken account of
those numbers, which were as expected.
   Spring wheat, which accounts for 20% of total wheat
production, was estimated to rise to 549 million bushels, 59
million more than last year, in line with analysts'
expectations.
   In other markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose on the possibility that an
easing of the Federal Reserve's credit policy may spur
increased use of copper. September delivery copper rose 2.05
cents a pound to $1.2405. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan told
the Senate Banking Committee that the Fed was poised to ease
its credit policy to offset a developing credit crunch. The
automobile and construction industries, heavy users of
copper, would greatly benefit from a credit easing, and it
could spur greater demand for the metal, an analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices for gold and silver rose,
and those for platinum largely recovered from sharp early
declines sparked by an apparent readiness of the Fed to ease
its credit policy. A strong crude oil market, with its
inflation potential, also was a price-firming factor,
analysts said. August delivery gold ended with a gain of
$3.90 an ounce at $359.50. September silver was up 5.1 cents
an ounce at $4.9480. October platinum had a loss of $2.40 an
ounce at $478.90, after trading as low as $472.50. Precious
metals prices rose following a plunge in the dollar in
reaction to Fed Chairman Greenspan's comments.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices fell on speculation that a meeting
of the executive board of the International Coffee
Organization scheduled for July 23 might be canceled. The
September futures contract declined 2.05 cents a pound to
85.95 cents. Prices have been bolstered recently by the
possibility that coffee export quotas, which were suspended
last year, might be revived at the meeting requested by
Brazil. Late Wednesday, according to a trade source,
Brazilian government officials and exporters decided to call
for the meeting to be canceled. There was no confirmation
from the Brazilian government of a request to cancel the
meeting. Another trade source said, however, that a
government official was expected to make an announcement on
coffee policy today. Meanwhile, Jorge Cardenas, president of
the Colombian Federation of Coffee Growers, met with Brazil's
president Wednesday. No report was issued after the meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   ABBY JOSEPH COHEN, chief strategist at Barclays de Zoete
Wedd Research, said analysts' profit estimates for 1991 on
the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Stock Index can't be achieved
without 40% growth during the intervening six quarters. An
earlier edition misstated the year she was discussing.
   (See: "Wednesday's Markets: Stocks Rally on Oil,
2nd-Quarter Earnings" -- WSJ July 12, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy's Electricity Consumption
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Electricity consumption in Italy rose 3%
in June and 3.3% in the first half, compared with
year-earlier levels, the state electricity utility ENEL said.
   Consumption rose to 19.35 billion kilowatt-hours in June
and to 118.7 billion kwh in the first six months. ENEL didn't
provide year-earlier levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rate of electricity consumption was down from a 3.7%
increase in May, when demand totaled 17.02 billion kwh, and
from a 3.4% rise in the first five months, when demand
totaled 99 billion kwh.
   Gross electricity generation in Italy rose 0.8% in June to
17.51 billion kwh, compared with a year earlier. Total
electricity imports rose 9.2% in June to almost three billion
kwh from 2.74 billion kwh a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Computer Firm
   Founders Sue
   Kubota of Japan
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   KUB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The founders of a Silicon Valley supercomputer company
sued Japan's Kubota Ltd., contending that the Japanese giant
conspired to co-opt the U.S. company's technology by using
its investment in the concern as leverage.
   Allen Michels and Matthew Sanders, founders of a company
that became Stardent Computer Inc., filed the complaint in a
California court yesterday, alleging that Kubota forced the
merger that created the company. Kubota then began to
transfer the technology to a wholly owned Kubota subsidiary,
they allege.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a Trojan horse trick," said Joseph Alioto, the
pair's attorney, who filed the suit in Superior Court in
Santa Clara. Kubota, through its 22% stake in Stardent, took
control of the company's technology, he said.
   The suit, calling for $25 million in damages, charges the
Osaka-based Kubota and several of its U.S. units with fraud,
intentional misrepresentation and fraudulent concealment,
among other allegations. Messrs. Michels and Sanders,
co-chairmen of Stardent, also name Kubota president Shigekazu
Mino and other top Kubota executives in the suit.
   "We're very surprised here at this extremely sudden and
unexpected suit," said a Kubota spokesman in Japan. He added
that the company wouldn't have any added comment until it had
studied the suit.
   Kubota officials in the U.S. couldn't be reached for
comment.
   The allegations are sure to fire up criticism that
Japanese investments in U.S. electronics and other technology
companies drain the U.S. of valuable industrial assets.
Critics of Japanese investment have suggested that some
Japanese companies are seeking to carry innovative U.S.
technology home to conglomerates that have a harder time
coming up with creative new ideas, but can easily translate
others' ideas into products.
   Indeed, Kubota, a steel and farm-equipment maker, has been
at the forefront of the investment boom in the U.S. In the
mid-1980s, Kubota, along with other steel companies, set off
on a course to survive by launching into new industries.
   Kubota bought a stake in Ardent Computer Corp. of
Sunnyvale, Calif., in 1986. Later, Ardent merged with Stellar
Computer Co. of Newton, Mass. to form Stardent.
   Messrs. Michels and Sanders, in the suit, contend that
Kubota forced the merger, threatening to let the companies
slide into financial ruin should they not agree. Stellar was
on the brink of bankruptcy at the time, says Mr. Michels,
Stardent's co-founder.
   Mr. Alioto said Kubota recently set up Kubota Computers
America in Sunnyvale to absorb Stardent's technology. The
suit alleges that Kubota "secretly planned to develop
products that would compete with Stardent," despite
agreements to the contrary, he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Catholics, Blacks Disagree
   With Leaders, Poll Shows
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Roman Catholics and blacks appear to be
paying little heed to the calls of some of their leaders
these days, according to the latest Wall Street Journal/NBC
News poll.
   The survey found that Catholic voters overwhelmingly
oppose excommunicating Catholic politicians who take
positions favoring abortion rights. Seventy-one percent of
those Catholics polled said such politicians shouldn't be
excommunicated, while only 16% said they should.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, efforts by the Rev. Jesse Jackson and others to
adopt the term "African-American" for blacks have yet to
catch fire. Among the blacks polled, 59% said they prefer to
be referred to as black, while 25% prefer African-American.
And 70% said there has been little debate over the issue
among people they know; 27% said the topic has been widely
discussed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   IBM, Diebold Form
   Venture to Develop,
   Sell Bank Machines
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM DBD
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. and Diebold Inc.
said they formed a joint venture to develop and market
automated teller machines, the devices that banks use to
dispense cash, take deposits and provide balance information.
   For Diebold, based in Canton, Ohio, the arrangement
provides access to IBM's world-wide marketing network. David
Robertson of the Nilson Report, a newsletter in Santa Monica,
Calif., said the accord should greatly help Diebold. He said
that although Diebold leads in the U.S. market for the
machines, with a 39% share, it has only about 12% of the
world market, which he said would total close to $3 billion
this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The venture could help IBM, Armonk, N.Y., in an area where
the company has struggled. The Nilson Report said IBM has
just 9% of the U.S. market and 5% world-wide. The agreement
is part of IBM's continuing attempts to re-evaluate what
businesses it should be in and to link up with companies with
expertise in certain slices of the computer market.
   Although terms of the agreement weren't disclosed, the
companies did say Diebold will own a majority of the venture.
They said the joint venture will handle U.S. marketing of the
combined product line to the larger banks, while IBM will
market the products overseas. Diebold will provide service
for the products in the U.S. -- and will buy some assets from
IBM's service operation to facilitate this -- while IBM will
handle service overseas. The two companies will continue to
manufacture their existing products.
   Currently, NCR Corp. of Dayton, Ohio, dominates the
automated teller machine market, with what the Nilson Report
says is a 27% share world-wide.
   The joint venture comes at a time when the technology in
automated teller machines is increasingly resembling that of
personal computers, and banks are working very hard to
integrate all their computers, from teller machines up
through their mainframes.
   IBM has set up a series of partnerships of various kinds
over the past year and a half. Most have been with software
companies. In addition, IBM formed a venture with
Chicago-based Baxter Healthcare Corp. to sell software and
services to the medical profession.
   Diebold, for its part, has been saying for some time that
it wanted to expand internationally. Last year, amid talk
that it was a takeover candidate, Diebold also said it was
looking at alternative means of distribution and at ways to
consolidate manufacturing operations to cut costs.
   Although the two companies have nearly 50% of the U.S.
market when combined, they said they didn't anticipate any
antitrust objections from U.S. officials. A Justice
Department spokesman said the agency's antitrust division
isn't currently reviewing the IBM-Diebold joint venture
proposal. He added, though, that the department isn't aware
of the companies' having formally notified antitrust
regulators about their plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Quebec Fund Agency
   Picks Savard for 2 Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Caisse de Depot et Placement, the Quebec
government's pension-fund agency, named Guy Savard executive
vice president and chief operating officer, a new post.
   The appointment was expected. As reported, Mr. Savard was
named a director May 30. Mr. Savard will be responsible for
investment operations at Caisse de Depot, which manages close
to 40 billion Canadian dollars ($34.52 billion) of provincial
pension and insurance funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Savard reports to Jean-Claude Delorme, chairman and
general manager since July 1. As reported, Mr. Delorme
succeeded Jean Campeau, who becomes chairman of Domtar Inc.,
a Montreal forest products concern, this fall.
   Mr. Savard was vice president of Raymond, Chabot, Martin,
Pare, an accounting firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   NASA's Flyboys
   Have Grown
   Old and Fat
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   How many NASA engineers does it take to screw in a light
bulb? Answer: No one knows, but we'll have to spend $400
billion and travel to Mars to find out.
   If that's not funny, neither is much else around America's
once-great space agency these days. The Hubble telescope's
problems and the space shuttle's recent ground have given
everyone a chance to fret about American technology and
"decline." Don't believe it. The real story is how an agency
that once produced the right stuff turned into a bureaucracy
as hidebound as HUD.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The last few days I've called around to experts who aren't
part of the NASA space-as-usual club. They offer a critique
that goes beyond missed tests or faulty designs to NASA
itself. And the White House is starting to listen.
   On their flight here from the Houston summit Wednesday,
Vice President Dan Quayle and White House chief of staff John
Sununu convened a caucus of space nonconformists. They
included Caltech scientist Bruce Murray, chancellor of the
University of Texas system Hans Mark, NASA administrator
during the Apollo years Thomas Paine and former astronaut
Eugene Cernan. My sources say they talked about "the need for
new thinking." (Harbinger: The last person to talk like that
was Mikhail Gorbachev.)
   No one denies that NASA has great technical people. And
just about everyone, including White House sources, seems to
respect current (and relatively new) NASA administrator
Richard Truly. The critics say the system's the bum.
   "The 1960s were anomalous years," says John Logsdon, of
George Washington University's Space Policy Institute. "NASA
was not a bureaucracy. Now it is." According to a study by
the Marshall Institute, the average NASA employee's age in
1963 was 30; now most of its senior and middle-managers will
be eligible to retire in five years. NASA's funding has
fallen by two-thirds since Apollo, but its workforce by only
one-third.
   The calcium of self-preservation has settled in the
joints. Mr. Murray detects "a bureaucratic survival
instinct." The pre-eminent example is the space shuttle,
which NASA designed to have its own space-launch monopoly.
Sold to Congress as a workhorse capable of 60 flights a year,
the fragile bird hasn't ever flown more than nine. Yet NASA
won't even consider space-launch alternatives.
   "NASA is less willing to ask, `Should we be doing this?'
It's not in their charter," says Mr. Murray. Robert Jastrow,
the astronomer and founder of NASA's Goddard Institute, has
recommended that key policy decisions be taken out of NASA's
hands altogether and given to an independent commission.
   Another bad habit is NASA's gold-plated giantism. Take the
Earth Observing System, the climate-satellite network that
budget director Dick Darman privately calls "the $34 billion
thermometer." These are the grand pianos of satellites, big,
expensive ($3 billion per) and easily knocked out of tune.
But Albert Wheelon (of the Challenger Commission) thinks
smaller satellites could do most of the same work for less
money. NASA wants big and politically glamorous, even if
small and boring will more than suffice.
   That's especially true of NASA's space station, a $30
billion marvel in search of a mission. As a platform to go to
Mars, the station is the wrong design. As a science
laboratory, it may be superfluous. The Journal's Bob Davis
now reports that even simple maintenance will require
thousands of hours of space walks a year, though U.S.
astronauts have walked only 400 hours in space ever. Without
rethinking, the station looks like a goner in Congress.
   All of this cries out for reform, but Congress can't see
much beyond the budget. Al Gore, the Tennessee senator and
quoteman-of-choice since the Hubble news, is putty in NASA's
hands. His toughest critique is that "NASA bit off more than
it can chew," an excuse for spending less but keeping the
same system.
   For its part, the Bush administration faces a dilemma. As
the most pro-space administration since Jack Kennedy's, it
can now decide to defend NASA, hoping that the next fiasco
occurs on somebody else's watch. Or it can lead an effort to
shake up or kill the plodding behemoth that NASA has become.
   Reform is an especially good opportunity for Vice
President Quayle, who could use a substantive issue. The Veep
chairs the administration's National Space Council, a duty
that is actually written in law. Reforming NASA would prove
he's a player. The Council, similar to the space group led by
LBJ under Kennedy, is already staffed with young space
reformers. NASA will argue that any change could destroy the
entire space program, but leaving the program unchanged will
destroy it for certain.
   Space exploration is a worthy government enterprise, in
principle, especially for a nation that has long defined
itself by the frontier. But arthritic bureaucracies don't
tame new frontiers. NASA is even losing to those ultimate
bureaucrats, the Soviets. Just as housing is too important to
leave to HUD, space is too important to leave to NASA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Poll Was Conducted
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ GE
</CO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll was based on
nationwide telephone interviews of 1,555 registered voters
conducted July 6 through July 11 by the polling organizations
of Peter Hart and Robert Teeter.
   The sample was drawn from 315 randomly selected geographic
points in the continental United States. Each region of the
country was represented in proportion to its population.
Households were selected by a method that gave all telephone
numbers, listed and unlisted, an equal chance of being
included. One registered voter, 18 years or older, was
selected from each household by a procedure to provide the
correct number of male and female respondents. The results of
the survey were minimally weighted by race and party
identification to assure that the poll accurately reflects
registered voters nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chances are 19 of 20 that if all registered voters in the
U.S. had been surveyed using the same questionnaire, the
findings would differ from these poll results by no more than
2.6 percentage points in either direction. The margin of
error for subgroups would be larger.
   An additional number of black respondents were also
included. This oversample does not change the results of the
overall survey, but aids in analyzing black voters' views.
The margin of error among blacks in this survey is plus or
minus 6.7 percentage points.
   (See related Story: "Tricky Issue: Thrift Scandal, Viewed
As Political Dynamite, Is Slow to Detonate --- Democrats Are
Being Hurt As Much as Republicans; Public Blames the S&amp;Ls ---
`Dirty Laundry on Both Sides'" -- WSJ July 13, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Emigrant Savings Files
   To Raise Its Holdings
   In Greater New York
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Emigrant Savings Bank filed with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. for permission to raise its 9.9%
stake in Greater New York Savings Bank to not more than 25%
and for a change of control in Greater New York.
   The filing said Emigrant is considering ways to increase
Greater New York's share price. But it added that neither
Emigrant nor its owners, Seymour and Paul Milstein, have any
current plans that would result in a merger, reorganization
or liquidation of Greater New York, nor any plans to change
the board of directors or the management of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Greater New York said it is studying the
regulatory filing and will make "an appropriate response" to
regulatory authorities. Officials of Emigrant didn't return
telephone calls.
   In January 1989, Greater New York rejected an offer by
Emigrant to purchase the 90.1% of the stock it didn't own for
$16 a share, or about $182 million. At the time, Greater New
York officials said the offer "represents a thinly disguised
attempt by Emigrant to have its 9.9% position in our stock
bought out after having put us into play. We won't be
manipulated and expect that the market won't be fooled."
   Since then, Greater New York has adopted a shareholder
rights plan and a leveraged employee stock ownership plan,
both aimed at deterring hostile takeover bids.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Greater
New York closed at $6.25, up $1.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lacer S.A. of Spain Joins
   Europe's Drug Consortium
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   BARCELONA -- The European pharmaceutical industry group,
EuroAlliance, announced the addition of a fourth partner,
Lacer S.A., a closely held pharmaceutical company based here.
   Lacer will represent the Iberian peninsula and joins
EuroAlliance founders Laboratoire L. Lafon representing
France and Belgium; Merckle for Germany, Austria and
Switzerland; and Alfa-Schiaparelli-Wasserman for Italy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   EuroAlliance was established to fund, develop and
distribute selected compounds in Europe. The alliance will
also license compounds from U.S., European and Japanese
companies for the development and launching of new products
throughout Europe.
   EuroAlliance has combined annual group sales of more than
$500 million. Total pharmaceutical sales in Europe are
estimated at $30 billion, representing about 18% of the
world-wide market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Toys `R' Us Chain
   Accelerates Efforts
   In Japanese Market
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY MCD JAPAN J.MRI
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Toys "R" Us Inc. is accelerating its efforts to
crack the Japanese market.
   A spokesman for McDonalds Co. (Japan), which owns 20% of
the Toys "R" Us operation in Japan, said the toy retailer
intends to launch two more stores next year, bringing the
number of outlets it currently plans to open to four.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spokesman said Toys "R" Us will open stores in the
fall of 1991 in Sagamihara, near Tokyo, and in Fukuoka, a
city of 1.2 million people on the southern island of Kyushu.
   The company's plans represent a test case for American
retailers in trying to overcome the regulatory obstacles that
have slowed foreign entry into the Japanese market.
   Under pressure from the U.S., the Japanese government has
agreed to relax regulations that give small retailers
considerable power to block or delay the opening of stores
larger than about 5,400 square feet -- both foreign and
Japanese. In May, the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry placed an 18-month limit on the process. In
addition, Japan has assured the U.S. government that it would
further lower the limit to 12 months.
   Encouraged by the looser regulations, Britain's Virgin
Atlantic Group intends to open several compact-disk and
cassette-tape stores in a joint venture with Marui Co., a
major Japanese retailer.
   Toys "R" Us had already said it would open two stores in
1993, and said it hopes to open as many as 100 stores in
Japan in the next decade.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gantos's June Sales Rose 13%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GTOS
</CO>
<LP>
   GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -- Gantos Inc. said its June sales
rose 13% to $22.8 million from $20.2 a year earlier. The
company's comparable-store sales, covering stores open at
least a year, were level with June 1989.
   For the 22-week period ending July 7, the women's apparel
retailer's sales rose 18% to $105 million from $89.3 million.
The comparable store sales in the 22-week period increased
3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Kentucky `Kid' in Britain
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Esher, England -- Great Britain has more than 60
horse-racing courses, and all are different. On some the
horses run counterclockwise, U.S.-style, but on most they run
the other way. Some have uphill sections, some have
downhills, some have both. Windsor's turf traces a figure
eight. Haydock's backstretch pinches in the center, like a
hairpin.
   Sandown Park, where jockey Steve Cauthen rode for a couple
days last week, is an oval, but wider on one end than
another, which makes it almost a triangle. Coming off the
final (righthand) turn, horses must run slightly uphill three
furlongs to the finish. This makes for good viewing from the
stands, but it's tough going for the animals and requires an
extra bit of calculation from their jockeys.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The uphill homestretch means you have to save a bit more
of your horse for the end," notes Cauthen. He smiles and
adds: "That's one of the ways we earn our money here."
   Everyone earns his money one way or another, but Cauthen
and his Brit brethren get more than a bit of their bucks
(pounds, actually) by brainwork rather than by busyness.
Six-race daily cards are standard hereabouts, vs. nine or 10
a day in the U.S., and the racing season lasts only from
March through October, instead of year-round.
   "But with all the variety here, local knowledge is much
more important. It took about three years before I was
confident I knew what I was doing on every track I raced,"
says Cauthen. "Compared with Britain, U.S. jockeys are on a
merry-go-round."
   When Cauthen hopped off the merry-go-round to come to
England in 1979, it was big news. He wasn't called Steve
then, but "Stevie," as in "Stevie Wonder," or, more simply,
"The Kid." The Walton, Ky.-born lad stood U.S. racing on its
ear by capturing the national riding title in 1977 at age 17
with 487 winners and a record for the time of $6,151,750 in
purses. The next year he piloted Affirmed to the Triple Crown
in epic duels with Alydar.
   But then, like Yankee Doodle, he went to London, just to
ride the ponies. The impetus for the move was both positive
-- a $400,000-a-year retainer fee from Robert Sangster, owner
of a large British stable -- and negative -- a bewildering,
110-race losing streak in California.
   At any rate, he liked what he found. So he stayed and
prospered. In 1984, '85 and '87, he was England's leading
rider and in most other years he's been among the top three
(with Pat Eddery and Willie Carson). He has won the Epsom
Derby twice, thus becoming the only man ever to ride winners
of England's and the U.S.'s premier races, and last year,
aboard Old Vic, added their French and Irish equivalents.
   Now 30 years old, he's the contract rider (at a reported
$750,000-per plus race-winnings) for Henry Cecil, England's
leading trainer, and, as such, has first call on some of the
island's best horses.
   British racing's four-month winter break gives him time to
make annual Christmas visits home to Walton, where his family
runs a small breeding farm, and to race in places such as
France, Italy, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Australia, Hong Kong
and, for individual events, the U.S. He was invited to ride
in the Soviet Union a few years ago, but declined, "because I
wasn't sure they'd let me out." He says that, with glasnost,
he'll probably accept the next time he's asked.
   Moreover, in company with Cash Asmussen, an American
expatriate who's among France's leading jockeys, Cauthen
revolutionized the way European jockeys ride. In former days,
they were mostly content to sit companionably in a pack until
a furlong or two from the finish, then dash for home. First
Cauthen, and then Asmussen, showed 'em it was no sin to spur
the pace briskly from the front.
   Cauthen, in turn, admits to being influenced by his
European colleagues. "I ride with my stirrups longer here,
only partly because I'm taller than I was when I came over,"
says the 5-foot-6 jockey. "I also ride a bit straighter to
allow for the changes in ground we have to deal with. I
wouldn't say I've changed styles, but I would say I've
adapted."
   Cauthen's also had to adjust to his fair share of mishaps
over here, including a nasty spill in 1988 that broke a neck
vertebra and sidelined him for two months. In 1985, he
underwent treatment for alcoholism that he said at the time
stemmed from depression over the need to watch his weight
constantly. He won't discuss the episode now other than to
say that he no longer has a drinking problem.
   The weight problem remains, as it does for most mature
jockeys. Cauthen's normal weight is about 130 pounds, but he
tries to keep himself down around 115. That, incidentally,
still puts him on the heavy side for a U.S. jockey. But in
Europe, jockeys tend to weigh a bit more, which is one reason
Cauthen stays here. Still, he has to keep exercising and
"saying `no' a lot more than `yes'" to food. It's no fun, but
he's gotta.
   The British jockey's life grates in other ways, too. Race
meetings here last for only a few days, not months as in the
States, so riders have to cover lots of miles. Cauthen does
it by car from his home in rural Stetchworth, near Newmarket,
but heavy traffic and deteriorating roads may force him to
follow Eddery's example and buy his own airplane.
   Mostly, though, he enjoys life here, and has taken to it
avidly. One widely circulated photo shows him dressed in
tweeds cradling a shotgun -- the proper British gentleman off
for a shoot -- and, yes, that's really him, he says. He calls
soccer "football," like the natives, although his team-sport
favorite remains the Cincinnati Reds. And socially, he
hobnobs with, among others, dukes, duchesses and H.R.H. the
Queen, whose horses he has ridden. He thinks she's "very
nice."
   While he says he remains a Kentucky boy at heart, his
allegiance to the Bluegrass State is no longer unmixed.
"England's part of my life now, and even if I go home when
I'm done riding, I'll always come back," he declares. "My
world's bigger than it used to be, and I wouldn't want that
to change."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potlatch Profit Rose
   26% in 2nd Quarter
   On 8% Revenue Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCH
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Potlatch Corp. said second-quarter net
earnings rose 26% on an 8% growth in revenue.
   The forest-products company said net earnings were $32.3
million, or $1.12 a share, compared with $25.7 million, or 89
cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose to $321.2 million
from $296.1 million, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Potlatch attributed the increased income to a rescheduling
of annual maintenance shutdowns from the first half to the
last half of this year at two of the company's pulp-based
operations.
   Potlatch's wood-products group reported earnings for the
quarter of $800,000, compared with a loss of $2 million in
1989, the company said. The Northwest Paper division reported
earnings of $18.4 million, down from $20.4 million in 1989
because of higher costs, some related to new equipment, and
to softer-than-expected markets, Potlatch said.
   Net earnings for Potlatch's other pulp businesses grew to
$43.9 million, from $31.4 million in 1989, the company said.
Excellent results from the consumer products division also
contributed to higher earnings, but results were hampered by
operating problems at Potlatch's Lewiston, Idaho, mill, it
said.
   Potlatch said it expected second-half results to be hurt
by a maintenance shutdown scheduled at its Cypress Bend,
Ark., mill and an extended shutdown at its Lewiston mill.
   Potlatch's stock closed at $40.625, up 25 cents, in
composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peoples Bancorp
   Expects to Post
   12% Profit Rise
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PEBW
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WORCESTER, Mass. -- Peoples Bancorp of Worcester Inc.,
which has avoided the real estate loan problems plaguing
other New England savings banks, expects to report that net
income rose 12% in the second quarter over income before
investment gains in the year-ago period.
   Woodbury C. Titcomb, president and chief executive, said
in an interview that second-quarter net income was about $1.3
million, or 48 cents a share, up from income before
investment gains of $1.2 million, or 43 cents a share, a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 second quarter, investment income of eight
cents a share brought net income to $1.5 million, or 51 cents
a share. There was no investment income in the latest
quarter.
   For the year, Peoples expects earnings to be in line with
analysts' estimates, showing an increase of 8% to about $2.05
a share from $1.90 a share in 1989, according to Michael S.
Shaw, the bank's senior vice president and treasurer.
   Mr. Titcomb said Peoples, the holding company for Peoples
Savings Bank of Worcester, was expecting to "grow through
acquisitions" over the next several years, continuing its
current program of "careful purchases."
   On July 9, Peoples paid the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. a premium of $100,000 to assume $300 million of
deposits of Milford Savings Bank, a Milford, Mass.based
savings bank that was closed a few days earlier by federal
regulators. Under an agreement with the FDIC, Peoples will
review Milford's $280 million loan portfolio and has the
option to purchase loans it deems worthy.
   The Milford purchase was the second acquisition of a
troubled institution by Peoples. In April 1989, Peoples paid
$3 million for $301.7 million of assets of First Service Bank
for Savings of Leominster, Mass., in an FDIC auction.
   "Future acquisitions and consolidations is the way to go,"
said Mr. Titcomb, "providing they can be controlled,
disciplined and significantly accretive."
   Mr. Titcomb said Peoples is in a position to make
acquisitions because of the prudent lending policies it
followed during the mid-1980s. While other New England
savings banks, many of which went public in 1986, were
lending freely, "there was an awful lot of criticism of
Peoples not growing, not lending," said Mr. Titcomb. But
other lenders are finding many loans made during periods of
swift growth are now nonperforming.
   Peoples' nonperforming loans are among the lowest in the
region. Although its non-performers are rising slightly, they
will be less than 1% of total loans at the end of the second
quarter compared with 0.35% at the end of 1989.
   The bank will add $120,000 to loan-loss reserves, the
regular quarterly provision it has been making since 1988,
bringing reserves up to $4.6 million. That will cover nearly
100% of its non-performing loans, a higher percentage than
most banks. Of the bank's total loans of $510 million, 54% of
them are in residential mortgages, 24% in home equity loans
-- the portfolio's fastest growing area -- and 13% in
commercial real estate or construction. Nearly all the loans
are in Worcester County.
   The bank's equity-to-assets ratio was 9.4% at June 30, and
is expected to settle at 8% after repayment of about $70
million in brokered deposits from Milford Savings over the
next 45 days. Peoples expects to keep about $130 million of
Milford's $300 million in deposits, bringing Peoples' total
assets to $900 million by year end.
   Return on assets is expected to be 0.69% for first six
months of 1990 compared with 0.70% for all of 1989. Return on
equity is expected to be 7.1% for first six months of the
year compared with 8% for the like year-earlier period.
   The company, which has raised its dividend for each of the
14 quarters since going public, "will try to find a way to
keep it rising," said Mr. Titcomb.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Reports
   An 8.3% Profit Rise
   For Its 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEXINGTON, Mass. -- Raytheon Co. said its second-quarter
earnings increased 8.3% on a 2.5% sales jump, reflecting
healthy growth in its electronics, aircraft products and
energy services businesses.
   Net income for the quarter ended July 1 rose to $144.8
million, or $2.22 a share, from $133.7 million, or $2.03 per
share, the electronics, aircraft and missile manufacturer
said. Sales increased to $2.35 billion from $2.29 billion in
the second quarter of 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Raytheon said its backlog at the end of the quarter grew
to $9.23 billion, including orders from the U.S. government
worth $6.7 billion. That compares with a backlog in last
year's second quarter of $8.36 billion, including a
government backlog of $6.32 billion.
   The company said part of the growth came from its largest
business -- electronics -- which makes both defense and
nondefense systems for the government.
   During the quarter the company said it was awarded a $414
million contract from the Army to supply certain ground
control equipment to Italy. The contract helped Raytheon
avoid laying off hundreds of workers.
   The company also said that increased domestic orders and
reduced manufacturing costs improved profits in its Aircraft
Products segment, led by its Beach Aircraft Corp. unit. It
also noted that its Energy Services division benefited from
improved operations and an increased interest in enviromental
services.
   For the six months, earnings jumped 8% to $275.7 million
from $254.5 million in the year-ago period. Sales were $4.57
billion, up about 5% from last year's $4.36 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Wants Brokers
   To Give Warning
   On Capital Shifts
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission, in
its first regulatory reaction to the collapse of Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., proposed rules that would force
brokerage firms to give regulators early warning of large
capital movements.
   The agency also voted to propose rules sharply limiting
the flexibility of money-market funds. The measure would
restrict the amount of lower-quality holdings by the funds,
which are held by 21 million investors for a total of $450
billion, according to SEC figures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The brokerage proposal would revise the agency's so-called
net capital rule, which requires brokerage firms to keep
certain amounts of their assets liquid in case of emergency.
But the SEC is concerned that it has no requirement for
brokerage firms to notify regulators before moving large
amounts of capital. Chairman Richard Breeden called the plan
a "smoke detector" for major problems at brokerage firms.
   That situation came into play earlier this year in the
collapse of Drexel. The parent company, desperately trying to
fend off a liquidity crunch caused by its junk-bond
portfolio, took several infusions of capital from its
brokerage subsidiary. As Drexel's crisis came to a head, the
firm tried to shift more capital to the parent, a move that
would have put the brokerage unit below the net capital
requirement.
   The SEC blocked the move, citing a potential risk to the
brokerage system, and Drexel was forced to file for
bankruptcy-law protection.
   Market regulation director Richard Ketchum said the agency
was concerned that a similar situation "may arise in other
broker-dealers, particularly those in a large holding-company
structure."
   Yesterday's rule proposal would require brokerage firms to
notify the SEC two days before withdrawing certain levels of
net capital. The SEC would then have the authority to bar the
firm from making such a move. The rule also would create an
additional standard designed to limit capital withdrawals for
firms with large securities-trading positions.
   The New York Stock Exchange already has proposed a warning
rule, but that proposal would simply require the exchange to
be notified within 24 hours after a shift of more than 20%
was made. "We don't think that's sufficient for the
commission," Mr. Ketchum said. "Some horses may have left the
barn."
   The money-fund rule, which was expected, comes on the
heels of several recent defaults by issuers of commercial
paper, or short-term corporate borrowings. Money funds hold
huge amounts of commercial paper.
   The proposal would require the funds' prospectus to
clearly state that the holdings aren't insured or guaranteed
by the federal government. Moreover, it would prohibit funds
from investing more than 5% of assets in securities of a
single issuer or in securities rated at less than the highest
quality. It would impose other restrictions on holdings as
well.
   The rule would give "better assurances that safety
expectations of investors can be met," said Gene Gohlke,
acting director of investment management.
   Commissioner Mary Schapiro expressed concern about the
quality of the rating agencies and wondered whether the SEC's
use of the term "high quality" could mislead investors.
Commissioner Philip Lochner said the rule could affect the
commercial-paper market by removing a major buyer. But agency
staffers said they thought it would have only a "minimal
effect" on the commercial-paper market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Retailers Posted
   Average 5.8% Rise
   In Sales for June
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WMT KM DH LTD S JCP CHH GPS MA MES HDS MST Z
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sunny June weather across most of the country boosted
sales of apparel and other seasonal-related items for many of
the nation's largest retailers.
   Although June wasn't an outstanding month for most
retailers, the Merrill Lynch Retail Sales Index of 17 leading
chains showed that revenue increased an average 5.8% against
a 5.2% gain in May. Some analysts had feared that May's poor
results reflected consumer panic, not simply the widespread
cold, gloomy weather that month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts also indicated that much of June's revenue growth
was generated by heavy promotional sales. Many retailers
started the month with inventory they had expected to sell
during May. Top seasonal sellers in June, analysts said,
included air conditioners and pool-related products.
   "We saw some improvement in June, which should enable
retailers to enter the important second half lean and clean,"
said Jeffrey Feiner, an analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. He
added: "There are, however, problems ahead. The housing
market is weak, and there are slowing trends in personal
spending. There's also a lack of direction from the fashion
market, which may indicate softening for apparel."
   Retailers that performed particularly well included
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., K mart Corp., and the Target discount
store division of Dayton Hudson Corp. Among the chains with
disappointing results was Limited Inc., whose namesake
Limited division had an estimated 5% decrease in sales for
stores open at least one year.
   In active trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Limited
shares closed yesterday at $23, down $2.125.
   "Overall economic growth and consumer spending as a
component of that growth is probably below average, but the
June numbers indicate the economy isn't sinking rapidly into
recession," said Barry Bryant, an analyst at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc.
   Mr. Bryant noted that consumers have been particularly
responsive to licensed products this summer. Sales of goods
endorsed by Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Dick Tracy, and
"underachiever" Bart Simpson have been strong. "Who would
have believed that the Simpsons would have emerged as giant
counterculture figures in only 90 days?" marveled Mr. Bryant.
   At Wal-Mart, same-store sales were up 14% in June and 12%
for the five months ended June 30 against the like
year-earlier periods. The discounter did particularly well
with men's and children's apparel, as well as food items and
toy products.
   "They were helped because their reporting period included
five Saturdays instead of four Saturdays a year ago," said
Robert Buchanan, an analyst with Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
"Still, they are taking market share from lesser competitors.
We're seeing a nationwide trend in which the strong get
stronger in retailing."
   At Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., the nation's largest retailer,
comparable store sales were up 3.5%. "They did well with
their jazzed-up electronics and appliance departments," said
Mr. Buchanan. "They've begun to give a lot more space in the
stores to those categories, so you'd expect some pop in
sales. They didn't do as well in apparel, which reflects
continued weakness in that area."
   At K mart, comparable store sales grew 4.3% in June.
"Their apparel sales were strong," said Mr. Buchanan. "The
big picture here is that the company's expense structure in
relationship to sales are higher than that of Wal-Mart and
Target. Therefore they can't price as aggressively across the
board."
   Mr. Buchanan expressed surprise that the Limited division
of Limited Inc. showed an estimated 5% decrease in same-store
sales. "They are dropping prices on their Forenza
private-label line of casual sportswear, and that's hurting
them," said Mr. Buchanan. "The line is being replaced with
Paul et Duffier. The transition is causing some unexpected
pain." Same-store sales rose 5.1% at Dayton Hudson; 5% at the
parent Limited; 4.9% at Woolworth Corp; 4.1% at J.C. Penney
Co. and 1% at Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
   "The overall trend is that we saw a pick-up in promotions
in June following on an extremely sluggish May," said Janet
Mangano, an analyst with Jesup, Josephthal &amp; Co. "What we saw
were pent-up promotions, not pent-up consumer demands. I'm
expecting disappointing second-quarter earning performances."
   ---
                    Five weeks ended July 7
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

                          a-'90 sales    '89 sales    b-%
                           millions       millions   change
                                                                                                       

 c-K mart ...............   2,959.1       2,589.2     14.3
 d-Sears ................   2,863.5       2,748.1      4.2
 h-Wal-Mart .............   2,614.0       2,035.0     28.0
 J.C. Penney ............   1,312.0       1,247.0      5.3
 e-Dayton Hudson ........   1,260.0       1,130.0     11.8

 Melville Corp. .........     735.1         647.7     13.5
 Woolworth ..............     474.0         436.0      8.7
 Limited Inc. ...........     446.0         387.0     15.0
 g-Carter Hawley ........     246.6         244.1      1.0
 Mercantile Stores ......     192.7         188.1      2.4
 Gap ....................     167.0         127.0     31.0
 Hills Dept Stores ......     163.2         159.9      2.1
                                                                                                       

   a-Total U.S. store and catalog sales, from continuing
operations. b-Based on exact sales. c-Includes sales of Pace
Membership Warehouse Inc. acquired in November 1989. d-1989
figures restated to exclude discontinued merchandise lines.
e-1989 figures restated to exclude Lechmere, which was sold
in September 1989. f-Excludes sales of the discontinued
Venture discount operation, which May plans to spin off to
shareholders. g-Both periods exclude sales of Emporium store
in downtown Oakland, Calif., which has been closed since last
year's earthquake. h-June calendar month only.
   ---
                     22 weeks of fiscal year
                                                                                                       

                          a-'90 sales   '89 sales     b-%
                            millions     millions    change
                                                                                                       

 c-K mart .............     12,055.0      10,684.2    12.8
 d-Sears ..............     11,914.7      11,571.6     3.0
 i-Wal-Mart ...........     11,909.0       9,441.0    26.0
 J.C. Penney ..........      5,652.0       5,414.0     4.4
 e-Dayton Hudson ......      5,170.0       4,620.0    11.9
 f-May Dept Stores ....      3,785.1       3,450.0     9.7
 g-Melville Corp. .....      3,701.2       3,321.4    11.4
 Woolworth ............      2,099.0       1,932.0     8.6
 Limited Inc. .........      1,913.0       1,662.0    15.0
 h-Carter Hawley ......      1,038.3       1,031.3     0.7
 Mercantile Stores ....        869.7         850.0     2.3
 Hills Dept Stores ....        752.8         699.3     7.7
 Gap ..................        693.0         557.0    24.0
                                                                                                       

   a-Total U.S. store and catalog sales, from continuing
operations. b-Based on exact sales. c-Includes sales of Pace
Membership Warehouse Inc. acquired in November 1989. d-1989
figures restated to exclude discontinued merchandise lines.
e-1989 figures restated to exclude Lechmere, which was sold
in September 1989. f-Excludes sales of the discontinued
Venture discount operation, which May plans to spin off to
shareholders. g-Sales for five months ended June 2. h-Both
periods exclude sales of Emporium store in downtown Oakland,
Calif., which has been closed since last year's earthquake.
i-Five months ended June 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conferees Agree
   On Double Hulls
   For Oil Tankers
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House and Senate conferees debating
oil-spill legislation agreed to require double hulls for new
tankers and to phase them in for most existing ships by 2010.
   Agreement on this once-contentious issue came after little
discussion among the lawmakers. The requirement once was
opposed strongly by many oil companies, which contended that
any costly retrofitting should await further study. Recently,
however, the industry has come to accept double hulls as
unavoidable, especially in light of the rash of oil spills in
U.S. waters in the past 18 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The provisions approved by the conferees would establish
schedules for retrofitting existing vessels, generally
requiring the largest and oldest ships to be equipped with
double hulls first. Extra time would be allotted for tankers
that transfer oil to other ships far offshore, tankers with
double bottoms or sides, and barges and other ships that
operate in inland waterways. Congressional aides said much of
the existing fleet will be retired rather than retrofitted.
   Vessels weighing less than 5,000 tons could be exempt from
the double-hull requirement entirely if they have double
bottoms or sides that the secretary of transportation
determines would be as effective as double hulls for
preventing oil leaks.
   Environmental groups viewed the conferees' action as a
mixed bag. While they have long favored double hulls, they
had pushed for a more aggressive retrofit schedule, and they
particularly opposed exceptions for inland barges and other
ships.
   Agreement on double hulls moves the conferees close to
approval of a comprehensive oil spill measure. Conferees
removed a major hurdle to the bill last month, when they
rejected provisions that would have provided for U.S.
participation in an international treaty limiting shippers'
liability in spills.
   Among other provisions, the bill would raise federal
liability limits for tankers, barges and oil facilities, and
it would improve contingency planning for oil spills. Federal
cleanup and damage-assessment costs, plus compensation for
damages, beyond the liability limits would be paid out of a
five-cents-a barrel tax on domestic and imported oil. That
fee has been collected since Jan. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitsubishi Mining Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MMC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement Co. has reached an
agreement to buy 100% of the shares of Dillingham
Construction Guam Ltd. of the U.S., a Mitsubishi spokesman
said Thursday. The purchase price wasn't disclosed.
   Mitsubishi's unit in the U.S., Mitsubishi Cement
Development Corp., is expected to purchase all the shares of
Dillingham Construction Guam from the parent company,
Dillingham Construction Corp., Pleasanton, Calif., by the end
of this month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mitsubishi expects future demand for construction
materials in Guam and Saipan to grow as the growth of the
tourism industry there boosts construction of resort
facilities.
   Dillingham Construction Guam has construction materials
factories on the islands, including four concrete plants. The
company had sales of $40 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Cincinnati Gas &amp; Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CIN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI GAS &amp; ELECTRIC Co. said it has accepted the
offer of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
for the sale of 500,000 shares of its cumulative preferred,
9.15% series, at $100 each. The Cincinnati utility said the
stock is subject to mandatory redemption requirements of
25,000 shares a year beginning July 1, 1996. Proceeds will be
used to repay debt incurred primarily from its construction
program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vulcan Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VUL BC
</CO>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Vulcan International Corp. said it has
formed a joint venture with Brunswick Bowling and Billiard
Corp., a unit of Skokie, Ill.-based Brunswick Corp., to
manufacture bowling pins.
   The joint venture will allow Vulcan to expand its Antigo,
Wis., bowling pin plant to increase production to three times
its current capacity, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vulcan said Brunswick's bowling pin plant in Muskegon,
Mich. will be closed once the Antigo plant is expanded.
   Vulcan makes shoe supplies and bowling pins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Crude Steel Production
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Production of crude steel in Japan in June edged
up 0.2% from a year earlier to 8.98 million metric tons but
fell 3.8% from 9.33 million tons in the previous month, the
Japan Iron and Steel Federation said. A metric ton is equal
to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   "Japanese steel manufacturers are in a full operation" to
meet continuing robust domestic demand, especially from the
construction sector, a federation official said. Steel demand
for non-residential building construction, such as office
buildings and plants, has been growing, he said, and as
public works usually begin to hit their stride in the
July-September quarter, steel demand is expected to remain
high.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Development
   Names Two Directors,
   Four Others Resign
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- General Development Corp. named two new
directors, and four board members resigned.
   The two additions to the real estate developer's board are
Todd G. Cole, 69 years old, vice chairman of Eastern
Airlines, and James W. Apthorp, 52, executive vice president
of Good Gulfstream Holding Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The four directors who resigned are Reubin Askew, Howard
L. Clark Jr., Edwin I. Hatch and Eben W. Payne. General
Development's chairman and chief executive officer, Charles
J. Simons, said each of the four departing directors "felt
sufficient progress had been made in resolving the company's
legal issues" and wanted to see "new people with fresh
viewpoints" on the board.
   In April, General Development filed for protection from
creditors' lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code, while it forms a plan to repay its debts.
Earlier in the year, the company pleaded guilty to a federal
charge of conspiracy to defraud about 10,000 home buyers, by
charging inflated prices based on improper appraisals.
   The changes in the board leave General Development with
nine directors, down from 11.
   Separately, General Development said the board voted to
postpone until later this year the company's annual meeting,
which had been scheduled for Sept. 28; a new date wasn't
specified.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brady Bids to Ease Fears
   On Futures in the Future
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady told a
Senate panel that if Congress approves a proposal to shift
oversight of stock-index futures to securities regulators, he
wouldn't seek additional shifts of futures regulation.
   "I will oppose more sweeping changes to {Commodity Futures
Trading Commission} authority if the administration's bill
passes in its present form," he said at a Senate Banking
Committee hearing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The statement was an apparent effort by Mr. Brady to
assuage fears of the futures industry and some legislators
that a Bush administration proposal to switch index futures
is simply a prelude to a broader effort to pillage CFTC
authority.
   The proposal would move oversight of stock-index futures
from the CFTC to the Securities and Exchange Commission,
which currently regulates stocks and options. Stock-index
futures, which are frequently part of computerized program
trades, are used by institutional investors to hedge risk in
the stock market by allowing investors to bet on the movement
of a basket of stocks without buying the actual shares.
   The administration would like to see the proposal move as
an amendment to the CFTC reauthorization bill, and senators
in favor of the White House measure have held up the CFTC
bill. But speculation surfaced yesterday that Sen. Patrick
Leahy (D., Vt.), who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee,
may try to attach the CFTC bill to the farm bill that will
move through the Senate in the next week or so.
   While aides close to the senator said he hasn't considered
such a move, he has expressed dismay over the delay in the
CFTC measure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Protester Found Guilty
   Of Filing False Statements
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -- Jean R. Canon, one of the first
protesters to be accused of trying to disrupt the tax system
and harass public officials and others by filing false Form
1099 reports, was convicted of all charges against him.
   After a half-day, non-jury trial, federal Judge Juan G.
Burciaga found Mr. Canon guilty of 17 counts of filing false
statements and making a false claim against the federal
government. The 47-year-old defendant represented himself at
the trial, but didn't testify. He is to be sentenced on Sept.
28, according to federal prosecutor David Farnham.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Form 1099s are used to tell the Internal Revenue Service
about non-wage payments to others. Undetected false reports
may cause needless and costly IRS audits of the protesters'
targets. The use of phony 1099s in New Mexico and elsewhere,
which has led to 65 IRS criminal investigations, was the
subject of a front-page article in The Wall Street Journal in
April.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unocal Plans to Buy
   Amoco Unit's Stake
   In Alaskan Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL AN CHV TX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp. said it agreed to buy Amoco
Production Co.'s 62.5% interest in the Chakachatna Group of
oil and gas properties in the Cook Inlet of Alaska. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   The Chakachatna Group owns two platforms in the Granite
Point field and two in the Middle Ground Shoal field, which
now have a gross production rate of about 5,100 barrels of
oil a day. Unocal estimated that the fields have more than 11
million barrels of developed oil reserves, with more
available for development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Amoco Production in Denver said the sale
is "part of our longterm strategy of consolidating our
producing operations geologically and geographically." Though
the unit of Chicago-based Amoco Corp. has considerable
holdings in Alaska, including a 10% stake in the Endicott
field on the North Slope, "The Cook Inlet properties
represent the only Amoco-operated production in Alaska," the
spokesman said.
   Amoco Production is the current operator for the group.
Unocal is expected to assume this role, following a vote by
the other group partners, Chevron Corp., San Francisco, and
Texaco Inc., White Plains, N.Y.
   The transaction, which is subject to certain consents,
including a waiting period required by the Hart-Scott-Rodino
Act on antitrust issues, is expected to be completed within
the next several weeks, a Unocal spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   FDA Moves
   To Rewrite
   Food Labels
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration unveiled
proposed regulations that would change the labeling of food
products, including requirements that nutritional information
be provided for fresh produce and seafood, and on levels of
fat, cholesterol and fiber.
   Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan, in
announcing the proposed requirements, said "the consumer
should be able to read and understand food labels, based on
reliable and vital information. These proposed regulations
will help make food labels more clear and cogent."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Currently, nutrition labeling is voluntarily included by
some food packagers but is required only on fortified foods
and those for which nutritional claims are made. FDA
officials estimated that the proposed regulations would cost
the food industry approximately $300 million in one-time
costs. The industry and consumer groups will be allowed 30
days to comment on the proposed requirements.
   One change would create new definitions for claims
concerning cholesterol levels. Products could be called
"cholesterol free" if they contain less than two milligrams a
serving, while also containing less than five grams of total
fat and less than two grams of saturated fat a serving.
   Products could be designated "low cholesterol" if they
contain less than 20 milligrams of cholesterol a serving and
the same total and saturated fat levels as those in
cholesterol-free products. Manufacturers could call their
products "reduced cholesterol" if they contain 75% less
cholesterol than similar products of their own label or
comparable products of other companies.
   Among the other changes proposed by Secretary Sullivan is
adding nutritional information for four food components while
dropping it for four others. Those added would be
cholesterol, saturated fat and calories from fat and fiber.
Those dropped would be thiamine, riboflavin, niacin and one
of the two protein listings.
   Frank Scarbrough, director of the Office of Nutrition at
the Food and Drug Administration, said the shuffling
represents a desire by the FDA to "concentrate on substances
that are the cause of chronic diseases." He added that the
problems resulting from deficiencies in the dropped
substances have largely disappeared as public health problems
in the U.S.
   A spokesman for Quaker Oats Co., a Chicago-based maker of
cereals and other food products, said the company had been
expecting the changes. "We are strong proponents of providing
meaningful nutritional information. It sounds like these are
changes that are going to be beneficial," he said.
   John Cady, president of the National Food Processors
Association, said his organization will study the proposal
"and we will hopefully suggest improvements that will result
in even better nutrition labeling to benefit consumers."
   The new regulations would require nutritional labeling on
packaged food that is a "meaningful source" of calories, Dr.
Sullivan said. Fresh produce, seafood and other non-packaged
food companies would be allowed some flexibility in informing
consumers of nutritional value, including the use of
"point-of-purchase" methods such as posters and booklets.
   The FDA also proposed to permit companies to display a
second label below the required one. The second label would
include a "nutritional profile" of certain food components as
a percentage of the daily recommended consumption of the
component. If the manufacturer used the profile, it would
have to include fat, saturated fatty acid, cholesterol,
carbohydrates, fiber and salt.
   Exemptions to the proposed labeling requirements would be
allowed for restaurants, bakeries, individually packaged
"bite size" pieces of food and small businesses with annual
food sales of less than $500,000 a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Workstation
   Shifts Expected
   As IBM Stirs
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW DEC HWP IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The mercurial market for computer workstations is about to
undergo another burst of change.
   Most of the change will come because International
Business Machines Corp. is beginning to flex its muscles as
it starts to deliver the impressive line of workstations it
announced early this year. Market researchers expect IBM to
go from essentially no market share in workstations to some
15% to 20% of the market over the next year and a half. And
that market share obviously must come out of somebody else's
hide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, Sun Microsystems Inc. has reasserted
itself as the leader of the market for workstations, powerful
machines used mainly by engineers. Hewlett-Packard Co. has
faltered. Digital Equipment Corp. has improved its product
line but confused its marketing message. Next Inc., Steve
Jobs' much-publicized new company, has failed to make any
impact. And several Japanese companies are preparing to enter
the market with clones of Sun's systems.
   "This is sort of like the battle of Waterloo," says
Charles Foundyller, president of Daratech Inc., a
market-research firm that focuses on workstations. "The Suns
and Digitals and HPs have fought themselves to a standstill,
and now we hear drums in the distance. Sun is slowly winning,
but now IBM is thundering on the scene with fresh troops and
seemingly inexhaustible resources."
   The market is important mainly because it is growing so
fast: Gartner Group Inc., a market-research firm, estimates
that the world-wide workstation market will nearly quadruple
to $19 billion in 1994 from $5 billion this year.
   But it is also important because part of that growth may
come at the expense of personal computers and minicomputers.
That is a matter of particular concern to companies such as
IBM that sell a wide range of machines.
   Workstations -- essentially very powerful personal
computers with high-resolution monitors -- are starting to
head down into the traditional personal-computer price range.
They are beginning to run similar software and eventually may
be sold through personal-computer dealers. Workstations are
also delivering so much computing power that, as software
becomes widely available over the next couple of years, they
could move out of their traditional preserve in engineering
departments and into the mainstream business applications
that minicomputers now handle.
   IBM, having failed in two prior efforts to crack the
workstation market, seems to have finally gotten things
right. The machines it began shipping in May are more
powerful than those of its major competitors and are priced
rather aggressively.
   The major hurdle was expected to be getting software
developers to make enough application packages available, a
problem that has hobbled Digital Equipment. And there have
been extensive reports in the trade press of bugs in IBM's
operating system, which would make application development
difficult. But software developers and consultants say that
the bugs have been stamped out almost entirely and that
application software will be available on time. IBM says that
by the end of the year it plans to have 1,500 major
application software packages and 7,000 total applications
available -- on a par with the numbers Sun can claim.
   Bill Filip, a senior marketing executive in IBM's
workstation operation, said orders have been at "the high end
of expectations." He pointed to an International Data Corp.
study that predicted IBM would sell 15,000 units this year
and said the total would be "substantially more than that."
He said IBM has already decided to expand its production
capacity. Until recently, someone ordering a machine would be
told he might not get it until next May.
   The biggest problem that IBM still faces is that it
doesn't have a low-end machine. Its line starts at $13,000
for a stripped-down machine, while Sun, for instance, starts
at around $5,000. IBM says it will correct that problem,
though probably not for almost a year. IBM executives also
indicated the machine's price might be $1,500 to $3,000
higher than Sun's.
   IBM also faces the standard problem in the workstation
market: The machines' power doubles every 12 to 18 months, so
companies must run hard just to stand still.
   Noting that other companies have announced fast machines
since the IBM announcement in February, Louise Rehling, a
senior vice president at software developer SPSS Inc., says
that IBM still has a lead in power, "but it's getting
narrower."
   Vicki Brown, an analyst at International Data, says she
expects IBM to be neck and neck with Digital Equipment for
the No. 2 spot by the end of next year -- with Sun still the
leader and HP slipping to fourth.
   HP has had problems partly for reasons beyond its control:
It had announced products based on the Motorola Inc. 68040
processor, but Motorola was more than nine months late in
shipping those chips. HP also has had trouble integrating its
product lines with those of Apollo Computer Inc., which it
acquired last year. Those problems are expected to keep a
damper on HP's workstation sales for the next year or so,
too.
   Competitors and consultants say Digital Equipment has
strengthened its product line considerably, overcoming some
earlier problems. But they add that Digital's marketing
message is muddled because it offers two types of machines:
those that use its own operating systems and those that use
Unix.
   Workstations typically use the Unix operating system,
which runs on hardware made by numerous companies, making it
easy to move Unix-based application software from one
company's computers to another's. But Digital has made its
mark by selling systems that use its proprietary operating
systems, which lock customers into buying Digital hardware
because their applications won't run on anyone else's boxes.
   More than most old-line companies, Digital has been slow
to make the move to Unix. Despite a growing Unix business,
Digital's blunt president, Ken Olsen, has labeled some claims
about the system "snake oil" and trashed its prospects at
every opportunity.
   Sun has rebounded from some problems last year and seems
to be in the best position for the next year or so. It has a
strong product line, including the new Sparcstations that
start at $5,000. It also has a clean marketing message, given
that it is only in the workstation market and doesn't have
any conflicting interests.
   Sun faces a wild card over the next year and a half
because it has licensed others to make Sparcstation clones
and could face an influx of Japanese competitors. Sun,
however, dismisses the potential for trouble. Chief Executive
Scott McNealy agrees that IBM lost market share to companies
that cloned its personal computers but says that IBM
generates personal-computer revenue of maybe $13 billion a
year. "Hurt me with that problem," Mr. McNealy says.
   ---
                  Workstation Market
                                                                                                       

            Market shares based on 1989 revenue
                                                                                                       

        Sun Microsystems .................  30.4%
        Digital Equipment ................  26.6
        Hewlett-Packard ..................  26.1
        Intergraph .......................   7.0
        Silicon Graphics .................   5.1
        International Business Machines ..   1.2
                                                                                                       

   Source: International Data Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Surges Higher on News From Fed;
   Cellular Stocks Jump on Merger Report
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   The over-the-counter market surged along with the New York
Stock Exchange on rising hopes for lower interest rates.
   Traders say OTC stocks were unstoppable after Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told the Senate Banking
Committee that the Fed is prepared to lower rates to offset
the threat of a credit crunch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was an extraordinary day over the counter," says Jerry
Markowitz, partner in charge of OTC trading at Montgomery
Securities.
   The buying spree pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average
to a new all-time high at 2,969.80 on a 37.13 point gain. The
Nasdaq Industrial Index also hit an all-time high for the
second day in a row, rising 3.90 points to 507.47.
   Mr. Markowitz says he believes the market will move higher
still.
   "My guess is that the {industrial average} is going to
3,000," he says.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 3.27, or 0.7% to 467.17,
lagging behind a 1.12% rise on the Big Board composite index.
   The Nasdaq Utility Index was the strongest sector on the
over-the-counter market with a 1.15% gain.
   OTC telephone stocks got a particularly strong boost
following the announcement of GTE Corp.'s proposed $6.24
billion merger with Contel Corp. Contel Cellular, Contel's
90%-owned cellular telephone subsidiary, saw its Class A
shares rocket 3 3/8 to 21.
   The stock led other cellular telephone stocks higher,
including U S West NewVector, which gained 1 3/8 to 35 3/4;
Vanguard Cellular's Class A, which advanced 1 3/4 to 25 3/4;
Cellular Communications, which gained 1 to 36 3/4; and McCaw
Cellular Class A, which ended 7/8 points ahead at 27 1/8.
Lincoln Telephone, an independent telephone company, rallied
3 1/4 to 28.
   OTC advancers led decliners, 1,078 to 832. Volume eased
153.7 million shares from Wednesday's 159 million shares.
   Conner Peripherals led the most-active list, gaining 2 1/8
to 29 7/8 on volume of 3.33 million shares. The company
recently completed a secondary offering of 6.4 million shares
at $26.75 each. The stock gained a point on volume of more
than 4.5 million shares Wednesday.
   Shearson Lehman Hutton raised its 1990 and 1991 earnings
estimate for the disk-drive maker yesterday. Shearson said
the increase is in response to information provided during
the company's offering, which indicated that Conner's
disk-drive sales will grow more than previously expected.
   Shearson also said it expects the company's gross profit
margin to drift up in the next couple of years.
   "In bull markets stocks go up after deals," says Thomas
Unterberg, partner of Unterberg Harris De Santis, who
co-managed the deal with Lehman Brothers. "You've got a super
bull market in technology stocks right now, and in drive
stocks in particular."
   Oracle Systems continued to slide, losing 7/8 to 19.
Investors were disappointed by the company's earnings
reported late Tuesday, despite the fact that profit grew 56%
from the year-earlier quarter. Oracle fell 2 1/2 points
Wednesday on volume of more than 9 million shares.
   Novell added 1 1/2 to 57 3/4. Late Wednesday the company
said its board approved a 2-for-1 stock split, payable Aug.
17.
   Hologic jumped 2 7/8 to 27. Hambrecht &amp; Quist repeated its
"buy" recommendation on the stock yesterday, according to Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report. Progress in the treatment
of osteoporosis is likely to increase demand for the
company's bone density monitors, DJPIR reports.
   National Penn Bancshares dropped 3 to 39. Late Wednesday,
the company reported that it earned 88 cents a share in the
second quarter ended in June compared to 80 cents a year
earlier.
   InterVoice fell 4 to 14 1/2. Securities firm William K.
Woodruff slashed its earnings estimate for the company's 1991
fiscal year. The securities firm said it lowered its outlook
for InterVoice after the company's executives told
shareholders yesterday that orders from resellers of the
company's products are slower than expected. The executives
also said InterVoice should pass on a cost reduction to
customers rather than earn fatter margins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Olin Corp. Is Ordered
   To Sell FMC Assets
   In Antitrust Case
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   OLN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Trade Commission ordered Olin
Corp. to divest a business that makes chemicals for cleaning
swimming pools.
   The FTC's ruling, which upheld a December 1987 decision by
an administrative law judge, was based on a finding that
Olin's 1985 acquisition of the business from Chicago-based
FMC Corp. violated antitrust laws by creating the prospect of
reduced competition in the already concentrated pool-cleaning
chemicals industry. Olin, based in Stamford, Conn., had
bought the business for $49.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency, in a unanimous opinion written by Commissioner
Mary Azcuenaga, concluded that "high barriers to entry" into
the industry exacerbated the threat that the transaction
would decrease competition and possibly lead to higher
prices.
   John W. Johnstone Jr., chairman and chief executive
officer of Olin, said in a statement that the company will
appeal the FTC's order in federal appeals court. He asserted
that "over the past five years, the market has continued to
be characterized by intense domestic and foreign
competition."
   The FTC ordered Olin to divest the FMC assets within a
year and to sell the businesses to a buyer approved by the
commission. In addition, the FTC ruled that for ten years,
Olin must obtain government approval before acquiring any
interest in a company that makes swimming pool chemicals.
   In the earlier ruling, the administrative law judge had
found that unless the FMC assets were sold to a third party,
Olin and FMC would control 76% to 86% of important segments
of the nationwide market for pool-cleaning chemicals. Olin
had appealed the judge's ruling to the full FTC.
   Under a previous agreement with the commission, Olin was
permitted to complete the acquisition, but was required to
manage the former FMC businesses separately until the
antitrust issues could be resolved.
   The business acquired from FMC makes up part of Olin's
line of pool chemicals called chlorinated isocyanurates. It
includes manufacturing plants in South Charleston, W. Va.,
and in Widnes, England, and a packaging facility in Livonia,
Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Environmental Balance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   "Bush's efforts at balance, compromise and
consensus-building are killing the world."
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those words belong to Jay Hair, the president of one of
the U.S.'s most prominent environmental groups, the National
Wildlife Federation, which with 150 groups from the seven
summit nations was in Houston to "monitor" the proceedings.
We're now to believe that George Bush is "killing the world"
because his political values include balance, compromise and
consensus-building. We may well be arriving at a moment of
reckoning in this country's attitudes toward the
environmentalists. The leading evidence for this is the
attitude of the U.S. President.
   At his press conference after the summit ended Wednesday,
the last question Mr. Bush got was, "Mr. President, the
environmental groups that were very much in evidence here
don't seem too happy with the results of the summit." Mr.
Bush replied: "Hey, they haven't seemed happy with me for a
long time. And I'm not too happy with them. But what's the
question?"
   "Well, sir, the question is, they're calling your
forestation initiative a fig leaf to cover up your inaction
on the environment."
   President Bush: "Oh, I can't -- look, come on, I'm not
going to respond to those groups that have been attacking us
every time we turn around. I have to be careful because there
were some reasonable people involved. But on the
environmental extreme, they don't want this country to grow.
They don't want to look down the road at the human
consequence of men and women thrown out of work and families
put into a whole new state of anxiety. And I as President
have to be concerned about that, as well as being a good
custodian, a good steward for the environment. We cannot
govern by listening to the loudest voice on the extreme of an
environmental movement. I did not rely heavily on them for
support in getting elected President of the United States,
and I'm not going to be persuaded that I can get some brownie
point by appealing to one of these groups.
   "And the attacks that they made on some of my summit
partners, I resent too. . . . But I had a little cloakroom
conversation with some of the participants and I think most
of them are disinclined to change policies in their countries
that they think are sound because of some of the statements
that I saw and perhaps some that you were referring to here.
   "We'll listen and keep trying to do better, but I am
determined that we can find a sound environmental path and
still have some concern for the working man and the working
woman in this country. And that really is what it boils down
to when you talk about no growth. I'm not going to talk about
no growth for the United States because I feel a deep concern
about the human equation as well as the environment."
   We suspect that Mr. Bush is not the only person who is
beginning to feel that his good-faith efforts on
environmental matters will never satisfy movement activists
whose agenda is increasingly taking on the trappings of
religious fanaticism. Indeed, a Journal story this week noted
that charitable giving to environmental groups remains low.
One reason, an environmentalist suggested, is the belief
"that if you donate to environmental groups, they will help
the spotted owl and hurt people." Which of course they will,
as is now evident to the University of Arizona, the Max
Planck Institute and the Vatican Observatory.
   This consortium is attempting to erect a set of telescopes
on a mountain outside Tucson but the project is bogged down
in a lawsuit over the "endangered" red squirrel. Among the
plaintiffs: the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, the National
Audubon Society and the National Wildlife Federation.
Scientists from Max Planck and the Vatican are now saying
they may abandon the project. American science must recede
and withdraw before this movement.
   The biggest environmental project of our time remains the
Clean Air Bill. We've long felt that the groups may have
overplayed their hand on this legislation. Now, in a
soon-to-be-published economic analysis of the bill in the
Journal of Economic Perspectives, a leading environmentalist
expresses serious concerns about the bill's effects.
   "If these estimates are even close to correct," writes
Paul R. Portney, the vice president of Resources for the
Future, "Congress and the President are about to shake hands
on a landmark piece of environmental law for which costs may
exceed benefits by a considerable margin. To repeat, the
costs of the proposed new air quality controls have been
little analyzed and even the preliminary results have not
been accessible to the public. If it were more widely
appreciated that, when fully implemented, the Clean Air
amendments may cost each U.S. household $300-$400 per year,
perhaps opposition would be sharper."
   As with taxes, Americans have always been willing to pay
for programs that they could identify as producing tangible
benefits. The effort to protect nature from unnecessary
degradation has been such a commitment. It appears to us,
however, that in recent years the environmental movement has
begun to feel it is not bound by the normal constraints of
political life, such as those mentioned by President Bush in
the remarks above. A voice that says the President is
"killing the world" is the familiar voice of political
extremism.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Scargill's Mine
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Six years ago, when Britain's National Union of
Mineworkers was locked in a 12-month, life-and-death struggle
with Margaret Thatcher, Soviet propagandists made a big thing
of the sacrifices of Soviet workers on behalf of the
beleaguered Brits. Wives were hocking wedding rings to
finance bundles for Britain, according to Novosti
tale-spinners.
   It didn't help much. In March 1985, the NUM conceded
defeat. Mrs. Thatcher had proved that she would not buckle
under to strikers. But you would think that the NUM would
remain grateful to Soviet wokers nonetheless, wouldn't you?
Read on.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now it is Soviet miners who are striking. New unions have
sprung up outside the government-controlled syndicates to
protest pay and working conditions, blaming mainly the Soviet
Communist Party. Representatives of two such unions are in
Britain this week seeking support. They are having some
success. But all they've received from NUM President Arthur
Scargill is the back of his hand. Yuri Butchenko, of the
Union of Workers in the Kuzbass region of Western Siberia,
and Sergei Masalovitch, a miner representing a group called
the Trade and Professional Union, say the NUM even refuses to
meet with them.
   None of this comes as any surprise to longtime watchers of
Mr. Scargill and the NUM. The British mine leader prefers to
do business with the Soviet establishment. Indeed the NUM
took a position against one of the early labor rebels in
Ukraine, Vladimir Klebanov. Mr. Klebanov's effort to set up
an independent labor union in 1977 convinced the Soviet
authorities that he must surely be mad. He was sent to a
psychiatric hospital, which was then a favorite Soviet method
of dealing with dissidents.
   But now we are learning more about why the NUM might have
chosen to uphold a regime that was savaging a working man. An
inquiry by Queen's Counsel Gavin Lightman into the Soviet aid
Mr. Scargill received in 1985 has just produced some
interesting findings. It says that a large chunk, some $1
million, never got to the British miners at all. Instead it
went to the "Miners Trade Union International," which later
became part of something called the International Miners
Organization (IMO) in Paris.
   Mr. Scargill has always liked Paris. He spent some time
there in October 1984 trying to arrange help from Col.
Gadhafi of Libya and the Hungarian Communists, as well as
from the Russians. Exactly what the IMO does with its
bankroll isn't entirely clear, but it seems likely, according
to knowledgeable sources, that it seldom has done anything
the Kremlin would not approve of.
   Mr. Lightman seems to think that by diverting the Soviet
funds away from the uses intended, Mr. Scargill had
"committed a breach of duty of the most serious character."
The NUM leader managed, with grandiose oratory, to whip up
some support at the NUM annual conference this week. But not
all members are pleased with his answers to the charges. At
last report, some were talking about seeking legal advice on
how to recover the money that went to the IMO.
   One question is to what extent Mr. Scargill ever had
control of the money. This is of interest to Mr. Butchenko
and Mr. Masalovitch. They know that money to aid the British
strikers was indeed collected from Soviet miners. The
government unions took one day's pay from each miner, they
say, and that could have amounted to as much as 20 million
rubles. The official claim was that only two million rubles
were collected.
   At any rate, the Russian miners as well are learning that
much of their money never got to the British miners. They
also know that the NUM is not their friend. So there is
solidarity among many Soviet and British miners on one thing.
A lot of them are wondering if they were victims of a
colossal scam. That just might possibly be the case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stock Pickers'
   Star Eclipsing
   Strategists'
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Once-revered stock market strategists are
finding that they're falling out of favor.
   In the bull market years of the 1980s, the strategists
were heroes. They scoped out ranges for the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, forecast Federal Reserve policy, flagged
hot industry groups and turned the caution lights on when
stocks got too steamy. The words of strategists such as
Steven Einhorn at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Charles Clough at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., and Elaine Garzarelli at Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. were treasured by portfolio managers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But 1990 is shaping up to be the year of the stock picker.
Indeed, Mr. Einhorn titled one of his first reports of 1990,
"The Year of the Securities Analyst," which highlighted the
trend toward the selection of individual stocks as the key to
beating the market averages this year. He almost called the
report "The Decade of the Securities Analyst." Mr. Einhorn
says, "I am spending much more time talking to my clients
about stocks" than market timing.
   General calls on interest rates, stock market moves and
industry groups are less important now to money managers than
a good stock such as Claire's Stores, up 61.5% this year.
   And as a result, money managers' opinions of strategists
may be approaching a 52-week low. Harvey Isen, president of
Sun America Asset Management Co., says, "They are grossly
overpaid."
   Strategists are from the top-down school of analysis. They
look at dozens of macro-economic trends, from Federal Reserve
policy to market sentiment, and then rush out their buy or
sell recommendations on classes of assets -- stocks, bonds,
cash -- and industry groups to clients. Some manage "model
portfolios" on paper; others, such as Ms. Garzarelli, put
their ideas to work running investment funds. Strategists'
reputations are usually built on market timing -- being in
the right industry group or the right asset before the
stampede.
   But the stock and bond markets have been relatively flat
this year. Successful portfolio managers say they are beating
the averages with an eclectic group of growth stocks, not by
switching between asset classes or industry groups.
   Despite yesterday's record-high close of 2969.80 for the
Dow Jones Industrial Average, the broader stock market,
measured by the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Stock Index, is up only
3.4% this year. "The stock market in aggregate hasn't done a
whole lot, and interest rates haven't done a whole lot," Greg
Smith, chief strategist at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
says. "The real action has been finding the stocks that will
work."
   But he predicts, "Let the market come under two weeks of
pressure, and they {portfolio managers} will start calling up
their favorite strategist."
   The managers aren't picking up their phones yet. At
Brandywine Asset Management in Delaware, portfolio managers
rely "more on bottom-up work by {securities} analysts than
strategists," Paul Ehrlichman, a vice president at the firm,
says. "The strategist is an arm-chair quarterback," he adds.
"You can't move money around like they do."
   As securities analysts who track the earnings for
individual stocks fall back into favor, money managers are
questioning whether market strategists still wield too much
influence within Wall Street firms. They worry that
securities analysts may shy away from certain stock
selections, because of the strategists' view on trends in
interest rates and auto sales, for example. Money managers
claim that strategists may carry too much weight at firms
such as Prudential-Bache, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co.
of America; Merrill Lynch; PaineWebber Inc., and Goldman
Sachs.
   "A lot of Wall Street firms are hung up because
strategists are bearish," Brooke Cobb, senior portfolio
manager at Putnam Cos., says. "Analysts have a difficult time
going in front of strategists, or they get tied into" the
valuation models "that drive these guys."
   Strategists from all four firms agree they have some
degree of influence over analysts, but all insisted that the
cooperation is positive and that analysts within their firms
operate with a high degree of independence. "I listen to the
analysts more than they listen to me," Merrill Lynch's Mr.
Clough says.
   Portfolio managers aren't finding investment ideas in the
reams of research on industry groups, either. Many say they
use a variety of individual analysts, who are often at
smaller firms and aren't involved in what is known as
maintenance research -- the ground-out reports on the auto
industry, for example. Sun America's Mr. Isen gives high
marks to stock pickers who roam across industry lines: Jane
Gilday, senior vice president at Gruntal &amp; Co., and James
Ruf, an analyst at Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co., for example.
"They are absolutely, unequivocally not maintenance people.
They are idea people," he says. "I've never understood why
there are 30 chemical analysts, or 30 paper analysts."
   There are other reasons why money managers say they worry
even about analysts whose job it is to track individual
stocks. Brokerage firms have been slashing costs since the
1987 stock market crash. And research hasn't emerged
unscathed.
   "The problem is that more senior people are doing a lot of
corporate finance," Kenneth Greiner, partner at Dalton,
Greiner, Hartman, Maher &amp; Co., a money management firm, says.
"The big bucks can be made by doing an underwriting or a deal
on the corporate finance side. That's where the bread is
buttered right now. In terms of making money stock-picking,
that's not their focus anymore."
   Mr. Ehrlichman of Brandywine Asset Management says: "It
seems like Wall Street {research} is in disarray. They are a
little confused about how to add value."
   Even so, strategists say they are still in demand. Byron
Wien, chief U.S. investment strategist for Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co., says he has seen more clients come knocking on his door
this year than ever before.
   Mr. Wien, whose outlook reports read like essays, says he
knows that all market strategy comes down to one thing:
picking stocks. "There are some strategists that never talk
about stocks, some talk only about where the market is going,
and some talk only about industry groups," he says. "But in
the end, {money managers} have to buy a stock, and I give
them stocks."
   ---
   Christopher Winans contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Greenspan Says Fed Poised to Ease
   Rates Amid Signs of Credit Crunch
   ---
   Move Would Aim to `Offset'
   Cuts in Bank Lending;
   Economy Called Strong
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve Board is poised to ease
interest rates in response to "cumulating evidence" it sees
of a credit crunch that could hurt the economy, Chairman Alan
Greenspan said.
   Mr. Greenspan, testifying before the Senate Banking
Committee, said the Fed was monitoring the situation "day by
day" and was prepared to take "offsetting action" to make up
for cutbacks in bank lending. However, Mr. Greenspan said he
didn't see any weakness in the economy that alone would
justify easing -- leaving him at odds with Bush
administration officials who have argued for lower rates
because of recent slow growth in the economy. Thus, he said,
any action would be "modest."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's an offsetting action, not a response to economic
effects we believe are fundamental," Mr. Greenspan said.
   Mr. Greenspan's comments are the first acknowledgement by
the central bank that the credit crunch may be having broad
effects throughout the economy. They are also the first sign
that the Fed may be preparing to ease credit soon.
   Mr. Greenspan stopped short of saying the Fed actually
intended to push rates down, but there were many hints in his
testimony that the central bank is on the verge of doing so.
He said, for example, that the Fed hasn't changed its
interest-rate policy in six months, and said such consistency
"is extremely rare."
   Any easing by the Fed is certain to be welcome by the Bush
administration. But officials increasingly worry that action
by the Fed will be too little and too late.
   In wide-ranging testimony, Mr. Greenspan also said the Fed
is working on proposals to increase capital requirements for
banks and to mandate tougher regulation for banks that don't
meet the capital levels. Outlining his views on
deposit-insurance reform for the first time, the Fed chairman
expressed skepticism about most suggestions for overhauling
the insurance system itself -- such as lowering the $100,000
insurance limit or trying to impose bigger losses on
depositors.
   "The board believes that the most promising approach is to
reform both bank capital and supervisory policies," Mr.
Greenspan said.
   Financial markets rallied in response to Mr. Greenspan's
comments about interest rates. About 10 minutes after his
remarks were reported, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had
jumped 14 points from Wednesday's close. The rally continued
through the afternoon, and the market closed at 2969.80, up
37.13 points.
   Mr. Greenspan said key indicators that had led him to
change his views included slow growth in the money supply and
an increase in the interest rates banks charge on commercial
loans. Those factors suggest that the banks, in toughening
lending standards, are "creating a tightening in credit
markets, independent of actions by the Federal Reserve," he
said.
   "This suggests a market tightening of modest dimensions
may be occurring," Mr. Greenspan continued. "If so, that
could have undesirable effects on the economy, that the
Federal Reserve would have to consider offsetting with an
ease in monetary policy."
   Mr. Greenspan's comments came as a surprise because only
Tuesday, in comments to Senate Republicans with whom he met
privately, the Fed chairman emphasized the low rate of
unemployment, suggesting the Fed had little room to bring
down rates without sparking inflation. Treasury and Federal
Reserve officials met at their regular weekly luncheon on
Wednesday and discussed the issue. But there was apparently
no clear evidence presented at that luncheon to justify the
change.
   But Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady recently took the
unusual step of criticizing Fed policy in public. And the
Fed's policy committee meeting last week gave Chairman
Greenspan the authority to ease credit slightly if conditions
required.
   Meanwhile, many business groups and lawmakers have
continued to argue that viable businesses and projects are
being turned away by banks, partly because federal regulators
are overzealously cracking down on lending standards in the
wake of the savings and loan scandal. Until now, government
officials including Mr. Greenspan have maintained that banks
were engaged only in a healthy "credit contraction," lending
less for real estate, for instance, because of problems in
that market.
   Yesterday, Mr. Greenspan suggested that "the pulling back
of commercial banks to less lax lending standards is moving
over the line and, in effect, creating a tightening in credit
markets."
   Quizzed by senators about the Fed's coming proposals on
bank capital, Mr. Greenspan said the Fed would seek "not
insignificant" increases, but not as much as a doubling of
the current requirements. Under an international accord that
will be phased in beginning next year, banks must maintain
capital equal to 8% of their assets, with the assets adjusted
for the riskiness of the portfolio. Mr. Greenspan said the
international accord allows the U.S. to increase requirements
for its banks.
   Despite his comments about the credit crunch, the Fed
chairman acknowledged in his testimony that higher capital
levels will induce banks to turn away some borrowers as the
lenders hoard cash and trim assets. But Mr. Greenspan said
the borrowers who would be hurt would be those pushing
"speculative and riskier ventures. . . . {It} is just such
financing by some insured institutions that has caused so
many of the current difficulties."
   But Mr. Greenspan said the capital requirements would be
phased in "over time" and that the Fed could act to keep
interest rates down as the new levels were being implemented.
   Higher capital requirements will also increase bank
consolidation, Mr. Greenspan said.
   Mr. Greenspan's statements about deposit insurance add up
to an audacious and controversial overall plan to restructure
the banking industry and banking regulation. He advocated
granting broader powers to banks that met the higher capital
requirements. His views spurred some criticism from senators,
such as Alfonse D'Amato (R., N.Y.), who are leery of more
deregulation after the S&amp;L mess.
   "Like many who are skeptical of deposit-insurance changes,
he is looking for other ways to give banks more powers," said
Robert Litan, a banking scholar with the Brookings
Institution.
   Moreover, in a sharp reversal of several years of Fed
policy on bank deregulation, he said the central bank was
"re-evaluating" its view that administrative barriers called
"firewalls" can effectively insulate problems at a bank's
subsidiary, such as a securities business, from the bank
itself, which holds federally backed deposits.
   Mr. Greenspan said the Fed had drawn the lesson that
firewalls can be ineffective from the failure earlier this
year of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. In that failure,
liquidity problems at the holding company ultimately resulted
in the liquidation of the solvent brokerage unit.
   A better answer, Mr. Greenspan said, is more capital and a
strict regulatory regimen under which banks would face
certain restrictions as their capital declined. Among the
restrictions might be lowered dividends, slower asset growth
and restrictions on brokered deposits, Mr. Greenspan said.
   He also asked Congress to give regulators the authority to
force mergers and government takeovers of banks when there
was still a small amount of capital left, to minimize the
costs to the government. Currently the government doesn't
seize banks until they are insolvent, unless there are
serious regulatory violations.
   ---
   Alan Murray contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Soar to Record
   On Hope for Rate Cut
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices soared into record territory as
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan revived investors'
hopes for lower interest rates.
   Extending a practically uninterrupted climb that started
Tuesday, the stock market surged yesterday after Mr.
Greenspan said the Fed was poised to ease interest rates in
order to stave off what may be tightening credit conditions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 37.13 points in
heavy trading to close at a record 2969.80, easily breaking
the previous high of 2935.89 set June 15. Trading volume of
211.5 million shares was the heaviest since May.
   Bond prices also rose on Mr. Greenspan's comments, while
the dollar fell sharply. The prospect of lower U.S. interest
rates, while bullish for bonds, erodes the dollar's appeal
compared with investments in higher-yielding foreign
currencies.
   Investors had almost given up hope that the Fed would ease
rates soon because of growing evidence of the economy's slow
but steady growth. But Mr. Greenspan, in suggesting the Fed
might soon ease, cited an inadvertent credit tightening,
rather than any need to stimulate a weak economy. The Fed
chairman said he sees evidence that loan rates are rising
relative to the cost of money, independent of any Fed action.
   Buoyed by the prospect of lower rates, some cyclical
stocks that track the economy and haven't participated in the
recent stock rally weighed in with healthy gains. The issues
included Phelps Dodge, Fluor and Ford. Energy stocks were
also strong on the continued rise in oil prices.
   The two-day, 79-point burst brings the industrials
tantalizingly close to the magical 3000 level. But A.C.
Moore, research director at Argus Research, believes the
market is more prone to slip than to keep surging right now.
   "Interest rates remain the key to the market," Mr. Moore
said, "and it's still a time where surprises on earnings will
be on the down side. So before I'd expect a very significant
increase in stock prices, I'd need to see interest rates go
down substantially." He said, "I think there was something of
an overreaction by equities" to Mr. Greenspan's remarks
yesterday.
   Kenneth Spence, director of the technical analysis group
at Salomon Brothers, questions whether the Fed will follow
through quickly on the remarks.
   Mr. Greenspan "has been under enormous pressure the last
two days, hearing all the feedback from congressmen on how
tight credit is," Mr. Spence said. "Under that pressure, he
is trying to be conciliatory. He said the Fed is poised. The
operative word is poised. They will put liquidity into the
system to offset a credit contraction, if necessary, but it
wasn't a commitment."
   Also, Mr. Spence notes that none of the other major
indexes reached records yesterday, and the number of
advancing stocks hasn't overwhelmed the decliners.
   Mr. Spence, however, doesn't doubt that the Dow Jones
industrials could reach 3000, given the nature of the market.
"You have to take it stock by stock," he said. "Each stock in
here has its own trend. . . . Stock selection has been more
important than market-timing."
   In the bond market, "This was `Thank You, Alan Greenspan
Day,'" said Roberta D. Olson, fixed-income portfolio manager
at Banc One Asset Management Corp., Columbus, Ohio. Prices of
long-term Treasury bonds rose 3/4 of a point, or $7.50 for
each $1,000 face amount.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners,
987 to 545.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond fell to 8.49%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the currency
dropped to 1.6340 German marks and 147.30 yen, from 1.6560
marks and 148.50 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Car Output to Rise
   By 32.2% This Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MZD SBRU J.IZM J.MOT TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The 10 major U.S. auto makers planned to build
72,982 cars this week, a 32.2% increase from the 55,188 cars
built a year earlier.
   Ford Motor Co. said all its assembly plants except one
will reopen Monday following its annual two-week summer
break. The Dearborn, Mich., production facility that builds
the Mustang will be idled an additional week because of a
"shortage of dealer orders." About 2,100 workers will be
affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In June, the 10 major U.S. auto makers built 992,101 cars
and trucks, a 2% increase from the 972,678 built a year
earlier.
   U.S. car output was virtually unchanged in June, and truck
and bus production increased 4.4% from the year-earlier
month.
   ---
          This    Last    Yr. Ago   -Yr. to Date-       %
          Week-e  Week-r  Week    1990       1989      Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM       48,630  51,121  33,608  1,471,344 1,849,092  - 20
 Ford          0       0       0    762,811   962,665  - 21
 Chrysler      0  10,111   1,078    372,055   532,041  - 30
 Honda     8,490       0   7,033    232,855   205,323  + 13
 Nissan        0   1,062       0     51,134    61,685  - 17
 Nummi-f   4,100   3,301   4,208    114,437   110,300  +  4
 Mazda     4,007       0   4,222     95,013   123,844  - 23
 Diam.Star 2,806       0   1,549     74,931    28,038  +167
 Suba-Isuz   549     420       0     11,220         0     d
 Toyota    4,400   1,676   3,490    118,363    57,080  +107
 TOTAL    72,982  67,691  55,188  3,304,163 3,930,068  - 16
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST FREST KLM
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   ABORTION IN THE GERMANYS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   East Germany's major political factions said they would
fight to retain a liberal abortion law when the nation unites
with West Germany.
   The archconservative German Social Union was the only
party of Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere's governing
coalition that objected to retaining the law. "An abortion is
always murder," said one German Social Union lawmaker.
   East Germany allows a female over age 14 to receive an
abortion on demand during the first three months of
pregnancy. West Germany allows abortions in the first three
months only in cases of rape or incest, if the mother's life
is in danger, if the fetus is expected to be severely
handicapped, or if the woman's financial situation would make
it impossible for her to raise a child.
   In West Germany, a nation of 60 million, there were 75,297
abortions performed last year; East Germany, with 16 million
people, had 73,000 abortions.
                                                                                                       

   JORDANIAN ART UPROAR
                                                                                                       

   Jordan's Moslem Brotherhood and other Islamic
fundamentalist legislators have condemned the government for
staging a Western-style arts festival championed by U.S.-born
Queen Noor. Branding the government as careless and
irresponsible, the festival's critics said it should have
been canceled because Jordan is facing grave economic
problems and should be preparing for a holy war to liberate
Palestine. The queen opened the festival Wednesday evening in
Jerash, 25 miles north of Amman.
                                                                                                       

   SPANISH NUCLEAR INCIDENT
                                                                                                       

   Spain's Vandellos II nuclear plant went back on line
yesterday, four days after it was ordered closed due to a
valve leak that filled the containment building with
radioactive steam. The start-up of Vandellos II, one of the
newest of Spain's nine operating nuclear plants, was
authorized by the Nuclear Security Commission after it
investigated the incident, which didn't leak any radiation
into the air. A commission spokeswoman said preliminary
investigative data indicated the plant's owner, the
Asociacion Nuclear Vandellos, delayed reporting the incident.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA'S AIRBUSES TO FLY AGAIN
                                                                                                       

   The Indian Airlines Airbus-320 jetliners grounded after a
fatal crash last February will return to the skies next week,
the Civil Aviation Ministry said. Soon after the accident at
the Bangalore airport in southern India, the government
grounded the airline's remaining 14 Airbus-320s pending an
investigation. Civil Aviation Minister Arif Mohammad Khan
said the planes would be reintroduced in phases.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
                                                                                                       

   Australia imposed tighter regulations on live-sheep
exports in an effort to reverse the sheep's poor image in the
Mideast. A shipload of 20,000 sheep was rejected by Bahrain
this week because the incidence of scabby-mouth disease was
greater than the accepted level of 5%. Other shipments to the
Mideast were turned away in April and May. An official of the
Australian Meat &amp; Livestock Corp. said the new guidelines
include having a veterinarian travel on each ship.
                                                                                                       

   KLM HIRES MCKINSEY
                                                                                                       

   KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has hired the
management-consultant group McKinsey &amp; Co. to advise it on
how to cut costs. The airline said it would form an
employees' committee that would be advised by McKinsey on how
to maintain service while cutting costs. The committee and
McKinsey "have to come up with advice about how to do things
efficiently. In the competitive world of civil aviation, you
can't cut costs that reduce quality because that is what the
customer wants," a KLM spokesman said.
                                                                                                       

   DISAPPEARANCE IN POLAND
                                                                                                       

   Lech Grobelny, the founder of the BKO savings bank in
Warsaw and owner of a chain of currency exchanges, hasn't
returned from a holiday abroad, the newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza
reported.
   According to the report, Mr. Grobelny left Poland on June
6 for a two-week holiday in an undisclosed location.
Employees told the newspaper they last heard from him in late
June when he informed them he would return home July 6. On
Monday, employees informed the prosecutor's office about Mr.
Grobelny's continuing absence.
   About 10,000 customers have accounts with BKO with
deposits of some 32 billion zlotys, or $3.3 million dollars,
according to the daily. But rumors of the BKO owner's
disappearance have been circulating for some time in Warsaw
and the bank's cash reserves have shrunk due to increased
withdrawals.
   BKO was closed yesterday, and customers found a note on
the door telling them to "vindicate their claims at a
district court," the news agency PAP said.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Adolf Hitler and Hermann Goering will no longer be
honorary citizens of Potsdam, East Germany, if a City Hall
proposal is approved next month, the East German news agency
ADN reported. The two were awarded the honor in 1933, but it
was never revoked, partly because of the ousted Communist
leadership's fear of causing a public scandal, ADN said. . .
. A Pakistani has been sentenced to death in Bahrain for drug
trafficking, the Akhbar al-Khaleej newspaper reported. It was
the first time the death penalty for drug smuggling was
imposed in Bahrain since it was introduced in 1984.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Penny-Stock Firm
   Is Sued by SEC
   For $20 Million
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ENTI
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission,
stepping up a long-running feud, sued penny-stock firm
Blinder, Robinson &amp; Co. and Chairman Meyer Blinder for $20
million in profit allegedly gained through illegal stock
activity.
   The agency, in federal court in Philadelphia, charged
Blinder, Robinson with "charging excessive and undisclosed
markups" in nearly 30,000 retail transactions involving more
than one billion shares. The firm also was charged with
telling customers that prices quoted were the market price
"without disclosing to those customers that Blinder, Robinson
dominated the markets" for the stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In filing the civil suit, the SEC is again going after an
old foe. While the agency won an injunction against Mr.
Blinder and the firm in 1982, it has had difficulty making
charges against the firm stick in the past few years.
   In 1985, an SEC administrative law judge ruled that the
firm and its chairman violated securities laws in a 1980
stock underwriting, and the commission concurred in 1986. But
Blinder, Robinson appealed that decision to a federal appeals
court panel, which said the SEC hadn't considered all the
evidence and sent the case back to the administrative law
judge.
   So last month, a second SEC law judge considered the case
and once again hit Mr. Blinder and the firm, this time with a
45-day suspension for the chairman and a two-year
underwriting ban for the firm. The official also barred Mr.
Blinder from associating with any securities firm for two
years. That ruling is now on appeal to the commission.
   In its latest suit, the SEC charged that between June 1985
and at least February 1987, the firm charged customers as
much as 140% above prevailing market prices -- well above the
10% limit allowed by law. The agency said Blinder, Robinson
overcharged customers in more than 99.7% of the nearly 30,000
trades.
   The SEC said that Mr. Blinder aided the firm's violations
of securities law by directly or indirectly authorizing the
firm to take the abusive steps. During the time cited by the
SEC, Mr. Blinder owned more than half of Intercontinental
Enterprises, which owned all of Blinder, Robinson.
Intercontinental also was charged by the SEC in the case.
   David Becker, a partner at Blinder, Robinson's law firm,
Wilmer, Cutler &amp; Pickering, said the SEC has continually used
a different standard for bringing cases against penny-stock
firms than those for more conventional Wall Street firms.
   "The penny-stock area is obviously one that is somewhat
controversial," he said, "and because of that the commission
does not subject its theories to the same rigorous analysis
that it does in other cases. Some of the theories the
commission has employed are just wrong." He added, however,
that he hadn't read the latest SEC complaint and couldn't
comment on specifics.
   But the SEC clearly shows no signs of backing down against
the Englewood, Colo., firm, which was once the nation's
largest penny-stock promoter. In a detailed complaint, the
agency said that Blinder, Robinson "knowingly and recklessly
engaged in an unlawful scheme to mislead and defraud"
customers by selling them more than one billion shares in 12
"shell" companies.
   The SEC said that the firm garnered more than $20 million
of profit through excessive markups; that it bought stock in
the 12 companies while participating in distribution of the
issues, and that it made "implied representations" to
customers that the price at which Blinder was offering the
shares was the market price even though Blinder "dominated
the markets" for the stocks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conte Once Blamed a Mix-Up in Names
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   D. Constantine Conte has, in previous years, insisted that
allegations against him are really just a case of mistaken
identity. There are other men in Los Angeles named Dino
Conte, he told the Los Angeles Times in 1983, and one of them
must have the unsavory connections.
   Mr. Conte didn't make this claim with this newspaper in
his correspondence through his lawyer, but the "double"
theory has made the rounds in Hollywood. "There were two Dino
Contes," insists Kurt Neumann, an executive at Warner Bros.
and a friend of the producer. The "innuendo" about Mr. Conte
is "well known" and is widely dismissed, he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Conte's claim isn't entirely frivolous. Law
enforcement authorities have at least on one occasion
confused him with a Dino Carmelo Conte, and in one report, as
a preventive measure, included photos and other information
about the two men to make sure investigators kept them
straight.
   However, law enforcement officers also have noted in
police reports that the ex-con Dino Conte and the producer
Dino Conte are one and the same. They also say that
surveillance and other investigative work has tied the
producer to suspected organized crime figures.
   Moreover, at the request of this newspaper, Bruce R.
Greenwood, a member of the American Board of Forensic
Document Examiners and a frequent expert witness in trials
involving document analysis, examined several handwriting
samples of Mr. Conte's, including a letter he wrote while in
prison in the Atlanta Federal Penetentiary and samples he has
written while a producer in Hollywood. Mr. Greenwood said
that based on several factors -- the slant of letters in
words, their design, their proportional relationship to each
other -- he concluded the same person wrote all the samples.
"All of the features of the writing match," he says.
   It is notable, too, that the prison file for the criminal
Mr. Conte lists the same date of birth -- June 25, 1933 -- as
the producer's current California driver's license. His 1964
arrest record on file with the Nassau County, N.Y., police,
which also notes the same birth date, indicates that Mr.
Conte was using the name Dino Harris at the time, and that
his mother's first name was Thelma. A woman named Thelma
Harris lives at the producer's address in west Los Angeles,
according to 1988 records on file with the Los Angeles County
registrar of voters.
   (See related story: "Shadow Life: Hollywood Figure Has
Criminal Past, Alleged Links With Mobsters --- Dino Conte, a
Co-Producer of `Another 48 Hours,' Denies Such Assertions ---
A Prison Term for Conspiracy" -- WSJ July 13, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Monoclonal Antibodies Inc.:
   Diagnostic Testing Concern
   Sets Merger With Quidel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MABS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Monoclonal Antibodies Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., said it
agreed to merge with the closely held Quidel Corp. of San
Diego.
   Monoclonal said it will issue about 9.7 million shares of
Monoclonal's common stock in exchange for Quidel's shares
outstanding, making the value of the transaction about $65
million at recent trading prices. In over-the-counter trading
yesterday, Monoclonal closed down 62.5 cents at $6.625 bid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger, in which Monoclonal will be the surviving
legal entity, is expected to be completed in about 90 days,
Monoclonal said. The companies said they hadn't decided on a
new name for the merged entity.
   The combined companies will be able to cut costs by
reducing redundancy, said Scott Glenn, Quidel's president and
chief executive officer. "We have two companies that have
strengths that will be a lot stronger when they're combined,"
Mr. Glenn said.
   Monoclonal makes diagnostic test kits, primarily for
fertility tests, and reported revenue of $2.5 million in the
quarter ended March 31. Quidel, which makes diagnostic test
kits for fertility, infectious diseases, allergies and
autoimmune diseases, had revenue of $4.7 million in the same
period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Significant Drop
   Seen in Computer
   Associates Revenue
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CA
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Computer Associates International Inc. said revenue for
the first quarter ended June 30 dropped significantly from
the year-earlier period and that earnings probably suffered.
   As a result, the giant software company's stock plummeted
in extremely heavy trading, losing almost 40% of its value.
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Computer
Associates shares lost $6.25, to close at $10.25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Based on about 186.1 million shares outstanding, the
company's indicated market value fell to $1.91 billion from
$3.07 billion. Volume was 7,955,600 shares -- more than
changed hands in the entire month of April.
   Computer Associates, once one of the highest of the
high-flyers in the computer industry, hit the wall a year ago
because of trouble handling a large acquisition. In recent
months, the company had reported that those problems were
behind it and restored at least some of its credibility. But
yesterday's announcement will raise again all the old
questions about how real some of the company's growth was and
whether the company was using its frequent acquisitions to
hide fundamental flaws in its strategy.
   In a conference call to Wall Street analysts, Computer
Associates President Anthony Wang indicated that the firm
likely won't report a loss for the quarter. But analysts said
he refused to quantify the surprising revenue drop and was
unsure about the reasons behind it.
   Mr. Wang's tentative explanation for the drop, analysts
said, wasn't very convincing. He said Computer Associates'
sales force spent too much time explaining a new software
strategy and not enough time selling actual software.
   In April, Computer Associates unveiled a plan to bring
order to the hodge-podge of products it accumulated during a
recent acquisition binge. But that plan will take several
years to play out, so passing up current sales opportunities
to explain it doesn't make much sense.
   Analysts said Mr. Wang also speculated that the buying
cycle in the software industry is getting longer -- at least
for firms such as Computer Associates, which made its name
selling software that helps mainframes run more efficiently
but which is trying to use its influence with customers to
sell other mainframe software, such as data bases.
   Despite this quarter's disappointment, the company said it
intends to maintain profit growth during its fiscal year,
which ends March 31, even if revenue fails to meet
expectations.
   "We . . . believe that our strategies for revenue growth
are correct, and, at this time, we continue to be optimistic
about the year as a whole," Mr. Wang said in a statement.
   For the quarter ended June 30, Wall Street analysts had
projected revenue growth of 3% to 6% from the year-earlier
$303 million, and earnings of 10 cents to 15 cents a share,
up from $10.7 million, or six cents a share.
   For all of fiscal 1990, Computer Associates' net income
rose 21% to $157.8 million, or 85 cents a share. Revenue
increased 5.2% to $1.3 billion.
   When those results were announced in May, Mr. Wang said
the firm had finally started to recover from problems in
merging with Cullinet Software Inc., acquired in September.
   Software sales stalled soon after that acquisition was
announced early in 1989, as customers waited to see how
Computer Associates would handle the overlap in the two
companies' product lines. Those problems brought to a head
existing concerns about the firm, sending the stock on a
slide from which it finally seemed to be recovering in recent
months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Genlyte Group Inc.:
   Firm Reports Its Earnings
   In Second Period Fell 51%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GLYT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Genlyte Group Inc., Secaucus, N.J., reported that
second-quarter earnings dropped 51% on a 4.3% drop in sales.
   The manufacturer of lighting fixtures and controls cited
effects of strikes in Canada, which have ended, and sluggish
construction in the U.S. Genlyte said early in June that it
expected the declines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income sank to $1.7 million, or 13 cents a share, from
$3.4 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales
dropped to $123 million, from $128.5 million.
   Strikes in Ontario halted construction from May 1 to July
9, and shorter wildcat strikes were called in Quebec; they
seriously hurt Genlyte's results. The company expects to
return to more normal operations this quarter.
   Genlyte also reduced its debt by $2 million, to $162.5
million.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Genlyte's
shares fell 25 cents to close at $7.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Social Security Records Deserve a Check
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Social Security seems like a black hole to many working
Americans. It claims as much as 7.7% of their salaries. Yet
they fear they won't get much back come retirement.
   Compounding the unease: Many people hear nary a word from
the government program in the decades between signing up for
a Social Security number and applying for their benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Social Security is too important to ignore. Working
people can and should bridge the gap of silence -- to get
benefits estimates that can help in planning for retirement
and evaluating insurance needs, and to ensure that they
ultimately get every penny for which they're eligible.
   The Social Security Administration recommends that people
check the agency's records of their earnings every three
years or so. Omissions "aren't common, but when they happen
they can be a nightmare," a spokesman says.
   John Rother, director of legislation and public policy for
the American Association of Retired Persons, learned
first-hand the value of checking Social Security's records.
He requested his information a few years back just to see
what AARP members could expect. What he found was a two-year
gap when his earnings as a Senate staffer weren't recorded at
all.
   Such gaps could saddle a person with a lower retirement
benefit than deserved because of the way Social Security
benefits are calculated. They're based on people's average
earnings in their 35 highest-paid years, translating all
figures into today's dollars. People could be penalized, for
example, if some high earnings at the peak of their careers
are omitted and replaced in the calculation by zeros or by
pay from years when they were just starting out.
   Less than 1% of eligible wages aren't credited to people's
records, the Social Security Administration says. And
correcting an error is fairly easy if a person knows it
exists: Just contact Social Security with W-2 forms or other
records that verify wages and Social Security taxes for the
period in question. Unfortunately, many don't discover
omissions until retirement age, if at all.
   Back in 1987, the General Accounting Office reported that
$58.5 billion in earnings between 1978 and 1984 apparently
had been left off people's Social Security records. Those
were wages that employers had reported to the Internal
Revenue Service, but not to Social Security.
   A stepped-up effort by the Social Security Administration
to resolve such discrepancies has resulted in $36 billion of
those earnings being credited to people's records. But the
agency spokesman says the remainder hasn't been credited, in
many cases because Social Security couldn't find the
individual or the company involved.
   Finding out about what's in your Social Security earnings
record is easy. Stop by a Social Security office or call
toll-free (800/234-5SSA) to get a request form for a free
Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement (Pebes).
Answer a few questions on the form, mail it in, and get the
Pebes in about four weeks.
   That same statement also contains benefits estimates,
including those that would be paid if a person dies or
becomes disabled. Those figures are important in evaluating
life insurance and disability insurance needs.
   "Social Security isn't just a retirement program. You're
buying enormous lifetime protection," says Judy Schub, a
lobbyist for the AARP.
   Still, the estimates of retirement benefits may be the
most valuable part of the Pebes statement for people starting
to think about leaving the work force. That's a new feature
Social Security added about two years ago.
   The statement shows the benefits that people might expect,
expressed in today's dollars, if they retire at three
different ages. People can look at those figures as a
percentage of their current salary to get a sense of how much
of their working income Social Security might replace.
   One message that is likely to come through very clearly is
that Social Security alone is far from enough.
   The government program will generally replace about 60% of
earnings for a worker who has always earned the minimum wage,
but only about 28% for someone who has always earned the
maximum pay covered by Social Security -- currently $51,300.
The percentage is even lower for people earning more.
   Meanwhile, a rule of thumb is that retirees, to be
comfortable, need income equal to 70% of their final pay.
Some will need less. But others will require 100% of their
working income in the early years of retirement, at least if
they want to reach goals such as traveling a lot or
maintaining two homes, says Cleveland financial planner Karen
Spero.
   Keep in mind that the benefit figures in the Pebes are
only estimates. "The closer a person is to retirement, the
more accurate those estimates will be," says Malcolm A.
Makin, a Westerly, R.I., planner. The actual payouts will
depend on people's earnings between now and retirement and,
of course, on any changes in Social Security's benefit
formulas.
   It's also important to understand some of the assumptions
that underlie the figures. For instance, when Social Security
projects a person's benefit at age 62, age 65 and age 70, the
agency is assuming that the person keeps working to those
ages -- not that he or she would quit earlier and delay
collecting benefits.
   Even people who don't ask for Pebes reports may eventually
find something like them in their mailboxes. A law passed
last year requires the Social Security Administration by the
year 2000 to send people their earnings records and in some
cases benefits estimates every other year.
   Meanwhile, getting a Pebes report may give some people a
needed push to start retirement planning.
   People should begin to analyze their finances 10 to 15
years before they expect to retire, advises Dallas Salisbury,
president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute in
Washington.
   But when do they really do it? "Eighteen to 36 months
before they plan to retire, if they are really behaved," Mr.
Salisbury says. "And right after retirement if they are
typical."
   ---
                  Social Security's Role
                   In Retirement Income
                                                                                                       

   Sources of income, on average, for retirees with at least
$20,000 in annual income in 1986
                                                                                                       

   Investments ...........................  34%
                                                                                                       

   Earned Income .........................  24%
                                                                                                       

   Social Security .......................  21%
                                                                                                       

   Pensions ..............................  19%
                                                                                                       

   Other .................................   2%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Social Security Administration
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Panel
   Rejects Funds
   For MX Trains
   ---
   Decision Against Missiles
   Is Blow for Bush Policy,
   Points to Political Rift
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Armed Services Committee, racing
to complete a $289 billion Pentagon spending bill, decided
against providing any money to put nuclear-tipped MX missiles
on specially equipped trains.
   The committee's MX decision, coming as the lawmakers met
behind closed doors, repudiated a major building block of the
Bush administration's nuclear-weapons policies and showed a
widening rift between Democrats and Republicans on the panel.
Details of the bill, which were still being hammered out late
last night, are scheduled to be announced today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House did receive some good news when the
committee voted to maintain Pentagon spending for the
Strategic Defense Initiative at this year's level of about
$3.5 billion, according to lawmakers and their aides. The
panel also agreed to keep the embattled B-2 Stealth bomber
alive by authorizing the purchase of another pair of the
radar-evading planes in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.
   All of the important decisions are bound to be debated
again on the Senate floor. The House version of the bill is
expected to reject deployment of the mobile MX missile too,
but it is likely to call for lower levels of spending on SDI
and the B-2.
   Sen. Malcolm Wallop (R., Wyo.), one of the leading GOP
advocates of heftier spending for SDI, mobile missiles and
the B-2, said that the important decisions in the Senate
panel "came on straight party-line votes. It's all being done
by rote."
   The committee was so divided that some GOP lawmakers even
raised last-minute objections to a politically popular
portion of the bill that would require the military to help
civilian agencies collect global pollution data and focus
part of the Pentagon's research on environmental clean-up
projects. The proposal, pushed by the committee's chairman,
Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), is expected to be part of the final
legislation.
   The spending bill, according to lawmakers, puts the MX and
the smaller, single-warhead Midgetman mobile missile on the
back burner by capping 1991 funding at about $700 million for
both weapons. None of the money, however, could be used for
deployment. In addition, aides said the committee was moving
to cut the administration request for building additional
Trident ballistic-missile submarines and Seawolf attack
submarines.
   As expected, the committee voted to cut 100,000 troops in
1991. That figure could climb higher if Pentagon outlays are
capped at a level less than the committee anticipated. Over
the next five years, Sen. Alan Dixon (D., Ill.) said the
panel envisions slashing some 500,000 troops from the 2.1
million people currently on active duty.
   Sen. Nunn had advocated the $289 billion
spending-authority limit, which would be $18 billion less
than President Bush's January budget request. The committee
sketched out at least another $4 billion in potential cuts
that could take effect if a bipartisan budget agreement
requires further Pentagon spending reductions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dingell Criticizes
   Further Purchases
   Of AH-64 Apaches
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Army is on the verge of buying another $1.5 billion of
AH-64 Apache attack helicopters from McDonnell Douglas Corp.,
despite complaints from military personnel that the aircraft
isn't reliable, according to a congressional panel.
   In a letter dated Wednesday to Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney, Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.), chairman of the House
subcommittee on oversight and investigations, criticized any
plans to buy more of the helicopters: "I cannot, for the life
of me, fathom the logic of such a decision."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Dingell wrote that although the Army isn't equipped to
provide adequate maintenance support for the nearly 600
Apaches it has on hand, contracts for more AH-64s could be
signed within the next few days. The helicopters cost $14
million each, though Mr. Dingell said the firm has asked for
a large increase in price and profit in the contract talks.
   A spokesman for McDonnell Douglas's helicopter unit
declined to comment. An Army spokeswoman also said she
couldn't comment on any correspondence to Mr. Cheney. But she
did confirm that the service recently wrapped up talks with
McDonnell Douglas for 66 AH-64s. The Pentagon wants, and
Congress has approved funding for, 132 additional Apaches,
which would mean a fleet of 807 by mid-1993.
   Mr. Dingell reiterated a call for the talks with St.
Louis-based McDonnell Douglas to be terminated. Despite the
Army's pledge to add extra manpower and testing to each AH-64
battalion, he said, it "does not have the money" to do so.
   The General Accounting Office, commissioned by Mr. Dingell
to research the Apache problems, has recommended that the
Army not contract for the final 132. He said in his letter
that the GAO's stance "makes even more sense" given that the
Warsaw Pact is "in total disarray."
   Although Army Secretary Michael Stone has maintained that
substantial progess has been made in fixing the AH-64, the
subcommittee continues to cite field reports that the Apache
fails under fire. During the U.S. invasion of Panama in
December, for example, the Apache's electronic components had
to be dried in kitchen ovens after it rained, according to
evidence presented in an April panel hearing.
   After the first day of fighting in Panama, four of the six
AH-64s sent there were grounded when three were shot up with
rifle fire. Meanwhile, the fuel cell in one Apache fizzled
out prior to the attack, and by the time a replacement
arrived, the AH-64 for which it was intended had been
cannibalized for spare parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Action Auto Rental Inc.:
   Company Expects to Report
   Deficit for Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXXN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Action Auto Rental Inc., Cleveland, said it expects to
report a second-quarter loss of between 52 cents and 56 cents
a share.
   In the year-earlier quarter, ended June 30, the auto
rental company reported net income of 16 cents a share. The
company expects to report its results July 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, the company said it will sell its leasing
division, which has generated less than 5% of annual revenue.
   The loss reflects an operating loss of 16 to 20 cents per
share and one-time pretax charges of $5.8 million, or 36
cents per share after tax. Most of the charges will cover
increased insurance-related costs.
   Action Auto said its second-quarter revenue was lower
because demand for rental cars outpaced the company's ability
to rebuild its fleet of cars.
   The company said its continuing program to cut costs will
include consolidation of 20 to 25 offices into existing
offices during the rest of the year. The number of vehicles
per office will also increase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CareerCom's Rhodes
   Gets Executive Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CCM
</CO>
<LP>
   MIDDLETOWN, Pa. -- CareerCom Corp. said Gary W. Rhodes was
elected executive vice president and chief operating officer.
   Mr. Rhodes, 42 years old, a former president and chief
operating officer of the vocational training concern who left
it in 1988 for personal reasons, rejoined it in February as
president of the international division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As chief operating officer, he fills a vacancy created in
January, when Robert A. Smith was named chief executive
officer. Mr. Rhodes, who remains head of the international
division, also was elected a director.
   CareerCom also said Darrell M. Trent, 52, and P. Richard
Frieder, 56, were elected to the board. Mr. Trent is chairman
and chief executive of Acton Development Co. and a senior
fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institute. Mr. Frieder
is president and owner of KSD Industries Inc.
   Mr. Frieder succeeds William R. Yocom, 64, who retired.
The addition of the other two directors expands board
membership to eight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hawker Siddeley Group:
   British Firm Expects Profit
   For Year to Fall From '89
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   U.HSI
</CO>
<LP>
   Hawker Siddeley Group PLC, a British electrical and
mechanical engineering concern, warned that its 1990 profit
figures will fall short of 1989 figures.
   Its 1989 pretax profit was #202.1 million ($363.6 million)
and sales were #2.15 billion. Hawker Siddeley shares fell 62
pence to 548 pence on the London Stock Exchange. Turnover
amounted to a robust 5.4 million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that the "deterioration" is mostly due to
a situation at its electrical power contracting business, the
Hawker Siddeley Power Engineering unit, where an
investigation disclosed an estimated loss for 1990 of between
#25 million and #30 million, the company said.
   The losses were caused by cost overruns that arose when
the unit became overextended by rapid expansion in 1988 on
projects due for completion in 1990, the company said.
   But the company said that measures have been taken to
correct the project-control problems and that the unit's
capacity hasn't been damaged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CPC International Inc.:
   Food Concern Reports Net
   For 2nd Quarter Rose 14%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CPC International Inc. reported second-quarter earnings
climbed 14% on a sales increase of 16%, as the food producer
posted stronger operating profit in all geographic areas.
   CPC, with prominent brands such as Hellmann's and Best
Foods mayonnaise, Skippy peanut butter and Karo syrup, said
that its Latin American operations slipped a bit at the end
of the period. But the Englewood Cliffs, N.J., company
expects the operations to turn up again by the end of the
third quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Second-quarter net income climbed to $95 million, or $1.23
a share, from $83.1 million, or $1.06 a share, in the
year-earlier period. Sales advanced to $1.45 billion, from
$1.26 billion. Shares outstanding slipped 3.6%, to 75.4
million, as the company completed a share buy-back in the
fourth quarter.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
CPC shares rose $2.125 to close at $84.75.
   Both operating profit and sales grew 5.3% at CPC's Best
Foods, the North American consumer-foods division, led by the
mayonnaise brands, Mazola corn oil, Knorr soup and other
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Passes
   An Anti-Drug
   Highway Bill
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved a $30.8 billion
transportation bill that would increase federal highway
assistance by 18% in fiscal 1991, but impose new penalties on
states that fail to enact laws revoking the licenses of
drivers convicted on drug charges.
   The anti-drug provision, adopted 331-88, builds on
statutes initiated by a few states, including New Jersey and
Oregon, and attempts to impose a national standard demanding
that persons convicted of drug charges lose their licenses
for at least six months. Enactment would be delayed for two
years to permit legislatures to come into compliance, but any
state failing to do so would risk losing 2% of its federal
highway aid after Oct. 1, 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action came as the House Appropriations Committee
separately approved a $170.4 billion measure incorporating
major new funding for aid to public schools and medical
research but cutting sharply from proposed increases for an
ambitious project within the National Institutes of Health to
map the human gene. An estimated $66.1 million -- or less
than two-thirds of the Bush administration's request -- is
provided for the program. Although another $18 million is
held in reserve, these funds can't be released before
consultation between the committee and a new NIH director,
who has yet to be appointed.
   Funds for the prevention and treatment of acquired immune
deficiency syndrome would continue to grow by an estimated
13%, but the great bulk of an increase of more than $1
billion for the NIH would be focused on research elsewhere.
The committee set a four-year goal of generating 6,000 new
research grants annually, or about one-third more than are
currently financed, and the budgets for individual institutes
would grow in some cases by as much as 15% in fiscal 1991,
which begins Oct. 1.
   Within the Education Department, an estimated $5.4 billion
is provided for Pell Grants for lower-income college
students, but the larger increases are in those programs
focusing on young, disadvantaged children in public schools.
Reflecting the priorities of subcommittee Chairman William
Natcher (D., Ky.), compensatory education funding would grow
more than $1 billion to a record $6.2 billion, and the bill
provides another $2.75 billion for state grants for
handicapped education, or 36% above fiscal 1990.
   Adopted 385-31, the transportation bill is the fifth of
the annual appropriations measures to clear the House. While
deficit-reduction talks continue between Congress and the
administration, the committee leadership is positioned to
complete action soon on the remaining legislation covering
the heart of the domestic budget. A $20.7 billion Treasury
and Postal Service bill is scheduled to come to the floor
today, and besides the Labor, Education and Health and Human
Services bill reported yesterday, a $50.35 billion
agriculture and rural-development measure could go to the
floor soon after.
   The rush of legislation puts pressure on the Senate to
follow suit, and the leadership in both houses has virtually
abandoned efforts to first craft a compromise budget
resolution. By a 16-5 margin, the Senate Budget Committee
yesterday approved its own shotgun solution, which allows
more-modest spending increases than the House but would
permit an eager Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.) to at least begin drafting bills.
   The resolution, quickly adopted by the full Senate last
night, sets an overall limit of $488 billion for new
discretionary appropriations in fiscal 1991 and $510.7
billion for resulting outlays over the next year. The balance
is designed to help meet stricter Senate rules governing
outlays. Although no standard is set for the military share,
the underlying assumption is that the Senate will be at least
as generous as the House toward defense, and any Senate cuts
from House-passed bills will come out of domestic and
foreign-aid accounts.
   The higher domestic-spending figures in both houses depend
on achieving as-yet-undetermined cuts from the military
budget, and House Democrats so far have stalled in acting on
defense legislation for fear of betraying differences in
deficit talks with the administration. Rep. John Murtha (D.,
Pa.), chairman of the Pentagon appropriations subcommittee,
has met privately this week with Army, Navy, and Air Force
secretaries in anticipation of drafting his own outline of a
fiscal 1991 bill, but committee action could be delayed as
late as September.
   By comparison, the rush of new highway and aviation
funding in yesterday's transportation bill won bipartisan
support. Despite the hue and cry over the deficit, the
committee leadership easily defeated, 288-133, an effort to
trim just $262 million from the measure.
   The anti-drug amendment, sponsored by Rep. Gerald Solomon
(R., N.Y.), rode a wave of popular, election-year support,
but even as the chamber was proposing new penalties on
states, the bill itself was forgiving old ones. Among the
special-interest provisions attached to the measure is one to
block the Transportation Department from withholding as much
as $46.7 million in highway aid to five states that failed to
meet standards for compliance with the 55-mile-per-hour
federal speed limit.
   House Public Works Committee Chairman Glenn Anderson
personally lobbied to protect $28.4 million for his home
state of California. Although less money was involved,
another of those in violation is Connecticut, which reported
that more than 71% of its drivers in a survey were traveling
over the limit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fortune Financial
   Elects Torell Chairman
   And Mason as Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FORF
</CO>
<LP>
   CLEARWATER, Fla. -- Fortune Financial Group Inc. elected
John R. Torell III chairman of the thrift holding company.
   Mr. Torell, 50 years old, has been an associate with
Private Capital Partners Inc., a merchant banking company in
New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rausey W. Mason, 52, was elected president and chief
executive officer of Fortune Financial. He has served as
executive vice president of the company. Both individuals
succeed John A. Moran, 57, who resigned to obtain regulatory
approval for his company to increase its ownership of Fortune
Financial's stock. Mr. Moran is chairman of New York-based
Dyson Kissner-Moran Corp., a closely held investment company
that owns 9.97% of the holding company's stock.
   The Office of Thrift Supervision has stipulated that Mr.
Moran must relinquish his duties as chairman, president and
chief executive officer in order to obtain permission to
purchase up to 20% of Fortune Financial's 4,350,000 shares
outstanding. Mr. Moran will remain as a director of both
Fortune Financial Group and its subsidiary, Fortune Savings
Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Globe Investment Trust PLC:
   Company Urges Acceptance
   Of Offer by British Coal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GLO U.BCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Globe Investment Trust PLC recommended shareholders accept
a 205 pence ($3.69) a share offer for the company by British
Coal Corp.'s pension funds six days after the pension funds
succeeded in gaining majority control.
   Globe had strongly resisted the bid, which values
Britain's largest investment trust at #1.11 billion ($2
billion), since it was launched April 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the pension funds' success in gaining majority
control "puts Globe in an entirely new situation," though it
still considers that "the offer price is too low," Globe
management said in a statement.
   The pension funds said last week that they had purchased
or received acceptances of their offer for more than 50% of
Globe's ordinary shares. By late Tuesday the pension funds
claimed control of more than 70% of the shares.
   The pension funds have said they intend to purchase 100%
of Globe shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PLAA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Michael S. Perlis, 37, publisher of Playboy
Enterprises Inc.'s Playboy Magazine, was additionally named
president of the parent's publishing group, filling a
vacancy. The group was expanded to include international
publishing and the company's catalog operation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   GOP May Drop Capital-Gains Tax Issue
   In an Effort to Speed Budget Accord
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Republican budget negotiators have discussed
the possibility of giving up on a capital-gains tax cut, as
part of a trade-off that might clear the way for a
deficit-reduction accord with Democrats, congressional
Republicans said.
   In exchange, Democrats would be expected to stop pressing
for an increase in the marginal income-tax rate for the
richest Americans, a move that some Republicans are
unalterably opposed to.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Republican negotiators emphasize that they haven't made
any decision and that the final call is likely to be made by
President Bush. "The president hasn't changed his mind on
capital gains," said House Republican Leader Bob Michel of
Illinois.
   Moreover, administration officials said they continue to
search for alternative ways to tax upper-income Americans
that Democrats and Republicans might accept as part of a
package that includes a lower capital-gains tax rate. Among
the alternatives the administration is considering are
limiting income-tax deductions or taxing securities trades.
Some Democrats also have mentioned higher estate taxes or
taxing employees' fringe benefits.
   Rep. Bill Frenzel (R., Minn.) confirmed that Republicans
have talked about dropping both the troublesome capital-gains
and income-tax rate issues from the budget negotiations.
"It's true of every proposal that some people are for it --
including this one," Rep. Frenzel said.
   "Everybody has always assumed there could be that
trade-off," an administration official said, "but nobody is
promoting it."
   Asked if such a trade would please Democrats, House Budget
Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.) said, "That's
what {Senate Democratic Leader George} Mitchell and everybody
has been saying all along."
   Republican congressional budget negotiators reviewed a
long list of tax options yesterday with White House Budget
Director Richard Darman and Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady. Among the taxes that were discussed, according to Sen.
Bob Packwood (R., Ore.), were limiting the income-tax
deduction for state and local taxes, taxing securities
trades, raising alcohol and cigarette taxes, a broad-based
energy tax and various sales taxes on luxury goods.
   Democratic negotiators also met separately to talk about
taxes. Despite the reluctance of some, they blessed plans for
a private meeting between the chairmen of the tax-writing
committees, Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) and Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen (D., Texas), and Messrs. Darman and Brady. Democratic
staffers said the tax writers were urged to receive proposals
and not to make any counter offers. Democrats are to caucus
again today.
   Some Democrats are complaining that the talks may be
stalled -- again. "It's still unclear how we're going to
proceed," said Rep. Rostenkoswki. "The negotiations are not
going to the expectations I anticipated."
   Earlier this week, Sen. Mitchell said flatly that
Democrats would never agree to cutting the capital-gains tax
unless Republicans agreed to raise the marginal tax rate --
the rate on every additional dollar of income -- on the
richest Americans to 33% from the current 28%.
   Republicans complained that Sen. Mitchell's statement
wasn't constructive. House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich (R.,
Ga.) labeled it "total baloney." Rep. Michel, noting that Mr.
Bush began the summit talks in May by accepting Sen.
Mitchell's call for "no preconditions," objected that Sen.
Mitchell was now trying to set conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Occidental Petroleum Corp.:
   Interest in Acquiring Line
   Of Enimont, ICI Confirmed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY I.EMT ICI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Occidental Petroleum Corp., Los Angeles, confirmed reports
that it has "had an interest" in acquiring European Vinyls
Corp., a jointly owned plastics business of Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC of Britain and Enimont S.p.A. of Italy.
   Occidental Petroleum said that its Occidental Chemical
Corp. unit has held discussions on the subject but that these
talks haven't reached the level of negotiations. The company
also said the values of any proposed transactions haven't
been discussed. Enimont and Imperial Chemical denied a report
in the Financial Times that they are discussing the sale of
their jointly owned plastics business, one of the world's
largest, for as much as $1.8 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enimont said it "denies having any discussion or
negotiation to cede its interests in {European Vinyls}.
Therefore, the reports of a possible cessation to Occidental
Petroleum are without foundation." Separately, Imperial
Chemical said it "is not involved in any discussions over a
possible sale of its . . . interest in European Vinyls Corp."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Air France:
   An Additional Six Options
   On Boeing 747 Jets Cleared
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AFR BA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Air France said its board approved an additional six
options on Seattle-based Boeing Co.'s 747-400, the
superlong-range version of the aircraft. Financial details
weren't disclosed.
   Air France said deliveries are to be made between January
1996 and April 1999, in either the passenger or Combi
version; the latter carries both passengers and cargo on the
main deck, while all versions carry cargo in the belly
compartment below the main deck.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Air France said it already held 20 firm orders and 33
options for the 747-400, with the first, a passenger model,
to be delivered in February 1991. Of the 20 firm orders, 11
are for the passenger model, four for the Combi and five for
the freighter model.
   As it reviews its fleet needs, the carrier said it will
advise Boeing about models that will be represented among the
39 optioned aircraft.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FAA Cites Deaths
   In Cars in Opposing
   Kids' Seats in Planes
   ---
   Agency Says Cost of Flying
   Would Prompt Families
   To Drive, Raising Risk
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Aviation Administration said it
opposes requiring use of child-safety seats in planes because
the end result would be an increase in highway deaths.
   The FAA, at a congressional hearing on child-restraints,
cited a number of new studies to bolster its theory, which
left several congressmen incredulous. "This is a little
puzzling as to why the FAA is more concerned with highway
safety than aviation safety," said Rep. Jim Lightfoot (R.,
Iowa), who wrote legislation to require use of the seats on
planes for children under two years old.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FAA analysis goes like this: Requiring the seats for
small children would compel parents to buy airline tickets
for babies who now may be held on laps and fly free. The
higher costs, in turn, would prompt some families to drive to
their destinations rather than fly. And since driving is more
hazardous, more lives would be lost on highways than would be
saved in airplane crashes. Sen. Christopher Bond (R., Mo.)
co-authored the Lightfoot bill and testified yesterday at the
hearing, which was held by the House Aviation Subcommittee.
He said the FAA's reasoning was "totally unacceptable and
ridiculous." Carried to its extreme, he said, the FAA never
would have required oxygen masks, flame-retardant seats or
other safety improvements that raised the cost of flying.
Instead, "We'd allow airlines to sell standing-room-only
tickets," he said. "Imagine how many people that would take
off the highways."
   But Anthony Broderick, associate FAA administrator for
regulation and certification, told the panel that no other
rule the agency has considered "would have such a
diversionary impact." Requiring child-restraint seats would
result in one baby's life being saved on a plane over 10
years, but nine more people would be killed on the highways
than would otherwise be the case, according to a study by
Apogee Research Inc. commissioned by the FAA.
   Advocates of a child-restraint requirement testified that
the study underestimated the discounts airlines likely would
offer for babies, and thus overestimated the number of
families who would choose driving over flying.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Rank Organisation PLC:
   Pretax Profit Climbs 24%;
   Firm Sees Problems Ahead
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   RANKY XRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rank Organisation PLC, a major U.K. communications and
entertainment concern, said pretax profit for the half year
to May 12 increased 24%, though the company forecast growing
difficulties stemming from poor economic conditions in the
U.K. and the U.S.
   Pretax profit increased to #137.6 million ($247.7 million)
from #111 million. Market forecasts had ranged between #135
million and #138 million. Sales increased 17% to #522.2
million from #447.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pretax profit from Rank Xerox, a joint venture between
Rank and Xerox Corp. of the U.S., rose 2.7% to #80 million
from #77.9 million. Fuji Xerox, located in Southeast Asia,
had a decline in profit to Rank caused by higher investment
in research and the development of products plus increases in
operating costs, said Rank.
   The company said its proposed acquisition of Mecca
Leisure, a rival U.K. leisure concern, is "a major step
forward in Rank's leisure activities in Europe and the U.S.,"
which should be beneficial to all shareholders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Veba AG:
   West German Firm to Post
   First-Half Sales Rise of 8%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VEB
</CO>
<LP>
   Veba AG of West Germany, a trading, chemical and power
generation concern, said it expects to report that its
first-half sales rose 8% from a year earlier to more than 26
billion marks ($15.77 billion).
   But in remarks prepared for the annual meeting, VEBA
Chairman Klaus Piltz also said profit for the half probably
will only about match that of a year earlier, though he
didn't provide specifics. In the 1989 first six months,
Veba's profit rose 19% from a year earlier to 397 million
marks on a 14% rise in sales to 24.38 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Piltz said that VEBA this year has been faced with
weaker earnings in the chemical and petrochemical sector, but
that this will be offset partly by "higher yields" in some
other areas and by benefits of lower taxes.
   He said that for all of 1990, the company expects again to
record a good year in general, but he wasn't more specific.
VEBA's 1989 profit rose 14% from a year earlier to 1.25
billion marks, on a 12% increase in sales to 49.9 billion
marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Partial Mistrial Declared in Mulheren Case
   ----
   Laurie P. Cohen and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LABOR PPI TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge declared a partial mistrial in the case
against John A. Mulheren Jr. after a jury appeared to be
hopelessly deadlocked on 26 of the 30 counts against him.
   But U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum let stand
Mr. Mulheren's conviction on Tuesday of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Cedarbaum granted a mistrial motion by Thomas
Puccio, the New York attorney representing Mr. Mulheren. In
that motion, which the government opposed, Mr. Puccio argued
that jurors were repeatedly asking the same questions and
that one of the jurors had indicated he planned a vacation
later this week. "Pressure could be brought to bear because
of that vacation schedule," Mr. Puccio said.
   The jury could not determine whether Mr. Mulheren was
guilty of conducting a series of trades that the government
alleged were designed to generate tax losses for convicted
former stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky's trading firm and to
help Mr. Boesky evade net-capital requirements.
   The government could retry Mr. Mulheren on those counts.
But E. Scott Gilbert, an assistant U.S. attorney who helped
prosecute Mr. Mulheren, said late yesterday: "We have not yet
made a determination on the extent of any retrial."
   The jury found earlier this week that Mr. Mulheren, 41
years old, conspired with Mr. Boesky to violate securities
laws. The jury also found that Mr. Mulheren had committed
securities fraud by manipulating the price of Gulf &amp; Western
Inc. shares in 1985.
   After the jury returned its verdict on the first four
counts, Judge Cedarbaum sent jurors back to deliberate on the
remaining counts. After two more days of deliberation, the
judge dismissed the jurors, declaring the mistrial.
   "I was quite surprised it ended like this," Mr. Mulheren
said yesterday. Mr. Mulheren said he believed that the Gulf &amp;
Western charges were weaker than others against him.
   Mr. Puccio said there was "no basis in law and fact" for
the convictions. Mr. Puccio said he planned to appeal the
convictions based on his theory that the jury had to find
only that Mr. Mulheren acted "voluntarily" in buying Gulf &amp;
Western stock. Mr. Puccio said that the jury should also have
had to decide whether Mr. Mulheren's purchase was intended to
help Mr. Boesky, as the government has charged.
   "John had no idea what Ivan was doing," Mr. Puccio said,
adding: "Gulf &amp; Western was the weakest part of this case."
   Mr. Mulheren's sentencing is scheduled for Oct. 5.
   ---
   BILL TO CUT COSTS, DELAYS in civil lawsuits cleared by
Senate panel.
   The bill, approved 12-1 by the Senate Judiciary Committee,
would require each federal trial court to adopt a plan to cut
costs and delays. It also would create 77 new federal
judgeships, which congressional leaders say are needed to
clear huge backlogs in courts around the nation.
   The Judicial Conference, the policymaking arm of the
federal courts, says the provision on reducing delays is an
improper intrusion into the judicial branch of government.
The conference has advocated adding 96 new seats to the
federal bench.
   The bill received mixed reaction from federal judges but
has bipartisan support and is likely to be approved by the
full Senate. Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden (D.,
Del.) introduced the legislation jointly with the panel's
ranking Republican, Strom Thurmond of South Carolina.
   "For middle-class Americans as well as Fortune 500
companies, this legislation represents an important first
step toward reducing the costs and delays that plague the
civil justice system today," Sen. Biden said.
   The House is moving more slowly in considering legislation
to change the civil judiciary system.
   Some Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee
went along with the Biden-Thurmond bill grudgingly, according
to people familiar with the committee. These lawmakers have
privately expressed surprise and anger that Mr. Biden would
lead an effort to expand the federal judiciary during a
Republican administration. The president nominates federal
judges, who must be confirmed by the Senate.
   For this reason, House Democrats are expected to push for
creating fewer new judgeships than are proposed by the Senate
bill.
   ---
   SOUTH KOREAN UNION SUES U.S. company in labor dispute.
   In a move to enforce a labor contract overseas, the South
Korean union filed suit in federal court alleging contract
violations by a U.S. company's Korean subsidiary.
   The union's contract dispute with Pico Products Inc., a
Liverpool, N.Y., maker of telecommunication parts, sparked
labor unrest and a rise in anti-Americanism in South Korea
last year after Pico abruptly closed its plant outside Seoul.
The laborers -- who weren't paid for the preceding month's
work and weren't notified of the closing -- seized the
facility and accused the company of breaking its contract.
   In the suit filed in federal court in Syracuse, N.Y., the
Korean labor union alleged that Pico illegally closed the
plant rather than comply with the contract. The union,
represented by lawyers from the Center for Constitutional
Rights in New York, is seeking punitive damages, back pay and
other compensation, totaling $1 million, allegedly owed to
the workers.
   The suit claims that the contract obligated the company to
make compensation payments and to notify workers of the
closing. And in a move that could affect other multinational
companies if approved by the courts, the suit asks that the
1988 federal plant-closing notification law be applied to
U.S. companies' factories abroad as well as in the U.S.
   Bernard Hitchcock, Pico's chairman and chief executive
officer, said the contract isn't binding on the parent
company. Although the contract was signed by the South Korean
subsidiary in November 1988, he said the parent company never
approved it.
   "Pico Korea {the subsidiary} technically owes them some
wages," he said, but the parent company isn't obligated to
pay.
   Mr. Hitchcock also accused the union of kidnapping the
Korean plant's managers and holding them hostage until they
signed the contract. "I doubt that a contract that's gained
by extortion will be found to be binding," said Mr.
Hitchcock, who as of yesterday said he hadn't seen the suit.
   ---
   EDWIN MEESE AWARDED $460,509 for legal bills.
   A federal court in Washington awarded the former attorney
general the money for legal bills incurred during the time he
was investigated by a special prosecutor. The U.S. Court of
Appeals disallowed $115,089 in expenses claimed by Mr.
Meese's defense lawyers, however.
   From May 1987 through June 1988, a special prosecutor
investigated allegations that Mr. Meese violated federal
ethics laws by helping Wedtech Corp. of New York obtain a
defense contract.
   The investigation didn't result in criminal charges being
filed against Mr. Meese. A close adviser to former President
Reagan, Mr. Meese left his post soon after the investigation
concluded.
   Under the independent counsel law, subjects of
investigations who aren't indicted are entitled to be
reimbursed by the government for what the court determines
are their reasonable legal-defense fees.
   ---
   TOYOTA IS ACCUSED of blocking a U.S. distributor from
access to Capitol Hill.
   Rep. C. Thomas McMillen (D., Md.) filed an affidavit this
week in federal court complaining that Toyota Motor Sales
wouldn't permit its mid-Atlantic distributor to talk with him
about a legal dispute.
   Mid-Atlantic Toyota, based in Glen Burnie, Md., is an
independent U.S. auto dealer licensed to sell Toyotas in a
five-state region.
   The affidavit is part of a suit that Mid-Atlantic Toyota
filed last month in Los Angeles alleging racketeering and
fraud by Toyota Motor Sales. In his affidavit, Rep. McMillen
says he learned of the dispute through news accounts, but was
unable to get further information because Mid-Atlantic Toyota
said it was gagged by a 1987 agreement with Toyota Motor
Sales. Inability to discuss such matters with constituents
"has a negative impact upon my ability to function as a
congressman," Rep. McMillen contends.
   The suit grew out of a dispute between the two companies
that dates back to 1986, when Toyota Motor Sales sought to
cancel its agreement with the distributor. In response,
Mid-Atlantic Toyota lobbied for Congress to require Japanese
auto manufacturers to distribute their cars exclusively
through independent U.S. dealers.
   The two companies resolved their differences, but as part
of the settlement Mid-Atlantic Toyota was forbidden from
making further contact with Congress on the matter. Now the
U.S. company is seeking to be released from this agreement on
the ground that it violates its First Amendment rights.
   "Their signature is on that agreement," said James Olson,
a spokesman for Toyota Motor Sales, adding: `We aren't trying
to inhibit anybody."
   ---
   Paul M. Barrett and Timothy Noah contributed to this
column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pioneer Hi-Bred
   Expects Record Net
   For Its 3rd Quarter
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHYB
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DES MOINES, Iowa -- Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc.
expects to report record fiscal third-quarter earnings and
that its share of the North American corn seed market rose
for the first time in three years, Thomas N. Urban, chairman
and president, said.
   However, the company likely will post lower earnings for
the fiscal year ending Aug. 31, since it had a record loss of
$51.8 million, or $1.66 a share, in the first half. Further,
the 1989 fiscal year included a gain on the sale of an equity
interest in an animal vaccine business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pioneer, the nation's largest agricultural seed concern,
believes it controls about 35.5% of corn seed sold in North
America, up about 1.3 percentage points from the 1989
planting season, Mr. Urban said. Corn is the biggest U.S.
crop.
   Pioneer's market share rose despite less-than-expected
sales gains for the seed industry as a whole. An unusually
wet spring delayed many farmers from planting corn for so
long that they switched to other crops or abandoned their
fields.
   Mr. Urban wouldn't say how much Pioneer's North American
corn seed sales increased in the 1990 planting season other
than to say sales "are up significantly."
   According to analysts and competitors, Pioneer did
everything from cut prices to give away free bags of seed to
stop the erosion of its market share. But Mr. Urban maintains
the rebound was due to a sales force reorganization three
years ago.
   Mr. Urban did concede that a slightly higher-than-normal
amount of seed was given to farmers as free samples because
the company introduced a large number of new hybrid seed
products.
   Pioneer's sales strategy is increasingly based on
introducing a large number of new hybrids. This year, the
company offered 22 new hybrids to farmers. Another 17 new
hybrids are being grown by the company for sale next year.
   Mr. Urban wouldn't estimate how much the company earned in
the third quarter ended May 31. Wall Street estimates putting
profit from continuing operations at between $4.54 and $4.70
a share "isn't a bad range," Mr. Urban said. "It will be the
best third quarter we have ever had."
   In the fiscal 1989 third quarter, Pioneer had profit from
continuing operations of $114.6 million, or $3.59 a share, on
sales of $608.1 million. Profit from discontinued operations
of $605,000 made final net income $115.2 million, or $3.61 a
share.
   Despite the unusually wet spring, the corn fields that
Pioneer has under contract for seed purposes are generally in
good shape. However, the late planting season means that the
harvest will probably run about 10 days late, increasing the
risk that a yield-damaging freeze might occur in such prime
growing areas as northern Iowa and northern Illinois.
   The wet weather also might deal a setback to the company's
project to develop a market for crops grown without
pesticides. Pioneer pays farmers a premium to grow rice,
wheat, soybeans and corn without herbicides or insecticides,
and then sells those crops to food companies.
   Wet weather usually increases weed and insect problems for
farmers, which can shave crop yields.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Castle &amp; Cooke May Sell Dole Food Co.
   As Some Major Firms Indicate Interest
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CKE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Castle &amp; Cooke Inc. said it has been
contacted by several major companies interested in acquiring
its Dole Food Co. unit and has retained Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
to help evaluate a possible sale of the subsidiary.
   The announcement is a tactical shift by Castle &amp; Cooke,
which had planned to spin off Dole Food into a new publicly
traded company. Those plans were put on hold in May because
of financing concerns and uncertainty over the Internal
Revenue Service's tax treatment of the transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dole Food, known for its fresh fruits and vegetables, also
markets packaged and canned foods, chilled and frozen juices,
and assorted nuts. Last year, Dole Food contributed more than
90% of Castle &amp; Cooke's $2.72 billion in revenue. One analyst
estimated that Dole Food could fetch as much as $2.5 billion.
   David H. Murdock, Castle &amp; Cooke chairman and chief
executive officer who holds a 23% stake in the company, said
in a statement that a sale of Dole Food "could be an
attractive alternative to the planned separation of our two
businesses and we believe it is in the best interests of our
shareholders to explore such a transaction."
   Real estate development, largely conducted through Oceanic
Properties Inc., is Castle &amp; Cooke's other business.
   Last year, when Castle &amp; Cooke planned to split into two
companies, it said the separation would allow for easier
financing of growth for both the real estate development and
food businesses and would allow management of both companies
better opportunities to focus on their individual operations.
   Castle &amp; Cooke owns about 129,000 acres in Hawaii, 32,000
acres in California, and about 9,000 acres in Arizona. Mr.
Murdock said through a spokeswoman that he wasn't pursuing a
possible sale of Dole to raise money for Castle &amp; Cooke's
real estate development plans.
   Larry Selwitz, an analyst at Cruttenden &amp; Co. in Newport
Beach, Calif., says that Dole Food is a "very valuable
franchise" that might be particularly attractive to an
international food conglomerate because of Dole's world-wide
operations. Dole has many separate businesses that could be
spun off to help finance an acquisition, he said.
   Mr. Selwitz said a sticky negotiating point in selling the
unit might be the ownership of Castle &amp; Cooke's Hawaiian
agricultural properties, which it had planned to lease to
Dole under the spinoff plan. Also, Dole Food may have a
"morale problem" because of uncertainties about the company's
future, Mr. Selwitz said.
   Earlier this week, Castle &amp; Cooke announced "major
reorganizations" at Dole and some of its divisions. David
DeLorenzo was named president of Dole Food, filling a vacancy
created after Robert W. Fisher left to become president of
PPI Del Monte Tropical Fruit Co., a unit of Polly Peck
International PLC. During the past six months, about 40
people have been laid off at Dole's packaged foods division
in San Francisco.
   Yesterday, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
Castle &amp; Cooke shares closed at $30.50, up 37.5 cents. The
announcement about a possible sale of the unit was made after
the close of trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Consumer Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's consumer price index in June rose 0.3%
from May, bringing the year-to-year inflation rate to 6.5%
last month, down from 6.8% in May, the National Statistics
Institute said.
   In May, consumer prices were unchanged from April. Prices
excluding volatile food prices edged up 0.4% in June from the
previous month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Employment Firm's
   Ex-Chief Is Indicted
   On Fraud Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The former chief executive officer of
Diversified Human Resources Group Inc. was indicted on
charges of bank fraud and money laundering in connection with
a loan from a now-defunct Texas bank.
   William M. Brothers, who also served as president of the
employment-services concern until he resigned March 31, is
accused of submitting fraudulent corporate resolutions to the
First State Bank of Rockwall, Texas, in order to obtain a
personal loan of $385,000 in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The allegedly fraudulent resolutions purportedly stated
that Diversified Human Resources would guarantee as much as
$210,000 of the loan to Mr. Brothers. The Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which took over the Rockwall bank, sued the
company to collect on the guarantee but the suit was later
dismissed, according to the company's 1989 annual report.
   The seven-count indictment, returned by a federal grand
jury in Dallas, specifically charges Mr. Brothers with
conspiracy, two counts of laundering the borrowed funds and
bank robbery. If convicted of all counts, Mr. Brothers would
face a maximum possible sentence of 60 years in federal
prison and a fine of $1.75 million.
   Mr. Brothers couldn't be reached for comment. Gary Steeds,
president and chief executive officer of Diversified Human
Resources, said the company wouldn't have any comment on the
indictment. "That's really a personal matter between him and
the government, and it doesn't affect the company," Mr.
Steeds said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Advance 37.13 to High
   In Wake of Greenspan Statement
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed to
its all-time high as stock prices surged again amid the
heaviest trading since mid-May.
   Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's statement to
Congress that the central bank is poised to ease monetary
policy as the result of tightening in the credit markets set
the rally in motion at midday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After climbing 41.83 points Wednesday, the industrial
average soared 37.13 points to 2969.80 -- well above the
prior high of 2935.89, set June 15.
   Oil stocks rallied sharply for the second consecutive
session as oil prices continued to climb, reflecting further
evidence that members of OPEC are taking steps to curb
overproduction. Telephone and cellular stocks, bolstered by
news that GTE and Contel had agreed to a stock-swap merger,
also paced the latest advance.
   Buying interest carried over from Wednesday boosted share
prices in early trading, but the market drifted through the
morning and showed only a modest gain before news of Mr.
Greenspan's congressional testimony filtered into the market.
   The remarks "kick-started the market a bit," said Jeffrey
Kaminsky, head of block trading at Mabon, Nugent &amp; Co. Prices
rose steadily through the afternoon, and program buying
resulting from stock-index arbitrage surfaced in the last
hour of trading to add fuel to the rally.
   Some 211,510,000 shares were traded on the New York Stock
Exchange -- the highest total since May 14, when 225.4
million changed hands, and up from 162.2 million Wednesday.
Big Board advancers topped decliners 987 to 545.
   Broader measures weren't able to follow the lead of the
Dow industrials and establish records, although they did rise
sharply. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index climbed 4.21 to
365.44, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained
2.21 to 199.32 and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index went up
3.83 to 339.62; all three set records June 4.
   Index-arbitrage buy programs -- purchasing baskets of
stocks and selling index futures to profit from fleeting
price differences between them -- helped ignite the market's
midday advance and push prices to session highs shortly
before the close.
   But Mabon Nugent's Jeffrey Kaminsky said the especially
heavy volume provided evidence that "real buying," or trading
unrelated to index arbitrage, powered the market's advance.
"You've got an ample amount of cash" in the hands of
institutions that are "willing to commit" to stocks, he said.
   Contel soared 7 1/8 to 35 1/8 in Big Board composite
trading of 4.9 million shares, while GTE fell 1 1/4 to 29 3/4
as 6.6 million shares changed hands. Terms of the transaction
call for GTE to exchange 1.27 of its common shares for each
Contel share.
   The proposed merger represents "the first major
indication" that the telephone industry may be heading for a
big wave of consolidation, Jack Grubman, an analyst at
PaineWebber, said. Also, he said, the market has "grossly
undervalued" telephone properties when their cash flows and
access-line values are taken into account.
   Among telephone and cellular stocks traded on the Big
Board, Centel added 2 1/4 to 36 7/8, Century Telephone
Enterprises advanced 2 3/4 to 30, Southern New England
Telecommunications rose 2 1/2 to 35 5/8, Rochester Telephone
jumped 3 to 34 3/4 and Alltel added 1 to 33. Telephone &amp; Data
Systems gained 1 7/8 to 38 1/4 and Metro Mobile Class B added
1 3/8 to 18 1/2 on the American Stock Exchange.
   Nynex, another telephone stock, fell 1 1/8 to 78 5/8.
Evidence has surfaced in a rate case involving its New York
Telephone unit that the company's buyers and suppliers had
improper, if not illegal, contacts at a series of gatherings
between 1984 and 1988, this newspaper reported.
   Meanwhile, oil stocks rallied amid news from Saudi Arabian
oil minister Hisham Nazer that the United Arab Emirates has
agreed to a production quota of 1.5 million barrels a day set
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. August
crude-oil futures jumped 99 cents a barrel in New York
trading, to $18.46.
   Unocal, which paced Wednesday's rally in oil issues,
gained another 2 to 29 3/4 on 1.6 million shares. PaineWebber
upgraded its investment rating on the stock to "buy" from
"neutral."
   Four other oil stocks contributed to the surge in the
industrial average: Exxon, which went up 1 3/8 to 49 1/4;
Chevron, up 2 7/8 to 73 7/8; Texaco, up 2 1/8 to 60 1/8, and
Du Pont, parent of Conoco, up 1 1/2 to 39 7/8.
   Oil field-services issues jumped even more sharply in
relative terms. Schlumberger rose 2 5/8 to 60 1/4, Baker
Hughes gained 1 5/8 to 29 3/8, Dresser Industries advanced 2
to 51, Halliburton rose 1 1/2 to 49 1/4 and Rowan gained 1
1/8 to 13.
   Although Mr. Greenspan's comments on monetary policy
lifted the broad market, his disclosure that the Fed is
developing additional capital requirements for commercial
banks weighed on banking issues.
   Chase Manhattan dropped 7/8 to 22 1/2 on 1.4 million
shares, and other major-city bank issues also dropped
following news that federal regulators had ordered U.S. banks
to write off 20% of their loans to Argentina and Brazil.
Citicorp dropped 1/4 to 21 5/8, Manufacturers Hanover went
down 7/8 to 31 3/4 and Chemical Banking lost 1/2 to 24 3/8.
   Computer Associates International, the most active Big
Board issue, plunged 6 1/4 to 10 1/4 on eight million shares
amid disappointment with its earnings estimate for the June
quarter. The company said revenue for the period appeared to
be "significantly less than last year's comparable quarter
and, consequently, earnings may also be lower."
   Kimberly-Clark, on the other hand, soared 4 5/8 to 82 1/4
as its second-quarter earnings drew an enthusiastic market
response. Although net income fell 21% from the year-ago
period, a $44 million charge related to the pending sale of a
Canadian unit more than accounted for the decline.
   The Amex Market Value Index rose 2.82 to 362.23. Volume
totaled 16,890,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Accounting Changes
   On International Calls
   Proposed by the FCC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Communications Commission
proposed changes in obscure accounting rules on international
telephone calls to make it easier for long-distance companies
to negotiate lower accounting rates.
   Accounting rates are the basis for allocating payments on
international calls between calls that use a U.S. and a
foreign telephone carrier. Under current rates, about 75
cents of each $1 collected by U.S. carriers on overseas calls
goes to foreign carriers, the agency said. The FCC said the
rates widened the gap in U.S. net settlements to $2 billion
in 1988 from about $40 million in 1970. The agency figures
that international accounting rates that are above the
foreign carriers' costs led to overpayments by U.S. consumers
totaling as much as $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency proposed three steps to speed reductions in
accounting rates: allowing companies to file notices for
simple reductions in accounting rates; streamlining waiver
procedures for more complicated changes, including cutting
the agency's review time; and tentatively concluding that it
has the authority to establish lower rates based on costs.
   Alfred Sikes, the FCC's chairman, said the commission
wants to learn about the true costs, levels of profits, and
how those costs and profits are shared among U.S. telephone
companies and foreign telecommunications authorities. "We
will also be examining ways to start down the road toward
correcting inequitable arrangements" with cost-based pricing,
accounting and allocation of profits, he said. An overhaul,
he noted, will require cooperation not only from the Bush
administration but ultimately from foreign governments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money-Fund Assets
   Gained $3.10 Billion
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Assets of the nation's 512 money-market
funds rose $3.10 billion, to $385.83 billion, in the week
ended Wednesday, according to the Investment Company
Institute, a Washington-based trade association.
   Assets of 250 general-purpose funds rose $763.5 million,
to $133.98 billion, and assets of 102 broker-dealer funds
rose $2.12 billion, to $160.04 billion. Assets of 160
institutional funds rose $215.4 million, to $91.82 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Money-market funds assets, especially those held in
individual accounts, rebounded sharply, more than making up
the losses of the preceding week," said Jacob Dreyer, vice
president and chief economist at the institute. Money-fund
assets were revised for the previous week to $382.73 billion.
The reported decrease in assets of $2.24 billion was revised
to a decrease of $2.20 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Bank of New York
   Has Ratings Lowered
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   BK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its rating on
$1.1 billion of Bank of New York Co.'s long-term and
short-term debt and preferred stock, citing its exposure to
highly leveraged transactions and rising levels of problem
loans.
   Bank of New York's senior debt was reduced to
single-A-minus from single-A. The subordinated debt fell to
triple-B-plus from single A-minus. The preferred stock
slipped to triple-B from triple-B-plus, and commercial paper
went to A2 from A1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Bank of New York spokesman said, "We are obviously
disappointed by S&amp;P's action, and we will work with them to
get our rating upgraded."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lilco Accord to Sell
   Shoreham Is Upheld
   By New York Court
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   LIL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A New York state appeals court upheld an
agreement between the state and Long Island Lighting Co.
under which Lilco is to sell its Shoreham nuclear power plant
to the state for $1.
   The 5-0 decision, which had been expected, upheld two
lower court rulings that found that state officials, led by
Gov. Mario Cuomo, were duly authorized by the state
legislature to enter into the agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is great news for Lilco," said Daniel Scotto,
utility-bond analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp.
   Lilco continues to own Shoreham, pending federal
regulatory approval of the transfer of the license to a state
agency. Nevertheless, the Hicksville, N.Y., utility already
is getting the first of the sizable rate increases that also
are part of its agreement with the state-rate increases that
have brought Lilco back to financial health after years of
being bled by the completed but never operational Shoreham.
   While the state originally said it planned to dismantle
Shoreham, more recently it has had discussions about possibly
converting the plant into a natural gas-fired plant.
   The ruling by the appellate division of State Supreme
Court follows a recent federal appeals court ruling that
effectively eliminated Lilco's financial liability under a
racketeering judgment against the company. Suffolk County,
N.Y., officials have said they may bring another similar
claim against the utility.
   Lilco shares closed at $21.125, up 12.5 cents, in moderate
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abitibi Recycling Mill
   Planned in Scotland
   With Two Publishers
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ABY EUROP U.DTE T.HLG
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Abitibi-Price Inc., a forest products company,
said it plans to build a 400 million Canadian dollar
(US$345.2 million) recycled-newsprint mill in Scotland, in
partnership with two British newspaper publishing concerns.
   Abitibi, Daily Telegraph PLC and Mirror Group Newspapers
Ltd. agreed to acquire closely held Northern British
Newsprint Ltd., as the first stage in construction of the
mill. The acquisition price wasn't specified. Daily Telegraph
is 77%-owned by Conrad Black's Hollinger Inc., and Mirror
Group is controlled by Robert Maxwell. Officials at the two
companies couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Abitibi will have a 50% stake in the company, which
developed the project and owns the site of the proposed mill.
The two newspaper concerns will each have a 25% stake in the
project, Abitibi said.
   The mill will convert about 270,000 metric tons of
newspapers and magazines a year into 220,000 metric tons of
100% recycled-fiber newsprint, Abitibi said. A metric ton is
equal to about 2,204.62 pounds. Abititi said construction
could begin in early 1991 and be complete within two years,
with 80% of the cost being raised through external financing
arrangements, including debt issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Profit
   Rose 11% on Flat Sales
   In Quarter, First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp. posted an 11%
increase in second-quarter and six-months profit despite
roughly flat sales in both periods.
   The company said net income rose to $252 million in the
quarter, or 86 cents a share, compared with $228 million, or
78 cents a share, in the 1989 second quarter. Year-earlier
earnings per share were adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split
paid in May. Sales were flat at $3.18 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Results were in line with analysts' expectations.
   Westinghouse doesn't break out results of its various
businesses, but said pretax operating profit increased
substantially in both its Energy and Utility Systems unit and
its Group W broadcasting business. For about a year
Westinghouse has been booking increased power-generation
equipment orders, much of it from independent producers. The
company attributed the improved performance at its
broadcasting segment to recently acquired radio stations.
   Westinghouse also said operating profit at its Financial
Services segment rose slightly from a year earlier. Within
that segment, the company said lower results at its
Westinghouse Credit business partly offset significantly
higher operating profit at its community development
business. Pretax profit at its Commercial division also
improved.
   Westinghouse said operating profit increased slightly at
its Electronic Systems segment and was higher in its
Industries business.
   In the latest six months, net was $462 million, or $1.57 a
share, compared with net of $417 million, or $1.43 a share,
adjusted for the split. Sales declined to $6.04 billion from
$6.06 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cuomo Approves Bill
   Restricting Chemicals
   That Deplete Ozone
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) -- Gov. Mario Cuomo signed legislation
designed to restrict the use and sale of ozone-depleting
chemicals that are widely used in refrigeration systems, air
conditioners and fire extinguishers.
   The new law restricts and, in some cases, bans the sale of
chlorofluorocarbons and halons. Both have been found to
contribute to the depletion of the earth's ozone layer and to
add to global warming. The ozone layer protects the earth
from dangerous ultraviolet rays of the sun that can cause
skin cancer, eye cataracts and other problems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chlorofluorocarbons are coolants that are commonly used in
refrigeration systems and air conditioners. Under the new
law, CFCs will have to be recaptured and recycled when
large-scale refrigeration systems and mobile air conditioners
are serviced. CFCs will also have to be recaptured when
equipment that uses them is disposed of.
   In addition, the new law bans the sale of residential fire
extinguishers that use halons and the sale of CFCs or
coolants in 14-ounce cans. The restrictions will be phased in
during the next two years.
   Gov. Cuomo said that, while the new law was a good
measure, it does not go far enough toward eliminating the use
of the chemicals -- a move that would be much better for the
environment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Pathe Countersuit
   Of $500 Million Filed
   Against Time Warner
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC TWX MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Pathe Communications Corp. filed a $500
million cross-complaint against Time Warner Inc. and its
units charging that Time Warner breached its agreement to
bankroll half of Pathe's proposed $1.3 billion merger with
MGM/UA Communications Co.
   Last month, Time Warner filed a $100 million lawsuit
against Pathe charging "willful, wanton and malicious" breach
of contract in the collapse of that pact.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, Time Warner said, "Pathe's cross complaint
is just its latest attempt to divert attention from the
facts, which are that Pathe breached its April 1990 agreement
with Time Warner, its theatrical distribution agreement with
Warner Brothers and a video rights distribution agreement
with Warner Home Video."
   Time Warner also said it intends to schedule the
depositions of Giancarlo Parretti, the head of Pathe, and one
of his partners immediately.
   The Pathe suit, filed in state superior court here,
charges, among other things, that Time Warner failed to honor
an agreement to guarantee a $650 million bank loan or to loan
Pathe that amount itself. As part of that transaction, Time
Warner was going to obtain certain rights to the film
libraries of United Artists, Pathe and its Cannon unit.
   Time Warner has said the agreement collapsed after Pathe
failed to come up with sufficient equity, taking on
additional debt instead. However, the latest suit contends
that Pathe did meet its obligations to obtain $600 million in
non-debt financing. The suit says Pathe met all other
conditions except those "excused by the acts or conduct of
Time Warner." The suit alleges that Time Warner failed to
provide the $650 million loan to Pathe "without any
reasonable explanation."
   The Pathe suit says Time Warner was unable to find an
outside bank willing to lend Pathe $650 million, and it notes
that Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. placed Time Warner's debt on a
CreditWatch list soon after the agreement. The suit says that
although it was unable to obtain the loan, Time Warner was
still "highly desirous" of obtaining the rights to the film
libraries, and it pressured Pathe to make a deal more
advantageous to Time Warner.
   The suit alleges that Time Warner "knowingly put Pathe at
risk of losing the $200 million non-refundable deposit made
to MGM/UA" and a $75 million security interest granted to
MGM/UA. Pathe also contends that Time Warner's actions forced
Pathe to renegotiate its agreement with MGM/UA, increasing
the cost of the acquisition by more than $200 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nicron Resources Ltd.:
   Aztec Mining Co. of Sydney
   Bids for All of Mining Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   AMX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aztec Mining Co. Ltd. of Sydney, Australia, which is 49.4%
owned by U.S. metals and energy company Amax Inc., yesterday
said it is bidding for all of Nicron Resources Ltd., an
Australian mining company.
   Aztec said in a statement it already owns 19.99% of Nicron
Resources.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aztec is offering shareholders four Aztec shares for every
five shares in Nicron Resources. The offer, which isn't
subject to a minimum acceptance condition. requires
regulatory approval.
   If the takeover offer is successful, Amax's shareholding
in Aztec will be diluted to 33.2%, the company said.
   Aztec said it holds naturalized status in terms of
Australia's foreign investment policy.
   Aztec has 62% of Bounty Gold Mine and 20% of the Scuddles
Zinc Mine, both in Western Australia.
   Aztec also has interests in a number of other base metal
and gold exploration projects, including 24% of the Chessy
Copper zinc project in France.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Union Corp.:
   Quarter's Profit Rose 5.7%;
   Net Interest Income Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Union Corp. said second-quarter earnings rose 5.7%
to $78 million, or 72 cents a share, reflecting an increase
in net interest income.
   In the year-earlier period, the Charlotte, N.C., banking
company had net income of $74 million, or 69 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Union said the most recent quarter included an
after-tax gain of $7 million from the divestiture of 13
branches in Florida. The gain was offset by an addition of an
equivalent amount to the allowance for loan losses. The 1989
second quarter included after-tax gains of $2 million from
the sale of investment securities.
   Net interest income increased 20% to $352 million from
$293 million in the 1989 second quarter. Meanwhile,
nonperforming assets at the end of the most recent quarter
totaled $616 million, an increase of $114 million from the
end of the 1990 first quarter. Of the increase, $15 million
resulted from a special exam by the comptroller of the
currency. At the end of the 1989 second quarter, First Union
had nonperforming assets of $247 million.
   In the first half, First Union said earnings rose 2.3% to
$149.2 million, or $1.39 a share, from $145.9 million, or
$1.37 a share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Quaker Oats Co.:
   Fisher-Price Unit to Close
   Facility in Holland, N.Y.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   OAT
</CO>
<LP>
   Fisher-Price, a unit Quaker Oats Co., said it plans to
close its Holland, N.Y., manufacturing plant, idling 475
employees at the facility.
   Fisher-Price, the troubled toy business of the
Chicago-based packaged foods concern, also said it has
eliminated 245 jobs at its headquarters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fisher-Price said the plant closing, which will occur
gradually between September and November, was necessary
because of excess capacity throughout its manufacturing
system and the continued decline in sales volume. The plant
makes a variety of plastic toys.
   The reduction in the headquarters staff was to "align the
size of our work force with the smaller size of our
business," Fisher-Price said.
   Fisher-Price said it will maintain a staff of 950
employees at its headquarters in East Aurora, N.Y. Following
the work force reductions, the company said its total staff
will be about 6,400.
   A spokesman for Quaker Oats said a charge will be taken in
connection with the closing. He added that "we will disclose
all write-downs associated with the {planned} Fisher-Price
spinoff when we announce year-end results for fiscal 1990."
As reported, Quaker Oats's board announced in April a plan to
spin off the Fisher-Price division to stockholders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kimberly-Clark Corp.:
   Operating Profit Increased
   By 23% in Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   KMB
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kimberly-Clark Corp. said operating earnings for the
second quarter rose 23% to $124.4 million, or $1.56 a share,
before a one-time charge.
   The charge of $44 million, or 55 cents a share, was
related to the pending sale of a Canadian unit, Spruce Falls
Power &amp; Paper Co. The charge caused net income to decline 21%
to $80.5 million, or $1.01 a share, from $101.3 million, or
$1.26 a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The operating earnings exceeded analysts' expectations and
the stock market reacted enthusiastically. The stock soared
$4.625 to $82.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday.
   Analysts attributed the earnings surge to strong sales of
Kimberly-Clark's disposable diapers. The Dallas-based paper
and consumer products company said sales for the quarter rose
15% to $1.61 billion from $1.4 billion in the 1989 period.
   Operating results set records for the both the quarter and
the first half. Excluding the second-quarter charge, net
income for the six months improved 18% to $241.6 million, or
$3.02 per share. Revenue was up 13% to $3.19 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Turner Corp. Unit Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TUR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Turner Corp. said its Turner Construction Co.
unit won seven construction contracts in the San Francisco
Bay area totaling $110 million in June.
   It said the contracts were a result of the unit's
expansion efforts in San Jose. For all of last year, Turner,
the nation's largest general builder, completed $3.6 billion
of work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Apple Computer Inc.:
   Concern Will Let Bitstream
   Sell Its Font Technology
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AAPL ADBE
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, Calif., lobbed another
volley in the font wars by agreeing to allow Bitstream Inc.
to sell Apple's font technology, programs that determine how
computers represent text on computer screens and printers.
   Apple is trying to win converts to its font software from
Adobe Systems Inc., the leader of the market for font
software, which is essential in desktop publishing. Apple,
one of Adobe's biggest customers, caused a stir in the
personal-computer world last year when it and Microsoft Corp.
announced they would offer a product rivaling Adobe's
Postscript font software.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Apple's agreement with Bitstream will allow Bitstream to
license Apple's font product, called TrueType, to hundreds
manufacturers and software developers. Bitstream, a
Cambridge, Mass., software concern, now licenses fonts to
more than 370 companies around the world. Apple said it hopes
to "extend the reach" of TrueType in the personal-computer
market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   YELTSIN QUIT the Soviet Communist Party as a wave of
defections loomed.
   Just as Gorbachev seemed to have stitched the divided
party together, the Soviet president's toughest radical
opponent started tearing it apart, perhaps for good. Yeltsin,
a former Politburo member recently elected president of the
Russian republic, has a huge popular following. Within an
hour of his announcement, several leaders of the party's
radical Democratic Platform group told a party congress they
were formally splitting and planned to set up an independent
party.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yeltsin may be better attuned to the Soviet mood than
Gorbachev. Wednesday's strike by coal miners was driven by
demands for a revamping of the party along lines proposed by
Yeltsin.
   ---
   STRIKERS ENDED their often-violent walkout after Managua
made concessions.
   As the price for her own political survival, Nicaragua's
President Chamorro agreed to key wage and economic demands of
the pro-Sandinista unions that led the 10-day strike, which
brought gun battles to the streets of the capital. Public
employees won an immediate 43% pay raise and another,
unspecified raise to come next month. The government agreed
not to fire those taking part in what it had declared an
illegal walkout and said it will pay compensation to 800
people who had been fired since April.
   The strikers also forced the U.S.-supported conservative
government to back down on its proposal to return lands that
were confiscated in the 1979 revolution.
   ---
   A Senate committee decided against providing any money to
put nuclear-tipped MX missiles on specially equipped trains.
The decision by the Senate Armed Services Committee, which is
racing to complete a Pentagon spending bill, was a
repudiation of a key part of the Bush administration's
nuclear-weapons policies.
   ---
   The FDA unveiled proposed regulations to change the
labeling of food products, including requirements that
nutritional information be provided for fresh produce and
seafood, and on levels of fat, cholesterol and fiber. One of
the proposed changes would create new definitions for claims
concerning cholesterol levels.
   ---
   The House approved legislation designed to bar
discrimination against disabled people. Lawmakers voted
377-28 to approve a version of the measure cleared by
House-Senate conferees, who cleared language protecting food
handlers with AIDS. The bill is expected to pass in the
Senate and win Bush's signature.
   ---
   Scientists said that as many as 13,500 Washington state
residents may have received significant doses of radiation by
drinking milk contaminated by radiation released from the
Hanford Nuclear Reservation, a major site for nuclear weapons
development since World War II. The Hanford facility has been
closed since late 1988.
   ---
   Researchers reported that they used a new genetically
engineered protein in rats as a way of limiting the damage of
a heart attack, and they suggested the protein could do the
same in humans. The research also could lead to new therapies
for arthritis, as well as other inflammatory diseases, the
scientists suggested.
   ---
   The House approved a $30.8 billion transportation bill
increasing federal highway assistance but imposing penalties
on states failing to enact laws revoking the licenses of
drivers convicted on drug charges. Separately, a House panel
passed a $170.4 billion measure including funds for schools
and medical research.
   ---
   Some 4,500 Albanian refugees were due to arrive at an
Italian port city today aboard five ships. The boatlift to
Brindisi was organized to alleviate a two-week crisis that
began when the Albanians stormed Western embassies in their
capital, Tirana, in a bid to flee the hard-line Communist
nation.
   ---
   The Senate Judiciary Committee cleared legislation
requiring each federal trial court to adopt a plan for
cutting costs and delays. It also would create 77 new federal
judgeships, which congressional leaders say are needed to
tackle backlogs in the nation's courts. The bill is expected
to be passed by the full Senate.
   ---
   The FCC endorsed an internal agency report that supports
legislation passed by Congress in 1988 seeking to ban
indecent broadcasts 24 hours a day. A current ban prevents
any indecent broadcasts before 8 p.m.
   ---
   Tamil rebels overran a Sri Lankan army camp and killed 58
soldiers, according to military officials. It was the first
major victory for the insurgents since fighting resumed last
month. Only two soldiers were reported to have survived the
assault.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Medical Enterprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NME
</CO>
<LP>
   SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- National Medical Enterprises Inc.
said it plans to spend about $37.2 million to expand three
psychiatric hospitals and to build two new hospitals and a
new alcohol and substance-abuse treatment center.
   National Medical, a health-care services concern, said it
is constructing new 80-bed psychiatric hospitals in
Indianapolis and in Topeka, Kan. The new 44-bed alcohol and
substance abuse hospital is in Seattle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Accor S.A. to Pay
   Nearly $1.3 Billion
   To Buy Motel 6
   ----
   By George Anders and Alfredo Corchado
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ACC SIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Accor S.A., a French hotel, catering and tourism company,
announced a definitive agreement to buy Motel 6 L.P. of
Dallas for $22.50 a unit, or nearly $1.3 billion.
   The acquisition will make Accor one of the world's largest
lodging companies, operating hotels and motels with more than
160,000 rooms. Accor already operates Sofitel and Novotel
hotels, as well as Formula 1 motels in Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction also means a windfall for Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co., which owns more than 50% of Motel 6 through
various partnerships. KKR acquired Motel 6 in 1985 for $125
million in equity and $756 million in debt. It said it
expects to cash out with an annualized profit of 38% on its
investment.
   Accor said that no later than Wednesday, it will begin a
tender offer for Motel 6's more than 55 million fully diluted
limited partnership interests. Accor said its deal is fully
financed. It also said Motel 6's existing $1 billion of debt
will be left outstanding. Including Motel 6's debt, the
entire transaction has a value of $2.3 billion.
   Word of the Motel 6 transaction apparently had begun to
seep into the stock market yesterday afternoon. Motel 6's
units rose $2.625 each to $19.25 on brisk volume of 1.5
million units in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The transaction wasn't announced until about an hour after
the market closed.
   "I think the French company will find that they made an
excellent acquisition," said Burland B. East III, an analyst
at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards &amp; Co. He praised Motel 6 as
"the McDonald's of the motel business. They are the cheapest
chain in America that provides a highly consistent product.
You always know what to expect."
   Accor is paying a hefty price for Motel 6 though. For
1989, Motel 6 had net income of just $7 million, or 14 cents
a unit, on revenue of $424.7 million.
   As a highly leveraged partnership, Motel 6 has big charges
for interest and depreciation. So many analysts focus instead
on operating profit, or net plus interest expense, taxes and
depreciation. Even by that gauge, the total transaction value
amounts to a brisk 12 times 1989 operating profit of $189
million. For 1990, KKR forecasts operating profit of $216
million.
   In a statement, KKR partners Henry Kravis and George
Roberts said the transaction "makes strategic good sense for
both Motel 6 and Accor." They said that after five years of
their ownership of Motel 6, it is appropriate that "it become
part of a global lodging company with even greater resources
and growth potential."
   Recently, KKR has been scaling back its vast portfolio of
companies acquired in leveraged buy-outs during the past
decade. In May, KKR announced plans to sell its 50% interest
in Union Texas Petroleum Co. And in June, KKR agreed to sell
Beatrice Co., a major food company, to ConAgra Inc. for $1.34
billion.
   A KKR executive said the three sales announcements are
"coincidental" and shouldn't be seen as part of a broader
liquidation drive. KKR's typical holding period for a buy-out
is about five years, he observed, and several of KKR's
portfolio companies were acquired in 1985 or 1986, making
them ripe for sale.
   Since KKR acquired Motel 6 from City Investing Co. in
1985, the motel chain has expanded unusually briskly for a
leveraged company. Motel 6 has increased its motels to 554
from 378 before the buy-out and has expanded its payroll
nearly 50%, to more than 11,000 employees. The lodging chain
also has spent $700 million on expansion and renovation,
installing color televisions and phones in all its rooms.
   Bateman Eichler's Mr. East asserted that in the past few
years, Motel 6 has become "the best run lodging operation in
the country." Since the buy-out, Motel 6 said it has
increased its occupancy rate to about 77% from 67%.
   Under KKR's ownership, Motel 6 has added 30 to 50 motels a
year. But Saul Fox, a KKR associate, predicted that the
growth rate will increase to 75 a year under Accor. Mr. Fox
added that Accor's willingness to pay a premium price for the
company reflected "the growth potential that's still in the
business."
   Motel 6's president and chief executive officer, Joseph W.
McCarthy, said he will remain in charge of Motel 6 after the
acquisition. He added that while Motel 6 will have
"day-to-day autonomy," it also will swap technical expertise
with Accor's European operations.
   KKR's talks with Accor began in January, after an earlier
effort to find buyers for Motel 6 didn't produce any bidders.
Accor had targeted the U.S. for expansion, but it encountered
only limited success in opening its Sofitel and Novotel
hotels in North America.
   The Motel 6 deal "helps achieve our strategic plan to
establish Accor as the pre-eminent budget hotel company in
the world," said Accor's co-chairmen, Paul Debrule and Gerard
Pelisson.
   Accor is making its offer through a specially formed
subsidiary, IBL Acquisition L.P. The French company said it
expects the tender offer to close in August.
   In an unusual move, KKR first hired Salomon Brothers Inc.
to look for Motel 6 buyers, but then, at Accor's request,
negotiated the final transaction directly with Accor without
using any investment bank advisers. Accor was advised by
Euroforce Enterprises, a French consulting firm.
   If KKR's go-it-alone practice recurs, it could be sad news
for Wall Street. Over the past five years, KKR's blizzard of
purchases and divestitures has been far and away the biggest
source of deal fees for the securities industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tricky Issue:
   Thrift Scandal, Viewed
   As Political Dynamite,
   Is Slow to Detonate
   ---
   Democrats Are Being Hurt
   As Much as Republicans;
   Public Blames the S&amp;Ls
   ---
   `Dirty Laundry on Both Sides'
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The savings-and-loan scandal would seem to be a golden
issue for Tim Roemer, the Democratic nominee against
Republican Rep. John Hiler of Indiana. Rep. Hiler serves on
the House Banking Committee, has voted with and received
campaign contributions from the thrift industry, and has
never had an easy race since his 1980 election.
   But the Democrat has a problem: His most recent job was
working for Arizona Sen. Dennis DeConcini, one of the
now-notorious Keating Five group of lawmakers accused of
intervening with regulators on behalf of a high-powered
thrift executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Roemer's predicament symbolizes Democrats'
frustrations over the S&amp;L issue so far this year. On the
surface, the issue seems heaven-sent: a hugely expensive
scandal they can argue was nurtured during Republican
administrations, was made possible by Republican policies and
has gotten worse since a Republican president declared last
year that it was fixed.
   But so far, the Democrats have had little success at
translating outrage at the scandal into a political issue.
And where it has emerged as an issue, they have been just as
likely as Republicans to be hurt by it. After all, former
House Speaker James Wright and former House Democratic Whip
Tony Coehlo were both closely identified with the S&amp;L crisis,
and four of the Keating Five are Democrats. Moreover, many
Democrats in Congress voted for some of the legislation now
being blamed for helping cause the crisis.
   A new nationwide Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll points
up both the potential and the problems that the thrift crisis
holds for Democrats. The poll shows that by a margin of 39%
to 17%, voters hold the GOP more responsible than the
Democrats for the crisis. And they are evenly split over
President Bush's handling of the problem; 38% approve, 37%
disapprove.
   Yet the survey also shows that a majority of voters blame
the crisis much more on thrift-industry executives than on
anyone in Washington, Republican or Democrat. And in an
especially disheartening finding for the Democrats, voters
split almost evenly over whether they trust the GOP or the
Democrats more to handle the crisis.
   Over the long run, however, many observers think the
crisis will benefit the Democrats. Democratic National
Chairman Ron Brown has already issued a clarion call to his
party's candidates to seize on the scandal, and GOP political
theorist Kevin Phillips says "the general context helps the
Democrats." The issue has emerged in a half-dozen to a dozen
congressional races this year and is likely to be even more
important in 1992. "It's an issue that's only going to get
bigger," says Ed Rollins, co-chairman of the Republicans'
House campaign committee.
   The pollsters who conducted the Journal/NBC survey, Peter
Hart, a Democrat, and Robert Teeter, a Republican, say voters
"have figured out the villains, and they want to punish them.
They see no heroes, but above all they don't want to get
penalized or have to pay for the greed of others."
   Clearly, the poll shows that many voters are angry at the
thrift industry -- and aren't very happy about the Bush
administration's approach to the problem so far. By 79% to
13%, they favor appointing a special prosecutor to
investigate the industry, and by 60% to 30% they would favor
doubling the number of federal auditors examining thrifts'
books.
   Moreover, 43% even favor getting rid of S&amp;Ls entirely by
forcing them to become commercial banks; about the same
percentage oppose such a step. A substantial majority, 57%,
opposes reducing federal deposit insurance from the current
$100,000 per account, a level that some experts believe
contributed to the crisis. Some GOP lawmakers at least
privately favor reducing the coverage.
   Some of that voter anger was evident at a Fourth of July
parade in Molalla, Ore. "All of those S&amp;L crooks should be in
jail," declared Richard Cutler, a retired postal worker in
Salem. Yet even as Mr. Cutler was talking, two people passing
before him showed how the issue hasn't yet matured
politically.
   The two were GOP Rep. Denny Smith and his opponent, Mike
Kopetski, who represents one of the Democrats' best shots at
using the S&amp;L crisis to knock off a GOP incumbent.
   The ammunition is there. Until 1987, Rep. Smith was a
director of an Oregon thrift that crashed, costing the
government $113 million. He also lobbied with regulators on
behalf of S&amp;L executives who contributed to his campaign, and
he sought immunity from lawsuits for himself and other thrift
directors. He denies any wrongdoing but concedes that his
membership on the board of American Federal Savings &amp; Loan of
Salem was unwise "because it's a perceived conflict of
interest."
   Yet so far, at least, the issue doesn't seem to be cutting
very deeply. Fairly typical is the attitude of Roger Jordan,
city manager of the Oregon town of Dallas, where one local
thrift failed and was later sold. "All of us are touched by
it, but I don't have anyone to blame," he says.
   Some Democratic strategists believe Mr. Kopetski should do
something dramatic, such as filing an ethics complaint
against Rep. Smith. But Kopetski aides say they think
criticisms of Rep. Smith would have much more credibility if
someone else -- the media, or people hurt directly by the
demise of the institution on whose board Rep. Smith sat --
makes a case against him.
   That way, they say, the issue would have more punch when
Mr. Kopetski does take it up directly. "It's a legitimate
issue, and I'm sure it will be used in our campaign," says
the candidate, who came within 707 votes of beating Rep.
Smith in 1988. "But it will be used later."
   In contrast to Mr. Kopetski, Indiana challenger Mr. Roemer
has tried to make the thrift crisis an issue against Rep.
Hiler. But his attacks so far have misfired. After a
newspaper published an interview in which the Democrat
assailed Mr. Hiler for voting with the thrift industry on a
crucial issue, Mr. Hiler was able to rebut the charge by
noting that the vote in question took place before he was
elected. (Mr. Roemer says he was misquoted.)
   Rep. Hiler and his campaign aides are hitting back,
stressing Mr. Roemer's own vulnerabilities. "He was under the
tutelage of the master of the S&amp;Ls -- Dennis DeConcini," says
Pat Hinton, Rep. Hiler's campaign manager. (Mr. Roemer
stresses that he didn't advise the senator on banking
matters.) This week, the Hiler campaign began airing
television spots attacking Mr. Roemer's credibility on the
S&amp;L issue.
   In California's Central Valley, there's another likely GOP
target, Rep. Charles "Chip" Pashayan. In 1986, Mr. Pashayan
received $26,000 in campaign contributions from Charles
Keating and his associates. But virtually the only time
Democratic challenger Calvin Dooley publicly raised the issue
was at a recent press conference -- in Washington.
   Some Republicans, of course, also have been maladroit in
firing S&amp;L salvos. Although Texas Democratic Rep. Jim
Chapman's 1985 campaign benefited from independent
expenditures from S&amp;L political action committees that are
currently under federal investigation, his GOP opponent,
businessman Hamp Hodges, says he needs more time to research
the matter before he uses it in his campaign.
   While challengers are still figuring out how to capitalize
on the issue, some Democratic incumbents have problems of
their own. Once seen as a plum assignment, serving as a
senior Democrat on the House Banking Committee has now become
a political liability for Illinois Rep. Frank Annunzio, who
heads the National Republican Congressional Committee's list
of targeted incumbents.
   "As current chairman of the House subcommittee that
oversees the savings and loan industry, Frank Annunzio is
part of the savings and loan problem," charges his opponent,
Republican state Sen. Walter Dudycz. For his part, Rep.
Annunzio says Republicans are after him because he held
highly publicized hearings on possible misconduct by the
president's son, Neil Bush, as director of a failed S&amp;L.
   Rep. Annunzio's northwest Chicago district is generally
considered a Democratic stronghold, and many voters there
take attitudes similar to that of Wayne Hanson, a management
representative for a painting and drywall company. "There's
dirty laundry that can always be found on both sides," he
says.
   Still, the crusty, 75-year-old Rep. Annunzio is concerned
enough that he recently committed an act of political
exorcism. He had the portrait of former Banking Committee
Chairman Fernand St Germain, a Rhode Island Democrat and a
major figure in the S&amp;L debacle, removed from the committee
room. In its place, Mr. Annunzio hung a white banner that
blared PUT THE S&amp;L CROOKS IN JAIL.
   Banking Committee Democrats are also coming under fire for
their access to political contributions from the thrift
industry. In Georgia, Sam Jones, a former minister and family
counselor favored to win next week's Republican primary, has
put up billboards urging Democratic Rep. Doug Barnard to give
back $20,000 that he received from Mr. Keating and his
associates in 1986. "Either Mr. Barnard was asleep at the
wheel or he was taking a little payola," Mr. Jones says.
   Rep. Barnard, though, believes that the issue hasn't
caught on in his district. Voters are saying "very little" to
him about the S&amp;Ls, he says, because "they don't understand
the problem." Although he says "I'm not trying to minimize
the intellect of the voters," he believes that most lack the
"time and inclination" to examine the issue and decide who's
at fault.
   If that is true, it has worked, at least so far, to
President Bush's advantage. The Journal/NBC survey shows that
only a tiny 3% minority currently believe that Mr. Bush is
most responsible for the S&amp;L mess.
   But many observers expect that figure to rise as time goes
on, the problems become more apparent and the political anger
rises. If so, Democratic Chairman Brown hopes that the issue
will someday evolve into a major weapon against the
Republicans. Ultimately, he predicts, Mr. Bush is going to be
"in real trouble."
   ---
      Which party do you feel is more responsible for
     The savings and loan problems facing the country?
                                                                                                       

   Democrats .................... 17%
                                                                                                       

   Republicans .................. 39%
                                                                                                       

   Both equally (volunteered) ... 15%
                                                                                                       

   Neither (volunteered) ........  8%
                                                                                                       

       Which party do you trust more to determine the

                                                                                                       

   Democrats .................... 30%
                                                                                                       

   Republicans .................. 31%
                                                                                                       

   Both equally (volunteered) ...  6%
                                                                                                       

   Neither (volunteered) ........ 17%
                                                                                                       

   Do you approve or disapprove of the job president Bush
     Is doing in handling the savings and loan problem?
                                                                                                       

   Approve ...................... 38%
                                                                                                       

   Disapprove ................... 37%
                                                                                                       

   THE WALL STREET JOURNAL/NBC NEWS POLL
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup's Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   NII PPA+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc. said it extended to
July 31 its tender offer for the cumulative convertible
preference units of Permian Partners Limited Partnership.
   The offer, for $3.85 a unit, was set to expire last
Wednesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Intergroup is a steel, retail and wholesale drug
distribution concern. Permian Partners is a limited
partnership involved in oil and gas gathering and marketing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bouygues Wins Thai Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST F.BOU
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Bouygues S.A. said it won a contract valued at
one billion francs ($179.9 million) to build eight factories
in Thailand for a local developer.
   The public works and construction group said the factories
are part of the first phase in the construction of a town
called Muang Thong Thani between Bangkok and its airport.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contract was awarded by Bangkok Land, which is
investing the equivalent of 1.7 billion francs in the
project. Bouygues will be responsible for designing and
building the eight facilities, which are to house light
industries.
   Bouygues said the project will be financed by Credit
Lyonnais, Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank and Bangkok Bank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korea's Auto Exports
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.HYU FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea's car exports in June
increased 120% to 27,240 from May but declined 2.2% from a
year earlier, the Trade and Industry Ministry said.
   Officials said the increase from the previous month owed
largely to a lack of labor strikes at auto plants. In May,
strikes were under way at Hyundai Motor Co.'s plant in Ulsan,
southeast of Seoul, and at other auto makers. Hyundai's
shipment to the U.S. of a new subcompact model, Scoupe, also
contributed to the June increase in exports. Hyundai is the
largest of South Korea's five auto makers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first six months, exports of South Korean-made
vehicles fell 32% to 125,282, compared with a year earlier;
most of the shipments were said to be cars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management Co. Interest
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEG GE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Management Co. Entertainment Group said it
will delay a semiannual interest payment of about $1.4
million due Sunday on convertible subordinated debentures due
2009.
   The entertainment concern is currently in discussions with
G.E. Capital, a unit of General Electric Corp., about
extending and restructuring $72.5 million of bridge and
credit loans that mature tomorrow. G.E. Capital took steps to
block Management Co.'s interest payment to bondholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Tuesday, G.E. Capital advanced the company about $3
million to meet certain obligations of Management Co.'s
United Kingdom subsidiary.
   Management Co. is also negotiating with Virgin Group Ltd.,
a creditor and the largest shareholder of the company, about
restructuring and extending its debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   ABF FNG CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Airborne Freight Corp., proposed offering of 2.5 million
shares of common stock, via a group led by Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co.
                                                                                                       

   American Plastics Recycling Group Ltd., initial offering
of 900,000 common shares, via Paragon Capital Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Canada's Province of Quebec, shelf offering of up to
$1,249,270,000 of debt securities and warrants to purchase
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc., shelf offering of up
to $700 million of senior or subordinated debt securities and
warrants to purchase senior or subordinarted debt securities,
via Salomon Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and
others.
                                                                                                       

   Mountain States Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., a unit of U S
West Inc., shelf offering of up to $500 million of debt
securities.
                                                                                                       

   Radius Inc., initial offering of three million common
shares, of which two million will be sold by Radius and one
million by holders, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. Inc. and
Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Rocky Mountain Helicopters Inc., initial offering of 1.5
million common shares, of which 1.2 million will be sold by
the company and 300,000 shares by holders, via Blunt Ellis &amp;
Loewi Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Sauer Inc., initial offering of four million common
shares, of which one million is to be sold in the U.S., with
700,000 shares sold by the company and 300,000 by holders,
via Merrill Lynch and BV Capital Markets Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Denning Mobile Robotics Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   GARD
</CO>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Mass. -- Denning Mobile Robotics Inc. said it
agreed with closely held Windsor Industries Inc., Englewood,
Colo., to complete development of a self-navigating robot
scrubber for cleaning commercial buildings.
   Denning also said Windsor will fund development of a
vacuuming robot. It said Windsor could buy thousands of the
vehicles over the next five years. An official of Windsor
said it hopes to start marketing the robot scrubbers next
year. The companies declined to disclose financial details.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Acme United's U.K. Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ACU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- Acme United Corp., a producer of
surgical equipment and household shears, scissors and rulers,
said it paid $800,000 for the business and facilities of
Homeric Ltd., a scissors manufacturer in Sheffield, England.
   Acme said it is strengthening its European operations. The
company purchased Emil Schlemper G.m.b.H., a German scissors
manufacturer, in December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lord Rayner Plans
   To Resign His Post
   At Marks &amp; Spencer
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MAR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Lord Rayner, chairman of Marks &amp; Spencer PLC, is
to resign on March 31, 1991, the end of the company's current
fiscal year and the day after his 65th birthday.
   In a statement, the company said Richard Greenbury, chief
executive officer, would succeed Lord Rayner as chairman.
Lord Rayner, who joined the company in 1953 and has been
chairman since July 1984, will also retire from the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Addressing the annual meeting yesterday, Lord Rayner said
Marks &amp; Spencer's broad-based merchandising strengths mean
the company "has no need to join the list of retailers
forecasting disappointing results."
   Lord Rayner said that, in common with the rest of the
British retailing industry, furniture sales are slow in
center-city outlets but are performing well in other areas.
Unseasonal weather in June depressed sales of summer-fashion
goods, he said, but other departments -- including lingerie,
socks, underwear, and clothing for children and babies -- are
making "substantial gains."
   The company is investing 350 million pounds (about $630
million) in the United Kingdom this year and will open
450,000 square feet of selling space. The property portfolio,
consisting of owned and long-lease properties in prime
retailing positions, represents a major strength, the
official noted.
   Overseas, expansion is planned in continental Europe,
where about 40 new stores are scheduled to be opened in the
next five years. Sales in the company's four Hong Kong stores
for the fiscal year to date are more than double last year's
level.
   In Japan, sales are 30% above year-earlier levels, Lord
Rayner said. Full-year sales in North America are expected to
exceed 500,000 pounds ($895,000), he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Handicapped Entrepreneur Struggles to Win SBA Loan
   ---
   He Persuades Influential Friends
   But So Far Fails to Convince Government
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux and Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Bruce McNeil reached eighth grade unable to read, was mute
until he turned 14 and has an IQ of only 79.
   Today, he runs his own business. The mentally handicapped
entrepreneur's struggle to get a Small Business
Administration loan has won support from political
celebrities all the way up to Sen. Edward Kennedy. But his
plight now also raises the question of how far the government
should go to help handicapped business owners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Having built up a small seasonal house-cleaning service
with nine employees, the Gloucester, Mass., business owner
wants to move up in the world by starting a laundry business
as well.
   He has enlisted help from a host of impressive supporters,
including Sen. Kennedy, Sen. John F. Kerry, also a
Massachusetts Democrat, a state senator and the mayor of his
home town. He has appeared on "Good Morning America" and
local radio talk shows to plead his case. And he has
ingratiated himself with dozens of executives who lend their
support.
   Since applying for the loan, Mr. McNeil has convinced all
sorts of people that he can run the laundry -- but not the
agency that can grant the loan -- the SBA.
   "Our agency is very interested in helping people," says
Richard Tomeo, assistant director for finance and investment
in the SBA's district office in Boston. "But we can't use
U.S. taxpayers' money for a business that just doesn't make
sense from a financial point of view."
   The agency, whose loan officers sympathize with Mr.
McNeil, insists that Mr. McNeil's mental handicap has nothing
to do with its decision.
   In March, Mr. McNeil applied for a $200,000 loan under the
SBA's handicapped loan program, one of the SBA's few direct
loan programs. Most small businesses apply for a loan
guarantee from the SBA and borrow from a private bank.
   The SBA declined Mr. McNeil's application in May for a
variety of reasons. The loan committee said Mr. McNeil's
projections for sales for his wash-and-fold laundry delivery
service were "unrealistic."
   But disappointments aren't new to the 30-year-old Mr.
McNeil. Therapy improved his speech problem, but his IQ as a
young person tested as low as 37. A doctor's report places
him at "borderline mental retardation" today. The average IQ
is 100. (Many individuals in his IQ range, of course, hold
jobs, though usually not highly skilled ones.)
   "Until you really have an extensive conversation with
Bruce, you don't realize he has a disability," says Marc
Sandler, Mr. McNeil's attorney.
   Mr. McNeil says a drinking problem that started at age 15
pushed him onto the streets of Salem, Mass., where he lived
18 months until a friend took him in. He worked odd jobs as a
maintenance worker, always earning below minimum wage.
   Finally, fed up with the system, he developed his own
business niche-cleaning windows. The business succeeded, and
Mr. McNeil hired part-time workers with backgrounds like his
own.
   The nine part-time disadvantaged employees at Mr. McNeil's
10-year-old house-cleaning service include former substance
abusers, high school dropouts and the disabled. They earn
between $6 and $15 an hour, based on productivity.
   The business, however, is seasonal. Summer residents of
the blue-collar fishing town of Gloucester, located an hour
northeast of Boston, use Mr. McNeil's services more
frequently than year-round residents. Mr. McNeil says he has
20 regular customers a month and last year had revenue of
about $32,000.
   His proposed business faces plenty of obstacles. The SBA
said his potential customers were "unsubstantiated" and that
his "collateral, considered along with other credit factors,
is not deemed sufficient to protect the interest of the
government."
   But Mr. McNeil and his coalition of business backers has
doggedly disagreed with the SBA's reasoning. His request --
now for $140,000 in anticipation of a mortgage arrangement
with another bank -- has since been forwarded to the SBA's
regional office for reconsideration. A decision is expected
sometime this month.
   Even if the SBA granted the loan today, though, it has no
money to give Mr. McNeil, since it has already approved
roughly $1.7 million in loans that it must wait until next
fiscal year to pay.
   Indeed, the budget for the handicap direct loan program
has been halved to $12 million in the past decade, and there
is a subtle move within the Office of Management and Budget,
say SBA officials, to gradually get the SBA out of the direct
loan business.
   Nonetheless, Mr. McNeil has gotten plenty of outside help.
His lawyer, Mr. Sandler, contends the entrepreneur's
projections were based on market surveys prepared by Burkelen
Inc. of Gloucester and consultations from Ben Fitzhebert,
owner of a major laundry business serving the North Shore in
Boston.
   Mr. Sandler says the SBA's request to demonstrate average
business of 2,180 loads per month couldn't be fulfilled in
time to meet its deadline. Further, he argues, several
potential clients -- including the Portsmouth naval shipyard
in Kittery, Maine -- have said they would consider Mr.
McNeil's bids for their business.
   The SBA argues in a June 8 letter to Mr. McNeil that the
liquidation value of the real estate, building, machinery and
equipment for Mr. McNeil's company is $78,787, not nearly
enough to cover the SBA's risk. Mr. Sandler argues that his
calculations put the figure at $125,200 for the building and
$49,750 for the washers, dryers and three vehicles.
   One reason for the difference in estimates, Mr. Sandler
argues, is discounts being given to Mr. McNeil. For example,
Eastco, a Whirlpool authorized distributor, has offered to
sell Mr. McNeil washers and dryers at wholesale cost. The
Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commission also has given Mr.
McNeil a $25,000 grant to support his laundry business.
   Finally, Mr. Sandler points to a clause in the application
regulations for handicap loans that regards loan repayment:
"Reasonable doubt shall be resolved in favor of the
applicant."
   But the SBA says there is no doubt in the committee's mind
at this point that his business won't be able to repay the
loan. Nevertheless, "He has been single-purposed in his
approach," says Mr. Tomeo.
   When projections on paper weren't enough to convince the
SBA, Mr. McNeil wrote letters to politicians, including the
president. An aide to Sen. Kennedy has called the SBA office
several times "trying to make sure they're really listening
and not just putting him through the rote process," says
Andrea Yakovakis, a staff assistant in Sen. Kennedy's office.
   Sen. Kennedy's office has received letters from Gloucester
Mayor William B. Squillace and Massachusetts Sen. Fred Berry
(D., Essex) in support of Mr. McNeil. The office has also
received two petitions totaling 60 names from Heritage
Industries in Peabody and St. Peter's Church in Salem.
Despite the good faith, the SBA says, none of Mr. McNeil's
supporters can guarantee repayment.
   Professionals who work free or at discounted rates for Mr.
McNeil concede he has a creative knack for bending ears. Mr.
Sandler, his attorney, started out representing Mr. McNeil
before a zoning board. "I just couldn't bail out at that
point," says Mr. Sandler.
   "He's a rare individual," says Howard Frisch, an
accountant with Horvitz &amp; Frisch. Less than a week after
receiving a call from Mr. McNeil, Mr. Frisch provided him
with a balance sheet and projected income statement.
   "The business has a reasonable growth path, and he is
within the competitive price range," says Mr. Frisch, who
projects Mr. McNeil's first-year gross sales to be $189,000.
"He's such an aggressive talker, he just may make it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shadow Life:
   Hollywood Figure
   Has Criminal Past, Alleged
   Links With Mobsters
   ---
   Dino Conte, a Co-Producer
   Of `Another 48 Hours,'
   Denies Such Assertions
   ---
   A Prison Term for Conspiracy
   ----
   By John R. Emswhiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- D. Constantine Conte lives in two worlds.
   One is filled with the big money and beautiful people of
Hollywood, where Mr. Conte, a six-foot, 200-pound man,
hobnobs with movie stars and movie makers, such as Nick Nolte
and Dino DiLaurentiis. In this world, Mr. Conte, known as
Dino to friends, is a successful Hollywood producer, whose
credits include "48 Hours" and "Conan the Barbarian." He's
the man who co-produced "Another 48 Hours," the just-released
sequel starring Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte. And he's the man
who, friends say, is generous and trustworthy, who always has
a kind word for a secretary and whose mother lives at his
home. "There will be a seat reserved in Valhalla for Dino
Conte," says John Milius, the movie director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But then there's the other world. In this one, Dino Conte
is a convicted felon and onetime confederate of a reputed New
York City mobster. He also has been the subject of periodic
surveillance by law enforcement authorities worried that mob
infiltration of Hollywood is increasing. Their internal
reports allege that Mr. Conte has had associations with
reputed mob figures.
   Mr. Conte declined to be interviewed about his past or the
allegations about him. His lawyer, Allan Sigel, would only
communicate by letter. He says his client is a "respected
member of the movie industry" and the victim of
"misinformation and false statements of fact."
   Yet the suggestion that Mr. Conte hasn't associated with
criminal figures is repeatedly challenged by law enforcement
reports, business records and, in at least one case, by a
former criminal himself -- Dennis Tinerino. Mr. Tinerino was
convicted of conspiracy in 1978, about the same time he
shared an office address with Mr. Conte in Beverly Hills.
While Mr. Conte's lawyer says Mr. Conte doesn't know the man,
Mr. Tinerino remembers otherwise: "I used to see Dino all the
time," Mr. Tinerino says in an interview. "We used to hang
out together at Pips Club," a Los Angeles restaurant and
social club. Mr. Conte also tried helping him with a
movie-related business venture, he says.
   Mr. Conte hasn't been charged with any wrongdoing since he
moved west. He also went to the police in 1982 to assure them
he doesn't have any ties to the mob. At the same time, he
complained to the police about what he felt were untrue
statements they had made about him, according to a 1984
police report.
   Nonetheless, law enforcement officials have been
interested in his activities for years. What their
examinations have revealed, as recently as 1988, are
suspected connections -- some direct, some merely indirect --
between the well-known producer and organized crime figures,
according to law enforcement officials and internal
documents.
   Police concern about mob infiltration of Hollywood has a
long history. Back in the 1930s, the Chicago mob, which
infiltrated Hollywood's unions, extorted hundreds of
thousands of dollars from studios in return for promises of
labor peace, according to "Dark Victory," a book on the
entertainment industry by Dan Moldea. In the 1940s a top
industry official and two labor leaders were sent to jail for
the mob-related payoffs, and, in the years since, scandals
involving organized crime have periodically hit Hollywood.
   As for Mr. Conte, he has drawn police attention because of
his success, his past and the company that authorities say he
has kept. For instance, a 1988 Los Angeles police department
report asserts that the movie maker has a "close association"
with Vincent "Jimmy Blue Eyes" Alo, who, according to a
report submitted to the U.S. Senate by the New York Police
Department, is a reputed top member of New York's powerful
Genovese crime family. A 1983 Los Angeles district attorney's
office internal report identifies Mr. Conte as a suspected
"associate" of the Genovese family who reports to Mr. Alo.
And a 1984 Los Angeles police report says that, in his
meeting with police officers, Mr. Conte admitted to
"numerous" meetings with Mr. Alo but said they were simply to
discuss doing a movie or novel about Mr. Alo.
   However, Mr. Sigel, Mr. Conte's lawyer, says his client
has "never attended a meeting with a Mr. Alo" or been a
"business associate." Mr. Alo couldn't be located for comment
and a lawyer who has in the past represented him declined to
comment.
   William Jordan, a private investigator who says he has
worked on movie projects with Mr. Conte and who has in the
past helped the producer try to counter allegations about mob
connections, says in an interview that Mr. Conte isn't in
business with mobsters. He adds, though, that Mr. Conte has
met with suspected "low-level" mob figures. "He told me he
was just meeting with neighborhood friends from his
childhood," says Mr. Jordan, who adds that he advised the
producer to stop seeing those friends and believes Mr. Conte
followed that advice.
   Mr. Jordan also adds that his familiarity with Mr. Conte
goes back only to when the two met on a movie project in the
early- to mid-1970s. What happened before that, he isn't
entirely sure. "I don't know much about his past," he says.
   There are also indications that at least part of the
movie-industry establishment is aware of law enforcement
officials' interest in Mr. Conte. Several years ago,
investigators for the Los Angeles county district attorney
privately warned an outside attorney for Paramount Pictures
about Mr. Conte, according to a person familiar with the
meeting. Around the same time, Michael Eisner, then
Paramount's president, was contacted by police
organized-crime detectives who wanted to discuss Mr. Conte.
Mr. Eisner is now chairman of Walt Disney Co.
   Mr. Eisner, through a spokesman, says he only barely
recalls meeting with police and hasn't any reason to be
suspicious of Mr. Conte. Similarly, a Paramount spokeswoman
says her studio hasn't any reason to think Mr. Conte is
anything other than a respected movie producer.
   Mr. Conte keeps a relatively low profile. Studio releases
about his movies offer scant information about him, and even
his friends say they know little about his private life. "In
all the years I've worked with him, we haven't talked about
his past," says Kurt Neumann, an executive at Warner Bros.
   But from what can be pieced together from law enforcement
records and dozens of interviews with police, friends and
associates, Mr. Conte's biography goes something like this:
   A Greek-American, Mr. Conte was born in 1933 in New York
City. In one letter, Mr. Sigel, the attorney, says Mr. Conte
was "educated in Greek theater and drama," but didn't
elaborate.
   In his early life, Mr. Conte sometimes used the name Dino
Harris. As Dino Harris, he began working in the late 1950s at
various Manhattan bars. Roughly during this period, Mr. Conte
got to know Salvatore "Sally Burns" Granello, who is
identified in law enforcment reports as a member of the
Lucchese crime family. Mr. Conte is identified in law
enforcement documents as a suspected bodyguard for Mr.
Granello.
   In 1964, Mr. Conte and Mr. Granello were charged in New
York state court in Mineola, N.Y., with the attempted
extortion of a Long Island jukebox distributor. According to
New York state court records in the case, Mr. Granello and
some associates beat the businessman's wife with a pistol. A
Nassau County police officer, who reviewed the court records,
says Mr. Conte apparently wasn't present for the beating.
   Mr. Conte pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit extortion and was sentenced to six months in the
county jail. Mr. Granello was convicted and sentenced to 18
months in jail. But Mr. Granello would soon meet a savage
end: In 1970, he was found dead in the trunk of a car in
lower Manhattan, garrotted and shot four times in the head.
   Separately that same year, Mr. Conte also encountered new
trouble. Along with four others, he was indicted by a federal
grand jury in New York in connection with the interstate
theft of $271,000 in traveler's checks. Mr. Conte and his
co-defendants were part of a broader, nationwide securities
theft ring with ties to organized crime, according to
testimony presented at a 1971 Senate hearing by the confessed
leader of another theft ring, and according to materials
prepared by the staff of the Senate permanent subcommittee on
investigations.
   Mr. Conte again pleaded guilty to one conspiracy count and
in 1972 was sentenced to three years at a maximum-security
federal prison in Atlanta. He was released March 14, 1974,
with time off for good behavior.
   Around this time, Mr. Conte apparently began his film
career. A 1984 press release from Universal Pictures about a
Conte movie says Mr. Conte had been in the "production end of
film making for the past 14 years."
   An early patron was film maker  Dino DeLaurentiis, say
friends and associates of Mr. Conte. Larry Gleason, a
Paramount official, says Mr. DeLaurentiis once told him that
he and Mr. Conte first worked together on the 1972
DeLaurentiis movie "The Valachi Papers," a true-life story of
a mobster turned government witness. Mr. DeLaurentiis "didn't
say what Conte was doing on the movie," Mr. Gleason adds. Mr.
DeLaurentiis declined to be interviewed.
   By the late 1970s, Mr. Conte was working out of Mr.
DeLaurentiis's Beverly Hills office, according to a 1977
police report and movie-industry people who saw him there. On
a 1978 DeLaurentiis movie, "Brink's Job," Mr. Conte "was like
the troubleshooter . . . keeping an eye on things for Mr.
DeLaurentiis," recalls Domingo Rodriguez, a United Scenic
Artists union official who says he dealt with Mr. Conte.
   Law enforcement reports also assert that Mr. Conte has
been a close associate of an actor named Jude Farese, and was
connected through him to his brother Thomas Farese, who,
according to a 1988 report by the Senate permanent
subcommitee on investigations, is a member of New York's
Colombo crime family. A 1978 Los Angeles police report, for
instance, says Mr. Conte was the "exclusive" driver of a
Cadillac leased in the name of Jude Farese at a Florida
address used by Thomas Farese for a now-defunct company he
called Olympic Film Productions. The report says police
suspected Mr. Conte was helping run Olympic's Los Angeles
office for a time.
   Mr. Conte's lawyer says Mr. Conte has never heard of
Olympic Film. The producer didn't respond to an inquiry from
this newspaper about his alleged contact with the Fareses.
   Jude Farese, through his agent, declined to be interviewed
about Mr. Conte. "He says he knows where your questions are
going to lead and isn't interested in talking about it," the
agent says.
   Thomas Farese is currently in a Florida federal prison for
conspiracy to distribute marijuana. He couldn't be reached
for comment.
   Then there's Mr. Tinerino, who went to jail for conspiracy
and whom Mr. Conte, through his lawyer, says he doesn't know.
According to Los Angeles police reports and California state
corporation records, which list business addresses, Mr. Conte
had the same office address as Mr. Tinerino, who was a
principal in a large out-call massage service.
   In 1978, Mr. Tinerino pleaded guilty in a Los Angeles
state court to conspiracy to force acts of prostitution and
served four months in the county jail. Today he is in the
fitness-equipment business in the Los Angeles area. He says
that, though he shared an office address with Mr. Conte, it
was for separate companies and that Mr. Conte wasn't involved
in the out-call business. "He was very nice to me," says Mr.
Tinerino. He adds that Mr. Conte tried to help him market
sound equipment to the movie business and that the producer
even introduced him to Mr. DeLaurentiis. "I never asked him
how he got into the movie business and he never talked about
what he did before the movie business," says Mr. Tinerino.
   Mr. Conte's jump into the big time in motion pictures came
in 1982, when he received his first producer credits, on
three movies. Two were DeLaurentiis productions, "Conan the
Barbarian" and "Fighting Back." The third, "48 Hours," was a
Paramount production.
   The Los Angeles County district attorney seemed
particularly interested in Mr. Conte's involvement in "48
Hours." A person familiar with the matter says the district
attorney's office was concerned how someone with Mr. Conte's
background could gain such a prominent role on a major movie.
   Two district attorney investigators eventually met with
Alan Croll, an outside attorney for Paramount, to deliver
what one person familiar with the meeting calls "a friendly
warning" to the studio about Mr. Conte. Over lunch at the
Playboy Club, the district attorney's men laid out Mr.
Conte's criminal past and suggested Paramount might want to
do its own review of the producer, says this person. Mr.
Croll thanked them for the information but never got back to
the investigators, this person adds. Mr. Croll declines to
comment on the meeting.
   The movie "48 Hours" would prove a big hit for Mr. Conte
and for its co-star, Nick Nolte. By all accounts, Mr. Nolte
and Mr. Conte are very close friends, and the producer at
times acts as an unofficial agent for the actor. Matt Cimber,
a local television producer, says Mr. Conte once told him,
"if I ever got anything good for Nick {in the way of scripts}
to get it over to him right away."
   During these years, Mr. Conte was also getting to know
people such as Donald Simpson. Mr. Simpson is currently one
of Hollywood's hottest producers, thanks to big-hit credits
such as "Top Gun," "Flashdance" and "Beverly Hills Cop." Mr.
Simpson was the head of production at Paramount in the early
1980s, and it was back then that he allegedly went to Mr.
Conte seeking help in a dispute with a man named Martin
Bacow.
   The 68-year-old Mr. Bacow freely admits to having known
organized-crime figures for most of his life, though he
insists he has never been involved in illegal activities. He
has also been under federal investigation over whether he
used organized-crime and union ties to extort money from
movie companies in return for labor peace -- a charge he
denies.
   Mr. Bacow says in an interview that in the early 1980s he
was doing work at Paramount when he and Mr. Simpson had a
falling out over business issues. Mr. Bacow claims that Mr.
Simpson was sufficiently worried that he sought protection
from Mr. Conte.
   Mr. Bacow says he first learned of the alleged meeting
between Messrs. Simpson and Conte from two members of the Los
Angeles police organized-crime unit he knew. "They told me
they had gone to see Simpson and that he admitted it. He said
he was afraid I was going to have him killed," says Mr.
Bacow, who adds that the fear was unfounded.
   One of those police officials, David Powers, confirms that
he and his partner did interview Mr. Simpson and, separately,
Mr. Eisner, who was Mr. Simpson's boss at the time. Mr.
Powers says police department rules preclude him from
discussing either meeting. Mr. Simpson, through a spokesman,
declined to be interviewed. Mr. Eisner, through a spokesman,
says that he "vaguely" recalls the meeting and that "it had
something to do with Mr. Simpson and a threat."
   Mr. Bacow says that, in a later confrontation, Mr. Simpson
admitted to him that he went to Mr. Conte for help. Two
people who say they witnessed that confrontation essentially
back up Mr. Bacow's account. Through his lawyer, Mr. Conte
says such a meeting with Mr. Simpson never occurred.
   Word of law-enforcement interest in Mr. Conte appeared in
a June 1983 Los Angeles Times article headlined "Police
Investigate Producer; He Calls It Mistaken Identity." In his
interview in the Times, Mr. Conte suggested there must be
another man named Conte with the criminal associations. The
Times quoted Mr. Conte as saying, "I'm not part of no Mafia.
Ask anybody you want in this town. I haven't done nothing to
nobody."
   The article also quoted Mr. Simpson as saying that Mr.
Conte had been instrumental in getting Mr. Nolte for "48
Hours" and quoted Mr. Eisner as saying Mr. Conte appeared to
be "in the mainstream of the motion picture business."
   Mr. Jordan, the private investigator, says the Times
article was a setback to Mr. Conte's career. The studios told
Mr. Conte "they felt they couldn't deal with him until the
controversy died down," says Mr. Jordan. When it did, the
deals started up again, he adds.
   In one of his letters to this newspaper, Mr. Sigel, the
producer's attorney, says the Journal's inquiries in recent
months are also damaging Mr. Conte's career. Mr. Conte has
been put on an industry "blacklist" where "his access to
production and distribution outlets has been curtailed and in
some instances denied," Mr. Sigel says. The lawyer didn't
elaborate.
   Yet if Hollywood does have Mr. Conte on a blacklist, it
doesn't appear to have affected his career. Recently, Daily
Variety columnist Army Archerd wrote that Mr. Conte has three
new movies in the works. Disney would distribute one.
Paramount is reportedly considering distributing another. And
Mr. Nolte would star in all three.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   GM ENRGB ITT HDI TIC CANDA J.STB EUROP J.ORT F.CFF S.SEB
A.AGL DRSDY F
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Holdings Co. -- $552 million of 9 1/4% notes, due
July 15, 1997, was priced at 99.871 to yield 9.275%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 0.79 percentage
point over the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated double-A-2
by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and double-A-minus by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   General Motors Acceptance Corp. -- $200 million of 8 3/4%
notes due July 15, 2005, priced at 100.05 to yield 8.734%. In
1994 and 1997, the investor has the option to put the
securities back to the company at par. The notes were priced
at a spread of 0.33 percentage point above the Treasury's
four-year note. Rated double-A-3 by Moody's and
double-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold solely by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   ITT Financial Corp. -- $150 million of subordinated notes,
due July 15, 2005, was priced at par to yield 8.85%. In 1993
and 1997, the bondholder has the option to put the securities
back to the company at par. The noncallable notes were priced
at a spread of 0.56 percentage point over the Treasury's
three-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and single-A by
S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   DeKalb Energy Co. -- $75 million of 9 7/8% notes due July
15, 2000, priced at 99.84 to yield 9.90%. The noncallable
notes were priced at a spread of 1.30 percentage points above
the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's and
triple-B by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold through underwriters
led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Harley-Davidson Inc. -- $50 million of convertible
debentures, due June 30, 2015, was priced at par to yield
7.25%. The debentures are convertible into common stock at
$39.68 a share, representing a 18% conversion premium over
the closing price. Rated Ba-3 by Moody's and single-B by S&amp;P,
the issue will be sold solely by Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

   Travelers Mortgage Services Inc. -- $93 million of real
estate mortgage investment conduit securities is being
offered in nine classes by Salomon Brothers Inc. The
offering, Series 1990-10, is backed by 30-year fixed-rate
whole loans with a weighted average coupon rate of about
10.8755% and weighted average remaining term to maturity of
29.92 years. The issue is rated double-A-2 by Moody's and
double-a by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                           OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Province of Nova Scotia -- $300 million of 9 3/8% notes,
due July 15, 2002, was priced at 99.360 to yield 9.465%. The
noncallable notes were priced at a spread of 0.95 percentage
point above the Treasury's 10-year note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Bank International Finance N.V. (Japanese parent)
-- $700 million of 10-year floating-rate notes at par, via
Sumitomo Finance International. Maturity August 2000. Coupon
floats 0.25 point above three-month London interbank offered
rate for years one to five, then at Libor plus 0.35
percentage point for the next five years. Callable after five
years at par. Guaranteed on a subordinated basis by Sumitomo
Bank Ltd.
   Orient Corp. (Japan) -- $300 million of bonds due Aug. 2,
1994, with equity-purchase warrants, with 4 3/4% coupon at
par, via Nomura International Ltd. Each $5,000 bond carries
one warrant, exercisable from Aug. 16, 1990, through July 22,
1994, to buy shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the
closing price when terms are fixed Wednesday.
   Swedish National Mortgage Corp. (Sweden) -- $200 million
of fungible bonds due May 30, 1995, priced at 100.675 via
sole manager Nomura International Ltd. Fungible from the
payment date with a $300 million deal launched May 14.
   Credit Foncier de France (France) -- 25 billion yen
($169.7 million) of 7 1/8% bonds due Aug. 29, 1995, priced at
101 5/8 to yield 7.19% less full fees, via Yamaichi
International Ltd. Guaranteed by the republic of France. Fees
1 7/8.
   Instituto de Credito Official (Spain) -- 20 billion yen of
floating-rate notes due July 31, 2000, priced at par via IBJ
International Ltd. Coupon will float at 0.50 point below the
Japanese long-term prime rate. Coupon fixed semiannually.
Callable July 31, 1995, and every six months thereafter.
Statutory guarantee by the kingdom of Spain. Fees 0.30.
   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (Sweden) -- 200 million
marks ($122.4 million) of 9% bonds due Aug. 10, 2000, priced
at 102 to yield 8.69%, via Deutsche Bank.
   GMAC Australia Finance Ltd. (U.S. parent) -- 75 million
Australian dollars (US$59.8 million) of 14 3/4% bonds due
Aug. 23, 1994, priced at 101.65 to yield 14.78% less fees via
Hambros Bank Ltd. Guaranteed by General Motors Acceptance
Corp. Fees 1 3/4.
   Australian Gas &amp; Lighting Co. (Australia) -- 50 million
Australian dollars of 15.375% bonds due Aug. 31, 1993, priced
at 101.95 to yield 15.18% less fees via Westpac Banking Corp.
Fees 1 1/2.
   Banque Generale du Luxembourg S.A. (Luxembourg) -- 50
million Australian dollars of 20% dual-currency bonds due
Aug. 14, 1991, priced at 101.75, via Bankers Trust
International. Redemption is optional in Australian or
Canadian dollars at a ratio of 87 Canadian cents for each
Australian dollar.
   Dresdner Finance B.V. Amsterdam (German parent) -- 150
million European currency units of 10 1/8% bonds due Aug. 9,
1995, priced at 101.60 via Dresdner Bank. Guaranteed by
Dresdner Bank AG Frankfurt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys Rise on Fed Chairman's Comments
   That Central Bank Is Now Poised to Ease Credit
   ----
   By Lawrence Bauman and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA GM ENRGB F X.TMP JAPAN FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Just when investors were ready to accept what
they expected to be a steady monetary policy, Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan surprised the bond market yesterday
by saying the Fed stood poised to ease credit conditions.
   Not only is a statement by a Fed chief about the future
course of monetary policy close to unheard of, but Mr.
Greenspan's reasoning for the anticipated interest-rate move
represents a complete turnaround from previous statements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Greenspan, testifying before the Senate Banking
Committee, said the Fed may be preparing to push interest
rates lower in response to "cumulating evidence" it sees of a
credit crunch that could hurt the economy.
   Prior to Mr. Greenspan's comments, bond prices had been
falling. But "the bond market turned on a dime after the
Greenspan remarks," said Robert T. McGee, a senior vice
president at Tokai Bank Ltd.
   The benchmark 30-year bond jumped 3/4 point, a gain of
about $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's
yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price,
fell to 8.49%.
   Although Mr. Greenspan's comments clearly helped the bond
market, some traders said the response by investors was
somewhat restrained due to skepticism that such an easing
will occur anytime soon.
   Some analysts aren't convinced that the Fed chief meant to
say that the central bank is preparing to push the federal
funds rate below its current 8.25% level. The federal funds
rate is the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans.
   Rather, they contend, the Fed wants only to counter any
upward pressure on rates that may develop as a result of
bank-induced credit conditions.
   They note that following the July Federal Open Market
Committee meeting and the release of the June employment
report, the Fed, through its pattern of open market
operations, went out of its way to signal to the markets that
it had not changed policy.
   That was a big disappointment to many bond-market
participants who had been speculating for months that a Fed
easing was imminent. After the employment report, however,
they threw in the towel and began to believe that no easing
was in sight.
   The Fed "is prepared to ease, but not yet," said Michael
Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc.
   Bond prices had been down as much as 1/2 point during
morning trading, in part because of continued disappointment
that there wasn't much investor interest in Wednesday's
seven-year note auction despite the large amount of overall
bids.
   Also weighing on bond prices during early trading, dealers
and analysts said, was talk that a portfolio of up to $1
billion of bonds, composed mainly of corporate and
mortgage-backed securities, was sold by Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co. to make room for some Resolution Funding Corp.
bonds that were purchased at Tuesday's auction. Refcorp is a
federal agency responsible for raising money to finance the
bailout of the savings and loan industry.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 102 21/32
to yield 8.49% compared with Wednesday's close of 101 29/32
to yield 8.56%. The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of
102 13/32 to yield 8.49% compared with 101 29/32 to yield
8.56%.
   Short-term rates fell sharply. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills ended at 7.68% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.92%, down from 7.79% to yield
8.04% on Wednesday. The rate on six-month bills ended at
7.57% to yield 7.96%, down from 7.73% to yield 8.13% on
Wednesday.
   In the agency market, spreads between yields on Treasury
bonds and the Resolution Funding Corp. 30-year bonds that
were auctioned Tuesday narrowed amid talk that a few big
dealers with large positions were squeezing shorts. Shorts
are created when dealers and professional traders sell
securities they don't yet own.
   Apparently, a small number of big dealers ended up with a
large supply of Refcorp bonds after Tuesday's auction. That
forced dealers who were short of supply to scramble to buy
the bonds from dealers who had ample supply.
   The Refcorp bonds were auctioned at a spread of 0.39
percentage point above the Treasury's 8.75% 30-year bond and
trading late yesterday at a spread of 0.33 percentage point.
The bonds were quoted late yesterday at a price of 100 18/32
to yield 8.82%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Bullish bond-market sentiment sparked a heavy influx of
new debt into the credit market yesterday with nearly $1.3
billion of securities priced.
   Merrill Lynch Capital Markets managed a majority of
yesterday's offerings, including $300 million of Province of
Nova Scotia 12-year debentures priced to yield 9.465%, $200
million of 15-year senior notes priced to yield 8.734% from
General Motors Corp.'s General Motors Acceptance Corp. unit,
and $75 million DeKalb Energy Co. 10-year notes priced to
yield 9.90%.
   Ford Holding Co., a subsidiary of Ford Motor Co., also
launched a major debt offering, selling $552 million of
seven-year notes, which were priced to yield 9.275%.
   In the junk-bond market, investor confidence in Donald
Trump's prize Atlantic City casino, Trump Taj Mahal,
continued to erode after the release of disappointing
earnings for June.
   The casino confirmed that its average daily revenues for
the month of June were $1.16 million, much lower than the
$1.3 million a day analysts said the casino needs to break
even.
   Trump Taj Mahal Funding Inc.'s 14% first mortgage bonds,
due in 1998, ended 1/2 point lower at 51. Other bonds issued
by Trump casinos were unchanged.
   In the broader market, junk bonds continued to firm in
moderate trading. Traders said prices rose about 1/4 point on
most issues. Most investment-grade bonds ended 3/8 point
firmer.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues finished up as much as 1/4 point.
   Market participants said that municipals followed U.S.
Treasury issues higher on Fed Chairman Greenspan's comments.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% of 2018 were 3/8 point higher at 99 3/8 to
yield 7.24%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Japanese government bonds ended weaker as short-term
interest rates continued to rise without protest from the
Bank of Japan and the dollar rebounded against the yen.
   Rates on Japanese bank deposits are now higher than bond
yields, which has resulted in investors selling bonds and
reinvesting the proceeds in money market funds.
   The Bank of Japan didn't try to cool down the interest
rate rise as it did on Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile,
investors continue to speculate that the central bank will
boost the discount rate by the fall. The rate, which the Bank
of Japan charges on loans to banks, is 5.25%.
   In trading, Japan's benchmark 10-year bond ended at a
price of 86.67, down 0.28 point, to yield 7.265%. Rates on
new three-month certificates of deposit rose to 7.67%, up
from 7.61% two days earlier.
   (Foreign bond yields are quoted here in local terms and
therefore differ somewhat from yields calculated for these
markets by U.S. investment firms, which tend to use the
semiannual compound measure to compare yields across
markets.)
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The mortgage securities posted modest gains, spurred by
the comments by Fed Chairman Greenspan.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, Government
National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities for July
delivery were up 11/32 at 99 16/32, July Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. 9.5% securities were up 10/32 at 98 3/4 and
July Federal National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
were up 11/32 at 99 10/32.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900713-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900713-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BOSA CBS RML USBC GENI BBI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Boston Acoustics      $ .38    ...      $ .27  (3)   40.74
  CBS                    5.36    ...       5.00  (9)    7.20
  Russell Corp            .31    ...        .29  (6)    6.90
  U.S. Bancorp            .95    ...        .89  (7)    6.74
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Genetics Institute   ($ .64)   ...     ($ .40) (7)    ...
  Barnett Banks           .93    ...       1.03  (5)    9.71
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
