<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0180
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0180.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Information and the Human Factor
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   In his March 19 Manager's Journal, "In Information
Technology, the Key Is Good Relationships," Michael Schrage
belittles the so-called "apostles of the Information
Revolution" and dismisses the idea that information is a
strategic asset. Instead, he suggests that "relationships,"
both within a company and between a company and its clients,
are what really matter.
   He is right on that count, but he demonstrates a lack of
understanding of what the Information Revolution is all
about: using technology to exploit information for a whole
host of reasons -- strategic planning, corporate
intelligence, improving management and production, better
integrating functions within the company, projecting the
company's image, and, of course, improving internal
communications and client services (read "relationships").
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the other hand, when Mr. Schrage slams CIOs (chief
information officers), he unwittingly hits the nail on the
head. Today, most CIOs do not manage information; they manage
information technology -- hardware, networks, integration and
so on. In fact, most CIOs are nothing more than glorified
(and well-paid) technicians. They lay the roadwork, direct
the traffic and do repair work. As long as information makes
it to its final destination, the CIO has succeeded. That's
the problem.
   Information is a strategic asset only when it is properly
exploited. Getting tailored information to the right people
is a technical problem; using that information is a strategic
problem. A company's CIO, then, ought to be the company's top
strategic planner, someone who understands the value of
critical information and how to exploit information
technology for the benefit of the company -- to beat the
competition, to increase the efficiency of company operations
(and raise profits), and, yes, to improve the "relationships"
inside the company and with its clients.
   Stephen Aubin
   John M. Olin Fellow in Defense Journalism
   Boston University
   Boston
   ---
   The relationships between individuals within
organizations, specifically people responsible for providing
information, are critical to management. These individuals
are oftentimes referred to as "information providers." A
relatively new technology has been emerging over the past
several years called executive information systems, which
provide executives (I define executives as Peter Drucker
does, as "knowledge based workers") with information from
which they might better manage an organization.
   The concept of executive information systems is not new.
In fact, the idea of providing information for high-level
individuals within an organization is as old as information
technology itself. It's a good idea. Unfortunately, it has
previously failed for various reasons, not the least of which
was a lack of attention paid to the relationships mentioned
in Mr. Schrage's article. Not considering the roles that
information providers play in the political environment
within an organization does a disservice not only to the
organization and these providers but to information
technology as well. Without interaction between executives
and information providers, management expectations go
unchecked, and the information system does not contain the
information the executive needs.
   But if the relationships between people are incorporated
into an organization's technology plan, then an executive
information system can encourage productive interaction. By
giving executives access to internal and external data of
almost any kind, executives and providers are both focused on
the same information and can spend more time solving problems
rather than trying to locate them. Executive information
system technology provides a means for information providers
and executives to communicate in a way that does not inhibit
those who are computer literate or savvy, nor does it
preclude those who have no computer expertise from
participating.
   Craig S. Barrow
   Ann Arbor, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0179
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0179.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Sold for $135,000
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $135,000, down $1,000 from the previous sale
Tuesday.
   Seats currently are quoted at $125,000, bid, and $145,000,
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0178
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0178.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gendex Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XRAY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENDEX Corp. (Milwaukee) -- William O. Nelson, formerly
chairman and chief executive officer of Clarcor Inc., was
named a director of this manufacturer of dental and medical
X-ray equipment. Mr. Nelson is filling a vacancy created by
the recent resignation of John Byrnes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0177
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0177.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   Taking Full Control of Retirement Funds
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   {An Occasional Look At Financial Fundamentals}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Want to double your retirement dollars by age 65?
   That may sound like a come-on for a classic investment
scam, but it's something many employees can achieve -- if
they make smart choices now with their profit-sharing, 401(k)
and other tax-deferred savings plans at work.
   Too often, financial advisers say, people fail to achieve
the full potential of their company retirement plans because
they make some fundamental mistakes. Top of the list:
treating "these plans like savings accounts, not investment
vehicles," says Charles Salisbury at T. Rowe Price
Associates.
   Typically, employees can allocate the money in 401(k) and
profit-sharing plans among at least three types of
investments, including a stock mutual fund, their own
companies' stock and fixed-income investments. But they
usually place most -- if not all -- of their retirement-plan
money in the lower-yielding fixed-income investments. Over
time, their returns may be seriously eroded by inflation.
   Such employees would profit from moving more of their
money into growth-oriented stock funds, financial advisers
say. "Shifting from fixed-income to growth could double one's
account over 20 to 30 years," says Mr. Salisbury, since
historically stocks outperform other investments over time.
   Another mistake for many employees is putting too much of
their retirement-plan money in their own companies' stock.
"Doing so leaves employee portfolios top-heavy with one
stock," says  David Eager, managing partner of Eager &amp;
Associates, a management consulting firm in Louisville, Ky.
That's especially true if the company uses its stock to
distribute to the profit-sharing plan or to match employee
contributions.
   Generally, financial advisers recommend that people in
their 20s and 30s invest at least 70% of their retirement
money in stocks, with the rest in bonds or "cash
equivalents," like Treasury bills or money-market mutual
funds. Then, as they grow older people should gradually
reverse the allocation, the advisers say.
   But achieving an appropriate mix of growth and income in a
retirement portfolio isn't as simple as picking among the
combination plates at a Chinese restaurant. Employees must
look at how their 401(k) or profit-sharing plan dovetails
with their other investments.
   Take a man whose company retirement-savings plan is
invested solely in so-called guaranteed investment contracts,
or GICs, which are insurance contracts that pay a fixed rate
of interest usually comparable to certificates of deposit. To
help achieve an appropriate degree of diversification, he
might put all of his individual retirement account money in
stocks.
   Or, consider a woman who is an aggressive stock-market
trader and works for a company that gives employees a choice
between a stock fund and a GIC. She might choose to skip the
stock fund and satisfy her need for fixed income with the GIC
option.
   Employees also have to take into account how flexible
their company plans are. The most desirable plans offer a
variety of investment choices, allow frequent transfers, let
employees contribute both pretax and after-tax dollars, and
match such contributions on a dollar-per-dollar basis, up to
a certain amount.
   All 401(k) plans and 15% of profit-sharing plans allow
employees to contribute pretax dollars, usually up to 6% of
compensation. As this reduces an employee's taxable income,
many people find it too good a deal to pass up.
   Some plans also allow employees to make after-tax
contributions, but the benefits of doing so are less
clear-cut. Although the earnings on after-tax contributions
grow tax-deferred, it might not make sense to tie up one's
money in such accounts if one has other tax-deferred
vehicles, such as annuities or IRAs, that provide more
flexibility and liquidity.
   Advisers say, however, that it does make sense to shovel
as much as one is allowed into such accounts -- whether or
not all the contributions are deductible -- if one's employer
matches some of those savings. Currently, 86% of employers
with 401(k) plans give employees between 50 cents and $1 for
each dollar they contribute, up to 6% of salary in most
cases.
   "Getting 50 cents on the dollar is like getting an instant
50% return on your money," says Karen Frost, a
defined-contribution specialist at Hewitt Associates, a
pension consulting firm in Chicago.
   Accessibility is another factor that may influence an
employee's decision on whether to contribute after-tax
dollars. Many 401(k) plans allow employees to borrow money
from their plans. Employees later pay themselves back,
usually through payroll deduction, at a rate that is tied to
the prime rate, plus one or two percentage points.
   This makes such savings plans more attractive to younger
employees, who may have avoided 401(k)s or declined to make
after-tax contributions because they were worried about tying
up money they may have needed for a down payment on a home,
or for education, says Ms. Frost.
   Plans that don't allow employees to borrow money, but only
to make so-called hardship withdrawals {which are taxable,
and difficult to qualify for}, may be less inviting vehicles
for some employees' after-tax savings.
   How often employees are allowed to transfer among funds in
their plans may also affect their decision. While more and
more plans are allowing monthly transfers, many still
restrict switching to once a year. This might not appeal to
those who load up on equity funds but want the option of
escaping into fixed income if they see trouble directly
ahead, says Ms. Frost.
   Employees who change jobs can roll their retirement
account into a plan with their new employer, or into a
self-directed IRA (which enables employees to transfer their
company stock rather than selling it). But departing
employees might choose to leave their retirement accounts
with their old employers indefinitely. This would make sense
if a stock fund they invested in had suffered a downturn, and
they wanted to wait until it recovered to avoid taking a
loss.
   Some people also might want to leave a retirement account
with a former employer simply because they "prefer the
features and fund options in the old plan," says Frederick
Rumack, director of taxation and legal services at Buck
Consultants, a benefits consulting firm in New York.
   Many companies are making it easier for employees to take
a more active role in managing their retirement accounts, by
making more funds available, increasing the number of
transfers allowed per year, and even by offering toll-free
numbers for performance information, and telephone switching.
   "Since changes are frequent, employees should check with
their benefits department to see what might be available to
them now," says Mr. Salisbury of T. Rowe Price. Benefits
officers can be helpful in explaining plan features and
discussing investment strategies. But they won't provide
investment advice. "They don't want disappointed investors
blaming them for poor results."
   ---
                   Choices for Employees
                                                                                                       

   Percentage of employer-sponsored retirement savings plans
offering investment options. Employees don't have a choice in
6% of 401(k) plans and 24% of profit-sharing plans.
                                                                                                       

   NUMBER                                          PROFIT-
   OF OPTIONS              401(k)*                 SHARING
                                                                                                       

   2                        17%                      18%
   3                        36                       23
   4                        24                       21
   5                        10                       --
   Over 5                    7             Over 4    13
                                                                                                       

   *Plans in which employers match a percentage of
contributions.
   Source: Hewitt Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sara Lee Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SLE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SARA LEE Corp. (Chicago) -- Allen F. Jacobson, chairman
and chief executive officer of Minnesota Mining &amp;
Manufacturing Co., was named a director of this food and
consumer products concern, increasing board membership to 18.
Mark J. McCarville, formerly vice president, corporate
development, was named senior vice president, corporate
development, and David W. Bryan, formerly president of the
Fuller Brush Co. unit, was named vice president, business
planning, both new posts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Economy
   Must Limit Demand,
   Says OECD Report
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- Australia must restrain demand in its economy to
reduce consumption, inflation and imports, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said in its latest
survey on the country.
   That implies Australian interest rates should be kept
relatively high, a recommendation likely to be accepted by
the Australian government and central bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both have warned recently that demand, particularly from
consumers, must be suppressed for several years to restrain
imports while exports increase.
   Australia's main economic goal during the 1990s is to
narrow its current-account deficit, halting the growth of a
still-rising foreign debt of 148 billion Australian dollars
($114.95 billion), and then to reduce that debt.
   Suppressing consumer demand also would help combat the
nation's high 8% inflation rate. Only last week, the central
bank called for a major effort against inflation by the Labor
Party government. Labor won a national election March 24, and
doesn't have to face the voters again for three years. That
provides an opportunity for the government to introduce
unpopular anti-inflation measures and maintain high interest
rates.
   The OECD report issued this week is based on its study of
the economy last December. It says demand in the economy
surged in recent years following a recovery of world prices
for Australia's farm and mineral exports, which lifted
national income.
   Tight government fiscal and monetary policies started to
slow demand late in 1989, the OECD says, but a severe
recession is unlikely. "The challenge now is to ensure that
the necessary weakening of domestic demand growth continues,
while pursuing policies conducive to higher, sustainable
output growth and lower inflation over the longer term," the
OECD advises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Agee Dispute: Plunder or Scholarship
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Your article about the furor over recent copyright
decisions restricting "fair use" of unpublished materials
("Unfair Use: Copyright Decision Cramps Writers' Style" by
Amy Gamerman, Leisure &amp; Arts, April 10) seriously distorts
the nature of the dispute between Prof. Victor Kramer and
Mary Newman, trustee of the James Agee Trust. As I told Ms.
Gamerman, what Prof. Kramer seeks to publish is a potpourri
of James Agee's early short prose and poetry, including 18
pieces in which the trust owns the copyright. Several were
published previously (a 1963 Esquire article, for example),
and Prof. Kramer seeks to republish both these and most of
the unpublished items in their entirety. The doctrine of fair
use has never permitted such wholesale misappropriation, as
even spokespeople for groups seeking relief from the recent
decisions would have confirmed, had Ms. Gamerman asked them.
No writer is going to support a view of fair use that would
allow his own short pieces to be anthologized by plunderers
such as Prof. Kramer, without permission or compensation.
   Neither is it true that Prof. Kramer received permission
for his project from a former trustee (as you report). What
Prof. Kramer relies on is a 1970 letter from the original
trustee, David McDowell, written to free them both from
needing to correspond each time Prof. Kramer wrote about Mr.
Agee using work he had done in the Agee collection at the
University of Texas. The letter authorizes Prof. Kramer to
reproduce "information and data" from the Texas collection in
his "scholarly work." It does not refer to any particular
project, and even in Prof. Kramer's version of events Mr.
McDowell did not learn until years later about Prof. Kramer's
plan to publish a collection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McDowell, who was Mr. Agee's close friend as well as
his publisher, was instrumental in the creation of the trust
for the benefit of Mr. Agee's children, and he was well aware
of the need to conserve its limited assets. He wrote Prof.
Kramer, "It is my duty to collect every cent I can." Yet it
is Prof. Kramer's position, in a lawsuit he has started, that
the letter is "broad permission" to publish any of the Agee
materials at Texas he chooses, without further approval and
without obligation to compensate the trust or its
beneficiaries. He even calls the trustee's current opposition
to his project "a breach of the trust's contractual
obligations as expressed in the 1970 authorization." This is
just nonsense. Mr. McDowell's 1970 letter did not bind the
trust to approve, for free and forever, any proposal to
publish Mr. Agee's works for which Prof. Kramer could find
himself a publisher. Prof. Kramer's so-called "broad
permission" is just a product of his wishful thinking.
   Mark W. Budwig
   New York
   ---
   While the article is excellent -- and I appreciate Ms.
Gamerman's thorough investigation -- a few points about my
contracted book might be clarified. That book of edited Agee
"Documents" is not just "early" James Agee, but carefully
selected materials that demonstrate the writer's development
as an artist.
   As to Mark Budwig's apparent suggestion that I want to
reprint so much of James Agee that it goes "beyond fair use,"
I point out that my manuscript contains 59 selections by Mr.
Agee as well as 18 more sections (introduction, notes, etc.)
by me. Of the 59 Agee pieces the vast majority is not
controlled by the Agee Trust.
   In fact, of the 59 Agee pieces, 52 have already been
published in The Phillips Exeter Monthly, The Harvard
Advocate, or were written for Time magazine, or have already
been published by me in journals, or in my copyrighted 1966
dissertation. Only a few pages seem to be seriously in
dispute. Of those seven short items, one has already appeared
in Esquire magazine, and only two of the remaining six are
"whole" manuscripts. These two "unpublished" pieces plus
selections from four other manuscripts are small in quantity,
and I have offered to cut these to satisfy the trustee. An
extremely small amount of material is in question. I have
published a book, and some 29 other items (articles, reviews)
by, and about, James Agee. The book under contract is the
natural extension of my scholarly work since 1962.
   Victor A. Kramer
   Professor of English
   Georgia State University
   Atlanta
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ametek Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AME WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMETEK Inc. (New York) -- Walter E. Blankley, 54 years
old, was elected president and chief executive officer of the
maker of electrical appliances and industrial equipment. He
succeeds John P. Dandalides, 66, who retired as president and
chief operating officer yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beard Oil Co. Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BOC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY -- Beard Oil Co. said its board authorized
the repurchase of as many as 300,000 of the company's common
stock outstanding.
   The company said the shares will be purchased periodically
in the open market or private transactions, and will be held
for general corporate purchases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The authorization covers nearly 5% of the company's
5,869,651 common shares outstanding at year end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   J.C. Penney's Stinu Sets Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JCP
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Stinu Corp. of America, a unit of J.C. Penney
Co., said it signed an international franchise agreement for
Units stores with Miki Corp. of Japan, an operator of retail
specialty stores. The value of the pact wasn't disclosed, and
officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   Under the agreement, Miki will open 20 Units stores in
Japan in four years and 100 in all. Units stores, with more
than 200 locations in the U.S., sell interlocking knit
separates for women. Last year, the Penney subsidiary opened
its first foreign stores in Britain, Canada and Mexico.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nomura Files Suit
   In U.K. Over Book,
   Charging Libel
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NOM
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nomura Securities Co. filed a libel suit in London against
the author and the publisher of a book that it claims depicts
the world's largest brokerage firm as engaging in various
improper securities practices.
   The suit claims that "The House of Nomura, The Rise to
Supremacy of the World's Most Powerful Company" by Albert J.
Alletzhauser falsely depicts Nomura as engaging in insider
trading, lying to and cheating clients and manipulating the
Japanese stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit also contends that the book libeled Nomura by
portraying the Japanese firm as using confidential
information to benefit its senior staff, training its sales
force to psychologically pressure vulnerable clients, and
paying money to gangsters, extortionists and blackmailers to
cover up illegal acts.
   The suit, filed Wednesday in the High Court of Justice,
Queens Bench Division, seeks an injunction to restrain Mr.
Alletzhauser and the publisher, Bloomsbury Publishing Ltd.,
from publishing or repeating the "said or any similar
libels."
   The book was published in mid-January in Britain.
Bloomsbury says it was the No. 1 best seller in Britain in
early February. It is scheduled to be released in the U.S.
and Japan next month.
   Some Nomura executives worry that the publicity
surrounding the case could hurt the company, especially at a
time when there is considerable tension between Japan and the
West over the growing influence of Japanese financial
institutions around the world.
   "I feel this is a major mistake," said one Nomura
executive. Some executives in New York and London are
especially puzzled by it, particularly since the book was
published several months ago, and presumably sales would be
expected to have slackened off with time.
   But Yoshihisa Tabuchi, Nomura's president, said in Tokyo
last week that if Nomura failed to take any action against
the book, it would have "meant Nomura admitted the existence"
of illegal acts that he says are described in the book.
   Some Nomura employees speculate that the firm may be
hoping to stop publication in the bigger Japanese and U.S.
markets and deter other potentially critical books on the
firm from being published. One Nomura executive said that
Nomura's British lawyers, Linklaters &amp; Paines, even advised
against bringing action.
   In late February, lawyers for Nomura in London wrote to
Mr. Alletzhauser and his publisher, threatening to sue them
unless they agreed to immediately pull the book off the
market, paid damages, made a public apology and agreed not to
disseminate any further "defamatory statements concerning
Nomura."
   In subsequent negotiations, Nomura's lawyers said the
company was willing to drop the threatened suit if the author
made certain changes in the book, Mr. Alletzhauser said in an
interview. He and the publisher countered with an offer to
let Nomura "put an errata sheet in back of each future copy
sold in the U.K. explaining what they found was wrong," Mr.
Alletzhauser said. "They rejected my offer," he said.
   Mr. Alletzhauser said that he never defamed Nomura. "For
them to be suing me is out of character with the nature of
the book. It was written as a history of the firm and not
meant to be combative at all," he said.
   British libel law is much stricter than its American
counterpart. In the U.S., writers charged with libel against
public figures needn't prove that any defamatory statements
are true. Libel defendants merely need to show that they were
reasonably careful to check facts. But in England, writers
ordinarily must prove the truth of any factual allegations
they make. And writers making defamatory comments -- for
example, suggesting someone isn't fit to hold a certain job
-- must prove in court a factual basis for the comments.
   Mr. Alletzhauser, 30 years old, is an American living in
London. He is a principal of Tiedemann International
Research, a London-based stockbrokerage firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden's Producer Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's producer prices in March fell 0.1%
from February, but rose 4.5% from a year earlier, Statistics
Sweden, the national statistics agency, said.
   Export prices in March dropped 0.3% from February, but
were up 3.2% from the year-earlier month. Import prices in
March slipped 1.2% from February, mainly because of falling
oil prices, but rose 0.9% from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Agrees to Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN SSIAA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nynex Corp. said it agreed in principle to
acquire Stockholder Systems Inc., Norcross, Ga., for stock
valued at about $65 million.
   Stockholder Systems, a marketer of financial-application
software, has 200 employees and annual sales of about $26
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nynex, a regional telecommunications concern, said terms
call for Stockholder Systems holders to receive Nynex common
shares valued at $15 to $16.20 for each of the 4,050,000
Stockholder Systems shares outstanding.
   Nynex hopes the acquisition will help it become a leading
provider of software products and services for the banking
industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rochester Community Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RCSB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROCHESTER COMMUNITY SAVINGS BANK (Rochester, N.Y.) --
Royal E. Fliedner, president and chief executive officer of
Shadow Lawn Savings Bank SLA of West Long Branch, N.J., was
named a director of this savings bank, increasing the size of
the board to 17 from 16.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weatherford Completes Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WII
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Weatherford International Inc., an energy
service concern, said it completed its offering of three
million common shares, with proceeds to be used for payment
of debt and general corporate purposes.
   As of March 31, Weatherford had 22,930,467 common shares
outstanding. Salomon Brothers Inc. and Howard, Weil,
Labouisse, Friedrichs Inc. managed the underwriting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swedes' Buying Abroad
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Swedish investors set records buying foreign
shares in March, while foreigners remained net sellers of
Swedish shares.
   The Riksbank, Sweden's central bank, said Swedes bought
10.58 billion kronor of shares ($1.72 billion) in March, up
from 3.89 billion kronor in February and from two billion
kronor in March the previous year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Purchases of foreign shares have soared since the Riksbank
in January 1989 removed restrictions on foreign buys as part
of the deregulation of foreign controls. The March figure was
the highest registered so far in a single month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Full Cry: Divas as Moms
   ----
   By Heidi Waleson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- When Dawn Upshaw gave a recital with pianist
Richard Goode at New York's 92nd Street Y in early February,
something seemed amiss.
   It wasn't Ms. Upshaw's pure, alluring soprano. That was in
place. But in her half-dozen years before the public, this
29-year-old artist, who won a Grammy this year for a
recording of American music ("Knoxville: Summer of 1915"),
has set an extremely high standard for herself. But at the
February recital, that freedom of sound, that warmth, that
essential Dawnness -- just weren't all there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chalk one up to biology: Ms. Upshaw gave birth to her
first child, Sarah, on Nov. 15 -- and was back on stage Jan.
23.
   Pregnancy, birth and the first weeks of motherhood can be
grueling enough for women with desk jobs or no jobs at all.
For singers, the physical and hormonal changes that affect
the voice and the career pressures that make it difficult to
say no to engagements during and just after pregnancy take
their own special toll.
   Of course, that doesn't stop singers from going back to
work right away: There was the singer who did the Dance of
the Seven Veils in "Salome" six weeks after giving birth, and
the one who was back on stage one week postpartum.
   Dr. Robert T. Sataloff, professor of otolaryngology at
Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, and a singer and
teacher of voice himself, advises women to begin singing
again only when they are "pain-free" -- usually about four to
six weeks after delivery -- or when they can do aerobic
exercise and 10 situps. In this way they should be in
performance condition about three months after birth.
   That's the medical view. But many singers assert that
having a child is good for the voice. The famous
turn-of-the-century contralto Ernestine Schumann-Heink
insisted that she picked up a note at either end of her range
with the birth of each of her numerous children. Juliana
Gondek, whose daughter, Cecilia, now is 19 months old, says
her voice became "clearer, with less distortion around the
tone." Sheri Greenawald, who has a four-year-old, says
singers "go through a vocal crisis because of the change in
the body. Things get either better or worse." Her voice, she
says, got bigger, and it took her a year to figure out what
to do with it.
   Vocal changes during pregnancy are documented in medical
literature. According to Dr. Sataloff: "Hormonal changes
cause fluid retention in the vocal chords that can alter the
character of the voice, and make it less efficient, more
easily fatigued and lose range."
   These changes usually go away after birth, though women
who breast-feed often find that their high notes remain
elusive. Dr. Sataloff says the most common enduring problem
women have is with their technique. "In the later months of
pregnancy, it becomes more difficult to flex the abdominal
muscles because of the size of the fetus. If women sing
through this period, without support, they often start using
bad technique, which can damage the vocal folds and establish
bad habits that persist beyond pregnancy . . ."
   Women who do restudy, however, can make the changes work
to their advantage: Ms. Gondek says she got used to using
extra support during her pregnancy, and believes the
increased efficiency she acquired improved her voice.
   Like all first-time mothers, Ms. Upshaw thought she had it
all planned perfectly. She sang concerts until about a month
before her due date -- she says she never felt any strain,
only exhaustion -- and canceled everything else until that
Jan. 23 concert. "I thought, this will be easy," she says.
"My husband will be at home, and if we need sitters, we'll
get them."
   The baby was right on time, but life wasn't easy -- it was
overwhelming. "When I wasn't feeding or changing Sarah, I
would sit during the day, waiting for her to wake up and
thinking, how will I go back to my old life?" Ms. Upshaw
says. She started practicing, as planned, four weeks after
giving birth. Only to her horror, nothing came out. "I
couldn't do it," she says. "The chords weren't vibrating.
There was no sound."
   Ms. Upshaw's voice teacher, Ellen Faull, recommends two or
three months of rest after birth. "Psychologically, you need
the space," Ms. Faull says. "Four weeks was a little
premature. But singers want to know that it's still there."
Ms. Upshaw didn't try singing again for another four weeks,
getting increasingly nervous and impatient. "I had a lot of
music to get into my voice. Finally I had to change the
program for my recitals with Richard."
   Ms. Upshaw then spent February dashing back and forth to
Boston for concerts, with baby and husband in tow. By the
time she started the stressful rehearsals for her first
Zerlina in the Metropolitan Opera's new Franco Zeffirelli
production of "Don Giovanni," she was exhausted from travel
and getting up during the night to nurse.
   Having a baby to go home to paradoxically made things
easier for Ms. Upshaw. "For the first time, I felt that I
have my family, and I have my work," she says. "I'd come
home, she'd be smiling -- she doesn't care what I do. It was
very soothing. I felt that nothing in my work could matter so
much that I needed to get upset about it.
   Ms. Upshaw has been told that her voice sounds "older,
more mature" since her daughter's birth. She also has found
that some upper-register singing is easier, which she thinks
may be because after a few months without singing, she has
been able to "start over fresh" and eradicate a few bad
habits. With only concerts and no opera ahead for the next
few months, she hopes to be able to relax a bit and watch
Sarah learn to sit up. Next time, she says, she'll wait three
months for her first postpartum engagement.
                                                                                                       

   On April 13, Ms. Upshaw sang the Mozart "Requiem" with
Trevor Pinnock and the Classical Band at Carnegie Hall. The
warmth and the floating, rippling, live sound -- that
essential Dawnness -- were back.
   ---
   Ms. Waleson is a free-lance music writer in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Befriend a Film Crew
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   After reading "LA Residents Grow Ever More Negative Toward
Film Crews" (page one, March 30), I had to wonder why
production companies would continue to film where they are
not wanted. So many towns and cities could use "an average of
$32,450 a day" boost to their economies. If Los Angeles does
not want the film crews, then location managers should choose
other cities.
   Kelly Hoggan
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Salt Lake City
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   If Sales Drag, They Could Redo It
   And Use Jane Fonda as Lecturer
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NYTA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Paper of Record may become the Videotape of Record.
   New York Times Co. is offering a videocassette that "tells
how to cover nuclear events more safely," according to an ad
that appeared in the Times twice recently. The ad was
headlined, "Journalists: Are You Prepared To Cover The Next
Nuclear Accident?" There is an 800-number for orders, and no,
it isn't 800-FALLOUT.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The videotape, which runs about 55 minutes, was first
produced for in-house use at a cost of about $12,000. "We
thought we'd recoup some of our production costs by selling
it to the outside," says Matthew Wald, a Times correspondent
who covers energy and the nuclear industry and who helped put
together the tape.
   How fast the tape will sell remains to be seen, however.
The Times is asking $249, considerably more than the prices
of other instructional tapes. "How to Lambada," for example,
can be had for just $9.95, while "Little League's Official
How-To-Play Baseball Video" retails for $29.95.
   And those who think the tape will reveal secrets of how
the New York Times sets out reporting a story will be
disappointed. The videotape, which was produced in one day at
a TV station in Scranton, Pa., owned by the Times' parent
company, doesn't offer reporting tips, and no New York Times
reporter appears on it. Instead, the tape is a lecture with
animated displays on how to use radiation-detection
equipment, according to Mr. Wald. "It is not as boring as it
implies," he says. "In fact, it's rather interesting, and if
you were sent to cover a nuclear accident, you would find it
fascinating."
   The idea for the videocassette came after the Times
provided radiation-detection equipment for its domestic and
foreign bureaus. "We decided some of the instructions were
better delivered on camera instead of just in a pamphlet,"
says Mr. Wald.
   The cassette is the first offering from the New York Times
Video Education Library, Mr. Wald says. He concedes that
"Covering a Radiation Accident" isn't destined to become the
next "Rambo" at the local videocassette rental store.
   Of course, some newspapers might not want to purchase a
safety film from a competitor. Eugene Roberts, executive
editor of the Philadelphia Inquirer, which won a Pulitzer
Prize in 1979 for its coverage of the Three Mile Island
nuclear accident in Middletown, Pa., says, "We have no
immediate plans to buy one."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Mine, Factory Output
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Production by Japan's mines and factories in
March rose 0.7% from a year earlier and 2.6% from the
previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry said, noting production of a wide range of goods was
strong because of sustained economic growth.
   Japan's economy, drawing strength from domestic demand
such as corporate investment in plant and equipment, has been
expanding steadily for 41 months in a row. The industrial and
mining production index for March stood at 131.9, while it
was 123.7 after adjustment for seasonal factors; the year
1985 equals 100.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rambo to Invade
   TV Sets in France
   And West Germany
   ---
   Carolco Signs Two Accords
   For Broadcast Rights
   To Movies for $50 Million
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC F.CLP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Television viewers in France and West
Germany will soon be able to tune in to "Rambo: First Blood,
Part II" and "Rambo III."
   Carolco Pictures Inc. said it signed two television
agreements with companies in the two European countries for
the rights to broadcast past, current and future Carolco
movies, including the Rambo series, for a total of more than
$50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it plans to announce soon a similar
agreement for television broadcast rights in Spain. Carolco,
which has interests in feature films, television
broadcasting, and video and audio retailing, had 1989 profit
of $14 million, or 46 cents a share, on revenue of $143
million.
   A spokesman for the company said the bulk of the $50
million from the two agreements will be paid before year end.
   As the international market for entertainment products has
expanded, many studios have moved aggressively to sell the
television rights to their movies overseas, particularly in
Europe and Japan. Carolco previously sold the television
rights only to a few films individually overseas.
   "Carolco has been the only independent or major
{entertainment company} that has held back their library from
foreign television sales," said Jeff Logsdon, an analyst at
Crowell, Weedon &amp; Co. "Most companies are doing foreign
sales, and it's healthy for these guys."
   Carolco's agreement with Hermes Synchron of West Germany
includes 34 feature films covering broadcast rights in West
Germany, East Germany, Austria and the German-speaking
territories of Switzerland and Luxembourg. The package
includes the Rambo series, as well as "Angel Heart" and "Red
Heat," among others, and future pictures.
   The accord with Aries S.A. of France covers 34 titles,
including "Field of Dreams" and "Music Box." Carolco said
Canal Plus, a pay-television service in France, will
broadcast the films under a separate agreement with Aries.
   Carolco has a total of 80 films in its domestic library,
including 40 titles acquired from Hemdale Corp., another
entertainment concern. Of the total, Carolco holds the
foreign distribution rights, including television rights, to
about 30 films.
   Carolco aquired Orbis, a domestic television syndication
company, in August 1987.
   Carolco shares closed at $11.25, up 12.5 cents, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<LP>
   Scholar's Choler
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Colleges giving credit
   For life experience,
   To me is a concept
   That makes good sense.
   For my current life style,
   With loads of frustration,
   Qualifies me for a degree
   As a Bachelor of Aggravation.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Cheap Sentiment?
                                                                                                       

   I give my love a greeting card,
   (The work of some creative staff);
   Immediately she scans the back:
   "It cost a dollar and a half]"
   -- Richard F. Barrett.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Gets Aircraft Order
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co.'s Commercial Airplane Group said it
received an order for seven 737-500 aircraft from Intercredit
Corp., a leasing concern based in Atlanta. The order is
valued at about $200 million.
   In the year to date, the Boeing unit has received orders
for 113 aircraft valued at about $8.1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ABB Group's Unit for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   S.ABB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Asea Brown Boveri Inc., a unit of
Zurich, Switzerland-based ABB Group, said it has put up for
sale its Sprout-Bauer Inc. unit. The unit is a supplier of
pulping and process equipment with annual sales of $125
million.
   The decision to sell the Muncy, Pa.-based division is in
line with ABB Group's strategy to focus its resources on its
core business of electrical engineering products and
services, a spokeswoman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN GQ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raytheon Co. got a $145.4 million Air Force
contract for electronic countermeasures equipment.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Grumman Corp. received a $41 million Navy contract for a
large-scale computer system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Black Pregnant Women Far More Likely
   Than Whites to Be Reported for Drug Use
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<LP>
   White women are just as likely to use drugs or alcohol
during pregnancy as black women, a new study says, but blacks
are much more likely to be reported to state authorities for
the practice.
   The findings raise questions for state programs that seek
to protect newborns by requiring that health officials report
mothers suspected of illicit drug or alcohol use while
pregnant. In some instances, such reports prompt authorities
to take infants from their mothers and place them in
protective custody.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A flurry of recent medical studies show that drug and
alcohol use during pregnancy can be harmful to newborns, and
several states, including California, Illinois, Minnesota and
Florida require hospitals to report suspected cases to health
authorities. The problem has been especially apparent with
the rash of so-called crack babies born to teenagers in inner
cities.
   For this study, published in yesterday's New England
Journal of Medicine, researchers looked at pregnant women in
Pinellas County, Fla., which includes the cities of St.
Petersburg and Clearwater. Research subjects were culled from
both public health clinics, which tend to serve poor
patients, and the practices of private gynecologists, seen by
more affluent patients. Overall, 15% of pregnant women had
used drugs or alcohol while pregnant.
   "The use of illicit drugs is common among pregnant women
regardless of race and socioeconomic status," the study
concluded. The authors argued that states should take steps
to insure that mothers and their infants are reported to
authorities on medical criteria alone and not racial or
economic bias.
   The researchers, headed by Ira J. Chasnoff of Northwestern
University Medical School, Chicago, found that among 715
pregnant women in Pinellas County, 15.4% of white women and
14.1% of black women had used illegal drugs or alcohol. In
addition, 16.3% of women treated at public health clinics and
13.1% of those seen at private clinics were found to have
used drugs or alcohol. The findings were based on urine tests
taken at a woman's first prenatal doctor visit. All tests
were taken during the first six months of 1989.
   The major difference between white and minority women was
the drug they used: Black women were more likely to use
cocaine, while white women overwhelmingly used marijuana.
Alcohol, because it metabolizes quickly, was detected in only
a handful of cases, and the researchers speculated that the
extent of drinking was "almost certainly underreported," in
the study.
   During the six months of the study, hospitals reported 133
women to Pinellas County health authorities, including 48, or
1.1%, of the 4,290 white mothers to give birth during the six
months, and 85, or 10.7%, of the 853 black women who
delivered babies. "Thus, a black woman was 9.6 times more
likely than a white woman to be reported for substance abuse
during pregnancy," the authors said.
   The researchers cautioned that the urine tests, taken only
once from each subject, disclose only that a certain
substance was taken shortly before the test. "Such tests do
not indicate the frequency or the amount used." It could be,
they noted, that white women were more likely to stop using
drugs after beginning prenatal care, but they added that
other research indicates that such usage rarely stops without
intensive treatment.
   They offered several possible explanations for the huge
difference in the rate black women were reported to
authorities. Private obstetricians and hospitals may be
reluctant to assess their patients for substance use, or to
report their patients, for fear of losing referrals.
Moreover, such doctors may be inhibited because they are in
the same social circles as many of their patients, they said.
   In addition, "infants born to black women could have had
more severe symptoms of drug exposure than white women," the
authors said, because of the higher rate of cocaine use among
black women. Moreover, doctors may consider cocaine more
damaging to newborns than marijuana, more commonly used by
white women, even though several studies show that a mother's
marijuana use can cause adverse effects for their infants,
the researchers said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fluor Unit Gets Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR U.GME TXU
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Corp., an engineering,
construction and technical services company, said that its
Fluor Daniel unit was awarded two engineering, procurement
and construction-management contracts by the Pillsbury Co.
unit of London-based Grand Metropolitan PLC, and that the
Texas Utilities Electric Co. unit of Dallas-based Texas
Utilities Co. renewed its maintenance contract for two more
years. The jobs' value wasn't disclosed.
   Fluor said the Pillsbury contracts are for expansion of
the Wellston, Ohio, plant and renovation of the idle
Murfreesboro, Tenn., facility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Johnson &amp; Johnson
   Raises Dividend 17%;
   Net Income Falls 23%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. -- Johnson &amp; Johnson boosted its
dividend 17% and reported that first-quarter net income fell
23% because of a charge related to economic turmoil in Latin
America.
   Net income at the health products concern fell to $244
million, or 73 cents a share, from $317 million, or 95 cents
a share, a year earlier. The $125 million, or
38-cent-a-share, charge included provisions for writing down
and restructuring units in Argentina and for paying
additional interest on now-liquidated debt in that country.
Sales rose 16% to $2.84 billion from $2.45 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company increased the quarterly dividend to 34 cents a
share, raising the per-share dividend on an annual basis to
$1.36, compared with the previous rate of $1.16. The next
dividend is payable June 5 to stock of record May 22.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Johnson &amp; Johnson closed at $57.125, up 62.5 cents.
   In the first quarter, Johnson &amp; Johnson's consumer
products business world-wide posted a 15% sales increase.
International sales rose 31%, principally because of gains in
Brazil, which continued to have high inflation.
   Sales of pharmaceuticals rose 21% world-wide.
International sales grew 26%, with domestic operations
posting a 15% increase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dream of Single European Stock Market
   Is Elusive Amid Exchange Disagreements
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The pan-European stock market is proving an
elusive dream.
   Europe's major exchanges agree there should be one market
in the big European stocks to provide greater liquidity and
efficiency. But they disagree over how to create it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The efforts have been slow, piecemeal and contradictory.
This is increasingly helping London's aggressive
International Stock Exchange dominate the European financial
centers.
   Europe has 39 national and major regional stock exchanges
trading about 300 major European stocks.
   Fragmented and structurally diverse, they not only compete
with each other but with less formal trading systems composed
of telephone links and computerized videoscreen networks.
   Moreover, they soon will face competition from the
National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations. The U.S. screen-based, over-the-counter market
plans to begin operating during European hours in the third
quarter.
   The demand for a pan-European market comes from big
international institutional investors who want to trade in
Europe's stocks in a single market within the European time
zone.
   Andrew Hugh Smith, chairman of London's exchange, a year
ago said the answer was a Europe-wide screen-based trading
system, which London has.
   Addressing a conference in Frankfurt last month, Mr. Hugh
Smith proposed a joint initiative by London and the German
Federation of Stock Exchanges as "the critical mass, the
focus, upon which a truly European market could be built."
   Regis Rousselle, head of the Paris exchange, has suggested
creating a single European list of 300 major stocks that
could be traded on any exchange.
   The Federation of European Community Stock Exchanges,
meanwhile, is planning "le Pipe," a system to provide
European stock prices and company information. A single
network will transmit data prepared by the 12 Common Market
exchanges, and it might develop into a trading system.
   The major investment firms increasingly are engaging in
informal pan-European trading through their own computerized
video-screens, away from the exchanges. But this leaves
investors less protected because there's less surveillance to
detect cheating and irregularities.
   Europe's exchanges have talked for decades about
cooperating, and it was hoped that action would replace words
with the approach of 1992, when the European Community
theoretically becomes a barrier-free marketplace of 320
million consumers.
   But Stewart Gilchrist, a director of Scottish Amicable
Investment Managers, a Glasgow-based institutional investor,
said, "I don't think we are particularly optimistic."
   Frank Lewis, executive director of European trading at
Shearson Lehman Hutton International Inc. in London, said a
pan-European market was an impractical ideal. "Every local
market is always going to fight to maintain their local
autonomy and their individuality," he said.
   "There's also a hesitancy on the part of the customers."
For instance, someone investing in Portugal is likely to
believe that a Portuguese broker is the best-qualified to
offer advice, Mr. Lewis said. "That is the perception and is
to a large degree true and can be overcome, but it's an
uphill battle."
   London's exchange has used a screen-based system called
SEAQ International for five years, enabling it to win
business from other European exchanges and develop
substantial trade in international shares.
   It also benefits from being English-speaking and
better-established than its continental counterparts.
   Mr. Hugh Smith estimated that about one-fifth of West
German stock trading takes place in London, where trade in
non-British shares grew to $50.5 billion in February from $41
billion in September.
   London accounted for 35% of Europe's total market
capitalization of $1.8 trillion at the end of 1988, figures
provided by London's exchange show. Germany came in second,
with 13%, and France, third, with 11.5%.
   The market capitalization figure represents the total
value of all domestic shares listed on the major exchanges.
   West Germany is fighting back by modernizing. Last year it
launched a screen-based reporting system called IBIS, which
provides prices of blue-chip stocks to the country's eight
exchanges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Maxtor Picks Kamdar
   To Run MiniScribe Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MXTR WNEWS MINQE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Maxtor Corp. said it named one of its
executives, Taroon Kamdar, president of a unit formed to
manage the assets of troubled disk-maker MiniScribe Corp.
   Mr. Kamdar, 44 years old, has been running the Longmont,
Colo.-based MiniScribe since the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Denver approved Maxtor's $46 million bid for MiniScribe's
assets earlier this month. Maxtor, which makes data-storage
products, said Mr. Kamdar retains his position as Maxtor's
vice president for corporate development.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MiniScribe, which last year said its previous management
had improperly manipulated its financial results, sought
protection in January from creditors under the federal
Bankruptcy Code after it was unable to settle a number of
lawsuits and bondholder lawsuits against it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philip Morris Shareholders
   Snub Anti-Tobacco Request
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MO
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philip Morris Cos. said its shareholders defeated a
resolution that would have required the company to cease its
business in tobacco products after Dec. 31, 1999.
   The New York-based packaged goods maker said its
shareholders also rejected a proposal to establish a review
committee to determine, among other things, the impact of
promotions and advertising on childrens' decision to smoke.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philip Morris makes Marlboro, the world's best-selling
cigarette.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Growth-Minded Amsterdam Publishers
   Are Keeping a Close Eye on Each Other
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   N.ELS N.WOK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- Elsevier N.V. and Wolters Kluwer N.V., Dutch
masters in the art of earning big profits from obscure
publications, are scouring Europe and the U.S. in the hope of
buying more of them. At the same time, the two
Amsterdam-based publishers are keeping a wary eye on each
other.
   Elsevier owns a third of Wolters Kluwer, and Pierre
Vinken, Elsevier's chairman, has long made it clear he would
like to see the two merge. Some investment analysts believe
it is just a matter of time before that happens. But Wolters
Kluwer is playing hard to get.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are doing quite well on our own," Mijndert Ververs,
chairman of Wolters Kluwer, said in an interview. "From a
defensive point of view, there is no necessity for an
alliance."
   Indeed, Wolters Kluwer is already the product of a
defensive alliance. In 1987, when Elsevier made a hostile bid
for Kluwer B.V., the latter publisher rushed into the arms of
a white knight, Wolters Samsom Groep N.V.
   The combined company owes much of its success to
publishing nitty-gritty legal and tax information. Bolstered
by acquisitions in Spain, France and West Germany over the
past two years, Wolters Kluwer expects to benefit handsomely
as the European Community's unified market program spews out
legal, tax and regulatory changes, all needing translation
and explanation.
   Elsevier's biggest strength has long been in scientific
journals. The company has about 650 of them, with such
forbidding titles as the Journal of Hepatology, Tectono
physics, and Geschneider's Handbook on the Physics and
Chemistry of Rare Earths (all of them "unreadable," Mr.
Vinken confides cheerfully). Such journals, sold world-wide,
may never be big sellers at airport newsstands, but
scientists swear by them and Mr. Vinken says the profit
margins are around 30%.
   Elsevier has concentrated on these and other high-profit
niches, including professional and trade publications, while
shedding lower-margin publications and printing operations.
That strategy has helped Elsevier keep its average annual
profit growth above 20% for two decades. But the company's
very success has prompted analysts to question whether
Elsevier can keep up such a pace much longer without
resorting to huge, risky acquisitions.
   "Elsevier seems to have reached a stage of maturity," says
Willem Burgers, an analyst at the Amsterdam brokerage firm of
Van Meer James Capel N.V. Though Mr. Vinken says he has long
warned that 20% profit growth couldn't be sustained forever,
he sees no sign of stagnation yet.
   For the next few years, however, many analysts see more
potential profit growth from Wolters Kluwer than from
Elsevier. The latter's operating profit last year was 17% of
sales. Wolters Kluwer, by contrast, turned in a 12% margin
but expects that to rise to 15% by 1992.
   Using a strategy that closely resembles that of Elsevier,
Wolters Kluwer is pruning businesses with low profit margins.
It plans to sell a majority stake in its chain of bookstores,
and earlier this month the company announced an agreement to
sell nearly all of its remaining printing plants for an
undisclosed sum.
   Only about 44% of Wolters Kluwer's 1989 revenue of 1.88
billion guilders ($984 million) came from outside the
Netherlands, but the company aims to raise that percentage
above 50% by making further acquisitions abroad.
   Mr. Ververs says he expects at least two more purchases in
Spain this year. In the U.S., where Wolters Kluwer already
publishes medical journals and operates an AIDS data base,
Mr. Ververs says the company is in talks aimed at acquiring a
publisher with revenue of more than $100 million a year. He
declined to identify the target.
   In addition, he says, Wolters Kluwer is looking for
further acquisitions in northern Italy, France and West
Germany.
   Elsevier is concentrating more of its attention lately on
acquisitions in Europe, particularly in areas such as
financial, medical, real-estate and other professional
information. It also is exploring commercial television,
having acquired a stake in a small Dutch-language broadcaster
last year.
   Some analysts have speculated that Elsevier might try to
improve its profit margins further by selling its Dutch
newspaper interests, which include the prestigious NRC
Handelsblad and the Algemeen Dagblad. Though the newspapers
produce much lower margins than specialized publications, Mr.
Vinken says there is no plan to sell them. Still, he doesn't
dispute the idea that a move away from newspapers might fit
with Elsevier's long-term strategy of avoiding mass markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Benton Oil &amp; Gas Co. Well
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BNTN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   VENTURA, Calif. -- Benton Oil &amp; Gas Co. said it completed
the Newhall Resources 25-1 well, which tested four million
cubic feet of gas a day with no water. Calculated absolute
flow was determined to be 22.5 million cubic feet a day.
   The well was tested on a 24/64-inch restricted opening
with flowing tubing pressure of 2,109 pounds per square inch.
The well was drilled to 7,300 feet, and pay was found between
6,542 feet and 6,596 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ASK Corp. Marketing Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   ASKC J.MES
</CO>
<LP>
   WACO, Texas -- ASK Corp. said that it reached an agreement
with Mitsui Engineering &amp; Shipbuilding Co. covering the
world-wide sales of ASK's products and technology.
   An ASK spokesman wouldn't disclose the value of the
agreement, but said it was a significant one for the company.
The agreement calls for an initial marketing program in the
U.S. and Japan. If successful, ASK said, it would then be
introduced in other world markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ASK makes heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and
cogeneration products. Mitsui is a Tokyo-based company with
interests in shipbuilding, engineering and power-generation
products and services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bristol-Myers Sees
   Stong Net Growth
   In Next Few Years
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said it expects
earnings to grow by at least 18% a year for the next three
years and even faster after 1992.
   The pharmaceutical company, formed by the merger last year
of Bristol-Myers and Squibb, told securities industry
analysts Wednesday that it expected to eliminate earnings
dilution caused by the merger by the end of 1991, largely
because of significant savings from combining the companies'
operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts who attended the all-day session said the
company's profit outlook was especially strong. Some analysts
said they were impressed by the speed with which the company
was merging the two businesses and gaining benefits from the
merged operations. "I was very pleased by the presentations,"
said Frederic Greenberg, a partner with EGS Partners, a
money-management fund. The company's officials "have a
beautiful story to tell" regarding the earnings outlook.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Bristol-Myers Squibb shares rose $2.125 to $54.875,
reflecting the analysts' enthusiasm. Nearly 2.1 million
shares changed hands.
   Specifically, the company told analysts that per-share
earnings in 1990 will rise to between $3.25 and $3.30. Sales
are expected to rise about 10%, the company said. In 1989,
Bristol-Myers earned $747 million, or $1.43 a share,
including a $693 million charge related to the merger. Sales
totaled $9.2 billion. The company told analysts it expected
per-share earnings to increase to about $3.85 in 1991 and
about $4.50 in 1992.
   Michael Autera, the company's chief financial officer,
told analysts that beyond 1992, Bristol-Myers Squibb's
"sustainable growth" would rise by an even higher rate. He
said the company expects to save enough money from merging
operations to make up the $693 million charge. He said the
company expected to save $110 million this year, $290 million
in 1991 and $390 million in 1992, mostly by reducing the
combined companies' manufacturing plants to 30 from 62 and by
operational staff reductions. "The savings are coming very
fast. It's a very good sign," said Ronald Nordmann, an
analyst with PaineWebber Inc.
   Mr. Nordmann said the company already is benefiting from
the two companies' combined sales force. It expects sales of
its heart drug Corgard, which were flat at $150 million in
1989, to rise in 1990 because of the larger sales force.
Sales from the company's pharmaceutical operations are
expected to rise about 16% to $5.1 billion from $4.4 billion
in 1989.
   The company said it expected its pharmaceutical research
and development budget to rise 18% to $775 million, putting
it second in size to spending by Merck &amp; Co., which expects
to spend about $855 million for research in 1990.
   Analysts said they were impressed by the number of drugs
in the company's research pipeline. The company said it was
in advanced stages of testing an anti-depression drug that
would compete with Eli Lilly &amp; Co.'s big-selling drug Prozac.
The company also said it expects to seek approval later this
year from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its
anti-viral drug Videx. The drug, also known as DDI, is being
developed for use against acquired immune deficiency
syndrome. It is chemically similar to Wellcome PLC's AZT.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Xerox Had Loss
   Of $254 Million
   In First Quarter
   ---
   Bigger-Than-Expected Gap
   Reflects Deterioration
   In Financial-Services Line
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp. posted a bigger-than-expected first-quarter
loss of $254 million, including a one-time charge of $375
million, reflecting a rapid deterioration in the company's
financial-services business.
   One analyst called the business's performance
"disastrous." But the loss also masked solid results from the
company's core business equipment operation, which had a 20%
profit gain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Stamford, Conn., company's loss compared with profit
of $158 million in the year-ago period. The loss was $2.93 a
share, compared with profit of $1.47 a share. Revenue grew
2.8% to $4.26 billion from $4.14 billion.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Xerox dropped $1.25 to close at $51.
   The one-time charge, disclosed April 3, was related to the
company's abandonment of its investments in VMS Realty
Partners, a Chicago real estate concern. The previous day,
Vice Chairman Melvin Howard, who heads Xerox Financial
Services, had said he would take early retirement May 1.
Industry watchers said both moves signaled Xerox's growing
impatience with costly attempts to diversify away from its
strength in copiers and other office machines.
   Analysts said that the latest dismal showing by financial
services -- revenue sagged 5%, and profit plummeted 84% from
$67 million to $11 million, on woeful results from insurer
Crum &amp; Forster Inc. -- should strengthen Xerox's resolve to
deemphasize this area.
   "My guess is that we've already seen the first in a series
of steps," said Alex Henderson of Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc., noting that Crum &amp; Forster stopped writing personal
lines of insurance this past week. "Allaire has given
marching orders to put a tourniquet on the cash flow going
into financial services," he said, referring to Paul Allaire,
Xerox president, who will become chief executive officer Aug.
1.
   On a brighter note, analysts praised gains in cost
control, rental and service revenue on the business equipment
side, though the analysts tagged copier sales as weak. "But
in document processing, at least, things are going reasonably
well," said Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   Still, he and other analysts spent yesterday figuring out
new estimates of Xerox's 1990 earnings. Not counting the
$3.99-a-share charge, most guesses had hovered from $6 to
$6.50 a share. The consensus is now likely to settle well
below $6.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Grossed Out
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your report on the Art Buchwald-Paramount Pictures Corp.
legal battle concerning the motion picture "Coming to
America" (March 21) may mislead the reader by your saying
Paramount was "taking in revenue of $275 million world-wide."
Paramount did not take in this money. The motion-picture
exhibitors did (i.e. "box-office gross"). Paramount took its
share of that gross ("rentals" or "distributor's gross"),
which is usually less than 50% of the box-office gross -- in
this case $125 million.
   Jack Blankley,
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CPA
   Los Angeles
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Heavy Lifting: The Art of Heave and Ho
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Chicago -- There are no posted directions to the weight
room in the field house at Sayre Park on this city's western
edge, but none are needed. A visitor follows his ears to the
basement, and turns right. Even when rubber collars are used,
400 pounds of iron plate makes quite a racket when dropped on
a wood platform atop a concrete floor. Bounces pretty high,
too.
   Downstairs, in a cinder-block room with peeling,
white-painted walls, Rich Shutz eyes a 462-pound load he has
affixed to a barbell. That's 22 pounds more than he has
lifted in competition. He breathes deep and hoists the weight
to his waist, then drops it with a crash. He does this twice
more before concluding the exercise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Gotta get it to your waist before you can get it
overhead," explains Shutz, a pleasant, thick-bodied young man
of 24. "In weightlifting, you take things one step at a
time."
   The next step for Shutz may come at the National
Weightlifting Championships May 4-6 in Farmington Hills,
Mich. But then again, it may not. It's not so much a national
title that's in doubt for the Northeastern Illinois U.
senior, because he has won one annually since 1986. It's the
amount he lifts, and whether he can narrow the gap that
separates him from the East Europeans who populate the
activity's top echelon.
   Shutz is the U.S.'s best hope for eventual international
glory in the sport of heave and ho, but he has a way to go.
His position in the 110-kilogram (242-pound) weight class
keeps improving, from 15th place in the 1987 World
Championships, to 11th at the 1988 Olympics at Seoul, to
eighth in last year's World's in Athens, the highest U.S.
finish there. Yet the division winner at Athens, Bulgarian
Stefan Botev, hoisted 159.5 pounds more than Shutz's total of
781 for the snatch and clean-and-jerk, and the third-placer,
a Pole, topped his effort by 60 pounds.
   It long has been thus. The U.S. dominated weightlifting in
the immediate postwar years, producing strongmen such as Paul
Anderson, the Georgia giant who won 1956 Olympic gold, and
notable characters such as Harold Sakata, a 1948 silver
medalist who gained greater fame as the villain "Oddjob" in
the James Bond movie "Goldfinger." But then the East Bloc got
involved in earnest, and we Yanks have been out-yanked since.
   "We didn't keep up in terms of organization or financing,
and we're still far behind," says Roger Nielsen, the U.S.
national team coach who also oversees the Sayre Park
facility.
   Nielsen offers Sayre Park as an example of weightlifting's
beggarly status. The Chicago Park District provides the room,
but nothing more. Equipment is purchased with the $50-a-year
dues charged to lifters who use the place, plus receipts from
ticket and T-shirt sales at an annual meet. Neither the U.S.
Weightlifting Federation nor the U.S. Olympic Committee
provides operating support. Nielsen, an FBI agent, is unpaid
as a local or national coach.
   One might think that the recent national yen for health
through pumping iron would have aided the sport, but it
hasn't. "Health clubs don't like us," Nielsen notes. "Free
weights create litter, and the operators don't want us
banging 'em around."
   Weightlifting isn't easy to pursue on other grounds, the
coach continues. "It's difficult, there isn't much of an
audience, and most of the work has to be done alone," he
says. "We rarely get kids young enough to develop their
potential, and for every one who sticks we lose four or five,
usually to football. When you think about it, it's no
wonder."
   Given those circumstances, 6-foot-1 Shutz is a rare find
for the U.S. sport. He was initiated into it as a boy by his
father, Fred, a 1958 national champ, and decided early on
that he didn't like football. "Maybe it was because they
didn't let me play quarterback," he smiles. "In
weightlifting, everybody's a quarterback."
   But seriously folks, "I like the work, and every time you
lift, you compete against yourself. The challenge is always
there, even if no one is watching."
   In pursuit of that challenge, Shutz works out just about
every day, sometimes twice. In addition to his Sayre Park
sessions, he and his dad, who participates in master's
tournaments, share a workout shed in back of their home in
suburban Mount Prospect. Rich says their schedules rarely
permit them to practice together, but having a lifter father
still helps. "He understands what I do," says Rich. "Most
people don't."
   One thing most people don't understand is why he doesn't
have showy muscles like the bodybuilders, even though any
conceivable bully would make a wide detour to avoid
disturbing the sand around his beach blanket. "You lift
mainly with your thighs, butt and lower back," he explains.
"That's not the best for looking good in swimsuits."
   Another common misunderstanding concerns the skills needed
for Olympic type lifts in which the barbell must be raised
cleanly, and steadied overhead, to be counted. "It's not just
strength; there's footwork, agility and balance involved.
We've got things in common with dancers."
   Finally, weightlifting requires patience, necessitated by
the plateaus every lifter hits. Shutz is on one; his best
competitive total was the 797.5 pounds with which he won the
1988 U.S. Olympic Trials. Then torn shoulder cartilage set
him back, and so have the smaller ills all athletes incur
performing on the edge of their abilities. He says he's fit
now.
   Morever, Shutz thinks the world is turning in his
direction, especially the political changes in Eastern Europe
that might bring less regimentation -- and success -- to
those countries' athletic programs, and greater concern over
steroid use in weightlifting. He says he's never used the
drugs ("Sports aren't worth risking your health for"), and so
can only benefit from recent moves toward stricter testing.
   His goal is a 1992 Olympic medal, and he thinks a two-lift
total of between 870 and 880 pounds will win one for him.
Meantime, he'll settle for upping his personal best by 5 1/2
pounds next week. "Like I said, one step at a time," says he.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Toys "R" Us Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TOYS "R" US Inc. (Paramus, N.J.) -- Biagio Gabardi, most
recently a partner with Gran Sole Group, a closely held
Italian hypermarket concern, was named president of Toys "R"
Us-Italy. The toy retailer plans to begin retail operations
in Italy in the fall of 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allied-Signal Net
   Increased by 2.4%
   In First Quarter
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allied-Signal Inc. said profit edged up 2.4% in the first
quarter, restrained by results of its automotive business,
but pershare earnings climbed 5.8% because of company stock
repurchases over the past year.
   Net income rose to $129 million, or 90 cents a share, from
$126 million, or 85 cents a share, a year earlier, the
company said, as results from the aerospace and engineered
materials businesses offset lower earnings in the automotive
segment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales for the Morris Township, N.J.-based company
increased 6.8% to $3.1 billion from $2.9 billion quarter.
   The company said earnings from the aerospace business rose
10% to $54 million in the first three months of the year,
reflecting a 4% sales increase and lower interest, sales and
administrative costs. The Energy Management and Services
Group and the Engine Group had higher sales and earnings, the
company said. These were partly offset by slimmer margins for
the Avionics Group and higher engineering and development
costs for new engines and auxiliary power units, the company
said.
   Automotive net income fell 14% to $32 million in the first
quarter, although automotive sales increased 8%, the company
said. The sales increase was due in part to favorable foreign
exchange and new product sales for anti-lock braking systems
and air bags, the company said. Increased selling and
interest costs, lower sales in the North American brake and
safety-restraint businesses and lower margins for
turbochargers more than offset higher after-market profits,
the company said.
   "We remain hopeful that the domestic automotive business
will rebound in the second half of the year," said Edward L.
Hennessy, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
   The company said earnings from the engineered materials
business rose 2% to $63 million in the quarter, despite a 2%
drop in sales. The segment had increased earnings in the
quarter from high-density polyethylene and improved
performance by the company's UOP process technology joint
venture, which offset lower sales and profits for fibers and
uranium hexafluoride, a gas used by the nuclear fuel
processors, and higher costs in the Norplex Oak laminates
business that makes boards for printed circuits.
   Largely due to a corporate stock-repurchase program,
Allied-Signal's average shares outstanding fell to 142.8
million in the latest quarter from 148.3 million shares in
the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Merck's Geriatrics Manual
   Is Expected to Fill `Gap'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK
</CO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Merck &amp; Co. announced the publication of a
manual of geriatrics that is likely to join the broader Merck
Manual as a reference book widely used by doctors and
patients.
   The 1,267-page Merck Manual of Geriatrics is designed to
help fill an "information gap" that often leads to
"suboptimal care for the elderly sick," said William Abrams,
the book's co-editor. The book covers a range of topics,
including common diseases and injuries that afflict the
elderly, legal and ethical issues surrounding the treatment
of chronically ill patients, descriptions of Medicare,
Medicaid and private insurance as well as a variety of social
and psychological issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Merck will sell the new handbook at cost for $20 a copy.
Company officials said they expect first-edition sales of
about 200,000 copies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ASB
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN SAVINGS BANK (White Plains, N.Y.) -- Philip M.
Blumenfeld, previously a consultant for this bank, was named
executive vice president, nonperforming loans. Earlier this
month, H.L. Van Varick resigned as executive vice president,
real estate lending, a post American doesn't immediately plan
to fill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Morton International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MII
</CO>
<LP>
   MORTON INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Chicago) -- George A. Schaefer,
chairman and chief executive officer of Caterpillar Inc., was
named a director of this specialty chemical maker, expanding
board membership to 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maverick Swedish Tycoon Plans to Build
   Nobel Into an International Powerhouse
   ----
   By Stephen Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.NOB S.BOF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Swedish tycoon Erik Penser abhors the
limelight but is determined to make Nobel Industries AB, his
flagship company, into one of Sweden's biggest international
concerns.
   Nobel still faces political flak over allegations it paid
bribes to win a $1.3 billion artillery order from India four
years ago. And Mr. Penser has stirred controversy by moving
from Sweden to the United Kingdom and later to Belgium to
keep his vast personal fortune safely beyond the reach of the
voracious Swedish taxman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Penser was elected Nobel's chairman Monday, succeeding
Lars-Erik Thunholm, a 76-year-old Swedish banker. He says
Nobel directors prodded him to take the job "since I'm such a
substantial owner." Indeed, some analysts suggested that with
a 57.6% voting stake in Nobel, Mr. Penser is so dominant that
there were few takers for the chairman's post.
   Nobel has undergone a corporate facelift in recent years,
shedding peripheral businesses and broadening its base
outside Sweden through a flurry of acquisitions. Mr. Penser
also helped clean up Nobel's shaky balance sheet by
consolidating ownership of his corporate empire two years
ago.
   As a result, Nobel today is cash-rich and hungry for a big
acquisition in Europe. Anders Carlbert, chief executive
officer, acknowledges that Nobel is shopping, with the U.K.
the top geographical priority and a consumer-oriented paint
company high on the wish list. And Mr. Carlberg is in a hurry
to succeed before the European Community dismantles its
internal tariff barriers by the end of 1992.
   Past acquisitions raised the proportion of Nobel's sales
outside Sweden to 71% last year from 59% five years earlier.
The arms and ammunition made by the AB Bofors unit still
account for about 25% of sales.
   But faster growth has come in the adhesives and paint
divisions, now Nobel's biggest at about one-third of sales,
and other chemical niches, such as pulp and paper where Nobel
claims world leadership in chlorate, an environmentally
attractive chemical for bleaching of pulp.
   So far this year, Nobel has sold assets valued at 2.2
billion kronor ($360 million). The company announced the
latest step in its restructuring plans last week by engaging
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. to find a partner or buyer for the Nobel
plastics division. The division's output of industrial
components, especially auto parts for Swedish car makers AB
Volvo and Saab Scania AB, accounted for 5% of Nobel's 1989
sales but only 3.5% of operating profit.
   Nobel's pretax profit surged 80% last year to 1.68 billion
kronor, buoyed by a big non-recurring gain from a public
offering of shares in its Gamlestaden AB property unit. Mr.
Carlberg told the annual meeting Monday that sales and
operating profit in the first quarter were in line with the
year-earlier period. Nobel hasn't issued an official 1990
forecast for pretax profit.
   Mr. Penser began his career as a stockbroker but built a
corporate empire during Sweden's stock market boom of the
early 1980s. He gained fame as the Swedish market's boldest
gambler, financing his purchases through massive borrowing.
But unlike many corporate raiders in Sweden, Mr. Penser
rarely sold holdings once acquired.
   His biggest success was the 1985 purchase of Kema Nobel
AB, a big chemical group which he merged with Bofors to form
the present Nobel Industries. But as recently as two years
ago, Mr. Penser seemed headed for a debt crunch that
threatened his empire.
   He managed to pull through, though, thanks to some artful
financing and a timely recovery of prices on the Stockholm
Stock Exchange. Yet with Nobel's finances finally back on a
sound footing, many analysts think Mr. Penser may turn more
cautious. His increased visibility as Nobel's chairman may
help add stability to his future role in markets, some
analysts said. "Nobel is still a company surrounded by
questions and as chairman Mr. Penser won't be able to hide
any more. He'll have to take more responsibility answering
questions from the market and from media," said Per Althin,
an analyst at Haeggloeffs &amp; Ponsbach, a Stockholm brokerage
firm.
   Showing greater restraint in financial markets could be a
way for Mr. Penser to muster political support for the role
Nobel hopes to play in an expected restructuring of Sweden's
defense sector. Nobel already has joined forces with Telefon
AB L.M. Ericsson in a defense electronics venture.
   Analysts say further concentration among defense
contractors is likely. Volvo, which is pressing for a key
role in future defense production, has more political clout
than Nobel, a concern for Mr. Carlberg and the company's
management in bargaining with the state.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Kaifu Sets Out for South Asia
   In Effort to Assure Link to the Region
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3C
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Riding a wave of popular support at home, Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu sets out tomorrow for a nine-day tour
of South Asia to show Japan's commitment to Asia and to
helping developing economies.
   While the rest of Japan celebrates the annual Golden Week
of holidays, Mr. Kaifu will pay official visits to India,
Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. It is the
first time in six years that a Japanese head of state has
visited the region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign Ministry officials say the purpose of his trip is
to reassure Japan's neighbors that despite all the recent
changes in Europe, Tokyo still places a high priority on
South Asian economic development. Officials say Mr. Kaifu
will stress that whatever Japanese aid and investment goes to
Europe it will not come at the expense of South Asia and the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN.
   Japan is already South Asia's biggest foreign aid donor,
handing over $1.1 billion in official development assistance
and loans to India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka in
1988, up from about $970 million in 1987. Indonesia, the
single largest recipient of Japanese aid, received about $984
million in aid and loans in 1988, up from $707 million in
1987.
   But since there are no major burning political issues
between Japan and these countries at the moment, political
analysts say Mr. Kaifu is likely to use the diplomatic junket
to further bolster his domestic standing.
   "Increasingly, Japanese prime ministers have limited room
for action at home. So they rely on foreign policy to enhance
their domestic power," says Takashi Inoguchi, a professor of
political science at Tokyo University.
   Already, Mr. Kaifu appears to have grasped this tactic. In
his early days in office, he was seen as a puppet prime
minister, easily manipulated by former Prime Minister Noboru
Takeshita. But since the Lower House elections in February,
Mr. Kaifu has won high marks for his delicate handling of
heated bilateral trade issues with the U.S. A recent poll by
the Yomiuri Shimbun showed his approval rating has risen to
56.1%, up from 52.9% in March and the highest since he was
inaugurated last August.
   At the same time, political analysts say Mr. Kaifu wants
to widen Japan's foreign policy field beyond ties to the U.S.
"He wants to show that he has contacts in Asia," says
Hiroichi Yamaguchi, a senior researcher at the Institute of
Developing Economies in Tokyo.
   While the timing of the trip takes advantage of the
holiday lull in Japan, observers say it also gives Mr. Kaifu
the chance to sound out South Asian leaders on their views on
global issues before the summit of advanced industrialized
nations in Houston this July. Increasingly, developing
countries in Asia are relying on Japan to voice their
concerns at international meetings.
   Analysts also expect that the governments of India,
Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka will all ask the Japanese
government to encourage more private investment in their
countries. Currently, less than 1% of Japan's overseas
investment goes to South Asia.
   For all the expected toasts to improving relations, few
political analysts expect Japan to suddenly start playing a
more active role in the region's conflicts. Foreign Ministry
officials say Mr. Kaifu will encourage the governments of
India and Pakistan to continue their efforts towards peace,
but that Japan has no intention of playing a role as a
mediator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Guinness Engages in Spirited Campaign
   To Upgrade the Image of Scotch Whisky
   ----
   By Jonathan D. Silver
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GUI
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's Guinness PLC is pinning much of its
huge spirits division's future on a campaign uncorked last
year to revive the tarnished image of Scotch whisky.
   Upgrading the status of hard liquor in the eyes of
drinkers marks both the third and most crucial stage of a
revamping of the Guinness spirits unit, prompted by what the
company sees as a flight to quality among drinkers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's the longest and the toughest" stage "and the one
that will ultimately determine if we succeed," says Tony
Greener, managing director of the company's United Distillers
division.
   The image-polishing efforts by Guinness cut across all its
spirit brands, which include Gordon's and Tanqueray gins and
vodkas, Pimm's and IW Harper bourbon.
   But the focus is clearly on its flagship liquor, scotch,
and a handful of high-quality brands under which it is
marketed in different countries, among them White Horse,
Bells and Johnnie Walker.
   Scotch sales alone accounted for between 50% and 75% of
the company's #691 million ($1.13 billion) pretax profit
during the last fiscal year, analysts reckon, and many
forecast double-digit profit growth for scotch for the next
two years.
   Overall, the spirits division racked up #542 million in
pretax profit last year, up 23% from the #440 million
realized in 1988. Analysts expect the division to pull in
between #620 million and #645 million in 1990 against
companywide pretax profit of between #808 million and #843
million.
   Spirits mark the largest of a number of successes for
Guinness, which also owns big brewing operations, gourmet
food and wine, a publishing division and a 24% stake in the
French luxury goods group, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
S.A.
   Shortly after crafting United Distillers in 1987 from a
string of acquisitions, the company set out on a three-point
strategy to resurrect the reputation of hard liquor in a
world that had been won over to beer, wine and soft drinks.
Guinness's first move was to remake its marketing
organization; this was followed by a clampdown on
distribution.
   In the past year, it has launched the last of the three
phases, aimed at polishing the image of its products. Armed
with an annual $250 million ad budget -- more than double
that of 1987 -- as well as a potent range of labels, Mr.
Greener says United Distillers hopes to win back respect for
spirits within five years.
   Guinness entered the spirits world with its 1985
acquisition of Arthur Bell for #360 million. It followed that
with its purchase of Distillers Co. in 1986 for #2.5 billion
and Schenley in 1987 for #480 million.
   Guinness paid dearly in penalties and bad publicity for
Distillers, a volume-driven group that flooded the market
with an enormous range of brands.
   In the wake of the acquisition, Guinness was found in
breach of takeover regulations in its handling of the hostile
bid and last year was forced to pay #85 million in
compensation to former Distillers shareholders. A number of
former Guinness executives and advisers are now on trial on
charges ranging from attempting to pervert the course of
justice to destroying and falsifying documents.
   United Distillers has surfaced from beneath the cloud of
the "Guinness Affair" sporting a vastly different structure.
   High volume had marked the late 1970s and early 1980s,
which saw a glut of scotch brands and a decline in demand. To
pull its spirits operations out of a potential bog, Guinness
hired Mr. Greener away from what is now Dunhill Holdings PLC
in 1987 to spearhead the revival. For Mr. Greener, credited
with switching Dunhill's focus from tobacco to luxury goods,
taking Guinness in a new direction was familiar work.
   Mr. Greener pulled the division through what he describes
as "12 months of quite a lot of grief" during which "we
completely changed the whole organizational structure of the
business."
   Mr. Greener sees an opportunity to re-establish the image
of its upscale liquor brands in the midst of a trend toward
more moderate intake in food and drink. Rather than volume,
he says, consumers are leaning toward an "appreciation of
good things."
   United Distillers culled the cheaper brands from its
product ranges. In the United Kingdom, for example, the
number of brands was slashed by about half. Similar moves
were made elsewhere.
   Some analysts say that the number of labels is still quite
a handful. But most point out that every country has its own
favorites, and United Distillers must offer a range of prices
for its quality products in each market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rival Paper's
   End Fails to Aid
   Pulitzer Stock
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PLTZ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Pulitzer Publishing Co.'s flagship St. Louis
Post-Dispatch paper has regained its monopoly as the city's
sole daily, following the failure of the upstart St. Louis
Sun.
   But the day after the late-afternoon announcement of the
Sun's fate, Pulitzer shares fell 25 cents to close at $27.25.
Analysts said the market's indifferent reaction reflected
just how little of a factor the Sun actually was, in
comparison to the ongoing softness in advertising sales that
is plaguing the Post-Dispatch, along with many other
newspapers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kenneth F. Cook, an analyst with Burns, Pauli &amp; Co. in St.
Louis, said, "I think an awful lot of the Sun's demise was in
the stock already. There was an expectation that this thing
wasn't working, that it was only a matter of time" before
Ingersoll Newspapers Inc. folded the Sun. The Sun began
printing in September and lasted only seven months.
   In recent quarters, Pulitzer has conceded that the new
competition had helped push down Post-Dispatch earnings,
although the media concern has stressed that a weak
advertising market played a bigger role. Largely because of
the downturn at the Post-Dispatch, Pulitzer's earnings for
the first quarter tumbled 70% to $906,000, or nine cents a
share, from the year-earlier $3 million, or 29 cents.
   The Sun's "impact has been primarily on {Pulitzer's} cost
side" in terms of promotional and other efforts to counter
the new competitor, said Mr. Cook. He noted that the Sun
never hurt circulation at the Post-Dispatch, and said it's
unclear just how many ad dollars it had drawn from the
Post-Dispatch.
   At least for now, Mr. Cook said, he is holding to his
earlier projection that Pulitzer will have per-share earnings
of about $1.40 for the current year. In 1989, the company had
earnings of $31.4 million, or $3 a share, but the figures
were boosted by a net $12.7 million gain from sale of a
broadcasting property.
   A.G. Edwards analyst Michael Kupinski said, "Advertising
support for the Sun wasn't that significant." The Post's
recent earnings declines "have been 60% the result of the
economy, 40% the Sun," he said. Although "when you return to
a monopoly status, that's always good" because of the
increased leverage over advertising rates, he doubted there's
much near-term advantage to be gleaned from the death of the
Sun. "Looking forward," however, "it's a positive" for
Pulitzer, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Financial Females Are Heard on the Street
   ----
   By Jewelle W. Bickford
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   The havoc visited on Wall Street since the 1987 stock
market crash has hit women even harder than men. Let into the
club in significant numbers only a decade ago, many now have
been laid off or shoved aside as Joanies-come-lately in the
frantic downsizing of a chastened but not chaste industry.
   So what's next? "Wall Street Women" (Knopf, 177 pages,
$19.95) by Anne Fisher, a former Fortune magazine reporter,
advertises on its jacket that the reader will be told how the
Street and women fared in the 1980s and where they are going
in 1990s. The book does better with the history than with the
speculation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a chronicle of the turbulent past, "Wall Street Women"
is an often-compelling narrative, told through the voices of
top-ranking financial women. Interviewing female traders,
money managers, analysts and deal makers about their jobs,
the author finds these women as determined to succeed as
their male counterparts. They work just as well as men under
intense pressure and abnormally long hours.
   But they are different from the men around them. They are
less likely to value themselves mainly by their positions or
salaries. They seem to know that men find women scary who
make salaries in six or seven figures, and as a result Wall
Street women try to marry men making just as much money as
they do or who are in professions that aren't measured by
money: artists, writers, academics.
   They also are reluctant to spend the enormous incomes they
earn as freely as their male peers. Yes, many have the
obligatory second house in Connecticut or the Hamptons. But
most avoid the ostentation and conspicuous consumption
typical of their male counterparts. Indeed, ambivalence about
the unreal pay scales, slavish hours and recent market
turmoil are causing many to rethink their lives.
   All of this is told in an engaging style, without
bitterness, cynicism or, unfortunately, much that is new.
Throughout the four segments of the book (the work
environment, attitudes toward money, their background, and
finding a sense of balance), the reader is frustrated by Ms.
Fisher's seeming reluctance to probe.
   For example, C. Austin Fitts, the first female partner at
Dillon, Read &amp; Co., now commissioner of the Federal Housing
Administration in Washington, is shown describing her view of
how to get ahead: "If you're a `girl,' men hesitate to yell
at you if you do something stupid. And sometimes the only way
to learn is by getting yelled at. So I always sought out
people to work for who would yell at me. People that nobody
else wanted to work for, because they were known as
screamers. And I'm tough on the young women who work for me."
   But does she scream at them? And what do the women who
work for her make of hard-boiled Ms. Fitts? The author didn't
ask. Nor did she press Marilyn LaMarche, the first and only
female managing director at Lazard Freres &amp; Co., who followed
a kinder, gentler route to success: "You have to know how to
read and write well, and you have to know how to analyze a
financial statement. But more important than that: You must
have humility. You must have integrity. And you must work
hard."
   Fine. But why is there only one woman partner at Lazard
Freres? How hard did Ms. LaMarche have to lobby the guys to
get promoted? And is it only the women who were expected to
be humble in an industry known for its arrogance? I felt like
begging the author to at least ask the questions.
   And what of the future of women in this business?
   Ellen Lee's views of her work as an investment banker at
Ernst &amp; Co. suggest to me that now may be the time for us to
cling to what women have been traditionally taught. "Figuring
out what others need and want, and then bending over backward
to provide it, are skills traditionally inculcated and
encouraged in girls, not boys. Men are awful at it
generally," Ms. Lee notes. "The Street has a male dominated
personality. There's a lot of strategizing going on, but not
much real planning."
   The reader would like these thoughts put in a larger
context. Do other women agree? Is there a growing recognition
among men that women with traditional feminine skills are
needed as a part of a team approach to a client? Do those
skills work better in larger firms or smaller firms, where
every person must count? Indeed, is there any common ground
between the advocates of screaming and those reflecting a
more "feminine" approach? "Wall Street Women" offers few
answers.
   Although the book fails to probe where it should, it does
provide valuable anecdotal evidence of how a wide variety of
styles has worked and can continue to work for women in a
world that until a few years ago almost totally excluded us.
We're here, and despite the layoffs, despite the volatility
of the financial markets and the disintegration of
established firms, we're here to stay.
   ---
   Ms. Bickford is president of Trepp Financial Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Motor Vehicle Exports
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese exports of cars, trucks and buses in the
year ended March 31 fell 6% to 5.8 million units from 6.2
million a year earlier, marking the fourth consecutive
fiscal-year decline, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers'
Association said.
   But in March, exports rose for the first time since
August, increasing 0.8% to 551,997 units from 547,798 a year
earlier, when the year-to-year rise was 18.5%. Except for
August, vehicle exports had been declining every month from
year-earlier levels since March 1989. The association said
the general trend of fewer exports remains the same.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese auto makers are continuing to meet overseas
demand by producing at local facilities, particularly in the
U.S. and Europe, which has caused Japanese exports to
dwindle.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Perrier Sales in New York
   Allowed; Dispute Resolved
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   F.PRR
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBANY, N.Y. -- New York state health officials resolved a
dispute with Perrier Group of America Inc. and said they
would allow the Greenwich, Conn., company to begin selling
Perrier water yesterday, as scheduled.
   Officials had delayed approval for Perrier to re-enter the
state, after a sample of the bottled water showed too much
sodium for the company to use the term "sodium free" on its
labels, under Food and Drug Administration regulations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Perrier proved to the commission satisfactorily that the
sample we saw was a fluke," a New York State Department of
Health spokesman said. "They don't know what happened, but
obviously it was a contaminated sample."
   Perrier recalled its water world-wide in February, after
small amounts of benzene were found in some samples. The new
Perrier is marked with labels that read "nouvelle
production."
   Perrier Group, a unit of Source Perrier S.A. of France,
said Perrier meets all FDA and New York state standards. It
also said it agreed to work with the New York State
Department of Health and the New York Legislature "to develop
additional bottled water and mineral water standards, as
appropriate."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P Plans Covenant Rank
   On Privately Placed Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it will begin
rating privately placed debt according to the quality of
covenant protection for investors.
   The private placement market is used by U.S. and foreign
companies that want to raise money without going through the
paperwork and government review required in a public
offering. At the end of 1989, nearly $200 billion of private
placements were outstanding. The Securities and Exchange
Commission recently passed a rule that will make it
significantly easier for issuers to sell privately placed
debt to large, sophisticated investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., is known mostly for its
credit ratings, which assess a company's likelihood of
default. The new covenant ratings will assess other issues,
such as how strictly a company's repayment capacity is
protected, or how well a lender is protected against a
takeover that might hurt credit quality.
   S&amp;P is launching its service in conjunction with
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, the nation's largest
private placement investor.
   Frank Rizzo, an S&amp;P managing director, said S&amp;P at first
won't announce its covenant ratings, in hopes of making
issuers more willing to have their covenants rated.
"Ultimately, we want to disseminate the ratings," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IBM Unit Predicts
   Strong Market Growth
   In East German Area
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3C
</SO>
<CO>
   G.IBM IBM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- IBM Deutschland G.m.b.H., the West German
unit of International Business Machines Corp., said that the
computer market in what is today East Germany will soar to
about 35 billion marks in the year 2000 and will be about
half as large a market as West Germany currently is.
   Alfred Esslinger, a member of the managing board, said at
a news conference in Stuttgart this week that the computer
market in East Germany will be 10 times as large as it was in
1988, when computer sales totaled 3.1 billion East German
marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Esslinger said that IBM plans to work with several East
German companies on establishing a servicing and marketing
network. He restated earlier assertions that the company
won't invest in production facilities in East Germany. It
has, however, signed a cooperation agreement with an East
German training center for the development of software.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Businessland Posts
   Third-Quarter Loss
   Totaling $1.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   BLI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Businessland Inc., as expected,
reported a loss for its third quarter of $1.7 million, or six
cents a share, compared with year-earlier net income of $8.5
million, or 27 cents a share.
   Sales increased 10% in the quarter ended March 31 to
$323.4 million from $293.3 million. In composite trading
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, the company's
shares closed at $9.25, unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hurt by personal-computer price battles, the computer
retailer also said earnings at its primary U.S. operations
were substantially offset by losses at its ComputerCraft
retail unit and at its United Kingdom operations.
   For the nine months, the company said earnings plunged 94%
to $1.4 million, or four cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net of $25.5 million, or 85 cents a share. Sales
increased 17% to $1.01 billion from $866.2 million.
   Earlier this month, Businessland surprised analysts with
its disclosure of the loss. Analysts had expected a profit of
$4 million to $5 million in the quarter. Yesterday, the
company said that its revenue was less than anticipated for
the quarter and that the decline resulted in higher expenses
as a percentage of sales. Moreover, lower-than-anticipated
margins outside the U.S. affected gross margins.
   As reported, the company has initiated cost-cutting
measures, including firing 15 to 20 of the 170 employees in
the U.K. The firm said that may bring U.K. operations back to
profitability.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Firms See
   Economy Contracting
   Over Next 12 Months
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Weakness in Japanese financial markets has
changed formerly sanguine corporate views of business
prospects and led many companies to expect the economy to
contract over the next 12 months, according to the Federation
of Economic Organizations, known as Keidanren.
   A survey of executives at 245 major companies, conducted
in late March and early April, showed 60% believe the economy
will end its protracted expansion in the second half of the
fiscal year that began April 1. In a survey conducted by
Keidanren in December, only 35% said they expected the
economy to turn down in the second half of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite problems in the Japanese economy, the average of
companies' replies shows they expect inflation-adjusted
growth of 4% in the current fiscal year.
   The Japanese economy has been expanding for 41 consecutive
months, fueled by high corporate investment and personal
consumption.
   The tightening of Japanese financial markets since January
was the most-often cited cause of a contraction, according to
Keidanren. Of the companies surveyed, 38% blamed financial
markets for the chance of a downturn, while 29% pointed to
inflation stemming from rising labor and commodity prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   A.M. Castle &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   A.M. CASTLE &amp; Co. (Franklin Park, Ill.) -- Richard G.
Mork, 54 years old, formerly senior vice president and chief
operating officer of this metals distributor, was named
president and chief executive officer, succeeding Richard A.
Virzi, 62, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Had Decline
   In Net Investment
   In Trusts in March
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Net new investment in United Kingdom investment
trusts registered a net deficit of #18.6 million ($30.4
million) in March, compared with a net new investment gain of
#303.5 million in February and #211.3 million in March 1989,
the Unit Trust Association said this week.
   The loss figure in the latest month is the lowest since
May 1988. Julian Shersby, the UTA's information and
statistical secretary, attributed March's net loss of
investment funds to higher-than-usual withdrawals by Japanese
investors seeking to square losses resulting from falls in
their own stock market over the month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, other investors sold funds ahead of the end of the
financial year in March in an attempt to reduce their
liability to taxation on capital profits for the year, he
said. "Some of this will have gone into bank and building
society accounts rather than back into investment trusts," he
added.
   Funds under management by UTA members rose slightly to
#55.5 billion, up 0.7% from #55.2 billion in February and up
13% from #49.2 billion held in March 1989.
   Sales of investment trust shares to investors fell to
#825.9 million in the latest month, down 13% from #951.8
million in February, though up 2.4% from #806.7 million a
year ago.
   However, repurchases of shares by the trusts from
investors rose 30% on the month to #844.5 million from #648.3
million. The March figure is up 42% from #595.4 million in
March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Accord Close
   Between Stora,
   Feldmuehle
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.STO S.SAA G.FDN G.VEB SCAPY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Having restored calm in Saab-Scania AB's
boardroom, Sweden's Wallenberg group is bracing for a giant,
expensive step into Europe by another of its corporate
prizes, Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB.
   Stockholm markets were filled with questions yesterday
about Saab-Scania's future following Wednesday's 4.3 billion
kronor ($707.3 million) option accord between the Wallenbergs
and Stockholm property tycoon Sven-Olof Johansson. If
exercised later this year, the pact would allow the
Wallenbergs to dispose of a big, unwelcome minority holder
while lifting their Saab-Scania voting stake to 58% from 36%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wallenberg group officials said they have no plans at the
moment to raise their stake further -- and might even sell
some of the shares they expect to buy from Mr. Johansson. But
the price of Saab-Scania shares rebounded yesterday on the
Stockholm Stock Exchange after falling sharply on Wednesday.
Analysts attributed the recovery to speculation the
Wallenbergs might be preparing to take the automobile and
aerospace concern private in Sweden's biggest ever leveraged
buy-out.
   Meanwhile Stora, one of Europe's biggest forestry
concerns, moved closer to an agreement to acquire Feldmuehle
Nobel AG, the West German paper, chemicals and engineering
group. Trading in Feldmuehle Nobel shares was halted
yesterday on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. People familiar
with the negotiations said an agreement valuing the West
German concern at about 4 billion German marks ($2.38
billion) could be announced as early as today.
   A spokesman for Veba AG, Feldmuehle Nobel's dominant
shareholders with a 50.01% stake, confirmed it had held
simultaneous talks in recent weeks with Stora and Svenska
Cellulosa AB, another big Swedish suitor. Svenska Cellulosa
dropped out of the race on Wednesday and announced it had
sold its 5% Feldmuehle Nobel holding.
   Svenska Cellulosa officials said they withdrew because the
price demanded for Feldmuehle Nobel was too high. The Veba
spokesman said price wasn't the only issue on which it failed
to agree with Svenska Cellulosa. Others close to the talks
said Svenska Cellulosa's bid collapsed because it balked at
acquiring Feldmuehle Nobel's other operations along with its
paper unit.
   Industry analysts suggested Stora would have less
difficulty disposing of Feldmuehle Nobel's non-paper
businesses -- perhaps by merging them with other Wallenberg
affiliates. And though Svenska Cellulosa grabbed an early
lead in the contest for Feldmuehle Nobel, Stora maintained an
inside track because of its longtime cooperation with the
West German concern in production of both newsprint and pulp,
the raw material from which paper is made.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korea's Foreign Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- South Korea's net foreign debt increased 45% to
$4.37 billion at the end of February from $3.01 billion at
the end of 1989, according to the Economic Planning Board.
   The government agency said that during this year's first
two months South Korea's total foreign debt decreased to
$28.9 billion from $29.4 billion. The nation's overseas
assets also fell, to $24.4 billion from $26.3 billion. Net
foreign debt equals total foreign debt minus overseas assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decrease in overseas assets largely reflects the
country's growing trade deficit in recent months that lowered
foreign-exchange holdings by the central and commercial banks
here, according to an official at the agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norway's Unemployment Falls
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   OSLO -- Norway's unemployment rate fell to 4.2% in April
from 4.4% in March, but was up from 3.7% a year earlier, said
Arbeidsdirektoratet, the government's labor agency.
   Norway's jobless rate peaked at 4.7% in January, when
101,900 people were out of work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The April total was 91,500, down 2,300 from March but up
11,700 from a year earlier. Of the total, 59,000 were men and
32,500 women.
   Not included in the official jobless rate were 50,200
people employed in extraordinary state work programs, down
4,100 from March, but up 11,200 from 12 months earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BTR Has Sold Its 1.7% Stake in Norton
   In Market in Wake of Saint-Gobain Offer
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT U.BTR F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   BTR PLC, whose hostile bid for Norton Co. was topped
Wednesday by friendly suitor Cie. de Saint-Gobain S.A.,
disclosed that it sold its Norton stake soon after
Saint-Gobain's $90-a-share offer was announced.
   London-based BTR had said it didn't plan to top
Saint-Gobain's $1.9 billion offer for Norton. In a Securities
and Exchange Commission filing, BTR reported that it sold its
325,000 shares, or 1.7% stake, in Norton for $88.6615 a share
in the open market. BTR, which last month launched a
$75-a-share, or $1.64 billion, hostile bid for Norton, bought
its Norton stock for between $49.54 and $53 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Norton held an anticlimactic annual
shareholders meeting in Worcester, Mass., where it is based.
Before agreeing to be acquired by Saint-Gobain, a French
maker of glass, packaging and building materials, Norton
faced the prospect of a prolonged takeover battle against BTR
that Norton was expected to lose.
   "I feel like a condemned prisoner who has received an
11th-hour pardon from the governor," John M. Nelson, Norton's
chairman, president and chief executive officer, told those
at the meeting. Mr. Nelson received a standing ovation from
the audience. Many who attended were Norton employees who had
staged rallies to support Norton's resistance to BTR. They
were clearly pleased with a commitment by Saint-Gobain, made
in its acquisition agreement with Norton, to retain Norton's
existing policies on employment and other matters.
   In a news conference after the meeting, Mr. Nelson
disclosed that when trying to fend off BTR, Norton had
approached some 20 companies in hopes of finding a friendly
suitor to buy a minority stake in Norton. Six to eight of
them had taken a detailed look at Norton, but only
Saint-Gobain made a "concrete" offer, he added. Saint-Gobain,
however, wanted to acquire Norton outright, which Norton's
directors agreed to in order to avoid a "war of attrition"
with BTR, Mr. Nelson said.
   Mr. Nelson also said Saint-Gobain had agreed to pay $90 a
share for Norton "very early" in the negotiations between the
companies, and the talks had centered mainly on concessions
Norton wanted from Saint-Gobain aimed at keeping Norton in
its present form for at least five years.
   While Norton's purchase by Saint-Gobain is expected to be
completed, at least one sticky wicket remains: the question
of whether the transaction threatens national security.
Norton makes abrasives, ceramics and other products, and its
customers include various branches of the U.S. military. When
battling with BTR, Norton and its supporters raised national
security issues about Norton's acquisition by a foreign
company. At least one congressman, Rep. Silvio O. Conte (R.,
Mass.) has stated that he supports an investigation by
President Bush into national security issues surrounding
Norton's purchase by Saint-Gobain, although he termed it a
"far superior option" compared with a takeover by BTR.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Offering by 50-OFF Stores Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FOFF
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- 50-OFF Stores Inc. said it began a
public offering of 2.5 million shares of common stock,
including one million shares from a holder, at $3.375 a
share.
   The holder has also granted an overallotment option of
375,000 shares of the discount apparel retailer to the
underwriting group, which is managed by Epplin, Guerin &amp;
Turner Inc. of Dallas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lower Cocoa Output Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- World cocoa production will fall this season for
the first time in six years, but should still be well in
excess of consumption, the International Cocoa Organization
predicted.
   The London-based organization of cocoa producers and
consumers forecast 1989-90 (October-September) world
production of 2.37 million metric tons, compared with last
season's record 2.42 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cocoa consumption, which has been stimulated by low prices
in the past 12 months, will grow 5.7% to a record 2.2 million
tons, it said. This would still be 154,000 tons below
production.
   In 1988-89, cocoa production exceeded consumption by a
record 321,000 tons, lifting end-of-season stocks to a record
high of 1.24 million, the organization said.
   Five seasons of overproduction, and a projected sixth in
1989-90, knocked cocoa prices to a 14-year low earlier this
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Boston's First-Quarter Net Fell
   50% Due to the Weak Regional Economy
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of Boston Corp.'s first-quarter profit fell
50% to $44 million, or 56 cents a primary share, as the
company continued to feel the effects of a weakened New
England economy.
   In the year-ago quarter, the bank holding company had
profit of $89 million, or $1.23 a primary share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest quarter included a provision for credit losses
of $125 million, compared with $36 million in the 1989 first
quarter. That increase was partly offset by a pretax gain of
$33 million on the settlement of a portion of the company's
pension obligations.
   Nonperforming assets jumped to $1.98 billion, or about 8%
of related asset categories, from $1.69 billion, or 6.6% of
related assets at Dec. 31. At March 31, 1989, problem assets
totaled $1.3 billion, or 4.9% of related assets.
   "Credit quality remains a primary focus of Bank of Boston,
and given the uncertainty in the economy, we are continuing
to monitor our portfolio very closely," Ira Stepanian,
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement.
   The $291 million increase in nonperforming assets since
Dec. 31 came largely from a $177 million rise in troubled
commercial real estate loans and another $75 million in
foreclosed real estate.
   In another sensitive category, nonperforming assets in the
company's large portfolio of financings for highly leveraged
transactions edged up to $236 million from $222 million.
Peter Manning, chief financial officer, said those figures
reflect completion of a recent regulatory examination that
focused on highly leveraged transactions in which Bank of
Boston is the sole creditor. Examiners later this year are
expected to go over shared transactions at the lead banks,
including Bank of Boston, Mr. Manning said.
   Mr. Manning noted that Bank of Boston reduced its
portfolio of highly leveraged transaction financings to $4.8
billion at March 31 from $5.3 billion at Dec. 31.
   Net interest revenue dropped to $311 million from the
year-earlier $322 million, while the interest margin fell to
3.71% from 4.13%. Higher international margins, mainly in
Latin America, partly offset the effects of increased
nonperforming assets and higher rates paid to attract
long-term deposits, the company said.
   Noninterest income, meanwhile, rose to $212 million from
the year-ago $161 million. In addition to the pension-related
gain, the company had a $29 million increase in profits from
mezzanine financing and its venture-capital portfolio.
   Carole Berger, an analyst with C.J. Lawrence, said,
"There's nothing in {the earnings announcement} that would
make me feel a lot better about the underlying earnings," of
the company. Ms. Berger said she continues to believe the
company may be forced to cut its dividend in future quarters,
and thinks the stock price may decline further.
   Bank of Boston confirmed that it will pay today a
quarterly dividend of 31 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Money-Laundering Laws
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BERN, Switzerland -- The government is formulating a
package of measures to supplement new laws that make
laundering money a crime.
   Lutz Krauskopf, vice director of the federal office of
justice, said that the additional measures could be prepared
as a draft proposal for the federal council, or executive
branch of government, to consider in May. By year end,
legislation could be submitted to parliament.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The anti-laundering laws already passed are expected to
take effect July 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   One Revamp Plan for Two Units Yields Differing Outcomes
   ---
   Societe Generale's Gechem Thrives
   As Fabrique National Founders
   ----
   By Peter Greiff
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.FAB B.GEC B.SGL F.CFS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Just less than two years ago, arms maker
Fabrique Nationale Herstal S.A. and chemical concern Gechem
S.A. had a lot in common.
   Both were unprofitable units of the sprawling Belgian
holding company Societe Generale de Belgique S.A., and both
were viewed as basket cases. Both had too many employees and
too many activities unrelated to core businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After a bitter takeover battle, a new management team at
SGB set out to put some order in the company's affiliates. It
designed roughly the same strategy for both units.
   Two years later, Gechem is a textbook example of how a
company can set a goal, decide how to get there, and do it.
FN, meanwhile, is still losing money.
   Analysts say strategy, luck, the quality of management,
and politics all were factors in determining why one company
can thrive today while the other remains mired in familiar
problems.
   SGB's strategy for both concerns was to remold them around
core businesses. The companies were also given capital
injections to reinforce core activities through acquisitions
and internal expansion.
   But SGB Chairman Etienne Davignon conceded SGB made a
mistake in writing the same prescription for two patients.
"At Gechem, we just needed to return to the core businesses,"
he said. "In FN, we needed to readjust the core business,
which takes a lot more work."
   SGB is rethinking its strategy for keeping its FN unit
alive.
   SGB Chairman Davignon said the talks between SGB and FN
management focus on setting goals for FN and deciding how to
attain them. According to the executive, a recovery plan,
with a span of "a couple of years" should be implemented by
the second half.
   The latest talks mark the second attempt by SGB to revive
the unit since SGB was taken over by Cie. Financiere de Suez
of France in 1988.
   The first attempt centered on job cuts and a huge capital
injection. FN also sold a 51% stake in its FN Moteurs S.A.
airplane-engine division. The unit's other core activities,
light weapons and sporting goods, were kept intact.
   The moves were meant to restore FN to profitability by the
end of 1989, but the unit had a loss for the year of 2.5
billion Belgian francs ($71.3 million).
   After earnings were disclosed March 1, SGB and FN's other
main shareholder, the state investment agency, reiterated
their commitments to the unit's recovery. SGB has a 73% stake
in FN, while the agency holds 8%. The rest is publicly
traded.
   The first sign of that commitment was a management
reshuffle, in which industrialist Joseph Labye was appointed
to run the company. Mr. Labye had played a role in the
turnaround of steelmaker Cockerill-Sambre S.A. In addition,
three SGB executives were named to FN's board.
   Belgian market analysts, weary of watching for signs of
recovery at FN, are skeptical about its prospects. One
analyst thinks SGB will possibly sell it.
   FN's problems are a combination of strategic errors,
difficult markets and labor problems, analysts say. The most
fundamental problem is the current downturn in the arms
industry. FN's defense and security division had sales of 7.8
billion Belgian francs in 1988, the last year for which
figures are available, down 37% from 12.35 billion francs in
1985.
   In 1989, when the company was supposed to return to
profitability, some expected defense orders didn't
materialize. Also, 1,200 workers accepted an early-retirement
offer, 400 more than expected, resulting in a big one-time
charge.
   Faced with declining demand for its small arms and intense
competition, FN must search for ways to make a profit on the
lower revenue from its defense business, a company spokesman
said. Although the Browning S.A. division, which makes
hunting rifles and sporting goods, is profitable, analysts
contend its product range is too wide.
   FN's problems are compounded by its location in the
depressed region of Liege in southern Belgium, already
suffering from high unemployment. The company has laid off
about 2,400 people, reducing its staff to 6,000. Further
layoffs, which analysts say are needed, could cause major
social problems and run into political opposition.
   In addition, analysts say, the Belgian government tends to
view FN as a strategic national asset, limiting SGB's options
for the unit.
   The FN spokesman denies the unit is to be sold, either in
part or entirely, to an outside investor. He said, however,
that the possibility of cooperation with a partner in the
arms industry hasn't been excluded.
   Gechem, which last year emerged from a four-year losing
streak to post a record profit, is seeking to consolidate
those gains by expanding in Europe and abroad.
   "We can finally concentrate on the future," Gechem Chief
Executive Officer Jean Durosnoy said. Now that most of a
sweeping revamp is behind it, Mr. Durosnoy said Gechem will
reinforce its core business activities through acquisitions
and internal expansion.
   He said the company's immediate goal is growth in sales to
about 55 billion Belgian francs in 1992, a 28% rise from
1989's 43 billion francs. "But as a personal target,
somewhere in the back of my head, I have the goal of 100
billion francs."
   SGB and Gechem management decided to reshape the company
around two core divisions, Recticel, which makes polyurethane
foam products, and Sadacem, which derives chemicals from
manganese and treats pollutant fluids to recover rare metals.
SGB holds 86% of Gechem.
   Activities that didn't fit in to the core areas were sold,
such as a gunpowder and munitions company and a maker of fine
chemicals.
   Meanwhile, Gechem reinforced Recticel's position as a
supplier of foam rubber to the furniture industry by
acquiring Sclaraffia G.m.b.H., West Germany's leading
manufacturer of mattresses. Smaller acquisitions were made in
Belgium, the United Kingdom and Spain.
   Helped by firm markets for Gechem's main products, the
strategy paid off in 1989, yielding net consolidated
operating profit of 2.9 billion francs.
   Mr. Durosnoy said Gechem isn't quite finished with its
restructuring. He said the company would make at least two
acquisitions in 1990.
   Still to be disposed of are Gechem's share in an
explosives firm and perhaps part of its Recticel USA unit.
   To reach his growth target, Mr. Durosnoy said Recticel,
already Europe's largest maker of foam rubber products, would
seek to become the leader in bedding.
   Recticel also seeks to enlarge its role as a supplier to
the West German auto industry and has a new technology for
sealing car window seams it that it will market this year.
   Eventually, Mr. Durosnoy said, he is convinced Gechem will
have to invest in the U.S. One avenue may be Soundcoat Co.,
which Gechem acquired last year. He said Gechem hopes
Soundcoat will develop new applications for polyurethane
foams in its field of acoustics.
   Mr. Durosnoy said he expects Recticel to perform
"significantly better" in 1990.
   Sadacem, meanwhile, was boosted in 1989 by surging prices
for nonferrous metals the company produces. Mr. Durosnoy said
he doesn't expect Sadacem to match its 1989 profit of 448
million francs.
   Analysts say Sadacem is still too widely spread out and
expect Gechem to narrow its field of activity even more in
1990.
   ---
   Jane Morrison contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citadel Holding
   Sued by Ex-Director
   Over Control Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDL
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A former director of Citadel Holding Corp.
sued the company and another former director for allegedly
fraudulently preventing him from acquiring a controlling
stake in Citadel.
   Alfred Roven, in a complaint that was filed in U. S.
District Court here, charged that James J. Cotter ousted Mr.
Roven from Citadel's board in 1987 so that he could gain
control of Citadel, a Glendale, Calif., savings and loan
holding company that owns Fidelity Federal Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Roven, who is seeking $15 million in compensatory
damages and $15 million in punitive damages, claimed that
proxy materials distributed prior to a May 1987 annual
meeting were false and misleading because they did not
disclose Mr. Cotter's plan to oust Mr. Roven and install
three Cotter nominees on the board.
   Mr. Cotter not only won re-election to the Citadel board
at that meeting, but he got approval for a change in the
company's certificate of incorporation that allowed him to
increase his Citadel holdings, the suit said.
   Mr. Cotter then allegedly caused Citadel to oppose Mr.
Roven's application to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to
acquire more than 10% of the company.
   Mr. Cotter allegedly caused Citadel to spend close to $10
million pursuing the acquisition of Valley Federal Savings &amp;
Loan. That allegedly allowed Mr. Cotter and affiliated
companies to sell Valley Federal stock at an inflated price
before the thrift's stock price plummeted after substantial
losses were made public.
   During that time, Mr. Cotter concealed and then thwarted a
$74-a-share acquisition offer by Home Federal Savings &amp; Loan
for Citadel so that Citadel could continue pursuing Valley
Federal, the suit said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East Germany Gets
   Competition Accord
   For Its Drug Firms
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The East German pharmaceutical
industry will receive protection from Western competition
until the end of 1992, the West German Federation of the
Pharmaceuticals Industry said.
   Under an agreement with the East German pharmaceutical
association, German companies will sell drugs only in the
country for which no comparable East German products are
available in that period. The supply of basic pharmaceutical
products will continue to be provided by East German
companies, the two groups agreed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That will give the East German industry a grace period to
adjust itself to Western productivity standards and raise the
skill level of its employees ahead of the scheduled
completion of a single internal market in the European
Community at the end of 1992.
   Over the next few years, West German drug companies will
help their East German counterparts to improve their
competitiveness and fulfill their obligations toward other
East European countries, the West German federation said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Image Bank Expects
   Second-Quarter Net
   Of $35,000 to $185,000
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TIBI
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Image Bank Inc. expects to report fiscal
second-quarter earnings per share of one to five cents,
reflecting nonrecurring expense from both an industrywide,
sales-tax audit, and settlement of arbitration on the sale of
a business in 1984.
   For the quarter ended March 31, Image Bank, which licenses
stock photos, illustrations and film, expects to report net
income of between $35,000 and $185,000, Paul Eichler,
executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in
an interview. The nonrecurring expense totaled $250,000;
Image Bank is fighting California over some additional sales
tax the state collected, Mr. Eichler said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Year-earlier pro forma net income was $48,946, or two
cents a share; the net reflects a loss of three cents a share
from the discontinuation of the Art Kane Photographic
Workshop unit. Shares outstanding were 3.7 million in the
latest period and 2.2 million a year ago. Image Bank went
public last August.
   Revenue grew around 50%, to $12.5 million, from $8.3
million, Mr. Eichler estimated.
   For the six months, Image Bank expects to post net income
of between eight and 12 cents, or $300,000 to $450,000, from
the year-earlier pro forma $254,842, or 11 cents a share.
   These numbers reflect the company's recent restatement of
its first-quarter net downward to seven cents a share, from
12 cents, a move that knocked a third off the company's share
price. The company added $365,069 to cost of sales at the
Book People Ltd. subsidiary, acquired Oct. 1.
   Image Bank sees a "very strong second half," however, and
for all of fiscal 1990, it expects to exceed fiscal 1988's
earnings of $1.3 million, Mr. Eichler said. In fiscal 1989,
Image Bank earned $344,000.
   Representing some 450 photographers, 150 illustrators and
38 cinematographers, Image Bank operates a library of stock
photos, pictures and film. The company also has access to a
major part of the film library of Turner Broadcasting System
Inc. Image Bank has 51 offices world-wide, run mostly by
licensees.
   The artists give Image Bank the exclusive right to place
their works in its library. In turn, Image Bank licensees
sell rights to the works for use in magazine ads or "anything
that requires an image," Mr. Eichler said.
   Image Bank's licensees remit 60% of the proceeds of their
sales to the company. Image Bank then splits that amount
50-50 with the photographer, illustrator or cinematographer,
Mr. Eichler said.
   Though Image Bank's stock cinematography operation is
still unprofitable after two years, its growth prospects are
particularly strong, he said.
   Image Bank also publishes and markets photograph-oriented
"coffee-table" books, through operations including Book
People. Fiscal 1989 book operations, which didn't include
this unit, produced $4.7 million of revenue, a figure that
will "substantially more than double" in fiscal 1990, Mr.
Eichler said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Downturn in U.K. Bank Stocks Is Tied
   To Woes in That Sector in U.S., Japan
   ----
   By William Murray
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- U.K. bank shares may have lost their gloss after
serving as pacesetters for the British equities market over
the past year. But their recent downturn is considered by
analysts here as mostly guilt by association rather than
fundamental investor disenchantment.
   News of weak quarterly earnings and potential credit
downgradings at U.S. banks, along with similar trouble in
Japan's banking sector, has focused attention on the
vulnerability of the British banking sector, analysts and
fund managers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If you're frightened about U.S. banks you're not going to
get into banks in general," says Julian Robins, banking
analyst for Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd., the investment
banking and securities arm of Britain's largest commercial
bank, Barclays Bank PLC.
   "Everyone is trying to draw parallels between the U.S. and
British banks right now," says Christopher Ellerton, banking
analyst for S.G. Warburg Securities Ltd.
   But the comparisons, he adds, are "not completely fair."
   Many of the larger U.S. institutions have unveiled sharply
weaker earnings for the first quarter as a result of lower
borrowings for corporate takeovers, mounting bad loans and
cuts in interest payments by Brazil and other Third World
debtors.
   And in Japan, where banks are being hurt by weakness in
the Tokyo real estate sector, news hit the markets earlier in
the week that Moody's Investors Service Inc. was reviewing
the credit of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank and Fuji Bank, which are
among Japan's largest banking institutions.
   All of Britain's five largest commercial banks reported
lower earnings in 1989 as a result of further loan-loss
provisions, the bulk related to credits to developing
countries. Of the top five, Lloyds Bank PLC and Midland Bank
PLC reported losses for the year.
   While the 1989 results largely fell within expectations,
analysts and bankers suggested 1990 would see further reduced
profitability in the core U.K. market as a result of high
interest rates and reduced consumer spending.
   Analysts added that the banks would be increasingly
exposed to defaults within the real estate and commercial
loan markets as a result of weak conditions overall in the
British economy.
   Even with that, bankers and analysts maintain that the
situation isn't necessarily as serious as in the U.S. and
Japanese banking sectors.
   They point to more solid U.K. foundations, namely the
absence of widespread bankruptcies now plaguing the U.S.
savings and loan industry.
   Also, British banks on the whole have diversified their
loan portfolios to hedge against a chain reaction of
defaults. And they are tending to hold a greater proportion
of traditionally secure home mortgages relative to their
American counterparts.
   "If you look at the real estate on the books of U.S. banks
vs. real estate on the books of banks here, the English banks
aren't bad off at all," says Barclays de Zoett Wedd's Mr.
Robins.
   Analysts add that internally British banks have positioned
themselves for leaner times, moving aggressively in the past
year to cut operating costs as a hedge against uncertain
times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   South Korea's
   Woes Depress
   Stock Market
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LABOR C.HUN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Confidence in the South Korean
economy continues to flag as export growth stubbornly refuses
to pick up, inflation begins to climb and a strike by the
bellwether Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. union bodes more
labor strife.
   The result was clear on the South Korean stock market
yesterday, where the composite index tumbled 3.83% to close
the day at 726.11, the lowest since Oct. 18, 1988, when it
hit 717.77. All listed shares posted declines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The most optimistic analysts expect that it will fall to
about 650 within weeks, even though the South Korean
government is expected to announce today yet another attempt
to boost confidence. Analysts said the major Korean
securities companies are pooling money for a "stock
stabilization fund" to prop up falling shares.
   But previous attempts by the government to boost the
economy and the market have only depressed the market
further. There is little the government can do. Inflation is
running at a 12% annual rate, so cuts in the discount rate,
which many had hoped would be made to boost the market, have
been ruled out. "If they cut the interest rates now, the
stock market would only fall again because of the fears of
inflation," said Chung Jin Ho of Prudential-Bache Securities
in Seoul.
   The market has been slipping since it hit a high of 1007
on April 1, 1989. Inflation worries, predictions of corporate
earnings declines and panic selling by individual investors
who make up 70% of the Korean market have been major factors.
The fall has accelerated in recent days because of labor
unrest. The strike at Hyundai Heavy in Ulsan, about 190 miles
southeast of Seoul, added to the jitters. The shipbuilding
giant's union members walked out this week to protest the
government's arrest of several union leaders. The government
issued a stern warning yesterday that it considers the
Hyundai strike illegal and will "deal firmly" with the
walkout. Thousands of riot police are massed outside the
gates of Hyundai Heavy, where striking workers are staked
out.
   The government also has been plagued by a strike at
state-owned Korea Broadcasting System. The issue isn't money
or work conditions, but the government appointment of a new
network chief, whom the union dislikes.
   Until now, unions had been quiet, settling for smaller
raises than in years past. Executives fear that a strike by a
major union, such as at Hyundai Heavy, will embolden other
unions.
   The mood is dark enough that most Koreans don't believe
reports from the country's major think tanks and the Bank of
Korea that gross national product will grow about 7% this
year. Angry investors have trashed brokerage-firm offices
across the country; many of the offices are now closed to
walk-in customers.
   A market turnaround may be slow in coming because, says
Kim Hun Soo, an analyst with Daewoo Securities, "the general
investor is fed up with the market and the rate of return,"
and is pulling out. New money, tied up in real estate,
doesn't flow in because owners fear selling real estate may
pique the interest of tax collectors who have been ordered to
crack down on land speculators.
   Meanwhile, companies are being asked to swallow cost
increases to keep consumer prices down. That will cut
earnings. Exports aren't expanding despite the depreciation
in the currency against the dollar because Japan's yen has
depreciated much more against the dollar, giving the Japanese
the export advantage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Current Hand-Wringing Over Nicaragua May Be Overdone
   ----
   By Laurence G. O'Donnell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANAGUA -- Many thoughtful Nicaraguans are apprehensive as
Violeta B. Chamorro assumes the presidency from the defeated
Daniel Ortega. "It is very dangerous," says Roger Guevara
Mena, president of the bar association. "We don't know what
will happen."
   The 60-year-old president promises to reconcile her
politically divided and squabbling country, to restore
freedoms abused and suppressed during a half-century of
totalitarian regimes (40 years of the Somoza family dynasty,
the past 10 the Sandinista Marxist revolution) and to revive
a shattered economy. Even though her stunning and decisive
victory was mostly a putdown of Ortega mismanagement, the
gray-haired publisher has a clear mandate. The question is
whether she can deliver on her promises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Educated as a secretary and never before elected to public
office, she lacks all the conventional credentials of Latin
American presidents: experience in the military or public
administration, training in law or economics, not to mention
"machismo". Indeed, her leadership resolve is already being
challenged over her decision to keep Mr. Ortega's brother
Humberto as head of the army.
   Yet the hand-wringing in Nicaragua (and in Washington) may
be overdone. President Chamorro has strengths that are
unorthodox for a head of state, but they seem well-suited to
the needs of her downtrodden country at this particular
moment in its history.
   She is a widow who still grieves the loss in 1978 of her
assassinated husband, in a country overstocked with recent
widows (30,000 people died in the past decade of civil
warfare, equivalent to one million in U.S. population terms).
She is a mother who holds together a family (two sons, two
daughters) as politically polarized as the country itself,
gathering them regularly for Sunday dinner (no political
discussions allowed). And she is unashamedly devout in a
country 95% Catholic, never hiding the cross she wears,
posting blessings from the pope and her friend Miguel
Cardinal Obando Y Bravo near the front door of her home and
sometimes praying in her public speeches ("May God, who has
helped me in my arduous path, illuminate me from on high").
She believes peace, democracy and economic well-being are
more important than the specific political or economic
systems used to get there.
   She seems fearless, determined to continue living alone in
the unpretentious one-story Spanish colonial house that is
filled with memories of her murdered husband, the publisher
Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, but difficult to make secure, in part
because of its open-air interior garden. She hobbles on
crutches as she recovers from a broken knee and keeps going,
even when the pain creases her face, until a friend or aide
forces her to sit down. In a moment of reflection on the
importance of prayer in her life, she confides that she
intends to "stay positive, no matter what happens." As an old
acquaintance remarks, "She has guts."
   It is her strong character -- steeped in loyalty to
Nicaragua and its family traditions and deeply ingrained with
a sense of personal honesty and social responsibility,
especially for the poor -- that some Nicaraguans believe will
offset her political inexperience. "Violeta is going to
surprise a lot of people," insists Arturo Cruz Jr., a student
of Nicaragua's history and son of a one-time presidential
candidate.
   One surprise that clearly bothers some of her supporters
is her efforts to build bridges with the Ortegas and some of
the other Sandinistas. Even though her newspaper, "La
Prensa", was censored, harassed, burned and closed by the
Sandinista government, she warmly received Daniel Ortega in
her home after the election, calling him "my beautiful little
father." She served with him as a director of the Sandinista
Front for nine months, breaking away because of its Marxist
emphasis but never letting her differences with Daniel Ortega
become personal.
   President Chamorro has continued to reach out to the
Sandinistas. But her move to let Humberto Ortega, who was the
Sandinista defense minister, remain as head of the army has
many of her UNO coalition supporters and Contra leaders in a
frenzy.
   Even though Mrs. Chamorro will fill the defense minister
post herself, critics charge that keeping Humberto Ortega on
as army chief is too accommodating to the moderate wing of
the Sandinistas. Some charge that the move is merely a power
push by the more ambitious members of her political team,
such as Alfredo Cesar, who are trying to forge a Sandinista
alliance to secure their own political ambitions. Militarily,
besides the danger of the Contras resisting disarmament with
Humberto Ortega still in charge, there is the fear that
Humberto Ortega will leave intact Sandinista-forged pipelines
for arms to leftist guerrillas in El Salvador.
   Mrs. Chamorro's supporters, on the other hand, praise the
move as shrewd, since Humberto Ortega will be saddled with
the responsibility of disciplining Sandinista soldiers when
the Contras start to return to their towns. The appointment
has also helped to pave the way for the hard-line Sandinista
interior minister, Tomas Borge, to retire from the army and
to pursue plans to leave the country.
   Harder than keeping the peace may be reviving the nation's
mismanaged and out-of-control economy. President Chamorro has
a strong economic team committed to free-market solutions,
but the problems are staggering: The currency is almost
worthless as a visitor learns when he exchanges $60 and gets
back 3,495,000 cordobas; farmers desperately need hard credit
right now to pay for seed and fertilizer, and a $300 million
U.S. emergency-aid package that could help is still working
its way through Congress. Honduran President Rafael Leonardo
Callejas, an admirer of Mrs. Chamorro, says she has "no
chance {of economic success} without a strong commitment from
the international community."
   People close to the new president are impressed with the
strong economic team she named and believe she will defer to
them, but will monitor their progress not by reading
statistics but by going into the markets and talking to
housewives. Her economic programs will be helped by the
return of exiled Nicaraguan merchants and businessmen, and
the recent lifting of the U.S. trade embargo.
   Even though her election coalition, UNO, is fragile
President Chamorro has more intuitive political savvy than
she is credited with. Her husband lived politics 24 hours a
day, and she was his closest confidante over 28 years. "The
only person Pedro Joaquin trusted was his wife," says Mr.
Cruz. She also traveled widely with him and has continued to
travel since his death. She possibly has easier access to
important people in this hemisphere than Daniel Ortega did.
   Events in a country plagued by disaster, natural and
man-made, throughout its history may eventually sabotage Mrs.
Chamorro's presidency. But there is reason to believe her
chances are better than many of her dismissive critics think.
   ---
   Mr. O'Donnell, an associate editor of the Journal, was
recently in Managua for a meeting of the Inter American Press
Association, to which Mrs. Chamorro belongs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Many Gas Stations
   Mislabel Octane,
   GAO Study Finds
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Drivers are being cheated out of more than
$150 million a year as a result of inaccurate octane labels
on gasoline pumps, according to a congressional report.
   The report, based on a two-year study by the General
Accounting Office, found that drivers who thought they were
paying for high-octane gasoline, which can cost as much as 20
cents more a gallon, received low-octane fuel. The problem is
especially prevalent in the 28 states that currently don't
have octane-testing programs; GAO findings for four of those
states showed mislabeling in 22% to 53% of the gasoline sold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Although the vast majority of gasoline distributors and
dealers are honest, the report shows too many instances of
motorists being cheated for us to ignore," said Rep. Phil
Sharp (D., Ind.), who released the report at a news
conference with Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.).
   A fuel's octane rating refers to its resistance to engine
knock, a pinging sound caused by improper combustion that can
lower engine efficiency, reduce mileage and increase
emissions. Gasoline is generally sold in three octane levels.
Fuel with a high-octane rating burns more smoothly and is
more expensive than low-octane gasoline. Although most cars
run as well on regular gasoline, many people buy high-octane
gasoline in hopes of improving performance. The car's octane
requirements also vary depending on driving conditions.
   The Environmental Protection Agency and the Federal Trade
Commission are required by law to test gasoline for its
octane content and enforce federal labeling requirements. The
agencies, however, citing staff and budget cuts, haven't
carried out the tests since 1981. The GAO report noted that
neither agency has asked Congress for additional funds to
carry out the testing requirements.
   The lack of an enforced federal testing program makes it
hard to determine how extensive the mislabeling is. Victor
Rezendes, GAO director of energy issues, said the problem may
be costing consumers more than $500 million annually.
   The states that test for octane content are Alabama,
Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia,
Illinois, Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri,
New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin.
The GAO obtained test results for 11 of these states. It
found mislabeling of less than 2% of the gasoline sampled in
seven of the states and mislabeling of more than 2% of
gasoline in the four other states.
   Michigan, New York and Washington plan to put statewide
testing programs into place; New York City already conducts
tests. Rep. Schumer released figures from New York City's
consumer affairs department showing that last year, 146 of
280 gasoline stations in the metropolitan area were cited for
octane violations.
   Rep. Sharp said he is drafting legislation that would
broaden the testing and enforcement powers of the states.
Some state officials have said that efforts to prosecute
individuals or companies for mislabeling octane gasoline
pumps are hampered by uncertainty about whether their laws
are pre-empted by the federal requirements.
   Mr. Sharp also plans for his legislation to make clear
that octane-labeling rules apply to reformulated gasoline and
the other alternatives to conventional fuels that are likely
to become more widely used as a result of pending clean-air
legislation.
   The GAO said that most of the mislabeling occurs at
distribution points and retail stations, rather than at
refineries and bulk terminals where there is frequent
testing. Some of the mislabeling may be unintentional, the
agency said. Robert Kelley, deputy director for enforcement
of New York City's consumer affairs department, said, "It's
unintentional when you get high-octane gasoline when you pay
for low octane. It's intentional when you get low octane
after paying for high."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Despite Political and Economic Unrest,
   Foreign Bankers to Stay in Hong Kong
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Foreign bankers in Hong Kong have heard
plenty of negative talk in the past year about the colony's
future, but true to their trade, they also have tallied the
factors on the plus side of the ledger. By their reckoning,
it's worth staying.
   Many foreign bankers concede that they considered pulling
up stakes after Beijing's bloody crackdown on the democracy
movement in June. With China scheduled to regain sovereignty
over the British territory in 1997, the bottom line seemed to
have taken on the imprint of tank treads.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet last year and so far in 1990, 14 foreign banks have
been granted new licenses, and 37 others have opened
representative offices. Even the most pessimistic among them
continue to regard Hong Kong as the region's financial
center.
   Their commitment rests on a kind of paradox: China is both
one of the biggest attractions and potentially the biggest
disincentive. Despite the sharp decline in the Chinese
economy since late 1988 and some new problems with some old
loans, foreign bankers still view China as a worthwhile
long-term investment -- and Hong Kong as the gateway to that
potential.
   And even though Hong Kong is a tough, competitive banking
center in which not all banks make money, many consider it
essential to be in the colony. In their opinion, no other
Asian city offers the high level of English and technology,
the ease of transportation and communication, the depth of
experience and breadth of financial institutions, the
personal and commercial freedom.
   Other places may draw attention as regional centers for a
single area of business, as Singapore has in foreign-exchange
trading, but bankers say none is poised to replace Hong Kong.
According to the banking commissioner's office, Hong Kong has
135 foreign banks and 167 representive offices of other
foreign institutions, far more than Tokyo or any other Asian
city.
   To be sure, some of Hong Kong's advantages would quickly
fade in the face of another political explosion like
Tiananmen Square. Even on a day-to-day basis, foreign bankers
continue to feel the effect of China's turmoil, as skilled
local personnel vote with their feet on Hong Kong's future
and make staffing a constant strain. Nonetheless, it is
considerably easier for banks to stay put than to move, and
they feel no pressure to make any decision now.
   "I'm actually reasonably confident Hong Kong will remain
enough the same to keep a good deal of the banking business
here," says Alan Hargreaves, head of research for Hoare
Govett Asia Ltd., a stockbrokerage firm.
   Hong Kong's banking commissioner, Anthony Nicole, believes
the industry will thrive up to and after 1997.
   That view is cautiously echoed by Steve Price, who is
regional director overseeing Citicorp's retail-banking
operations in Hong Kong. "The potential for dislocation
between now and 1997 is there, and how Hong Kong will evolve
after 1997 is uncertain," Mr. Price says, but he quickly adds
that Citibank's Hong Kong operations "will be here in 1997
and we will be here after 1997."
   Many bankers envision a growing role for banks in Hong
Kong in financing China's expanding foreign trade and its
need for improved infrastructure. They are looking beyond the
bad economic news of the past 18 months to increasing
commercial opportunities during the coming decade and beyond.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hispanic Job Discrimination Exaggerated
   ----
   By Peter Skerry
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   With the General Accounting Office's March 29 report on
the results of the sanctions on employers who hire illegal
aliens, the immigration debate has taken a curious turn. As
proponents of high levels of immigration, many conservatives
opposed these sanctions, mandated in the 1986 immigration
law. Perhaps not surprisingly, they now embrace the GAO's
finding that sanctions have led to "widespread
discrimination" against foreign-looking or foreign-sounding
individuals, Hispanics in particular.
   Yet in so doing conservatives have rashly abandoned the
healthy skepticism with which they usually approach the word
"discrimination." As a result, they now risk joining the
chorus encouraging U.S. Hispanics to believe, falsely, that
they are not like other immigrants but are, like black
Americans, a racial minority.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Discrimination" of course has multiple and muddied
meanings. Most commonly, it refers to decision-making on the
basis of presumed group deficiencies. Such prejudiced
behavior can be directed against a racial or a national
origin group. In the present debate, however, a quite
different meaning of the word refers to employers
discriminating against national origin groups, not out of
prejudice but out of fear of violating the law.
   Congress ordered the GAO to investigate national origin
discrimination caused by the employer sanctions. One part of
its study, subcontracted to the Urban Institute, focused on
prejudice-based discrimination. In its "hiring audit,"
"matched pairs" of Anglo and Hispanic job applicants
responded to newspaper ads. The result was, "Hispanic testers
were three times as likely to encounter unfavorable treatment
when applying for jobs as were closely matched Anglos."
   Dramatic though it sounds, this finding is far from solid.
It is based on a small sample of employers in only two sites
(Chicago and San Diego), with only four pairs of testers in
each city. Nor were the applicants accurately "matched
pairs."
   I viewed a videotape in which the 16 individual testers
introduced themselves and described their educational
backgrounds. I was struck by the number of instances in which
the Anglo testers attended more selective universities and
displayed more self-assurance than their Hispanic
counterparts. Indeed, the Anglos generally appeared to have a
social class advantage over the Hispanics, which would
explain much of the "discrimination" encountered by the
latter.
   With regard to discrimination directly traceable to fear
of sanctions, the GAO finds that 19% of employers surveyed
have initiated "discriminatory practices" under threat of
sanctions. But a careful reading of the evidence reveals that
only 5% of employers actually refuse to hire those who look
or sound foreign. Most Americans would object to this. But I
doubt whether they would object to the 8% of employers who
failed to verify the status of employees exactly as
prescribed by the law: for example, asking only those who
look or sound foreign for the documents -- Social Security
cards, birth certificates and the like -- actually required
of all employees. Such technical non-compliance is not what
most Americans think of when told sanctions have led to
"widespread discrimination."
   Perhaps the most striking -- and little noted -- evidence
that sanctions-related discrimination has been exaggerated is
the relatively small number of individual complaints
registered with the Office of Special Counsel, established in
the Department of Justice precisely for this purpose. The GAO
reports that during the three-year period that ended on Oct.
30, the Office of Special Counsel received 708 complaints, of
which only about 25% involved sanctions-related
discrimination.
   The GAO itself concludes that "the number of complaints is
low relative to the number of potential complainants." By way
of explanation, the GAO then adds: "Not all those harmed by
discriminatory practices realize that they have been harmed.
For a person to file an OSC charge, they must somehow become
convinced that they have been unfairly treated." But if
"discrimination" related to sanctions is not even noticeable
to its victims, then how seriously can we take the claim that
it is "widespread"?
   As for convincing Hispanics that they are being unfairly
treated, this will not be easy. A January 1989 Los Angeles
Times poll found that 49% of blacks in Southern California
claimed to have experienced at least some discrimination
personally. Only 29% of Hispanics made a similar claim. In
the same vein, fully 56% of Hispanics in the 1980 census
identified themselves as "white." Extensive research on
residential patterns reveals that Hispanic barrios, unlike
black ghettos, are not closed environments from which there
is little or no mobility. Most tellingly, the 1988 Current
Population Survey reports that 17.2% of married Hispanics
have non-Hispanic spouses is 17.2%, five times the figure for
blacks.
   Unfortunately, Hispanic leaders have been less than eager
to accept these facts. Moreover they have strained to confuse
national origin discrimination caused by the 1986 law with
racial discrimination. To be sure, at various times and
places Hispanics have been subjected to something quite close
to racial discrimination. But the evidence on the integration
of Hispanics into American society indicates that they
generally do not face the same problems as blacks -- the
efforts of Hispanic leaders to persuade their people and the
American public to the contrary notwithstanding.
   Hispanic leaders have been abetted in this endeavor by
their liberal allies, such as the Urban Institute spokesman
who recently described the hiring-audit findings as proof
that "what we have here is old-style Jim Crow
discrimination." We have nothing of the sort. We do have a
problem with national-origin discrimination, much of which
involves technical violations of the 1986 immigration act.
   Such problems point to the contradictory demands sanctions
place on employers -- who are forbidden to discriminate
against national origin groups, but obliged to discriminate
against illegal immigrants, many of whom are Hispanic and
Asian. If these demands are intolerable, perhaps sanctions
ought to be repealed.
   But as we debate immigration policy, it is imperative that
the issue not be infused with the passions aroused by the
nation's history of race discrimination. In this debate it is
ironic -- and potentially tragic -- that those most eager to
open wide the doors of freedom and opportunity to immigrants
now ally themselves with those just as eager to persuade
those same immigrants that America is the land of racial
discrimination.
   ---
   Mr. Skerry is a research fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Court Clears the Sale
   Of Integrated Unit's
   Assets to Bombardier
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   IRE BBD.A ACP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. Bankruptcy Court approved the sale of the assets of
Learjet Corp., a unit of Integrated Resources Inc., to
Bombardier Inc., the companies said.
   Bombardier agreed earlier this month to acquire the
Learjet assets for $75 million. Integrated Resources, a New
York investment concern, is operating under Chapter 11
protection from its creditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bombardier and Integrated said the sale is expected to
close on or about May 31. Under the sale agreement Bombardier
also will assume Learjet's short-term debt of about $38
million.
   Learjet will be Bombardier's third major aerospace
acquisition since 1986 and will more than double the Montreal
concern's share of the world market for business jets.
   Bombardier is the dominant manufacturer of transit and
passenger rail equipment in North America and a major player
in Europe. Yesterday, on the Montreal Exchange, Bombardier's
Class A stock closed at C$15.375 ($13.25), up 62.5 Canadian
cents; its Class B shares closed at $15.25, up 12.5 Canadian
cents.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Integrated common closed at 25 cents, off 3.25 cents.
   Stephen D. Weinroth, chairman of Integrated, said the
company expects to present to the bankruptcy court in New
York a proposal for the sale of its interest in American Real
Estate Partners L.P. within two to four weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vickers Defeats
   Bid for Spinoff
   Of Rolls-Royce
   ----
   By Barbara Toman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3C
</SO>
<CO>
   U.VIC CCTVY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Vickers PLC shareholders overwhelmingly defeated
Sir Ron Brierley's attempt to force the engineering concern
to spin off its Rolls-Royce luxury-cars unit.
   By a 2-to-1 margin, holders voted against the New Zealand
entrepreneur's proposal at Vickers's annual meeting
yesterday. The proposal, strongly opposed by Vickers
executives, had been expected to fail.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Sir Ron evidently doesn't intend to back down.
Yesterday morning, about an hour before the annual meeting
started, Vickers said Sir Ron's IEP Securities Ltd. had
raised its stake in the company to 20.05% from 19.54%. And
Sir Ron, speaking to reporters later during a lull in the
meeting, didn't rule out buying more Vickers shares. IEP will
persist in its efforts to "unlock the value of Rolls-Royce,"
he said, envisioning a timetable of "years, rather than
months."
   Sir Ron has spent about two years amassing the stake in
Vickers, an engineering conglomerate with interests in
defense contracting and marine and medical equipment, as well
as its Rolls-Royce Motor Car Ltd. unit. Last March, he
proposed that Vickers issue to existing holders shares in
Rolls-Royce as a separate public company.
   The investor argues that a separately quoted Rolls-Royce
would trade at a price of at least 12 times this year's
earnings, compared with Vickers's price-earnings ratio of
about 8.8. Spinning off Rolls-Royce would result in "an
immediate gain for all shareholders of at least 50% in the
value of the Rolls-Royce component of their shares," he told
Vickers holders.
   But Vickers executives insisted Rolls-Royce needs the
security of the parent. Sir David Plastow, Vickers's chairman
and chief executive officer, criticized Sir Ron for having "a
really short-term" attitude. Though it is successful,
Rolls-Royce "has a long way to go before it reaches any form
of maturity," Sir David said.
   Holders voiced more qualms about the company's plan to buy
Carlton Communications PLC's Cosworth division, a specialty
automotive-engineering unit, for #163.5 million ($267.7
million). Some appeared to agree with Sir Ron, who criticized
the agreed price as "awfully expensive." But the resolution
approving the purchase eventually passed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Animated Art Films Come Alive for Mainstream Crowds
   ---
   Firm Transforms Special-Audience
   Event Into Bigger Moneymaker
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Animated-film festivals aren't Mickey Mouse
affairs for Terry Thoren. They're serious business.
   The 38-year-old animation enthusiast has built a
profitable company, Expanded Entertainment, by packaging
short animated films into feature-length motion pictures. No
mere cult product, Mr. Thoren's packages now play to sellout
crowds across the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For example, "The Second Animation Celebration" has
grossed $2 million so far, and the 1989 work is still showing
in some cities. "We feel we can get up to $3 million or $4
million on a film," Mr. Thoren says. If that's peanuts by
Hollywood standards, it's more than enough to sustain a
15-person firm operated out of a converted garage.
   Mr. Thoren, a former theater manager and film student,
turned a once-obscure event for aficionados, the Tournee of
Animation, into a moneymaking product palatable to mainstream
moviegoers. His experience shows the opportunities in
applying business methods to ventures once driven mainly by
artistic sensibilities.
   The mostly avant-garde animated shorts featured in Mr.
Thoren's compilations aren't the child-oriented, Smurf-like
stuff seen on Saturday-morning television. Some, such as the
Academy Award-winning "Balance" -- a brooding commentary on
individual greed and group needs -- have dark themes and deep
political messages. Others are full of irreverent humor; for
instance, "A Warm Reception in L.A." plumbs an author's
frustrated dealings in Hollywood. Mr. Thoren calls the
compilations "sophisticated adult entertainment."
   Expanded's latest film, "The XXII International Tournee of
Animation," opens in 11 cities today, including New York, Los
Angeles, Chicago, Dallas and Houston. The movie will run two
weeks, then move to other cities -- as many as 350 eventually
-- for limited engagements (usually two weeks). "We don't
play on an open-ended basis," Mr. Thoren explains. "We create
a sense of urgency so that people don't procrastinate and
miss the movie."
   The Tournees of Animation go back to 1966, when animators
Bill Littlejohn and Ward Kimball and producer Les Goldman
decided Los Angeles should have an annual animation festival
similar to the well-known Festival d'Annecy in France.
   The Tournees, originally designed to appeal primarily to
animators and fans of the art, were first shown at art
museums and on college campuses. In 1978, producer Prescott
Wright began showing them at "art-house" theaters owned by
Landmark Theatre Corp., Los Angeles.
   Mr. Thoren, then a film buyer for Landmark and later its
vice president of marketing, thought the Tournees could be
bigger moneymakers. In 1985, he bought production and
distribution rights to the festivals and formed Expanded. He
has financial backing from Landmark, which now is a unit of
Heritage Entertainment Inc.
   Almost immediately, Mr. Thoren pushed to expand
distribution of the Tournees. The 1986 Tournee, the first
produced by Expanded, was shown on 250 screens, up from 85
screens for the prior Tournee. Revenue jumped to $1 million
for the 1986 Tournee from $225,000 for the prior three
Tournees combined, Mr. Thoren says. If a city didn't have an
art house that would show the film, he rented an auditorium.
   Getting theaters to book the film was no easy feat. In New
York, Mr. Thoren had plenty of doors slammed in his face
before the Metro theater on the Upper West Side agreed to
show it. "They kept saying, `No way. We don't want animated
shorts]'" he recalls. That response from exhibitors prompted
Mr. Thoren and his crew to stamp 1,000 pairs of boxer shorts
with characters from the Tournee and mail them in film
canisters to journalists and others with notes reading,
"These aren't just animated shorts. . . ." (Mr. Thoren
mastered such circus-barker promotions when he was a theater
manager in Denver in the 1970s. He hawked a Bugs Bunny movie
by handing out carrots).
   In addition to increasing distribution, Mr. Thoren wanted
to make the Tournees seem more like feature films. He
upgraded prints to 35mm (from 16mm), made trailers and
printed up posters, fliers and other literature. "We used
traditional movie-marketing techniques," he says. "We treated
it like a roadshow rather than an elite art-show event."
   Since then, Expanded released several animation
anthologies in addition to the annual Tournees, including
"Animation Celebration," and a collection of short films by
the creator of the California Raisins, "Will Vinton's
Festival of Claymation." Half the profits from each Tournee
go to the animators whose works are featured. Mr. Thoren
hopes eventually to help animators produce their films,
rather than just compiling the finished products.
   Expanded also sponsors multiday animation-film festivals
every other year and publishes Animation Magazine, a
quarterly. The company has started releasing specialty
live-action feature films and hopes to produce a TV show.
   Still, Expanded has some stiff competition. San
Diego-based Mellow Manor Promotions Inc. produces the annual
"Festival of Animation," a similar compilation of animated
films that its associate producer, Shane Peterson, claims
attracts larger audiences per city (though the film shows in
fewer cities). "We're more event-oriented. We fly in
animators to the shows, and we're physically there at each
show, explaining to the audience what they're going to see,"
Mr. Peterson says.
   In addition to battling for audiences, Expanded and Mellow
Manor vie for animators, many of whom would never have their
works widely distributed were it not for these compilation
films. "I was courted, like many other animators, by both,
and I chose `The Festival of Animation' because I felt I
could get more publicity and exposure from them, and that's
really the name of the game," says animator Brett Thompson.
His six-minute cartoon "The Housekeeper" received plenty of
attention from movie and TV studios.
   Expanded had the winning hand as far as new talent this
year. "Balance," which won the Academy Award for best
animated short film, is featured in the latest Tournee. So is
"The Cow," which was a nominee for the award. Mr. Thoren
hand-carried "The Cow" here from the Soviet Union last year
because he didn't want to wait the year it would take to get
the film exported through bureaucratic channels.
   "We qualify films for the awards for animators all over
the world," says Mr. Thoren, whose search for new animated
works kept him traveling three months out of the past year.
   Christoff Lauenstein, a 25-year-old film student from West
Germany who made "Balance" with his twin brother, Wolfgang,
credits Mr. Thoren for getting their film qualified for the
Oscar with a special three-day screening at a Los Angeles
theater late last year. "We didn't think that a film like
ours had a possibility to run in America," Christoff
Lauenstein says. "We thought in America there were only
things like Disney."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Lands' End Stumbles as Fashion Shifts
   Away From Retailer's Traditional Fare
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LE
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shifting fashion currents are causing rough sailing for
Lands' End Inc. And that portends trouble for other apparel
retailers that also favor quality and value over style.
   The Dodgeville, Wis., catalog company cruised smoothly
through the 1980s, ringing up annual sales and profit gains
of over 40% by selling traditional threads such as khaki
pants and rugby shirts to a growing audience. Stressing
quality and value rather than fashion fads, it won loyal
customers by setting a new standard for service: Calls to its
phone centers are answered within 1.5 rings, merchandise is
almost always available and orders are usually shipped within
a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Lands' End has hit some snags. Although sales rose 20%
last year, costs climbed more sharply when fewer catalog
recipients than expected placed orders. Earnings fell 10%.
Now Lands' End is forecasting a profit plunge of as much as
66% in its first fiscal quarter ending Monday on sales "only
marginally better" than a year ago. Analysts, worried about
fat inventories, predict earnings for the current fiscal year
could decline 12% or more.
   The culprit: Tired merchandise. Fashion at the moment is
shifting toward softer, more stylish looks and bolder prints
than the typical tailored Lands' End fare, which was in vogue
in the '80s. Gap Inc. and Limited Inc., the shopping-mall
trendsetters, are filling their stores with the new threads.
And the Lands' End merchandise, much of which hasn't changed
at all in recent years, is starting to look dull and even
dowdy by comparison, say industry executives and analysts.
Lands' End acknowledges the problem and is introducing more
new products.
   Lands' End, of course, isn't the only catalog company
having problems these days. After growing rapidly for most of
the past decade, sales of apparel catalogs increased only
3.7% last year, according to MRCA Information Services, a
market research firm in Stamford, Conn. Competition from
department stores, which discounted heavily over the
Christmas season, may have been a factor.
   But companies catering to the traditional crowd have been
hit harder than their more style-conscious competitors. Sales
at L.L. Bean Inc., a closely held catalog company that also
sells classic casual threads, inched up a disappointing 3.4%
to $600 million in the fiscal year ended Feb. 25; the company
doesn't disclose profit.
   With Lands' End's annual sales now topping $545.2 million,
some experts say the two conservative clothing giants may
have saturated their market. "There's only so much sales
potential," contends Todd H. Barr, a direct-mail industry
consultant at Kurt Salmon Associates. "You've got a couple of
very large players in Lands' End and L.L. Bean that are both
trying to dip out of that bucket."
   The shopping malaise hasn't hurt J. Crew as much, even
though Crew says 65% of its customers also buy from Lands'
End. Sales of Crew's more stylish casual clothes rose 40% to
$150 million in the fiscal year ended Jan. 31. Sales growth
has since slowed to a rate 10% ahead of last year's.
   Other catalog houses that sell sexier or more
sophisticated clothes than Lands' End and Bean are doing
better, too. Net income rose 29% last year at Spiegel Inc.,
and the company reported a first-quarter profit increase of
23% Wednesday. Even its Eddie Bauer catalogs, which cater to
the traditional crowd, are doing well. Analysts and
competitors say that's because Bauer has been updating its
looks and adding more women's merchandise, much of which is
more fashionable than the typical Lands' End outfit.
   Ruth Rubinstein, a fashion sociologist at the Fashion
Institute of Technology in New York, sees a shift in consumer
attitude that bodes ill for Lands' End and other purveyors of
traditional clothes. Today, people are wrapping themselves in
softer, less-structured styles to demonstrate a willingness
to express their feelings and get involved in relationships,
she contends.
   "We are much more sensitive to style and to the message of
what clothing means," she insists. By contrast, wearing a
Lands' End outfit "suggests that ideas matter to you more
than appearances," says Ms. Rubinstein.
   Lands' End doesn't worry about such distinctions. "We're
not out to try to keep up with the current style. It's not
our thing," says a Lands' End spokesman. "We think our styles
are classic and traditional and timeless." Moreover, the
spokesman contends Lands' End can still grow with its
traditional lineup. "There's still a group who appreciate
classic styling, honest value, good quality and quick
service," he says. "The fact that we have added significantly
to our customer base over the last year is evidence that
there's continued growth."
   While attributing its problems partly to a slowdown in
consumer spending, Lands' End executives concede that they
may not have introduced enough fresh merchandise. Just 11.5%
of its catalog items last year and 8% the year before were
new. To attract more customers, Lands' End plans to increase
that percentage this year to between 15% and 18%, Richard
Anderson, chief executive officer, told analysts last week.
Mr. Anderson declined to be interviewed for this article.
   New products include sunglasses, children's swimsuits and
infants' clothing and bedding. Among the new styles are
two-piece women's bathing suits (but not skimpy bikinis),
tailored linen jackets for women and sweatsuits made from the
same hefty cotton fabric as Lands' End's rugby shirts. A
separate children's clothing catalog is planned for August.
And next year, Lands' End intends to mail a separate catalog
of bed and bath items.
   The company also is trying to present its merchandise in a
more exciting way. The May catalog, for instance, features
"Mom Packs" of complete outfits wrapped in gift boxes for
Mother's Day. One consists of a T-shirt and shorts. Another
features an all-cotton polo dress with a cotton scarf. The
June book, the spokesman adds, will highlight "a hit parade
of all-time best sellers."
   However, some analysts and industry executives contend the
changes at Lands' End aren't enough. "Lands' End's problem is
they've slowed down in terms of their imagination in product
development," contends Ted Pamperin, chairman of Tweeds Inc.,
a closely held catalog outfit that expects sales of its
casual European-style clothes to grow by about 60% this year.
"They're relying too much on what they've done before."
   "In any business, you can't keep showing the same thing
over and over," says Arnold Zetcher, president of Talbots,
which sells conservative women's clothing through catalogs
and stores. "We're constantly updating what we're showing."
   With its growth lagging many of its competitors, Lands'
End has little choice but to update its looks. But it also
must be careful not to alienate its conservative clientele.
In fact, none of the company's critics are contending that
Lands' End abandon its mission and start selling trendy items
like lingerie or body-hugging leggings.
   "The challenge is to refresh their offer and continue to
be exciting to the people to whom they appeal," says Mr.
Pamperin.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 286,668
metric tons in the week ended last Saturday, up 5.1% from
272,819 tons in the preceding week but down 3% from 295,575
tons a year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds. For this
year through last Saturday, production fell 13% to 4,316,622
metric tons from 4,956,069 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   POLHILL'S RELEASE fails to boost U.S. optimism about the
other hostages.
   Even if another captive is let go, U.S. officials say,
freedom for the rest remains a long shot. Though Iran's
Rafsanjani and Syria's Assad are apparently working to
release others, their control over events may be limited.
Officials insist the U.S hasn't pressed Israel and Kuwait to
free Shiites they hold, a major demand of the hostageholders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Iranian hard-liners may actually have won new
power in return for Polhill's release. Revolutionary Guard
veterans gain top spots in Iran's navy, and America-hating
Mohtashemi, promoted to a top policy spot, publicly warns
against "any lenient line which would lead Iran toward
surrendering to the U.S."
   Israel appears to be offering to swap Shiite Sheik Obeid
for U.S. and Israeli hostages, but Jerusalem's political
paralysis could scotch the deal.
                                                                                                       

   EXPORT CONTROLS on Western technology loosen as the Soviet
bloc crumbles.
   European realignment weakens the once-dominant U.S. role
in Cocom, the body that coordinates the West's export-control
policies. Bush aides acknowledge that Germany is the new
force in Cocom. And the Germans' desire to greatly liberalize
trade with the East causes U.S. concern.
   Pentagon chief Cheney argues that relaxing Cocom controls
too soon could play into the hands of a Soviet Union whose
appetite for stolen Western technology isn't sated. But even
he knows he may be fighting a losing battle. The Pentagon is
toning down opposition to exports of certain mainframe and
portable computers, and machine tools.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS POSITION themselves for possible White House
budget negotiations.
   Many view the House package that is likely to pass next
week as a bargaining ploy, not a realistic plan. Some
conservatives grudgingly accept budget chairman Panetta's
argument that his plan for $11.5 billion in defense cuts and
increased domestic spending will strengthen the House
position should there be a budget summit. Still, the vote
could be close.
   House tax writers say they won't begin looking for the
$13.9 billion in added taxes the plan calls for until there
is a deal with Bush. In the Senate, meanwhile, the Budget
Committee flounders as chairman Sasser fails to forge a
Democratic consensus on defense cuts.
   But GOP Sen. Grassley hints he may break party ranks and
provide a key vote for Sasser's $15 billion proposal.
                                                                                                       

   FORMER KKK LEADER David Duke, running as a Republican
against Louisiana Democratic Sen. Johnston, raised $455,000
-- mostly in bits of $200 or less -- during the first three
months of 1990. But Duke's racial and ethnic views are also
providing Johnston with fund-raising fodder; he has retained
a direct-mail firm experienced in wooing Jewish donors.
                                                                                                       

   HOT SEAT? Pentagon aide Craig Fields's abrupt demotion
leaves other officials who advocate an activist federal
industrial policy in an exposed position. The most
vulnerable: Deputy Commerce Secretary Thomas Murrin.
Presidential science adviser Allan Bromley is said to have
similar views, but his personal ties to Bush may protect him.
                                                                                                       

   LAWMAKERS BEGIN taking testimony Monday from Dubois
Gilliam, a former aide to ex-HUD Secretary Pierce. Gilliam,
convicted in the housing scandal, is expected to provide new
information on Pierce's role, and to tell how the Reagan
White House manipulated urban grants for political friends.
He is expected to focus on Pierce aides Lance Wilson and
Deborah Gore Dean.
                                                                                                       

   SHORTFALL: The junk-bond market claims another victim: the
Justice Department's plan to add antitrust regulators after a
decade of staff reductions. Congress cut the agency's budget
for this year, assuming that new pre-merger filing fees would
provide $20 million. But with the slowdown in activity, the
department now expects just $13 million to $15 million -- and
its hiring plans are on hold.
                                                                                                       

   STATES EXPAND health programs while the federal government
stalls.
   Massachusetts and Hawaii have enacted universal care for
the uninsured, and Washington is experimenting with a pilot
project. About a dozen states -- including Michigan, New
York, New Jersey, Minnesota and Vermont -- have adopted or
are considering significantly broader coverage than Medicaid
requires for women and children.
   Connecticut, Massachusetts, Oregon, Washington and
Wisconsin take the lead in long-term care while looking for
ways to control costs. One model lumps Medicaid funds and
social and community service block grants together to provide
better home care.
   State pressure for federal action will increase:
Washington's Gardner plans to focus on health when he takes
over the National Governors Association in July.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: A bumper sticker in Madison, Wis., reads:
"Abortion? Pick On Somebody Your Own Size." . . . Ohio Rep.
Kasich describes his plan to hold most spending at this
year's levels but allow Medicare and Social Security to grow
as "a Dairy Queen freeze, a soft freeze." . . . The National
Institute on Aging labels a new program "Frailty and
Injuries: Cooperative Studies of Intervention Techniques" --
FICSIT for short.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blessed Are They
   Who Sit by Thrones
   Of Corporate Gods
   ---
   Secretive Secretary Society
   Wines, Dines, and Judges
   If Boss Is Tops, or Not
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   The Seraphic Society's name comes from seraphim -- angels
at the feet of God. Invitation-only, secretive and all
female, the society is one of New York's most exclusive
organizations. Its members are secretaries -- the
mother-confessors, calendar keepers and confidantes to some
of America's most important executives.
   IBM Chairman John Akers's secretary belongs. So do Rand
Araskog's (ITT) and James Robinson's (American Express). But
John Reed's secretary at Citicorp doesn't. Why? "The name may
have come up, but we haven't met her," says Arlyne
Blessington, the society's president. "We're really not out
there to pull people off the street."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Getting into the society is, in its way, more difficult
than counting oneself among the Forbes 400. Club bylaws
permit only 100 full members. To qualify, a secretary must
log five years with her company, and two years with her boss.
Most important, she must have the right boss.
   The society seeks only the best secretaries, drawing its
ranks from top New York-area companies, charitable
organizations (the Ford Foundation), banks (Chase Manhattan)
and venerable institutions (the New York Stock Exchange).
Being wealthy isn't enough, unless you are Mrs. John Hay
Whitney. Her secretary belongs. Not welcome are those who
toil for buy-out kings, headhunters or anyone with a "taint."
   There is no rule against male secretaries, but "we just
haven't met any," Mrs. Blessington says.
   Angel to Harris Hester of Cluett, Peabody, Mrs.
Blessington speaks of the society in a voice that would bring
a ring of unalterable truth to the phrase, "He's in a
meeting." In person, she's attractive, fortyish -- like most
of the members -- and discreet, like all of the members.
Still, she and others allow that working for the boss can be
tough. Many say they are isolated: No one in the office
gossips with them.
   The Seraphic Society fills this gap, providing an outlet
for socializing and a network for advice. Need to know how to
write the Queen? Call Cyrus Vance's secretary. Problems with
furniture delivery? Call Edward Finkelstein's secretary at
Macy's. A bit of financial advice? Call Howard Clark's
secretary at Shearson. Members do. The perks are nice, too,
from outings on the Forbes yacht to cocktail parties in
skyscraping corporate suites and fancy restaurants.
   Seraphics, of course, aren't mere secretaries. They don't
need the recognition of Professional Secretaries Week,
currently underway, to feel special. "We like to think we're
the cream of the crop," says Ellen Donnelly, Mr. Clark's
executive assistant. Adds Deborah Brown, assistant to the
president of DDB Needham Worldwide: "It's just such a
wonderfully special group." Seraphics have high salaries --
$75,000 a year is not unusual -- and many have secretaries of
their own.
   Some members lament they are a dying breed. "I speak with
secretaries who can't talk on the phone, they can't spell,
they dress terribly," bristles Elva Murphy. "They're not
secretaries. They're people who can't do anything else, so
they call themselves secretaries."
   Ms. Murphy works for Mr. Vance, one of many prominent
bosses on the roster of the 50-year-old society. Thomas E.
Dewey, Henry Luce and Herbert Hoover were all represented.
The club's roots, however, are more humble. It started, a
Seraphic history says, as the whim of a former reporter who
started a charity for unemployed circus clowns. To win favor
with secretaries on his fund-raising rounds, he sent them
awards for "unfailing courtesy, tact, politeness" and so on.
He invited a dozen of the women to a dinner, and they took it
from there.
   As with other exclusive enclaves, one doesn't apply.
Members prospect for recruits on the phone, while arranging
boss-to-boss contacts, but they drop no hints. Joyce Gibson,
assistant to the head of the Rockefeller Group, was surprised
when she got a letter a few years back inviting her to join.
"I had never heard of the group," she recalls.
   But weeks earlier, she had unknowingly met six of its
members. A secretary she knew had invited her to join some
women at the Rainbow Room, a gathering that seemed
unremarkable at the time. "It was a very pleasant lunch," she
says. It was also a covert interview. "I was looked over,"
Ms. Gibson, now a member, later realized.
   Even before candidates are screened -- for "certain
qualities of sociability," Mrs. Blessington says -- the
club's governing board checks out their bosses. Ann Mortimer,
who joined while working for the chairman of Avco, had an
unusual glimpse at the process in 1986 when she moved to
Reader's Digest to work for Chairman George Grune. To retain
her full Seraphic membership -- and avoid demotion to
"associate member" status, which members risk if they change
jobs or their boss dies -- she had to submit Mr. Grune's
credentials to club officials. "They were particularly
interested in what organizations he's active with and what
memberships he maintains and what boards of directors he's
on," she says.
   Luckily for her, he is a director or trustee of "all those
good things," she says -- Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital,
the Metropolitan Opera, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and
the New York Zoological Society. "You want the other member
bosses to be people that your own boss would be comfortable
knowing," Ms. Mortimer says.
   The society was so eager to enlist Henry Kissinger's
longtime secretary, Christine Vick, that they bent the rules
to pursue her. By the time Ms. Vick received an invitation to
join, she had been promoted to a more senior slot in her
boss's consulting firm. "For them, it didn't matter," she
says.
   The Kissinger project wasn't a complete success. He never
found time to attend the annual "Bosses Dinner" (only
one-third of bosses typically attend). Nor did he take
members to the race track, as did Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady a few years ago while at Dillon Read.
   To stay in the society, members must go to at least one of
four main lunches and dinners each year. Meeting that
requirement isn't all that difficult when obliging companies
furnish transportation -- limousines or the General Electric
helicopter, which whisked four Connecticut-based Seraphics to
a members-only dinner in New York a few years back.
   Club functions are eventful. Here is a description of one,
taken from the society's internal history: "The June 20
{1989} membership dinner brought together 113 Seraphics at
the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's Memorial Hall.
Through the generous invitation of John J. Creedon, each
member paid only $37.50 for the dinner. Met Life contributed
predinner refreshments, printed program, and dinner wine.
Each member took home a Snoopy canvas bag from Met Life
filled with summertime preparations, donated by several
Seraphic companies . . . Avon Products `Skin So Soft' summer
survival sack, from Johnson &amp; Johnson, Sundown sunscreen
stick and lotion; from the New York Times, a Post-it pad" and
on and on. At a 1983 lunch, according to the history, Dow
Jones Chairman Warren Phillips and his secretary, Seraphic
member Karen Cuddy, "provided lovely Wall Street Journal
Italian silk scarves as table prizes."
   Club activities include out-of-town jaunts. Ms. Donnelly
says she helps arrange weekend getaways by letting companies
know that Seraphic members "work for some pretty important
people.
   "If you want the bosses to travel on your airlines and
stay in your hotels," she tells companies, "you might show
these women some consideration." They do. Continental
Airlines flew a dozen club members to and from Chicago last
fall for no charge at all. The Trump Shuttle took some
Seraphics to Boston, also free of charge.
   Outings on the Forbes yacht have been a particularly
prized perk, courtesy of Seraphic boss Malcolm Forbes. When
he died, no one had to call Mary Ann Danner, his longtime
assistant, to tell her she had been notched down to associate
member. She knew the rules: She had been a full member since
the 1960s.
   But what of the yearly yacht trips?
   Seraphic members needn't have worried. Eager to maintain
the Forbes-Seraphic link, started 47 years ago with Malcolm's
father and his secretary, Ms. Danner rushed to nominate for
membership Malcolm Forbes Jr., the new Forbes Inc. chairman,
and Jacqueline DeMaria, his secretary. Not surprisingly, both
gained quick approval -- minus the usual background check and
lunch.
   Ms. Blessington explains: "We had already met them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   Gorbo Goes
   Out of Fashion
   In Washington
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   So much for "nostalgia for the Cold War." Remember that
line? Only last summer, Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell used it to blister George Bush for too much
"timidity" in assisting Mikhail Gorbachev. Most of Washington
nodded approvingly.
   What a difference Lithuania makes. Now Sen. Mitchell wants
the president to do more "to express disapproval and to deter
further actions" against Lithuania. He modestly suggests
slowing down trade talks. Another Senate Democrat, Maryland's
Barbara Mikulski, feels "mounting outrage and frustration"
that Mr. Bush hasn't been tougher with Moscow. Florida Rep.
Dante Fascell, also not renowned as a hawk, wants Mr. Bush to
postpone the May 30 summit with the Soviet leader.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Who knows, if this keeps up Congress will soon ask Bob
Gates, the deputy national security adviser, to give that
famous "hard-line" speech that Secretary of State Baker nixed
last year.
   What's going on? Are we all hard-liners now? No, but the
Washington romance with Mikhail Gorbachev is certainly
cooling. Few are yet prepared to end the affair, but
everyone's maneuvering in case there is a breakup. At the
very least, everyone now agrees that Secretary of Defense
Dick Cheney was right all along. Mr. Cheney was roundly booed
last year when he said Mr. Gorbachev probably can't long
survive. Now it's hard to find anyone who disagrees. That's
more or less the private consensus of President Bush's own
Sovietologists and the intelligence community. The argument
now is that the U.S. mustn't challenge Mr. Gorbachev on
Lithuania precisely because he is so vulnerable. Yesterday in
Moscow, a Lithuanian man set himself on fire.
   The CIA came up to Capitol Hill last Friday, gave a dire
report on the Soviet economy and no one objected. But
Langley's lament was cheery compared with the 17 Soviet
economists brought to Washington by Nick Eberstadt for the
American Enterprise Institute. They described an economy
about half the size the CIA has long calculated, a military
burden about twice as large, and living standards somewhere
south of Brazil's. A chain-smoking People's Deputy, Vladimir
Tikhonov, called the situation hopeless without immediate and
radical reform. No one said he was exaggerating.
   If nothing else, this new realism solves Mr. Bush's
Who-lost-Gorbachev problem. The precedent here is Panama. Mr.
Bush's agonizing delay in acting against Manuel Noriega had
even Democrats urging him to foment a coup. By the time he
did invade, even Yankee-stay-home types were applauding U.S.
intervention in another nation's affairs. By his caution now
toward Lithuania, Mr. Bush has ensured that if he does ever
impose sanctions and relations with Mr. Gorbachev go sour,
he'll have plenty of accomplices.
   The risk now is that he's embraced Mr. Gorbachev too much.
Some conservatives have already fixed on the appeasement
metaphor. Vytautus Landsbergis, the valiant Lithuanian
president, even said about the West this week, "This is
Munich." But the analogy is false. Mr. Gorbachev isn't
expanding his empire, like Hitler, but is resisting its
contraction.
   If it's a Teutonic analogy we want, the better one may be
Metternich. Lithuania has exposed, more than ever, the roots
of Bush administration foreign policy in national-interest
realism -- the cold-blooded calculation of "interests" and
power. Those roots exist, as they must, in every
administration. But they're more prominent now than at any
time since Henry Kissinger was introducing "realpolitik" to
U.S. dictionaries. (Mr. Kissinger once wrote a book about
Metternich, the 19th-century realpolitician who resisted his
own era's movements for self-determination.)
   Under Presidents Carter and Reagan, realism was wrapped in
a broader and rhetorical idealism. Mr. Carter had human
rights, Mr. Reagan a campaign for democracy and free markets.
George Bush offers mainly "stability" and world "realities."
It's partly a problem of rhetoric, but the rhetorical failure
makes it also seem a failure to sympathize with Balts and
Chinese pursuing American ideals.
   Even when the arguments have merit, as they do with
Lithuania, it's doubtful they can prevail over time unlinked
to broader American principles. Americans have a moral streak
and little patience with realpolitik. Mr. Bush's China policy
has already withered under attack. Yesterday his detente with
Iraq's Saddam Hussein, who has threatened to use chemical
weapons against Israel, was assailed in Congress as "Alice in
Wonderland."
   Some of the younger Bush officials appear to understand
this vulnerability. A month ago Mr. Baker was set to deliver
what was advertised as a major speech on democracy as a goal
and tool of U.S. foreign policy. Some officials lobbied to
include the dread word, "Lithuania." But the White House said
no, lest it somehow offend Mr. Gorbachev. Not surprisingly,
the speech wasn't taken seriously.
   Mr. Bush says the polls support him on Lithuania. But as
the president might also say, polls are fickle things. China
was a tolerable tyranny -- until TV cameras showed us
Tiananmen Square. More scenes like yesterday's of Balts
burning themselves in Moscow could change American opinion,
just as Buddhists once did in Saigon.
   Democrats would like nothing better than to get to the
right of George Bush on the world's aspirations for liberty.
If we've learned anything about George Mitchell, it's that he
is a flexible critic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP AFRIC J.NOM HMC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORTURE IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Human-rights groups said torture and ill-treatment of
prisoners had increased in China since the suppression of
last year's pro-democracy movement.
   Cattle prods were widely used, prisoners were held
incommunicado for months and conditions in prisons and labor
camps throughout the country were appalling, representatives
of human-rights organizations and of the International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions said. They said they had
documented cases from former inmates of beatings to extract
confessions.
   China is to present a report to the United Nations
Committee Against Torture today. The report cites a number of
laws making torture illegal and punishable although it
concedes the practice has yet to be eradicated completely.
   A report by the New York-based International League for
Human Rights said the problem had worsened since China
ratified the 1984 Convention Against Torture two years ago.
"During the years 1985-88 there was a vigorous press campaign
which exposed many cases of torture but since the June 1989
crackdown such accounts have disappeared," the league report
said.
                                                                                                       

   NEW CHARGE IN IMHAUSEN CASE
                                                                                                       

   The public prosecutor's office in Mannheim, West Germany,
said it is filing charges of tax evasion against Juergen
Hippenstiel-Imhausen involving money allegedly received for
helping plan and build a chemical-weapons plant in Libya. The
indictment is the second against the former president of
Imhausen-Chemie G.m.b.H. He was charged last month with
violating West German export-control laws by shipping via his
company embargoed technology to the Rabta plant, which the
Libyans had said was a pharmaceuticals facility.
                                                                                                       

   UGANDA TO OUTLAW PROSTITUTION
                                                                                                       

   Uganda plans to outlaw prostitution, ban sex under the age
of 18 and increase the penalty for rape in a bid to control
AIDS. The nation has 12,444 confirmed AIDS cases. A law to be
discussed in parliament next week would impose seven-year
jail terms for prostitution and underage sex in a country
where there is now no legal age of consent. It would increase
the maximum penalty for rape to life imprisonment from seven
years.
                                                                                                       

   NOMURA'S BERLIN PLANS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Nomura Securities Co. will become a member of the
Berlin Stock Exchange early next month. A Nomura spokesman
said that by joining the exchange the company hopes to tap
business opportunities expected to be created by the
unification of West and East Germany. Nomura already is a
member of exchanges in Frankfurt and Munich.
                                                                                                       

   SOME BOAT PEOPLE GO HOME
                                                                                                       

   A group of 126 Vietnamese boat people left Hong Kong for
Hanoi yesterday under a United Nations-backed voluntary
repatriation program. A total of 1,966 boat people have
returned to Vietnam under guarantees from Hanoi that they
will not be persecuted. The program began in March last year.
Flights carrying about 120 people have been leaving at the
rate of one a week, but officials aim to send 1,000 a month
back by June. Hong Kong has 54,000 Vietnamese boat people
packed in camps and detention centers, most with no hope of
being accorded permanent status under the British colony's
strict refugee-screening process.
                                                                                                       

   HONDA'S FOREIGN-MADE PARTS
   Japan's Honda Motor Co. said it would expand its
procurement of foreign-made auto parts as a result of recent
successful meetings with U.S. parts suppliers. Honda said it
had reached agreements on expanding its procurement of 22
parts from 12 U.S. companies. A spokesman said seven of the
agreements involve products that Honda will be importing for
the first time while the remaining agreements cover expanded
procurement of parts the company is already importing.
                                                                                                       

   WANTED: GERMAN SPEAKERS
                                                                                                       

   Use of the German language is on the rise at the
headquarters of the European Community Commission in
Brussels.
   As German government officials and businessmen call for
making their language more common in conducting commission
business, some French and English speakers at the commission
are starting to worry. While French is still the lingua
franca for most of the commission's business (English is
second), German is catching up. The Brussels Goethe Institute
says enrollment in its German classes has increased 13% this
year.
   As the commission works out plans to bring East Germany
into the EC, much of the groundwork requires German speakers.
The head of the team studying agricultural questions, an
Italian, says he has put mostly Germans on the job to avoid
slowing the work with translations.
   At the EC's daily press briefing, the only language used
is French.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Eton College, the breeding ground of the British
establishment, has begun allowing students to go into
neighboring Windsor wearing jeans and open-necked shirts. The
school had formerly required boys visiting the town to wear
dress trousers, jackets and ties. . . . Morocco's King Hassan
freed 332 prisoners and ordered sentences cut on 112 in a
traditional measure of royal clemency to mark the Moslem
feast of Eid al-Fitr.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Motorola Chip Plant in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE NP
</SO>
<CO>
   MOT
</CO>
<LP>
   SCHAUMBURG, Ill. -- Motorola Inc. said it will begin
constructing a $50 million assembly plant in Japan to produce
semiconductors for its customers in Asia.
   Responding to increasing demand from customers in Japan
and elsewhere in the Far East, the new plant will focus on
the assembly of both high-capacity memory devices, and
mid-range and high-end microcontroller chips that the company
said meets expanding market needs for surface-mount packages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plant will be owned and operated by Nippon Motorola
Ltd., a Tokyo subsidiary of Motorola, a maker of electronic
equipment and semiconductor chips.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   T DAL
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T Capital Corp., a unit of American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co., offering of up to $2.1 billion of notes and
warrants to purchase notes.
                                                                                                       

   Delta Air Lines Inc., shelf offering of up to $750 million
of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Digital Systems International Inc., initial offering of
two million common shares, of which 1.41 million will be
offered by the company and 590,000 by holders, via Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. and Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Seligman Quality Municipal Fund Inc., initial offering of
10 million common shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Arnault Wins the Battle
   With Racamier for Vuitton
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LVMHY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Bernard Arnault won France's luxury war.
   His hands now are free to consolidate and develop LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the conglomerate of world-famous
champagne, cognac, perfume, luggage and fashion products that
he runs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Arnault's victory came yesterday, when an appeals
court here refused his rivals' effort to have a large block
of his shares nullified. Mr. Arnault's main rival,
77-year-old Vuitton family leader Henry Racamier, who fought
him for nearly two years, immediately resigned from the
group. Mr. Racamier had been chairman of the Louis Vuitton
unit.
   "Now we can finally build a team that will cooperate to
develop our brands," Mr. Arnault said after learning of his
antagonist's departure. "And now we are free to proceed with
acquisitions, several of which we have under study."
   He said he is considering acquiring brands both in his
current product lines and in new lines, although he insisted
that he won't pay inflated prices.
   Mr. Arnault's troubles probably aren't over. Mr. Racamier
warned after the court decision that the Vuitton family,
which controls about 20% of the group's shares and 25% of
voting rights, "will continue to defend vigilantly the
integrity of the companies and their brands." In the past,
Mr. Racamier has threatened to seek allies among other
shareholders and try to block some of Mr. Arnault's
decisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cheney Offers
   To Trim Stealth,
   Aircraft Project
   ---
   Pentagon Plan Would Save
   $35 Billion Over 8 Years,
   But Critics Want More
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC LK BA GD MD GQ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a major concession to congressional
budget-cutters, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney proposed
building only 75 of the 132 B-2 Stealth bombers originally
envisioned by the Pentagon, and he urged significant cuts in
two other expensive aircraft projects.
   Intended to save $35 billion over the next eight years,
Mr. Cheney's long-awaited recommendations would involve
cutting to 120 planes from 210 the Air Force's planned fleet
of C-17 troop transports. In addition, the defense secretary
proposed stretching out development and reducing production
rates for the next generation of high-performance Navy and
Air Force jet fighters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Cheney told lawmakers that a major factor in his
proposal to scale back fighter production plans was his
"preliminary" decision to reduce the number of Navy aircraft
carriers to 12 from the current 14 over the next few years.
He also said, "There's no question we're going to have a
smaller Air Force" by that time, although he didn't provide
any specifics.
   But the proposals clearly won't satisfy increasingly
powerful congressional critics, who are demanding deeper cuts
in Pentagon spending and outright termination of one of the
high-technology airplanes. By "cutting a little bit and
stretching a lot, you drive up the {unit} cost on virtually
all of the programs," complained Rep. John Kasich (R., Ohio),
a leader of a bipartisan coalition to kill the radar-eluding
B-2 bomber.
   Testifying in back-to-back hearings of the House and
Senate Armed Services Committees yesterday, Mr. Cheney
acknowledged that his plan would trim only about $2.4 billion
from the Pentagon's request for $306.9 billion in spending
authority for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1. But the
proposal represents the opening volley in what promises to be
an emotional and drawn-out battle between lawmakers and the
Bush administration over the shape of military aviation into
the 21st century.
   While the cuts proposed by Mr. Cheney were severe, they
weren't as deep as many defense contractors had feared.
Northrop Corp., which builds the B-2, greeted Mr. Cheney's
recommendations with sighs of relief. B-2 spending still
would reach about $6 billion a year when production gets into
full swing. And compared with some proposals inside and
outside the Pentagon to gut the program by buying only 15 or
30 of the bat-winged planes, "75 aircraft is nothing to
sneeze at," said Les Daly, a senior Northrop vice president.
   Industry officials also were pleased that the program
involving the largest number of contractors, the Air Force's
$60 billion-plus Advanced Tactical Fighter program, would be
delayed by two years but otherwise would come through
unscathed. "Talk about joy in heaven," said James Blackwell,
vice president and general manager of the ATF office at
Lockheed Corp, which is teamed on the program with Boeing Co.
and General Dynamics Corp. The other team bidding for the
fighter contract includes Northrop and McDonnell Douglas
Corp.
   Still, Mr. Blackwell acknowledged that "there will be a
lot of presidents and a lot of Congresses to get through"
before ATF production reaches robust rates.
   Mr. Cheney seems to be driven more by domestic political
and fiscal pressures to reduce U.S. defense spending than by
any fundamental reassessment of Soviet military capabilities.
He testified that the U.S. intelligence community still
expects Kremlin leaders to deploy potent new supersonic
fighters and sophisticated air defense systems over the next
decade or so, although the improvements are bound to be
slower than expected as a result of serious economic problems
in the Soviet Union.
   House Armed Services Committee chairman Les Aspin (D.,
Wis.) said Mr. Cheney's proposals were "still based on an
unrealistically pessimistic view of the Soviet threat" and an
optimistic reading of how much Congress is willing to spend
on defense. "I think he's in trouble on both counts," Rep.
Aspin told reporters.
   In his testimony, Mr. Cheney strongly suggested that he
may have to propose deeper cuts later this year, when the
Pentagon submits its revised long-term spending blueprint to
Congress. If lawmakers reject the administration's military
spending plans, he said, "I'm going to come back with even
tougher calls."
   Up to a few hours before the proposal was released, Mr.
Cheney personally supervised last-minute revisions. The
conclusions were so tightly held that congressional leaders
didn't receive any advance briefings, and even the civilian
chiefs of each of the services didn't review the final
document until yesterday morning.
   Here are highlights of Mr. Cheney's proposed cutbacks:
                                                                                                       

   B-2 STEALTH BOMBER: By proposing to slash B-2 production
more than 40% in order to make the beleaguered project more
palatable to lawmakers, Mr. Cheney risks pushing the total
cost of each plane above $800 million, compared with current
estimates of $530 million. The Pentagon now wants Northrop to
build only 12 planes a year at the height of the program,
instead of producing the 24 it envisioned previously.
   As recently as last week, some top Pentagon officials were
talking about building 100 B-2s, using that higher figure as
a bargaining chip. Mr Cheney said he is convinced that a
75-plane fleet is "about as low as you can go . . . and still
have a significant amount of capability" against Soviet air
defenses.
   The fate of the B-2 program is all-important to Los
Angeles-based Northrop, which derives about half its revenue,
or some $2.5 billion a year, from the plane. Northrop's Mr.
Daly said that Mr. Cheney's plan, besides reducing Northrop's
own anticipated revenues, could have a ripple effect on the
number of employees at thousands of subcontractors working on
the Stealth program. But he maintained that Northrop still
would be able to rid itself of its $880 million in debt by
the mid-1990s, as it has been planning.
   Mr. Daly insisted that Northrop's profit margins on the
program wouldn't be affected by Mr. Cheney's proposals
because under the terms of its contract, the government meets
all fixed costs, no matter what the production rate. In
recent interviews, top corporate finance officials also have
stressed that the Pentagon reimburses Northrop for most of
its variable costs, as well as the added interest expense it
must endure because of a stretch-out in production.
   Still, many on Capitol Hill believe that even 75 planes
will prove to be an elusive dream. They said Mr. Cheney
himself didn't appear firmly wedded to building that many
B-2s. "It's the whole tone," said one top Senate Republican
aide. "Cheney really didn't come over and say, `We have to
have that.'"
                                                                                                       

   C-17 TRANSPORT: McDonnell Douglas's C-17s originally were
intended to substantially increase the capacity of the U.S.
to move large numbers of troops to Europe in case of a land
war with the Soviets. Mr. Cheney's proposal to cut the
proposed fleet back by nearly 50% would result in a maximum
production rate of 24 planes a year, compared with the 29
envisioned earlier, and would set a much less ambitious
mission for the new aircraft: simply replacing aging C-141
cargo carriers.
   McDonnell Douglas, with its wide-ranging operations, isn't
as dependent on the C-17 as Northrop is on the Stealth. And
even if the project is cut further on Capitol Hill, the
company could take the 1.65 million square feet of factory
space it has added to its Long Beach, Calif., facilities for
production of the giant transport and use it to manufacture
commercial jetliners.
   Nonetheless, St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas has
invested more than $500 million in the C-17, is eking out
about $8 million in profit per quarter on the program and is
counting on the cargo plane to help it maintain a healthy
balance between Pentagon contracts and non-defense work. Bob
Clepper, the company's C-17 program manager, said in a recent
interview that if McDonnell Douglas can't build at least 20
aircraft a year, it will be difficult to maintain efficiency
and keep costs down. "All of our facilities have been scoped
out with the intention of producing 29 a year," Mr. Clepper
said.
                                                                                                       

   ADVANCED FIGHTERS: Calling the Navy's A-12 attack plane
one of the military's "most urgent requirements," Mr. Cheney
made it clear he is determined to push ahead with the
program, although at a somewhat reduced rate.
   At one point in his testimony, Mr. Cheney disclosed
previously classified details about the A-12, including that
the program has a price tag of about $52 billion.
   General Dynamics, which along with McDonnell Douglas
builds the plane, said in a statement that it was "pleased
that the A-12 requirement has been reaffirmed along with the
funding and planning for the early years of the program." The
first A-12 is supposed to be rolled out of an Air Force plant
in Oklahoma this fall.
   However, production of the Air Force's version of the
fighter, called the Advanced Tactical Aircraft, would be
scratched completely from the Defense Department's 1992-1997
spending blueprint.
   By contrast, Mr. Cheney's decision to preserve the Air
Force's Advanced Tactical Fighter is welcome news to the two
teams of contractors, which together have invested more than
$1.2 billion to design the two-engine, supersonic fighter.
Mr. Cheney's plans would retain a naval version of the ATF,
but delay deployment of that aircraft until 1998. In an
ironic twist, the defense chief acknowledged that the delay
could force the Pentagon to keep buying Grumman Corp.'s F-14
fighter, a plane he lobbied hard to kill last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI WPGI WNEWS GIBG
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Peter S. Prichard, editor of USA Today, was
named to the additional post of chief news executive of
Gannett Co. He formerly was senior vice president, news. The
new appointment resulted from the retirement of John C.
Quinn, former editor of USA Today, as executive vice
president, news. Mr. Quinn also resigned as a director. . . .
Michael A. Pietrangelo, citing family considerations,
resigned as president and chief operating officer of Western
Publishing Group Inc. Frank DiPrima, who was chief operating
officer of Thompson Medical Co., will succeed him. Mr.
Pietrangelo will remain on Western's board. He will become
president and chief executive officer of the Cleo Inc.
division of Gibson Greetings Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gulf Canada Resources' Shultz Named
   Chief, Discloses Plans for Expansion
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier and Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GOU IHEIF
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   C.E. "Chuck" Shultz, who spent 28 years with Tenneco
Inc.'s oil arm before its assets were sold in a landmark 1988
auction, was named chief executive officer of Gulf Canada
Resources Ltd., the flagship energy holding of Canada's
wealthy Reichmann family.
   Mr. Shultz, a soft-spoken Oklahoman who moved to Gulf
Canada as president and chief operating officer last fall,
said in his first interview since joining the company that he
aims to expand the company's operations abroad significantly,
and challenge conventional wisdom by stepping up the search
for what he believes are big undiscovered pools of oil and
gas in heavily explored western Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The appointment of Mr. Shultz, 50 years old, to succeed S.
Keith McWalter, 64, who also is retiring as chairman, wasn't
unexpected. But its timing clears the air about who will run
a yet-to-be-named new company that the Reichmanns propose to
form through the merger of Gulf Canada and a smaller concern,
Home Oil Co. Both companies are based in Calgary, Alberta.
   The proposed merger would create Canada's third-biggest
oil producer and fifth-biggest natural gas producer, with
assets of about five billion Canadian dollars (US$4.31
billion).
   Mr. Shultz, who has broad international experience in the
upstream-exploration and production-sector of the oil
business, said he is particularly interested in adding a
"third leg" to Gulf Canada's operations in north Africa and
Europe, which would complement its activities in western
Canada and Indonesia.
   He also said he is bullish on the prospects of bolstering
Gulf Canada's diminishing reserves in western Canada, where
production and cash flow have also been hurt, prompting
several bond rating concerns to downgrade the company's debt
securities.
   "My impression of western Canada is that there's still a
lot of oil to be found," he said. "It's not nearly as heavily
drilled as the U.S., where reserves have been added" by
further drilling at established fields.
   About 50% of Gulf Canada's C$350 million exploration and
development budget this year is earmarked for western Canada,
with an additional 30% going to frontier projects, and the
rest dedicated to international activities.
   Mr. Shultz, described by Joe B. Foster, his former boss at
Tenneco, as "an aggressive guy and a good motivator" who
likes being "right in the middle of the fray," said it could
take a decade for Gulf Canada's presence in north Africa and
Europe to match its current profile in Indonesia. But he said
an acquisition in those regions "is an option" in the longer
term.
   Despite criticism by analysts that Gulf Canada is overly
wedded to frontier holdings that don't generate any cash flow
and will be expensive to develop, Mr. Shultz said the company
is still committed to expanding its production in places such
as Canada's remote Beaufort Sea. But he said production there
probably won't begin until after the year 2000.
   "If we're bearish on Beaufort, it's not because it doesn't
have potential," Mr. Shultz said. "It's because of today's
cost. For a company our size, it doesn't take many C$70
million wells before you run out of money to put in it."
   Details of the proposed merger with Home Oil, which has
significant land holdings in western Canada, a better record
than Gulf Canada of replacing reserves, and steady cash flow
of about C$200 million annually, are expected to be disclosed
in a few weeks.
   Executives of Home Oil, a unit of Calgary-based Interhome
Energy Inc., said they don't know what role they will play,
if any, in the merged company. But people familiar with the
companies, both inside and out, say there isn't any doubt
that Mr. Shultz has been tapped to lead Gulf Canada's
successor.
   Gulf Canada also named Robert Butler, a low-profile
company director, to succeed Mr. McWalter as chairman.
Analysts said they see the move as a possible "interim"
appointment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Some Japanese See Thaw in Trade War,
   But Others Fear It's Just Temporary Lull
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Bush administration's apparent decision to
refrain from again branding Japan as an unfair trading
partner stems a year-long erosion in relations between the
two countries.
   But while some government officials here are proclaiming a
thaw in the trade war, many observers fear this is only a
temporary lull, with contentious issues looming a few months
away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The immediate problems seem now to have been sorted out,"
Michael Armacost, the U.S. ambassador to Japan, said at a
news conference. But, he added, "we've got a lot of follow-up
work to do."
   The Bush administration continued to play its cards close
to the chest yesterday. White House spokesman Marlin
Fitzwater said the president still hasn't decided whether to
name Japan as an unfair trader under the so-called Super 301
clause of the 1988 Trade Act. But Mr. Fitzwater did praise
Trade Representative Carla Hills's congressional testimony
Wednesday, in which she indicated the U.S. wouldn't name
Japan for a second year.
   The president's Economic Policy Council met yesterday, and
administration officials said it was clear from the meeting
that Japan wouldn't be cited as an unfair trader. The council
will relay its findings to Mr. Bush in time for him to make a
decision by Monday, Mr. Fitzwater said. The administration
officials said the decision could come as early as today.
   But with the writing already on the wall, there was a sigh
of relief in Tokyo this week, in sharp contrast to the bitter
outpouring a year ago when the U.S. used the Super 301
provisions to cite Japan for protecting three domestic
industries.
   "One cannot but be impressed by the change and how far we
have come," said a senior Foreign Ministry official.
   But there have been periods of premature euphoria before.
In 1988, after Japan agreed to open its beef, citrus and
construction markets, U.S. officials said publicly that there
were no trade disputes outstanding between the two countries.
   The U.S. and Japan still face discussions this year on
construction, intellectual property, telecommunications
equipment and on Allied-Signal Inc.'s ability to sell a new
kind of metal product in Japan. In mid-1991, the five-year
U.S.-Japan semiconductor agreement expires, and the American
industry remains disappointed with its access to the Japanese
market.
   "Although the sophisticated way of handling things is not
to name Japan {under Super 301}, the fact remains that all
these issues will be taken up anyway between the countries,"
noted Hajime Ohta, director of international economic affairs
for Keidanren, a business organization.
   Still, America's trade deficit with Japan, a subject of
heated political debate in the U.S., is likely to widen later
this year if the yen remains weak, making U.S. exports to
Japan more expensive and Japanese imports to the U.S. less
so.
   But Japanese officials hope the recent events augur a
basic change in the traditional trade relationship, under
which the U.S. pressures Japan, which then caves in at the
last minute under threat of sanctions. This year they settled
negotiations on satellites, supercomputers and wood products
as much as two months before the official deadline, the
Japanese said.
   Mr. Armacost, the U.S. ambassador, said at the news
conference that "we have a chance to work on them a little
more quietly." The atmosphere was anything but quiet when
Washington initially invoked the 1988 Trade Act. Japan said
that the Super 301 provisions were illegal and that it would
refuse to negotiate under them.
   But as the months dragged on, the anger went beyond the
specific trade issues to a deep fear that the U.S. had turned
hostile to Japan and that the overall relationship was
fraying. The showdown came in the past few weeks, with a
string of deadlines for U.S. retaliation.
   The U.S.-Japan trade talks had been going so poorly on
several fronts that President Bush invited Japanese Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu to an emergency summit meeting in
early March. Since then, Japan has hastened to tidy up more
than a half-dozen pending and potential trade battles and has
written a rough draft for a plan to make its economy more
open to imports.
   Japanese government officials, grown paranoid about the
level of anti-Japan rhetoric in Washington, say that for the
first time in months they feel "the atmosphere {there} has
changed in such a way that those people who like to stand up
and say positive things about Japan can do so," the Foreign
Ministry official said. "That wasn't the case two months
ago."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. and Soviets
   Will Normalize
   Trade Relations
   ---
   Accord Would Give Moscow
   `Most-Favored' Status
   After Half of a Century
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. and the Soviet Union agreed to
normalize bilateral trade relations for the first time in
half a century, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Julius Katz
said.
   The trade pact, which requires congressional approval,
would offer the Soviet Union most-favored-nation status,
meaning that that country's goods could enter the U.S. at the
lowest tariff rates available. A senior Bush administration
official recently said that with the pact, U.S.-Soviet
bilateral trade soon could total between $10 billion and $15
billion a year, compared with between $1 billion to $3
billion in recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S.-Soviet trade currently consists mostly of U.S. grain
sales to the Soviet Union. Moscow hasn't had much success
selling to the U.S., partly because its products are subject
to tariffs that often are several times higher than those
applied to most other foreign goods.
   It had been expected that the U.S. might try to use the
trade-pact negotiations as leverage to try to soften current
Soviet pressure on Lithuania. The Soviet Union recently moved
to cut energy and other supplies to that Baltic republic,
which is seeking independence from the Soviet Union. But
President Bush this week declined to impose sanctions, and
Ambassador Katz said there had been no discussion of
Lithuania in the talks, which took place in Paris.
   "Fundamentally, we have reached agreement on the text,"
said Ambassador Katz, the chief U.S. negotiator, adding that
he expects a few remaining issues to be resolved in a few
weeks. "As far as I am concerned, we have substantial
agreement." The U.S. negotiator cautioned that although the
text has been largely worked out, there is as yet no signed
or initialed text. But he added that he didn't see any
obstacles that would prevent President Bush and Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev from signing the pact at their summit
meeting in late May and early June.
   The bilateral accord would run for three years and is
automatically renewable for three-year periods, the U.S.
trade negotiator said. But President Bush can sign the new
trade agreement only after he has certified that the Soviet
Union is allowing free emigration of Soviet Jews and other
dissidents. The Soviet Union currently is considering more
liberal emigration laws, and the president has said he will
sign the waiver once these are enacted.
   Ambassador Katz spoke to reporters in a telephone
conference call from Paris, where the two nations were just
completing one of several rounds of talks.
   The proposed agreement covers such areas as "commercial
offices in each country, facilitation of business, provisions
on transparency with respect to rules and regulations,
financial regulations as they relate to trade, and provisions
for the intellectual property protection," Ambassador Katz
said.
   The pact also has provisions to guard against market
disruption from surges in imports. The text of the agreement
won't be disclosed for days or weeks until the final points
are sorted out. The accord will be accompanied by a number of
side letters relating to such issues as ways to resolve trade
problems, tourism, intellectual property and financial
relations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Trump's Growing Appetite for Cash
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCL HLT
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   What's going on with Donald Trump?
   Over the past few months, the casino and real estate
mogul, widely thought of as a voracious buyer, has discussed
selling, refinancing or securitizing virtually every major
asset he holds. He said yesterday for the first time that he
has retained Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. to negotiate a sale of the
Trump Shuttle. In addition, he said he has considered various
deals involving Trump Tower and the Grand Hyatt Hotel in
Manhattan, and his three casinos in Atlantic City, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a two-hour interview, Mr. Trump explained that he is
raising cash today so he can scoop up bargains in a year or
two, after the real estate market shakes out. Such an
approach worked for him a decade ago when he bet big that New
York City's economy would rebound, and developed the Trump
Tower, Grand Hyatt and other projects.
   "What I want to do is go and bargain hunt," he said. "I
want to be king of cash."
   Others in the financial community are watching closely,
however, for signs that he may be accumulating cash to deal
with a current or anticipated shortage resulting from his
heavy debt load.
   Mr. Trump vehemently and angrily denied any suggestion
that his empire faces even the hint of a cash problem. To
verify his financial health, Mr. Trump produced a letter from
the accounting firm Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. It stated that as
of Nov. 30, 1989, Mr. Trump had $384,598,000 in cash and cash
equivalents. But the Arthur Andersen review isn't an audit,
and the letter doesn't detail Mr. Trump's liabilities,
according to the letter's author. "It doesn't prove or
disprove he's in distress," said Arthur Andersen's Richard
Robbins, who wrote the letter. "I have no indications that he
is in distress," Mr. Robbins added.
   Mr. Trump was upbeat about his financial situation
yesterday. He said his 1989 net cash flow was $157 million;
this year, he projects it to be $171 million. In addition, he
said, he expects to make a profit of $275 million on two
Manhattan condominium projects, despite the soft residential
market. "There's nobody that has the cash flow that I have,"
he said. (He was so adamant about his cash flow situation
that he threatened a libel suit if any problem was
suggested.)
   The mystery surrounding Mr. Trump's empire comes down to
the question of exactly how much he owns -- and how much he
owes. Except for his casinos, which were financed with
publicly traded junk bonds, most of his holdings are private.
As a result, accounts of his wealth must come either from him
or from the real estate and investment banking rumor mills.
Those sources have been inaccurate at times in the past.
   Although he denies ever having said it, Mr. Trump told
reporters that he purchased Manhattan's St. Moritz Hotel for
$30 million. Records indicate he paid $73 million. Days after
the Oct. 19, 1987, stock market crash, Mr. Trump said he had
sold all his holdings. It later emerged that he still owned
substantial stock in Alexander's Inc. and Resorts
International Inc.
   In building his empire, Mr. Trump borrowed from banks or
floated bonds totaling more than $2 billion, according to
this newspaper's and others' accounts of each transaction.
Many properties, such as the Plaza Hotel and Trump City, a
74-acre tract of land on Manhattan's Upper West Side, are
believed to be worth much more than Mr. Trump paid for them.
But these properties, and possibly others, are cash drains on
the Trump empire because they don't produce enough income to
cover interest payments. Thus they must be supported by cash
cows such as casinos and condominiums.
   With regulators forcing banks to tighten up on highly
leveraged real estate transactions, some junk bond investors
are beginning to wonder whether Mr. Trump will be forced by
banks to pay down his loans. "We are developing more than a
passing interest in Donald Trump's bonds," said James B.
Rubin, of Sass Lamle Rubin &amp; Co., an investment firm that
deals with distressed securities. "Atlantic City is an
overbuilt market, so I wonder how viable his properties might
be."
   Mr. Trump's ardor for cash is such that he has decided to
look at a sale of the Trump Shuttle less than a year after
purchasing it with much fanfare and attaching his name to the
carrier. At the time of the purchase, Mr. Trump vowed to make
the Shuttle, acquired with bank loans from Eastern Airlines
for $365 million, "one of the really fine airlines in the
world." Now that he's accomplished that objective, he said,
he's thinking of selling it.
   Mr. Trump said he is weighing the sale because he was
approached by so many airlines interested in the property. "I
am a trader," he said. He declined to say whether he is
making money on the Shuttle, which he said has 50% of the
market share. But the Shuttle probably costs between $36
million and $40 million in annual debt service. And one
individual familiar with the deal said Mr. Trump had sought a
market share of about 65% by now.
   Mr. Trump also is trying to raise cash from some of his
prime real estate. Because the cash flow from Manhattan's
Trump Tower and Grand Hyatt Hotel is so great and is expected
to improve, he said, he's in the process of refinancing the
trophy properties for a total of $290 million.
   Mr. Trump said he plans to retire a $75 million loan for
Trump Tower from Chase Manhattan Bank and replace it with a
$90 million loan from Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
Mr. Trump purchased the 50% of the retail and office space
that he didn't already own from the Equitable Life Assurance
Society for $60 million in 1987. Mr. Trump said he has also
arranged for a $200 million loan from a "major commercial
bank" secured by the Grand Hyatt, of which he owns 50%.
   There are also the deals that might have been. Early this
year, Mr. Trump said, he came close to selling a 49% interest
in the Plaza Hotel to Japanese investors. That deal fell
through when the Japanese financial markets crashed, he said.
Now, he said of the Plaza, "I'm never going to sell the
property."
   He can't say the same, however, for his three Atlantic
City casinos, which represent the biggest chunk of his cash
flow. The $1 billion Taj Mahal casino, which opened this
month, will have to bring in between $1 million and $1.3
million a day to break even. So far, Mr. Trump said, the Taj
is easily exceeding those levels.
   But Mr. Trump said he is considering ways to raise money
from the casino properties, which also include the Trump's
Castle and Trump Plaza, by selling an interest to the public
in some form. "Going public would be one of the easy things
in life."
   Meanwhile, he appears to have tried to unload the Trump's
Castle, the property that suffered a net operating loss of $6
million last year. Just how he plans to dispose of that
property is a matter of some dispute, however. Mr. Trump said
Hilton Hotels Corp., from which he purchased the property
with $320 million in junk bonds, had approached him to swap
its Waldorf Astoria Hotel for the Castle. "The idea was
suggested by somebody within Hilton," he said. Hilton
officials said Mr. Trump approached them. "We emphatically
deny we approached Mr. Trump," said Vice President Roy Judge.
   Mr. Trump also said he was approached by someone who
claimed to represent Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. "They
contacted me," he said. A Carnival spokesman denied any
discussion took place with Mr. Trump.
   It's too soon to tell whether Mr. Trump's "cash is king"
strategy will work. He didn't disclose the terms of his
refinancings, so it isn't known whether he's paying above or
below the market rate for his money.
   It's also still unclear whether Mr. Trump would realize a
profit from the sale of the Shuttle, should he eventually
sell it. He said that much of the value he added to the
property resulted from the use of his name, and that he
doubted he would allow another party to use the Trump name.
   Any sale of a Trump property could realize less for Mr.
Trump if he's unwilling to let a new owner use the
still-magical Trump name. The potential buyers "want to buy
the Shuttle with my name," he said. "As of this moment, I'm
not going to do it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   E-Systems Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ESY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   E-SYSTEMS Inc. (Dallas) -- Terry W. Heil, senior vice
president of E-Systems' information systems group, was named
senior vice president of the company. In his new position,
Mr. Heil will share responsibility for all the operational
units of this maker of defense electronic systems with
E-Systems' president and chief operating officer, Lowell
Lawson. Formerly, operations were supervised by two group
vice presidents and the president, but in a reorganization
the group vice president positions will be eliminated.
Charles R. Farmer Jr., senior vice president of the company's
electronic systems group, has announced he intends to retire
June 8.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money-Fund Assets
   Fell in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Assets of the nation's 509 money-market funds
fell $816.6 million, to $387.89 billion, in the week ended
Wednesday, the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade association, reported.
   Assets of 246 general-purpose funds rose $563.3 million to
$133.62 billion; assets of 102 broker-dealer funds fell $1.68
billion to $163.64 billion. Assets of 161 institutional funds
rose $299.8 million to $90.64 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jacob Dreyer, vice president and chief economist at the
institute, said that yields on funds have remained fairly
stable for the past three months, and that falling stock and
bond prices have had "no apparent effect on the movements of
assets into and out of money market funds." He added that
with individual income-tax payment and refund checks still
clearing last week, "no clear pattern of changes in assets of
money-market funds was evident."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   British Satellite-TV Field
   Heats Up With New Entry
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP U.PSO U.REE NWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Britain's simmering rivalry over satellite
television is about to escalate into open warfare.
   British Satellite Broadcasting Ltd., a competitor of
Rupert Murdoch's Sky Television, plans to beam five channels
of movies, sports, entertainment and news into U.K. homes
starting Sunday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British Satellite, which plans to back the launch with a
#100 million ($163 million) promotional campaign during the
first year, is delaying television ads promoting the service
because of shortages in the satellite-receiving equipment
viewers will need to see it. But company officials say the
shortages will be short-lived. They vow that the ads, and
ample supplies of receivers, will come about two weeks after
the launch.
   The battle between the newcomer and Sky TV, a unit of Mr.
Murdoch's News Corp., "is going to be absolutely red-hot
competition," says Anthony Simonds-Gooding, British
Satellite's chief executive. Both satellite-TV operators will
survive the multibillion-dollar battle, he predicts. "But
only one will be rich. The other will be a bit nearer to the
bread line."
   Not surprisingly, Mr. Simonds-Gooding believes his private
consortium, backed by several Murdoch rivals, will emerge as
the rich one. He cites its hefty marketing plans, different
programming strategy and hopes to get satellite-receiving
equipment into stores faster than Sky TV did before its
February 1989 launch. "We are going to win" the coming sky
war, he says.
   Some industry watchers are much less bullish about British
Satellite's prospects. "I think BSB is now in position to
lose a lot of money," says Brian Sturgess, an analyst at
Barclays de Zoete Wedd, a U.K. securities firm. "We are going
to have one hell of a bloody battle."
   British Satellite has higher overhead than Sky TV because
it paid more for Hollywood film rights and owns rather than
leases its satellite. British Satellite's backers -- which
include Pearson PLC, a diversified conglomerate that owns the
Financial Times, and publishing company Reed International
PLC -- are less experienced broadcasters than News Corp.,
which owns U.S. television stations through its Fox
Broadcasting Co. unit. And British Satellite, forced by
technical hitches to delay its introduction from last fall,
is trying to unseat an entrenched rival with a 14-month head
start.
   Sky TV, which isn't yet profitable, has had its share of
troubles. Mr. Murdoch, in an interview earlier this month,
said Sky TV had accumulated operating losses of #250 million
since its February 1989 launch. Equipment shortages and
consumer confusion about the new technology meant few people
were watching when it began beaming TV signals to homes in
Britain and Ireland.
   But the Murdoch venture now is gaining wider acceptance.
That's partly because of a cheap rental subscription package
introduced last September, which analysts believe has
attracted about 400,000 households. The package, costing
#4.45 a week, may appear more affordable to many people than
buying British Satellite's equipment for #350. Through
independent dealers, however, consumers can pay about #22 a
month to rent gear to receive the British Satellite service.
   More than 800,000 U.K. homes currently receive Sky TV's
four channels, either by satellite dish or cable, a spokesman
says. Nearly 1.4 million households in Britain and Ireland
get at least one channel.
   Sky TV also has begun to lure major advertisers. Six big
companies such as Unilever Group, the Anglo-Dutch
consumer-products giant, recently agreed to become "charter"
advertisers. They get attractive rates in exchange for
agreeing to spend #4 million each on commercials over two
years. British Satellite is offering similar discounts for
big-spending advertisers and says it already has sold 70% of
the air time for the first several weeks after its start-up.
   Mr. Murdoch probably will devise other marketing gimmicks
to repel British Satellite. Analysts speculate that he may
lower the price of the discount subscription package and use
his U.K. tabloid newspapers, as he did earlier, to promote
vendors' sales of satellite dishes -- or to knock the
opposition. But additional newspaper promotions aren't
planned right now, says Fiona Waters, a Sky TV official,
because "we are doing such heavy business on the rental
side."
   British Satellite's initial marketing effort, part of a
three-year #300 million drive, probably will emphasize its
British roots and programming tailored for U.K. tastes. "We
are intrinsically British," rather than Australian or
American, as many Sky TV officials are, says Mr.
Simonds-Gooding. For instance, he notes, the consortium's
sports channel will focus on British sporting events, in
contrast to Sky TV's pan-European approach.
   Sky TV also offers a 24-hour news channel, while British
Satellite mainly will provide brief news updates on all of
its channels. An all-news channel "is very expensive," Mr.
Simonds-Gooding says. "You want to put your money into
programs that people want."
   The consortium expects to accumulate losses of #1 billion
by 1993 before reaching the break-even point. Mr. Murdoch
expects Sky TV's losses to reach #350 million before his
service reaches break-even, perhaps as soon as late next
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Rare-Illness
   Drug Rivals
   Get a Boost
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Several drug companies with
government-granted temporary monopolies to produce drugs for
rare diseases now face the chilling prospect of competition.
   Rep. Henry Waxman (D., Calif.) proposed yesterday to limit
the scope of the so-called orphan drug law, which bestowed
seven-year monopolies on drug companies to produce
medications for such unusual illnesses as dwarfism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal reflects growing sentiment in government --
and in the biotechnology industry itself -- that too few drug
companies are allowed entry to the sometimes-lucrative
orphan-drug market. As a result, critics argue, a handful of
government-protected drug companies, including Genentech
Inc., Amgen Inc. and Lyphomed Inc., receive an unfair
advantage over potential competitors. That, in turn, enables
them to price their orphan drugs unnecessarily high, some
argue.
   But the Food and Drug Administration's orphan-drug program
demonstrates the benefits as well as the perils of granting
special federal privileges to individual companies.
Congress's creation of the orphan-drug designation in 1983
resulted in the approval of 42 drugs to treat a variety of
rare diseases. Many of these drugs wouldn't have been
sufficiently profitable to produce without the orphan-drug
law's guarantee of exclusivity.
   Now, Congress must decide whether the balance has shifted
too far from medical and consumer interests -- and too
closely to individual corporate interests. "The orphan-drug
act was not intended to be a way for drug companies to get a
large monopoly for a drug that had potential to create large
profits," says Mr. Waxman, who was an author of the original
1983 bill.
   Under Rep. Waxman's proposed new amendments, a drug
company would lose its monopoly on an orphan drug if another
company could demonstrate that it had developed the same drug
at the same time. Biotechnology firms that compete with
Genentech, Amgen and Lyphomed would probably benefit from
this provision.
   Genentech, for instance, produces a drug called human
growth hormone that is used to treat dwarfism. The drug is a
biotechnological version of a human hormone that was
previously marketed by a number of other companies that
extracted the hormone from human cadavers. But after this
method of producing the drug was found to spread disease,
several companies raced to create a synthetic version.
   "They were the first on the market, and I don't think
anybody disagrees that the first on the market deserves a
reward," says Thomas Wiggins, president of Serono
Laboratories Inc., which also tried to develop a
biotechnology version of human growth hormone. But "any time
you've got five companies simultaneously developing a
product, it's hardly an orphan."
   But David Beier, Genentech vice president, government
affairs, says the Waxman proposal is "a breach of contract
between the government and the people who have already
developed orphan drugs." Genentech last year had revenue of
$123 million from human growth hormone. Mr. Beier estimates
that the people who require the drug number just 10,000.
   Rep. Waxman's bill would also withdraw monopoly status if
the patient population for an orphan drug unexpectedly grew
beyond 200,000 after approval. Under current law, there is no
provision to withdraw orphan-drug status if an orphan drug's
market exceeds original estimates. Lyphomed, Rosemont, Ill.,
may be harmed by this provision because it makes an orphan
drug for AIDS-related pneumonia, Aerosol Pentamidine, whose
market is estimated to be approaching 200,000.
   Critics of current orphan-drug policy argue that with more
competition orphan-drug prices would be lower. But
Genentech's Mr. Beier points out that his company already
competes with Eli Lilly &amp; Co., which was granted orphan-drug
status for a version of human growth hormone that differs by
one amino acid.
   The issue of price is particularly contentious in the case
of EPO, an orphan drug manufactured by Amgen. The drug is
sold to kidney-dialysis patients, 80% of whose medical costs
are paid for by the federal government.
   "If the price is kept artificially high because
competition is prohibited," says Mr. Waxman, "taxpayers are
going to be paying a lot of money that could be used for
other worthwhile purposes." Amgen Chairman George Rathman
estimates that the federal government pays $200 million
annually for EPO.
   The issue of orphan-drug reform caused a recent split
within the Industrial Biotechnology Association, a trade
group. As a result of the group's failure to call for changes
in the law, two biotechnology firms, Cetus Corp. and Genetics
Institute Inc., resigned from the group.
   Dr. Rathman of Amgen declines to comment on the Waxman
proposal, which he says he hasn't seen. But he says any
company can market an alternative version of an orphan drug
provided it can come up with a new application for its use
for which it can receive an orphan designation.
   Lyphomed also declines to comment on the Waxman bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rigorous Rules
   On Safety Planned
   For Chemical Sites
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR P
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department plans to require that
chemical plants institute rigorous "process safety management
plans" to guard against disasters.
   The plan to propose a new safety standard for chemical
plants, incorporating policies already followed voluntarily
by many companies, was disclosed in a department report to
President Bush covering the explosions last October at a
Phillips Petroleum Co. plastics complex near Houston. The
catastrophe, one of the worst chemical-facility disasters
since World War II, killed 23 workers and injured more than
130.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration plans to propose that chemical companies be
required to take such steps as evaluating chemical-plant
valves to see if any pose a safety hazard, training company
and contractor workers properly, ensuring that valves can be
closed easily if chemical material is clogged in pipes, and
managing changes in procedures that could pose new safety
problems, Assistant Labor Secretary Gerard Scannell said.
   Mr. Scannell, who runs OSHA, told a news conference, "I
think we've got to do something right away" to make sure that
similar disasters don't occur. He said the procedures
encompassed by the coming proposal are ones that Phillips
plants are supposed to follow, but didn't at the Houston
complex.
   While the petrochemical industry has had a lower injury
rate than many other industries, major disasters have
occurred in the industry, including a 1984 accident that
killed more than 2,000 in Bhopal, India, and a 1985 explosion
in Mexico City that killed about 650 that same year, the
report said. It said accidents in the industry resulted from
such factors as inadequate attention to the recognition of
hazards, poorly maintained equipment, poor planning, and
unsafe work practices.
   Last week, OSHA cited Phillips for $5.7 million in fines
on charges of willful violation of OSHA rules, including
failure to follow company-prescribed methods of protecting
workers against fire and explosion hazards. Fines of $730,000
were also proposed against Fish Engineering &amp; Construction
Inc., a Houston-area company doing maintenance work on the
Phillips site when the explosions took place.
   OSHA traced the Houston explosions to Phillips's failure
to provide a backup valve or other means of preventing the
escape of gases when a single ball valve wasn't closed during
repairs. Polyethylene particles clogged settling legs in a
pipe system, and were being cleared, when a buildup of highly
flammable gases escaped from the unattended settling legs,
OSHA said.
   OSHA's plans for a chemical-process management rule were
already in the works before the Houston disaster, officials
said. Now, the agency also will revise its priorities, to
better identify "catastrophic risks" in the petrochemical
industry, such as those posed by the use of contractors, Mr.
Scannell said.
   The agency also released a preliminary report by the John
Gray Institute, which concluded that petrochemical companies
are relying more on contractors, and that contract workers
have a high turnover rate, sustain more injuries, get less
safety training than permanent workers, and work under looser
safety supervision.
   Mr. Scannell said injury reports for chemical plants cover
only permanent workers, a situation that may mask higher
injury rates for on-site contractors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lingering Cloud:
   Soviet Nuclear Power
   Attempts a Comeback
   Following Chernobyl
   ---
   Plant in Snechkus, Lithuania,
   Typifies Recent Progress
   But Has Safety Problems
   ---
   Broken Parts, Escaping Steam
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SNECHKUS, U.S.S.R. -- It is a typical day at Ignalina,
site of the world's largest nuclear-power reactors.
   In the dimly lit control room of Reactor No. 2,
instruments show that three electronic sensors are broken
inside the reactor's core.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nearby, white-coated technicians tend a computer system
that has had six broken components in the past month. Out in
the vast reactor hall, the vibrating steel heart of this
radioactive machine has some loose gaskets that are leaking
steam from a half-dozen points at once.
   Individually the problems at the Lithuanian plant aren't
dangerous. But collectively they underscore a fundamental
safety flaw facing the entire Soviet nuclear-power industry:
At a higher rate than reactors elsewhere in the world, parts
are falling apart. The failures, most often in the reactors'
electronic systems, are caused by shoddy manufacturing and
sloppy maintenance.
   In fact, four years after the Chernobyl accident, the
enormous Soviet nuclear-power industry is struggling for its
survival. The April 26, 1986, accident killed 31, doused
thousands more with radiation, and cost the crippled Soviet
economy billions. But there was another little-noted
casualty: the industry itself, a nationwide complex of
laboratories, factories and reactors that supplies 12% of all
Soviet electricity and ranks as the world's third largest
such system after the U.S. and France.
   Shortly after the Chernobyl accident, the Kremlin shook
the industry out like a dusty old rug. Ministries
reorganized. Safety codes toughened. Old reactors were
repaired and new ones redesigned. Yet experts say safety
remains an elusive goal in the Soviet nuclear-power industry.
   The campaign has had its successes. Industry specialists,
both East and West, say safety has improved and the specific
causes of the Chernobyl accident have been corrected. The
cost to the struggling Soviet economy: perhaps $10.5 billion.
   But thanks to glasnost, it now is possible to examine the
problems afflicting the Soviet nuclear-power industry, long
secretive because of its kinship to nuclear weaponry. In the
new spirit, the Research and Development Institute of Power
Engineering -- the Moscow agency that designed the Chernobyl
reactor -- authorized and arranged a reporter's tour of two
nuclear-power plants, three research centers, a reactor
factory and other sites. Some had never before been visited
by a Western journalist. Evidence collected on the recent
three-week tour suggests that the East has yet to achieve
Western standards of safety.
   Shortcomings include:
   -- Some of the country's oldest reactors lack safety
systems that are standard in the West and in newer Soviet
reactors.
   The gaps, especially severe in four 20-year-old reactors,
include lack of powerful emergency cooling systems and lack
of the "containment" domes of concrete and steel to prevent
radiation leaks. These old reactors have 10-times-greater
risk of serious accident than other Soviet or Western
reactors, according to Nikolai Yermakov, chief of reactor
development in the Ministry of Nuclear Energy and Industry.
But he calls the risks remote and says safety surveillance
has been stepped up.
   -- Because of inadequate analysis, Moscow doesn't know how
safe or unsafe its reactors are.
   To assess safety, Western engineers conduct hours-long
computer simulations of possible accidents. Few Soviet
computers can hack such calculations, and even fewer Soviet
engineers care. Many Soviet risk analyses "are based on slide
rules" and aren't reliable, says Prof. Leonid Bolshov, First
Deputy Director of Moscow's Institute of Nuclear Safety.
"It's a very important problem, and the attention paid to it
isn't enough," he warns.
   -- Many Soviet reactors suffer, not only from broken parts
but also from careless workers. Because of frequent equipment
failures, Soviet safety philosophy relies heavily on reactor
staff members to spot and fix problems early. But much slips
by the workers. Last year, at its first-ever inspection of a
Soviet reactor, the International Atomic Energy Agency
faulted "weak" quality assurance; it cited such uncorrected
flaws as "missing or damaged insulation" on dusty electrical
cables, a fire hazard. Though it called the plant safely
operated overall, the Vienna-based United Nations affiliate
urged "better workmanship."
   The West's stake in Soviet safety is high. "If we have
another accident similar to Chernobyl, I suspect it's going
to be difficult for any nuclear plant throughout the world to
keep operating," says Michael Sellman, an official of
Northern States Power Co., a Minneapolis-based utility that
exchanges technical visits with a Soviet nuclear plant. The
Chernobyl accident strengthened anti-nuclear movements in the
West, roiling industry expansion plans and showing "we're all
in this together," Mr. Sellman says.
   In Moscow, the official line acknowledges such
shortcomings but maintains that Soviet reactors are safe
today and will be safer tomorrow. Progress since Chernobyl
includes new safety devices, better computers and tougher
rule-books.
   But among Soviet industry leaders, frustration runs high
at what they call the slow pace of their safety programs. The
obstacles include lack of money and political turmoil. In
Soviet journals, some impatient industry officials have begun
proposing radical solutions: ranging from privatizing the
nuclear plants to putting former nuclear submarine operators
at their controls.
   The most desperate protest of all came in 1988, when
Valery Legasov, who supervised emergency work at Chernobyl,
committed suicide. In memoirs published posthumously in
Pravda, he excoriated the Kremlin for ignoring warnings of
Chernobyl and lessons from it.
   Just how much -- and how little -- his words were heeded
can be seen at the Ignalina nuclear power station, in verdant
Lithuania.
   Visited on a March day, before tensions erupted over the
republic's independence movement, the complex is first
spotted by its four idle construction cranes, towering over
nearby forests. Local protests halted construction of a third
reactor here, one of 30 Soviet reactors for which plans were
canceled or postponed after Chernobyl. There was an extra
gripe here: In 1988, a serious electrical fire broke out
under the control room floor. Nobody was injured. It was
caused by workmen improperly laying power cables beside other
wiring and then installing the wrong size circuit-breakers.
   Like most Soviet reactors, Ignalina forms a vast complex
with nearly four times as many workers as equivalent Western
reactors. To shelter them and their families, an entire town
for 32,000 was built. Called Snechkus, it is a Soviet vision
of heaven, with a sunny lakefront, a big cinema, a new
hospital and grocery stores with ample, if uninteresting,
food. There is also something rarer: The liquor store stocks
vodka, and the line to buy it is only 15 deep. Rumpled men,
getting off work, banter and swap jokes as they wait. However
bleak life in Moscow may be, here at a nuclear plant Soviet
planners want only happy workers.
   The two reactors in the nearby power plant are of a unique
Soviet design that normally operates more smoothly and
cheaply than Western models -- except when things go wrong. A
similar design was at Chernobyl. It is called a water-cooled,
graphite-moderated, channel-type reactor, or RBMK in its
Russian abbreviation, and like most reactors it is just a big
teakettle to boil water. Its steam turns turbines that make
electricity. Its heat comes from nuclear fission. Unlike in
Western reactors, its core is honeycombed with steel pipes
that hold its uranium fuel rods in place and channel cooling
water to prevent overheating.
   The Chernobyl accident forced immediate changes. The
accident occurred while operators at the Ukrainian reactor
were testing an electrical system. Under pressure to finish
the job quickly, they disconnected safety systems. Then,
because of a design flaw, the normal chain of atomic
reactions inside the reactor raced out of control. In two
blinding seconds, the roof blew off, fire spread, and
radiation vomited into the sky.
   Ignalina and other RBMK engineers took vital steps to
ensure no repeats. They altered the mix of uranium and other
materials inside the reactor, and installed faster
emergency-shutdown systems. They revised staff training,
toughened plant-safety procedures and rewired the reactors'
safety systems so operators now need two separate keys to
disconnect them. The work has already paid off at Ignalina:
Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency last
year praised the plant's tenfold drop in reactor "events" --
problems that force braking of the reactor.
   But that doesn't mean all is quiet here. Consider the
steam leaks. Wearing a white coat, white cap, and plastic
bags on his shoes to prevent tracking radiation around,
Deputy Chief Operations Engineer Aleksandr Voretsky leads the
way into the vast, concrete hall housing Reactor No. 2.
Radiation levels in here are far above normal, outdoor
levels, but still relatively harmless for a short visit. He
stands casually atop the reactor's steel cover, as it
vibrates gently with the flow of coolant water inside. From a
half-dozen points around the cover, small jets of steam rise.
   Nothing to worry about, Mr. Voretsky assures. The leaks
come from some ill-fitting gaskets on the coolant pipes. So
long as the leaks don't worsen, they won't endanger safety or
health, he says, adding that he is watching them closely.
   But the view in Moscow is less casual. On hearing of the
leaks that night by telephone, Prof. Yevgeni Adamov, director
of the institute that designed the reactor, orders the plant
to plug them. "I used some old-fashioned Russian language" on
the plant manager, Prof. Adamov later explains. He confirms
the leaks aren't dangerous in themselves, a position which
Western experts support. But Prof. Adamov condemns the
careless work habits they symptomize. Worker discipline, he
says, is a growing problem in many branches of Soviet
industry.
   The quality of the equipment is a problem too. At
Ignalina, plant officials grumble there is little they can do
about it. In theory, says Mr. Voretsky, Soviet manufacturers
guarantee their components against failure, as in the West.
When a part breaks, he gets it fixed and notifies the
factory. But nothing happens. No penalty is paid. And under
Soviet central planning, he can't switch suppliers the way
his Western counterpart can. "In our country," he says, "the
manufacturers are monopolists."
   Prof. Bolshov of the nuclear-safety institute isn't having
an easy time of it either. Mr. Bolshov's institute was
founded after the 1986 Chernobyl accident by the U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences, to improve industry safety. It was
assigned an unwanted ministry outbuilding, a dump even by
Moscow's flea-bitten standards. At the institute's founding,
Kremlin officials had pledged support with grand words. Now,
Prof. Bolshov gestures around his cramped office: "You see
the gap between words and reality."
   His institute's main work has been a struggle, too. The
Soviet nuclear industry is a proud institution; it frowns on
outsiders, new ideas and imported techniques. Prof. Bolshov
represents all three. He's an academic physicist trying to
interest Soviet safety engineers in his institute's
Western-style computer programs. Though some bite, many
don't. Engineers at Gydropress, a big Soviet reactor
designer, won't use them. One Soviet reactor operator
commissioned his institute's help but never found the money
for work to begin.
   "Opposition? Of course, there's opposition," Prof. Bolshov
says. "We are trying to create something new and unusual."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northern Telecom Is Looking for Ways
   To Grow Beyond Its Phone Switches
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   NT BCE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- By most appearances, Northern Telecom Ltd.'s
chief executive officer, Paul G. Stern, turned in a strong
performance in 1989, his first year at the helm. On Tuesday,
the telecommunications equipment company reported a healthy
first quarter as well, aided by a cost-cutting and
restructuring program.
   Profit rose 50% to $74 million, or 30 cents a share,
against $47 million, or 20 cents a share, in the year-earlier
first quarter, the company said. Revenue climbed 14% to $1.6
billion and orders and order backlog topped last year's
period by 13% to $1.5 billion and $1.87 billion,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Stern, in an effort he vaguely refers to as Vision
2000, wants Northern to grow to $30 billion in annual revenue
in 10 years -- five times current sales. To make it, Northern
will need more than the phone switches that boosted its
results in the 1980s. It also must improve its international
performance and capture about 10% of the projected $300
billion market for switching and transmission systems.
   "By (Vision 2000) we mean, `What do we want to be when we
grow up?'" Mr. Stern says. "How do we establish leadership?"
   In the late 1970s, Northern used its trend-setting office
phone switches and DMS-10 digital switch for phone companies
to venture beyond its parochial Canadian perch and beat
mighty American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. in its own market.
Northern now holds close to one third of the $10 billion U.S.
market for digital switches, according to Northern Business
Information Inc., an unrelated Manhattan-based research firm.
   Now the U.S. switch market is maturing, and Mr. Stern is
trying to expand his transmission business -- an area that
AT&amp;T dominates with a 52% share, compared with Northern's 6%,
according to Northern Business Information. He also wants a
bigger share of the market outside North America. Northern
Telecom currently derives about 10% of its business from
foreign customers such as Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp.,
Turkey's telephone administration, British Telecom PLC and
European corporate and banking customers of its office phone
and data networking systems.
   To do this, Northern is trying to boost orders for its
switches overseas. And it's pushing a line of fiber-optic
transmission systems and a network design concept called
Fiber World.
   Northern unveiled its line of fiber-optic systems before
rivals such as AT&amp;T, Rockwell International Inc. and Japan's
NEC Corp. "Invariably, {customers} buy a product because a
supplier has a uniqueness," Mr. Stern says. "When you're
first, the perception lingers."
   Perhaps. But on numerous other key products, Northern
hasn't been the first to market for some time, says Maria
Lewis, an analyst at Shearson Lehman. She notes that much of
the equipment market is moving toward mobile communications,
a market to which Northern paid little attention before
rivals such as Sweden's AB Ericsson, Motorola Inc. and
Japanese suppliers moved in to dominate it.
   "Northern got lucky in 1989 from cost-cutting and from
selling upgraded processors for existing switches -- a
business that's not going to be around to the same extent in
1990," said Ms. Lewis. "Stern has to improve Northern's
fiber-optics penetration. There's no place else for him to
go."
   Mr. Stern, who yesterday added the title of chairman when
he took over from the retiring Edmund B. Fitzgerald, says the
Fiber World program is "going fine." But he says it's too
early to tell how sales will stack up this year, since
customers such as MCI Communications Corp. and Bell Atlantic
Corp. are just beginning to install and test the systems in
their networks.
   Nobody questions Mr. Stern's talent. A hard-nosed
operations expert, he works 15-hour days, and previously held
upper-management jobs in some of the world's largest
corporations, including International Business Machines Corp.
and Unisys Corp. As a director of Northern Telecom, he became
intimately familiar with the company's operations and, in
1988 was coaxed out of early retirement to save the company
from itself.
   In nine months as president and chief executive he
accelerated Northern's restructuring program, shutting four
of 47 plants, selling a fifth facility to employees and
cutting 2,500 jobs. He even changed the bonus system, tying
employee incentives in each business unit to the
corporation's performance.
   Mr. Stern also reshuffled management, bringing in a new
chief financial officer, Martin Mand, from Du Pont Co., and
shifting President David Vice to vice chairman in charge of
products and technology.
   The results were a paring of Northern's expenses in 1989
to 18.5% of revenues from 20.1% the year before. In addition,
profit soared 18% on a 13% increase in sales in 1989.
   Mr. Stern says: "It was a very tough year, not in the
marketplace, but on all our people. The pace of change was
very fast." And not likely to slow down anytime soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Fall's Weird TV Pilots Cheer Agencies
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WMS CLX VIA FREST BUD CCB DIS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Last fall, the new network television season was an
unmitigated disaster. Insipid sitcoms like "Chicken Soup"
disappeared without a trace. Advertising executives gleefully
bashed the networks' new shows, the majority of which were
promptly canceled.
   But this year, something different is happening. Ad
executives looking out to the fall are actually saying nice
things. It's quite uncharacteristic of them, really.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Last season, we thought it was going to be terrible, and
we were right," says Joseph Ostrow, executive vice president
and corporate media director at Foote, Cone &amp; Belding
Communications. But this coming fall "is probably the best
program development that we've seen in the last four or five
years."
   "I frankly am very optimistic about" the fall season,
agrees Betsy Frank, a senior vice president of Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi Co.'s Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising, who recently
completed an upbeat report about the coming season. This is
the first time she has felt optimistic in "a long time -- and
I've been working on these reports for at least 10 years."
   The three major networks plus Fox Broadcasting are
currently deciding about 112 pilots, which they will narrow
down to 25 to 30 to be introduced as series in the fall.
There's no guarantee that a pick will be a success, and it
isn't even yet clear which of the 112 pilots will make the
cut. But ad-agency media executives are bullish because so
many of the pilots seem like original ideas, unlike last
year, a year so crammed with copycat concepts that Foote Cone
dubbed it the "season without reason."
   What sounds fresh and new to trained media executives, of
course, may sound just plain weird to the rest of us. Among
the pros' favorite picks is ABC's "Cop Rock," a combination
rock opera and police drama. They're also high on Fox's
"Babes," about three beautiful 200-pound-plus sisters, and
CBS's "Shangri-La Plaza," a sitcom-operetta with no spoken
dialogue that takes place in a mall.
   Other pilots seem even more unlikely. NBC's "Red Pepper"
follows the career of a marionette who is also a successful
talk-show host. Then there's ABC's "Plymouth," a drama about
a small town that, after a toxic spill, is forced to relocate
-- to the moon.
   Ironically, viewers have religious and "new
traditionalist" activists to thank for the fall season's
bizarre new pilots. Last fall, in response to outcries by
people like Terry Rakolta, the Michigan woman who urged
advertisers to boycott Fox's "Married . . . With Children,"
among other shows, the networks played it safe. Afraid of
scaring off advertisers, they chose noncontroversial shows
that followed already successful formulas. They failed
miserably; the shows were so dull that 13 out of 23 new
programs on the three major networks were promptly canceled.
   This fall's far more daring lineup is simply a reaction to
the overstultified programs last season, media executives
say. "What we saw last fall was a safe and cautious mixture
of programs premiering," notes Ms. Frank of Saatchi. "Most of
them died pretty quickly, and that taught some people a
lesson: Maybe you aren't going to get into any trouble with
your advertisers -- but if people aren't going to watch these
shows, then what do you accomplish?"
   The networks have also been emboldened by some unlikely
midseason successes. Fox's surprise hit "The Simpsons," about
an obnoxious animated family, as well ABC's newest winner,
the eerie "Twin Peaks" -- both introduced since January --
have sparked a more daring attitude at the networks, media
executives contend. "The networks see now that programming
that's different and a little bit chancey has a tendency to
work sometimes. They're going to take more chances this
year," says Lou Bullock, manager of program services for
Omnicom Group's BBDO.
   If the fall season does turn out to be a winning one --
which, by the way, is still a big "if" -- it won't
necessarily have an immediate effect on prices charged to
advertisers. Good programming doesn't always lead to higher
ad prices, just as lousy programming doesn't always lead to
low prices. After all, last season -- a season almost
everyone agreed offered dismal new programming -- set a new
record for TV ad-time sales, thanks partly to strong ad
demand by car companies introducing new models.
   But over time, media executives say, the networks may be
able to stem the erosion of their audiences with more daring
shows, and in turn bolster prices. "We see that people will
watch network television if you put the right shows on the
air," says Saatchi's Ms. Frank. "We see that at a time when
the networks are bemoaning the fact that audiences are
declining, they can actually bring more people into the TV
arena."
   ---
   Reaching Pinball Wizards
                                                                                                       

   At the pinball arcade, players may soon find "Mandarin
Orange Slice" flashing along with the "tilt" light.
   This month, WMS Industries, parent company of Williams
Electronics Games and Midway Manufacturing, begins
distributing its new "Rollergames" pinball machine complete
with advertising messages. "Rollergames" features ads for
Pepsi, Mandarin Orange Slice, Mug Root Beer and Thermos,
among others.
   WMS says the new ad venue offers advertisers an
opportunity to reach young people while they play pinball.
It's attractive, WMS says, because players spend on average
three minutes playing the game, and often there are others
who watch. WMS says its machines can flash a company's logo
and also sing its ad jingle, perhaps when a player hits a
high-score bumper.
   "Our machines talk to the players as they play the game,"
says Neil Nicastro, executive vice president at WMS. He
wouldn't say how much it costs an advertiser to link up with
a game, but said that once purchased, an ad would stay on a
machine for its life.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   CLOROX BOYCOTT: Christian Leaders for Responsible
Television, or Clear-TV, said it ended its boycott on Clorox
Co., a product boycott that apparently didn't have any effect
on Clorox's sales. Clear-TV announced the boycott last July,
charging Clorox with advertising on programs with excessive
"sex, violence, profanity and anti-Christian stereotyping."
The boycott was scheduled to last a year, but Clorox
approached the group and said it would more closely monitor
the TV programs on which it advertises. A Clorox spokesman
said, however, the firm's sales were up in the first half of
its fiscal year, compared with the year-earlier period.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNTS: Walt Disney Co., Los Angeles, named Rubin
Postaer &amp; Associates, Los Angeles, to handle the creative
portion of the ad account for the Disney Channel. Billings
weren't disclosed. . . . Showtime Satellite Networks, a unit
of Viacom International, awarded its consumer and trade ad
account to Rosenfeld, Sirowitz, Humphrey &amp; Strauss, New York.
Billings weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   TRANSIT ADS: Transportation Displays Inc., New York, said
it was granted the license to advertise on public
transportation vehicles in a number of cities in the Soviet
Union. The company said it signed contracts with a number of
transit ministries, including a contract that will allow it
to advertise on more than 14,000 buses in Moscow.
                                                                                                       

   BUDWEISER CONTRACT: Anheuser Busch said it signed a
contract with ESPN, in which the St. Louis-based brewer will
spend more than $100 million advertising on the cable network
over the next five years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sequa Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SQAA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SEQUA Corp. (New York) -- Antonio L. Savoca, president of
the Atlantic Research Corp. subsidiary; Daniel L. Marquitz,
president of the Valley Line unit; and John Cabrey, vice
president of the Sequa Chemicals unit, were elected vice
presidents of this company, which makes and repairs jet
engines, and has interests in military electronics and
electro-optics, marine transportation, and machinery used to
make food and beverage cans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toward a Global Regionalism
   ----
   By Kenichi Ohmae
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The pleas for "coordination" of economic policies being
made by finance ministers of the world's leading countries
are not convincing. What these helmsmen don't seem to
understand is that their economies are already coordinated.
The role of national governments is much less important than
they think; governments are little more than spoilers who
disrupt markets with their interference and announcements.
   The economic coordination isn't perfect. Some resources
(money) are mobile, others (jobs) are not. Some industries
are global (autos), others (many services) are not. Moreover,
some regions of individual countries are more coordinated
than others because of local trade and investment patterns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite these imperfections, the most fundamental truth of
today's economic world is this: Man's ability to create,
compete and consume will not be denied by those politicians
and bureaucrats who try to restrict the flows of capital,
technology and information. This is a lesson not only for
Eastern European communists, but Japanese and American
nationalists.
   The two traditional "products" of governments -- military
protection and access to natural resources -- are losing
their value. Commodities can be arbitraged across producing
countries, and if you have the wealth to buy these
commodities you certainly have access to them. Just 10 years
ago, during the second energy crisis, we were worried about
the supply of primary commodities and resources. We don't
worry so much today. The price of energy might rise, but
innovative products or services can produce much higher
per-capita GNP than natural resources. Switzerland, for
example, doesn't even have a flat stretch of land, yet it has
a $25,000 per-capita GNP, the world's highest.
   Thus, there is diminishing need for military power to
protect a country's "scarce" resources. Moreover, no amount
of military power can make a people more productive. An
educated populace with free access to information is the
truest source of wealth and national security. That's the
reality that brought down the Berlin Wall and is the
fundamental reason the world needs less military muscle.
   Besides military forces, another benefit governments offer
their people is ideology. With their taxes, people pay for
the "truth." But Cable News Network and the tales of the good
life it spreads throughout the world have made standards of
living, not political dogma, the criteria by which
governments are judged. Communism, Japanism, Monroeism are
merely packaging for this "core product."
   Government "advertising" -- which basically asks people to
pay for dogma -- no longer sells. People want the best goods
and services, whatever their origin. Along with the right to
vote, they want the right to buy.
   So governments must deliver standards of living in this
new market for political control. Some politicians think they
can do that on a national basis. They are wrong. National
standards of living have always hidden disparities in well
being -- disparities between families and between regions.
The dirty little truth is that politicians rob other regions
to buy votes in their own. But global competition is making
these larcenies more obvious.
   If, for example, a government protects its steel industry
with tariffs, other steel-intensive industries in that
country, or their customers, suffer because of the higher
prices they must pay. Now that markets are global,
cross-regional transfers result not only in a loss of profits
and higher prices, but in lost jobs as national companies
lose to foreign competition.
   Multinationals in the late '60s and early '70s were
structured more or less according to a hierarchical, colonial
model. Most production was done "at home." Today's global
companies are decentralized and willing to manufacture,
design, or assign managerial authority wherever they can best
serve the customer. The objective of Honda, IBM and other
global firms is to serve customers, not governments,
world-wide.
   Thus we now see as much intranational as international
competition. For North Carolina to prosper, it has to attract
European and Japanese investment. In fact, one-third of
investment in that state over the past two years has come
from Japan. North Carolina is not competing with Japan or
Europe; it is competing with Boston and Silicon Valley for
foreign high-tech investments. Boston is its biggest "enemy"
in this regard. What should Washington do in this contest
except stay out and make sure there is a "level playing
field" between these two competitors -- for example, equal
access to educational grants?
   Japan's economy is just as regional as that of the U.S.
When people talk about Japan's prosperity, they are basically
talking about the prosperity of three cities, Tokyo, Osaka
and Nagoya. The rest of the country is holding on by getting
money from the central government at the expense of urban
taxpayers.
   Like the Meiji Restoration in the second half of the 19th
century, a Heisei Restoration is needed to transform Japan's
government to one more suitable for a developed country in a
global economy. Japan needs a new constitution that would
divide the country into nine or 10 regions, each with some
degree of autonomy. These regions would be able to negotiate
with foreign nations on matters such as air rights and
immigration.
   The governor of the northern island of Hokkaido, for
instance, would declare independence from Tokyo. He would
abolish its 3:30 a.m. sunrise based on Japan standard time
and open stock trading two hours earlier than Tokyo. Sapporo
would then attract all the financial institutions now in
Tokyo, Sydney and Wellington. And, because Sapporo would be
able to negotiate air rights with foreign governments, it
would become a hub for transpacific flights. It would also
have direct flights to Seoul, Taipei, Hong Kong and other
major cities in the Pacific. Hokkaido, with its beautiful
lakes and mountains, would become the Switzerland of Asia.
   Centrally governed countries such as Japan, the Soviet
Union and China will have to go through turmoil that in the
long run will be good for them. The solution is to
reconstruct on a regional basis. In order to modernize, China
must create 20 "Singapores." To a lesser extent, but still in
the same fundamental way, America must continue to allow each
region to integrate itself into the world economy elsewhere.
   Most politicians are still living in the 19th century. In
Japan, for example, most politicans come from small towns and
try to promote a concept of narrow regionalism. They ask one
region to make sacrifices in the name of "national" interest.
They say they can protect the rice farmers from foreign
pressure and build bridges and gymnasiums with the central
government's money. They use voters' nationalistic feelings
to funnel money into special interest groups or their own
constituencies.
   Nowhere is this hypocrisy more clear than in Japan-U.S.
trade talks, which take on artificial nationalistic overtones
when in truth they are battles among special interests. Whose
interest are being represented by the negotiators? America's?
Japan's?
   Only a global regionalism that ignores national boundaries
makes sense. Local communities will develop natural partners,
sometimes close geographically, sometimes remote. Through
these pairings, alert regions with global views and
aspirations will develop and prosper, the same way that alert
companies with a global perspective are already prospering.
For example, Southern California can flourish through its
ties with Australia, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan -- not so
much through its ties with Washington, D.C., New York or
Chicago. Similarly, Toronto and Vancouver can flourish
because of their ties with Hong Kong and Wales and, more
recently, Alsace-Lorraine can flourish through investments
from Tokyo, etc.
   If I had my way, I'd pay a third of my taxes to an
international fund dedicated to solving world problems, such
as the environment and famine. Another third would go to my
community, where my family lives and my children are
educated. The final third would go to my country, which each
year does less and less for me in terms of security or
well-being and instead subsidizes special interests.
   The role of government in a borderless world is to
represent and protect the interests of its people, not of its
companies or its industries. It should let in the light and
then allow its people to make their own choices. Anything
less is to put the class and career interests of government
bureaucrats ahead of the people they are sworn to serve.
   ---
   Mr. Ohmae, the managing director of McKinsey &amp; Co. in
Japan, is the author of the forthcoming "The Borderless
World" (Harper &amp; Row).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Ekes Out Gains Against Mark
   On Unease Over German Monetary Union
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar eked out some gains against the
mark and yen, benefiting from a resurgence of unease over the
Germanys' monetary union and selling of the yen against the
mark late in the New York trading day.
   Traders said the U.S. currency was helped by development
of a "show-me" attitude toward the Bundesbank's stated
intention to keep the mark strong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It will take more than talk {to preserve a strong mark}.
The Bundesbank needs to follow through, to do something,"
said Bob Hinton, a vice president at Harris Trust &amp; Savings
Bank in New York.
   In Frankfurt, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said
the West German central bank "will do everything in its
power" to maintain the mark's stability, reaffirming what the
Bundesbank said Wednesday in its 1989 annual report.
   The market takes follow-through action to mean a rise in
West German interest rates, but as there probably won't be
any news on that until at least after Thursday's Bundesbank
Central Council meeting, there's no reason to sell the dollar
aggressively against the mark, Mr. Hinton said.
   Other participants doubted the Bundesbank would act
quickly to protect the mark. Any such action isn't likely to
come until after monetary union takes place July 2, the
traders said.
   The West German currency was also hurt a bit by concern
that the Bundesbank might go too far in raising interest
rates to protect the mark, damaging West German industry,
said Peter Iversen, a trader at Shawmut Bank of Boston.
   The U.S. unit received some support against the mark and
yen from a modest shift to long dollar positions ahead of the
scheduled announcement today of preliminary data expected to
show a healthy increase in U.S. gross national product for
the first quarter, said Hubert Pedroli, vice president and
manager of foreign exchange at Credit Suisse in New York.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.6803 marks, up from 1.6785 marks late Wednesday, and at
159.23 yen, above 158.75 yen late Wednesday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6343, down from $1.6403 Wednesday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the U.S. currency was
quoted at 159.25 yen, up from Thursday's Tokyo close of
158.77 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6798
marks.
   The data are predicted by economists to show GNP at an
annual growth rate of 2.7%. GNP grew at an annual rate of
1.1% in the fourth quarter. Growth for 1989 as a whole was
2.2%.
   The yen declined again around midday in New York, when
traders reversed their previous sales of marks for yen.
   After falling to 94.44 yen late in the London day from
94.51 yen in Tokyo, the mark ended the New York day around
94.763 yen, above the Wednesday close in New York of 94.59
yen.
   Yen sales for marks and the Swiss franc, which Japanese
corporations continued to buy to pay for maturing Swiss
franc-denominated bonds, helped the dollar break 159 yen and
remain there in the second half of New York's day, traders
said.
   Aside from the Japanese purchases of Swiss francs that
have brought the currency new attention, the Swiss unit is
benefiting from the Swiss National Bank's successful effort
to convince the market that the bank is determined to do
whatever is necessary to keep the franc strong, said Credit
Suisse's Mr. Pedroli.
   The Swiss franc finished the New York day at 109.226 yen,
above 108.58 yen in Tokyo and 108.91 yen late Wednesday in
New York. The franc finished at 107.12 yen in Tokyo
Wednesday.
   In Europe, the dollar ended moderately lower against most
major currencies from its Wednesday closing levels.
   Dealers said the market was more than likely to wait for
the U.S. GNP data before committing aggressively in either
direction on the dollar.
   In Tokyo, the dollar finished higher as dealings once
again focused on non-dollar trading. The dollar finished at
158.77 yen, below 159.25 yen late Wednesday in Tokyo.
   Many Japanese market participants are waiting for the end
of next week's holidays before taking any new positions
against the U.S. currency, according to dealers.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $370.50 an ounce, down 20 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.3 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at $371.05 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wesco Share: Tourist-Class Ticket
   With Ace Stock-Picker Buffett
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   BRK WSC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   How would you like to invest with legendary stock picker
Warren Buffett -- and only pay $55.625?
   Sounds like a bargain, given that people who want to
invest with Mr. Buffett were yesterday paying $6,650. That's
the price of a single share of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the
New York Stock Exchange company that Mr. Buffett runs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But unknown to most investors, there is actually a second
way to get a piece of Mr. Buffett's stock-picking skill.
Among Berkshire's holdings is an 80.1%-owned subsidary, Wesco
Financial Corp., which trades on the American Stock Exchange.
   Wesco may not be as good a value as Berkshire, in part
because its core businesses aren't considered as strong and
its stock portfolio is less stellar. Moreover, Wesco's stock
trades with alarming infrequency. And some think Mr.
Buffett's returns in the 1990s won't match those he produced
in the 1970s and 1980s. But Wesco does have this one
endearing trait: Its price is well within the reach of the
small investor.
   Within Warren Buffett's empire, Wesco is something of an
aberration. Berkshire acquired majority control of Wesco
through a series of tender offers in the early 1970s. At the
time, Wesco's largest shareholders included the Caspers
family; two family members still sit on Wesco's board. At the
request of the Caspers family, Berkshire hasn't bought the
rest of Wesco's shares, leaving the company publicly traded.
   Like Berkshire, Wesco masquerades as an ordinary operating
company, but it's really a mutual fund in disguise. Just as
Berkshire is supposedly an insurance company, so Wesco at
first blush appears to be a savings and loan. Look a little
closer, and you find that a securities portfolio accounts for
a hefty chunk of both companies' assets.
   Wesco has stakes in much-publicized Buffett stock
purchases such as Coca-Cola Co. and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., as well as the convertible preferred stocks
of Salomon Inc., Gillette Co., Champion International Corp.
and USAir Group Inc. Indeed, Wesco has recently participated
in almost every major securities investment that Mr. Buffett
has made.
   But before you rush out to buy Wesco's stock, be warned:
It's extremely thinly traded. On a typical day, 1,300 shares
trade hands. Wednesday, the stock didn't trade at all.
   "It's one of those you buy and lock it up and forget about
it," advises Donald Yacktman, manager of Selected American
Shares, a no-load mutual fund. He says the stock is too
thinly traded to buy for his fund. "I own some personally,
and my {private account} clients do as well," he says.
   Mr. Yacktman predicts that, over the long haul, Berkshire
Hathaway's stock will likely turn out to be a better
performer than Wesco's. But Wesco's stock still warrants
attention -- for two different reasons.
   One reason is the so-called Buffett premium. Through most
of 1988 and 1989, shares of Berkshire have traded at a steep
premium to the value of Berkshire's stock portfolio and its
businesses, making Wesco seem more attractive.
   With Berkshire's stock now at $6,650, down from last
year's high of $8,900, the Buffett premium is clearly
narrowing. John Tilson, a portfolio manager with Roger
Engemann &amp; Associates, reckons Berkshire has a value of
$6,600 a share, before deducting the capital gains taxes that
would be payable if the company sold its stock positions.
After tax, Mr. Tilson puts Berkshire's value at $5,850 a
share.
   But even as the Buffett premium shrinks, there's a second
reason investors have found Wesco attractive compared with
Berkshire. The fact is, you have to ante up $6,650 to get
into Berkshire. Mr. Buffett has steadfastly refused to split
Berkshire's stock, so today it trades far above the $1,000
minimum investment that's typically needed to get into a
mutual fund. For small investors who want to get their money
professionally managed, Berkshire's stock can be simply too
expensive.
   Mr. Buffett is neither an officer nor a director of Wesco.
But together with Charles Munger, Wesco's chairman and Mr.
Buffett's longtime business partner, he runs the company in
his own unique way.
   Wesco's savings and loan, for instance, made no new loans
between 1979 and 1985, because Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger
were concerned about rising interest rates. In 1980, the
thrift sold off 15 branch offices, leaving it with a single
branch, situated in a shopping mall across the street from
the thrift's headquarters in Pasadena, Calif. Wesco also
operates three other businesses: an insurance company and two
small industrial companies. In addition, Wesco owns a
Pasadena office building, part of which it occupies, and 22
acres of oceanfront property in Santa Barbara that it is
currently developing.
   Wesco's book value is slightly under $40, but the
company's real value is somewhat higher than that, largely
because of appreciation by its real estate holdings and its
securities portfolio.
   Geoffrey Ward, vice president of Breau Capital Management
in Waltham, Mass., reckons the company's real book value,
adjusted for this appreciation but less potential capital
gains taxes, is around $50.
   Wesco thus trades at an 11% premium to its adjusted book
value, compared with a 14% premium for Berkshire. But, warns
Mr. Ward, Wesco's "core businesses are not as good as the
Buffalo News or See's Candies" and the other core holdings of
Berkshire Hathaway.
   Moreover, unlike Berkshire, Wesco doesn't have stakes in
Capital Cities/ABC Inc., Geico Corp. and Washington Post Co.,
all of which have been big winners for Berkshire's
shareholders.
   In this year's letter to Berkshire's shareholders, Mr.
Buffett noted that the stock prices of these companies were
no longer "inappropriately low," though he expected Berkshire
to benefit from the healthy gains in business value that
these core holdings would continue to notch up.
   When it comes to the four convertible preferred that
Berkshire has acquired since 1987, Mr. Buffett's enthusiasm
is more tempered. In Berkshire's annual report, Mr. Buffett
expressed confidence in Gillette, but declared himself an
agnostic when it came to the prospects for Champion, Salomon
and USAir, all of which Wesco also owns.
   But while Wesco has ended up with these apparently
less-promising deals, it has also benefited from Mr.
Buffett's two most recent, long-term stock purchases,
Coca-Cola and Federal Home Loan Mortgage, known as Freddie
Mac.
   Indeed, Freddie Mac is Wesco's biggest holding, and
accounts for Mr. Buffett's entire position in the stock. For
every share of Wesco, you currently get Freddie Mac stock
valued at more than $22. "It's a back doorway to get Freddie
Mac, which is cheap," says Mr. Yacktman. "Freddie Mac is the
second largest holding in my fund."
   At the Caspers family's behest, Mr. Buffett has allowed
Wesco to continue paying a dividend, despite his own
misgivings about dividend payments. Berkshire doesn't pay a
dividend, so as to avoid the double taxation of corporate
earnings that results. If a company pays a dividend, it first
gets taxed on its earnings, and then its shareholders get
taxed on the dividends they receive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   Israel, Arab States Hardening Stances,
   Raising `War Option' Specter in Mideast
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   The Israeli political crisis that began six weeks ago as
an attempt to breathe life into the Mideast peace process now
looks more like the kiss of death to any hope of a prompt
Israeli-Palestinian dialogue.
   As Labor Party leader Shimon Peres ran out of his alloted
time to form a government, he predicted that his Likud bloc
rival Yitzhak Shamir also would fail to break the 60-60
parliamentary deadlock. But if Mr. Shamir succeeds, Mr. Peres
warned, the result would be "an extremist right-wing
government the like of which Israel never had."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the face of it, forming a government shouldn't be too
difficult for Mr. Shamir. With the support of religious
parties now likely, he need only win back Avraham Sharir, the
Likud member of parliament who defected to Labor in the
recent round of coalition bargaining. But a government with a
slim majority would be highly vulnerable, with seven of its
supporters coming from extreme-right parties that won't
tolerate even the slightest concession to the Palestinians.
   Israel's political turmoil is taking place against a
backdrop of heightening regional tension. Moderate voices,
such as Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak, are being drowned
out by the war-like rhetoric of Iraq's Saddam Hussein, who
this month threatened to "scorch half of Israel" with
chemical weapons in retaliation for any Israeli aggression.
   Many moderate Arabs have been alarmed by the popular
reaction to Mr. Hussein's belligerence. "If you go to the
Arab street, there's an amazing reaction in his favor," says
a Palestinian businessman. Mohammed Heikal, author and
confidant of the late Egyptian President Gamal Abdul Nasser,
summed up the Arab mood in an interview with an Iraqi
newspaper. The Iraqi leader, he said, filled "a need for a
strong, enlightened voice coming from the Arab world, telling
{Israel and the West} that the Arabs still possess potential,
that they are still alive."
   Indeed, Mr. Hussein, who at home has tried to link himself
in the popular imagination with the ancient destroyer of
Israel, Nebuchadnezzar, now seems to be positioning himself
as the Arab world's new Nasser: tough, nationalistic and
militant. "Up until Saddam Hussein started saber-rattling,
momentum in the Arab world seemed to be pulling toward what I
would call the Egyptian pole," says Martin Indyk, director of
the Washington Institute for Near-East Policy.
   Egypt, the only Arab country to have signed a peace treaty
with Israel, last year resumed its place in the Arab League
after being diplomatically shunned for more than a decade.
Even hard-line states such as Syria seemed to be weighing
whether to get into the peace process, Mr. Indyk says. But
now, "the specter of new credibility for the war option has
emerged."
   Both King Hussein of Jordan and Yasser Arafat, the
Palestine Liberation Organization chairman, are strong
supporters of the Iraqi leader. At a recent Baghdad rally in
support of the Palestinian uprising, Mr. Arafat made an
effusive speech in praise of Mr. Hussein, declaring: "We will
enter Jerusalem victorious and will raise our flag on its
walls. You will enter with me, riding your white stallion."
   Arab leaders, caught off guard by their people's delighted
reception of Mr. Hussein's hard-line statements, now are
walking a tightrope. They are caught between playing to
popular opinion and strengthening a man whose aggression in
the past hasn't been limited to non-Arab targets such as
Israel and Iran but also has threatened vulnerable Persian
Gulf states such as Kuwait. A test of Mr. Hussein's growing
clout will be whether he is able to get Saudi Arabia, Syria
and Egypt to agree to an Arab summit in Baghdad. He wants to
discuss the U.S.-British "campaign" against Iraq's military
build-up and the migration of Soviet Jews to Israel.
   In such a climate, the emergence of a hard-line Israeli
government bodes ill for regional stability. In his brief
weeks as caretaker prime minister, Mr. Shamir didn't lose any
time in showing his hard-line colors. With the Labor-Likud
coalition dissolved and Labor ministers out of the cabinet,
Mr. Shamir rushed to establish new settlements in the
occupied territories and to finance a highly controversial
move by Jewish religious zealots into the Christian Quarter
of Jerusalem's old city.
   The prospect of such a government formally taking control
is causing "something akin to severe depression" in
Washington, says William Quandt, a Middle East specialist at
the Brookings Institution. While it is possible that Mr.
Shamir will opt for another "government of national unity"
with Labor rather than try to rule with a slim and precarious
majority, even that prospect offers little hope for
Israeli-Palestinian dialogue.
   "Even if they patch something back together, there isn't
going to be much real dynamism in the peace effort," says Mr.
Quandt. "If it didn't work last time, why will it work this
time?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Seems
   To Mull Closing
   Another Plant
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   GM C HMC F NSANY J.MZD TOYOY SBRU J.IZM F.RNA LABOR J.MOT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Chrysler Corp., which will have closed two
assembly plants by year-end, appears to be mulling moves that
would allow it to close another one a few years from now.
   Chrysler currently is thinking about ways to consolidate
production of certain vehicles into fewer plants, company
executives recently said in trade publications. Included in
the review, a company spokesman said yesterday, is a possible
shift of Jeep assembly to an Ohio plant from another plant in
Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement issued yesterday, Chrysler said "plans that
could affect the Jeep assembly plant in Toledo, Ohio are
under review." The statement added that "final decisions are
contingent upon successful negotiations with the (United Auto
Workers) and the support of state and local governmental
units."
   But in a Toledo television interview Wednesday night, U.S.
Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D., Ohio, said Chrysler officials told her
that the company's Toledo plant will receive new products
after 1992. The Toledo plant, which now builds the Jeep
Cherokee, Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer, operates under a labor
agreement that expires in 1992.
   According to Ms. Kaptur, Chrysler Chairman Lee A. Iacocca
said Chrysler will move production of the Jeep Wrangler to
Toledo from its plant in Brampton, Ontario by mid-1992. She
also said Mr. Iacocca told her that the auto maker will build
a new sport-utility vehicle in Toledo by mid-1993.
   Chrysler called Ms. Kaptur's comments "premature." A UAW
spokesman declined to comment on the union's discussions
regarding the Toledo and Brampton plants. The Brampton plant
is represented by the Canadian Auto Workers union, a separate
organization. The Wrangler is the only product built there.
   Industry analysts say they think Toledo will be getting
production of the small sport-utility vehicle that Chrysler
is developing with Renault S.A. of France. Under such an
arrangement, the Jeep Cherokee, now built in Toledo, would be
shifted to a new plant that Chrysler is building in Detroit.
This scenario, analysts suggest, depends on whether the state
of Ohio and the city of Toledo will give Chrysler tax relief
or grants to improve the Toledo plant.
   Separately, General Motors Corp. said it will temporarily
idle its Arlington, Texas, assembly plant starting April 30
to prepare for changes for production of the 1991 Chevrolet
Caprice and Cadillac Brougham.
   The No. 1 auto maker said the plant, which currently
builds the 1990 version of those models and the Custom
Cruiser Wagon, is scheduled to resume production in June.
About 3,100 workers will be affected by the downtime.
   Ford Motor Co. said its Lorain, Ohio, assembly plant that
builds Ford Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar cars will be idled
for one week because of slow sales. About 2,700 workers will
be affected.
   Overall, the 10 major U.S. auto makers plan to build
137,916 cars this week, down 15.2% from 162,705 a year ago.
   ---
           This    Last    Yr. Ago   -Yr. to Date-      %
           Week-e  Week-r   Week    1990        1989   Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM ...... 59,120  49,087  80,731   798,571 1,198,769  - 33
 Ford .... 36,791  29,369  38,401   475,885   649,645  - 27
 Chrysler  15,600   9,789  21,666   196,889   340,641  - 42
 Honda ...  8,950   8,825   7,689   145,787   130,639  + 12
 Nissan ..  1,580   1,408   1,981    36,157    38,035  -  5
 Nummi-f .  5,000   3,204   4,214    67,973    66,292  +  3
 Mazda ...  3,176   3,879   4,924    62,034    81,613  - 24
 Diam.Star  2,855   2,609   1,132    46,268    14,080  +229
 Toyota ..  4,399   4,488   1,967    73,514    25,751  +185
 Suba-Isuz    445     474       0     6,207         0     d
 TOTAL    137,916 113,132 162,705 1,909,285 2,545,465  - 25
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IMF Holds Up
   Loans Marked
   To Aid Zaire
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund, frustrated
by repeated failures of Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko to
meet fund requirements, won't disburse $54 million in loans
earmarked for the financially troubled nation in central
Africa.
   Word of the IMF cutoff came this week as Mr. Mobutu, a
strong U.S. ally, moved to quell growing unrest in his nation
of 35 million people. Mr. Mobutu, a dictator widely accused
of plundering his country's wealth, said Tuesday that he was
lifting a longtime ban on opposition parties and that he will
set up a transitional government to rule until free elections
are held. For years, only one official party, Mr. Mobutu's
Popular Movement of the Revolution, has been allowed in
Zaire.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The IMF action involves balance-of-payments loans that
would have been disbursed by June, had Zaire met budgetary
targets to which it agreed last year. Zaire's government
expenses -- especially spending by the presidential office of
Mr. Mobutu -- were "excessive," according to senior IMF
officials.
   The IMF is the second international financial institution
to put a hold on some of Zaire's aid. Earlier, the World Bank
decided to hold up $100 million in nonproject loans, to
pressure Mr. Mobutu to spend more money on programs for his
impoverished people and less on security, political
institutions and presidential perquisites.
   Both the World Bank and the IMF have been negotiating with
Zairean government officials since December. IMF officials
described the talks as "delicate" and said the fund isn't
close to resolving its differences with the government.
   "Zaire is a member country {of the IMF}, it has rights and
other obligations," a fund official said. "But we will not
twist the rules or procedures to accommodate Zaire."
   Under an arrangement Zaire reached with the IMF last June,
the country drew about $97.5 million in loans. But after IMF
officials determined that the government failed to meet
budgetary targets and other requirements, Zaire became
ineligible to draw down additional funds. The arrangement
expires this June, and it is unlikely that any of the
remaining $54 million will be disbursed, fund officials said.
   Under a second IMF program, Zaire received an additional
$113.5 million in loans last year.
   Despite his problems with the IMF and the World Bank, Mr.
Mobutu seems preoccupied with his political problems. His
critics in the U.S. Congress and his Zairean opponents
repeatedly have attacked him for mismanaging Zaire's economy
and for his government's sorry human rights record.
   Early this year, Mr. Mobutu sought public comment on his
rule. Many Zaireans bitterly criticized him and he responded
this week by announcing changes that he said would open up
Zaire's government to disparate voices. But he said he would
remain president "at the request of the people of Zaire."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ICN Biomedicals
   Reveals SEC Probe
   Of 1988 Trading
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   BIM ICN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ICN Biomedicals Inc. disclosed in a filing that the
Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating trading
in its securities during a four-month period in 1988.
   ICN Biomedicals, a separately traded subsidiary of ICN
Pharmaceuticals Inc., said in the SEC financial filing that
it isn't aware of the scope or current status of the
investigation. Both companies are based in Costa Mesa, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Washington, an SEC spokesman said that "staff (members)
aren't authorized to comment on the status of
investigations."
   ICN said it received a letter from the SEC in December
requesting that the company voluntarily provide information
relating to trading activity in its securities during the
period from April through July of 1988. The company said it
provided the information in January of this year.
   According to an excerpt from the letter read to a
reporter, "this inquiry should not be construed as an
indication by the commission or its staff that any violations
of law have occurred, nor as an adverse reflection upon any
person, entity or security." An ICN Biomedical spokesman said
that he couldn't provide a copy of the letter because it is
"confidential" and "contains the names of other companies.
   "As far as we know, this was nothing more than a routine
request for information that was also made of a number of
other companies about the possibility of these companies
being the subject of a merger or acquisition, or the subject
of rumors about acquisitions," the spokesman said.
   The filing also indicated that a previously disclosed
grand jury investigation of ICN, the parent company, and of
its subsidiaries, is continuing in U.S. District Court in Los
Angeles. In September 1988, the grand jury issued a subpoena
covering a broad range of matters, many of which relate to
alleged improper marketing of the drug ribavirin.
Subsequently, ICN and the subsidiaries were notified that
they were targets of a criminal investigation.
   According to the latest filing, the grand jury has issued
three supplemental subpoenas requesting information covering
a number of matters not covered by the initial subpoena. The
grand jury also has subpoenaed various employees, officers
and directors of ICN and its subsidiaries. ICN and its
subsidiaries are cooperating in the investigation, the filing
said.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday, shares of ICN Pharmaceuticals closed at
$3.25, unchanged.
   In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange
yesterday, shares of ICN Biomedicals closed at $8.75,
unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Washington's Plan to Let Lobbyists Be Partners
   In Law Firms Strikes Some Lawyers as Appalling
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Montgomery Winkler works for a law firm
here, but he isn't a lawyer. A former top aide to Rep. Robert
Lagomarsino (R., Calif.), Mr. Winkler chuckled recently when
his cab driver pointed out a bumper sticker quoting William
Shakespeare: "The first thing we do, let's kill all the
lawyers."
   Although he never attended law school, Mr. Winkler earns a
salary fit for a law partner and participates in partner
meetings as a nonlawyer lobbyist. Under a new rule proposed
by the District of Columbia Bar and approved in federal
court, lobbyist Winkler may soon become a law partner
himself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Starting next year, the D.C. Bar will become the first in
the nation to permit law firms to make nonlawyers partners.
To the capital's burgeoning ranks of lobbyists, many of whom
are nonlawyer law-firm employees, the rule change offers the
possibility of greater wealth and status. And to many
government employees poised to pass through the revolving
door, it adds luster to the idea of becoming a lobbyist. But
to some bar-credentialed lawyers, especially those outside
Washington, the new rule is an appalling breach in the
profession.
   In enacting the change, the D.C. Bar breaks a longstanding
taboo within the profession. Traditionally, lawyers have
viewed themselves as a fraternity bonded by a shared sense of
professional responsibility. But what happens to that
tradition when lawyers enter into partnership with mere
tradesmen?
   "It's understandable that a law firm would want to have
someone to peddle influence," says Dennis Block, a partner in
the New York firm of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges who headed an
American Bar Association task force on the issue. But Mr.
Block thinks it's a mistake to make these nonlawyer lobbyists
full-fledged partners. "Lawyers are trained in
confidentiality, we're trained in attorney-client privilege,"
he says. Nonlawyers aren't. As a result, says Mr. Block, law
firms may become leaky places.
   "Hogwash," answers James Lake, a nonlawyer lobbyist who
helped create the law firm Heron Burchette Ruckert &amp; Rothwell
in the early 1980s. "There is no client matter that was ever
exposed inappropriately by any {nonlawyer} at Heron
Burchette," says Mr. Lake. Although the law firm went
bankrupt last February, Mr. Lake, who left to start his own
public-relations firm in 1986, says Heron Burchette's demise
had nothing to do with the active participation of nonlawyers
in the firm.
   The debate has overtones of a class war, with lawyers
fighting off a potential invasion of ex-government officials
and Capitol Hill staffers with no formal training in the law.
"A lot of people who have law degrees in this town who are
lobbyists use the law degree as a marketing device," says
Mark Helmke, a nonlawyer lobbyist who was formerly an aide to
Sen. Richard Lugar (R., Ind.), and who now works at Mr.
Lake's firm. But lobbying often has nothing to do with law,
Mr. Helmke says.
   Assuming nonlawyers can master legal concepts like
attorney-client privilege and conflict of interest, questions
remain about how nonlawyer partners will be policed. The
proposed rule states that law partners will be held
responsible for their nonlawyer brethren. Currently, bar
rules are enforced by the D.C. Bar Counsel, a bar-funded
regulatory office consisting of 15 people, eight of whom are
responsible for investigating 500 cases a year. Jamie
Gorelick, a law partner at Washington's Miller, Cassidy,
Larroca &amp; Lewin, questions "whether these resources are
adequate" to follow the activities of nonlawyers and lawyers
alike. According to Tom Flynn, who heads the D.C. Bar
Counsel's office, his supervisory role has yet to be figured
out.
   Mr. Block of Weil Gotshal is more negative. "If, in fact,
we are like any other business," he says, "we will lose the
right to say we are entitled to regulate ourselves."
According to Mr. Block, the logical result will be
supervision by the Commerce Department or by some other
government agency.
   So far, even Washington law firms known for their emphasis
on lobbying are reluctant to name nonlawyers whom they will
make partners. "We have nobody who the rule will affect
immediately," says Joel Jankowski, head of the lobbying
division at the Washington office of Akin, Gump, Strauss,
Hauer &amp; Feld. Timothy May, managing partner at Patton, Boggs
&amp; Blow, is more emphatic. "We have no interest nor intention
of making nonlawyers equity partners in our firm," he says.
   But law-firm headhunter Susan Schneider says that she has
received phone calls from several Capitol Hill staffers eager
to find out where they can acquire a law partnership without
a law degree.
   Mr. Winkler began his career as a nonlawyer lobbyist at
Heron Burchette, where the only partnership privilege he was
denied was an equity share -- hardly a disadvantage, he
quips, given the firm's recent demise. Still, Mr. Winkler
concedes, he wouldn't turn down a partnership at the
Washington office of Chicago-based McDermott, Will &amp; Emery,
where he currently works. "The client thinks that you have
more stature if you're a partner, as opposed to an
associate," he says. "It's just like, if your name is on the
letterhead, it gives you more stature as far as clients are
concerned."
   To high-paid nonlawyers working at law firms, status may
well be the chief selling point of partnership. After all,
many lawyers argue, making partner isn't the guarantee of job
security that it once was; law partners are sometimes
squeezed out of the more competitive Washington firms. But
partners do share the privilege of charting a firm's
financial course and dividing up the rewards. "Some people
like the idea of being at risk," explains Robert Jordan of
Steptoe &amp; Johnson who headed the D.C. Bar commission that
wrote the new rule.
   Curiously, it wasn't the lobby-oriented Washington law
firms that initially pushed for the change. That impetus came
when a small public-interest law firm petitioned the D.C.
Bar's ethics committee to ask whether it could grant a
partnership to an economist. The committee was headed by Mark
Lynch, then a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union,
now a partner at Covington &amp; Burling. Mr. Lynch says that he
found the restriction "condescending" but that the bar rules
as written didn't permit the partnership. So Mr. Lynch
referred the matter to Mr. Jordan's committee. The
petitioning lawyer, whose identity the D.C. Bar won't
disclose for reasons of confidentiality, has since left
Washington, according to Susan Gilbert, the D.C. Bar's ethics
counsel.
   Allowing nonlawyer partners was proposed and rejected in
1983 by the ABA. The new D.C. Bar rule will likely stir
further heated debate this summer when the ABA House of
Delegates convenes in Chicago. Nonlawyer partnerships were
also struck down in North Dakota's state supreme court in
1987 after the state bar proposed a plan similar to
Washington's. But "Washington, D.C., is a different kind of
place from Fargo, North Dakota," asserts Mr. Jordan. "The law
practice in D.C. requires a lot more innovative and different
arrangements than you'd find in a typical, medium-sized
American city."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Stocks Post
   Small Gain;
   Bonds Slip
   ---
   Broader Stock Indexes
   Display Weakness;
   Dollar Strengthens
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stock prices rose modestly even as the ailing bond market
took another turn for the worse that pushed the yield on the
benchmark 30-year Treasury bond above 9%.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 10.14 points to
2676.58 in moderate trading. But broader market averages
didn't perform as well. Analysts also noted that more issues
on the New York Stock Exchange fell than rose, a signal that
investors remain unenthusiastic about stocks. The dollar
strengthened against most foreign currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices tracked bond prices in early trading, rising
a bit as the long-bond price rose, then falling in tandem
with declining bonds. But as bond prices continued to sink
through much of the day, stocks reversed course and rose,
helped in part by some better-than-expected first-quarter
earnings reports.
   But analysts cautioned that with the yield on the
Treasury's benchmark issue now above the psychologically
important 9% level, stock prices almost certainly can't hold
at current levels. They said first-quarter earnings reports,
although in some instances surprisingly good, aren't nearly
strong enough overall to insulate stock prices from the
effects of rapidly rising interest rates.
   "This break above 9% is very serious," said Ken Spence,
director of the technical analysis group at Salomon Brothers.
"The stock market's response may lag a little bit, but some
event will set investors off."
   Mr. Spence said yesterday's price gains came largely from
computer-assisted program trading related to stock index
arbitrage. But he pointed out that for much of April, more
issues have fallen in daily trading than have risen. "That
says the broad market is much weaker than the Dow," he said.
   But even the bigger, well-known and more liquid blue-chip
stocks in the Dow average offer only temporary safety if
rates continue rising, and eventually will come under selling
pressure, he predicted.
   In any case, investors are looking to today's release of
the government's estimated first-quarter gross national
product as the potential event that could set off big moves
in both stock and bond prices. While economists are
predicting that first-quarter economic growth will come in at
about 2.7%, more than twice the fourth-quarter growth rate of
1.1%, some bond traders are worried that it will be even
higher. If that's the case, bond prices could tumble still
further, taking stock prices with them.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed in modest trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 141.3 million shares. But
declining issues on the Big Board were ahead of gainers 764
to 677.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the U.S.
currency was quoted at 1.6803 marks and 159.23 yen, compared
to 1.6785 marks and 158.75 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wang Labs to Post `Significant Loss';
   Data General Has Deficit for Quarter
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WANB DGN
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wang Laboratories Inc.'s revenue slump worsened in the
third quarter, ended March 31, and one-time charges caused a
"significant loss" for the quarter, Richard W. Miller,
chairman, president and chief executive officer, said.
   Mr. Miller said in an interview that by the end of June,
Wang expects to reduce employment to about 20,000, down from
22,000 now. About 1,500 of the reduction represents employees
at units that are being sold but the planned level is lower
than Wang had previously disclosed. A year ago, the Lowell,
Mass., concern had about 31,000 workers before it began
cutting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Miller had previously warned that the third-quarter
operating loss would be worse than analysts expected. The
one-time charges are mostly related to the sales of certain
operations to raise cash and reduce debt.
   Separately, Data General Corp., Westboro, Mass., another
minicomputer maker attempting a turnaround, reported a net
loss of $8.6 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with net
income of $7 million, or 23 cents a share, for its fiscal
second quarter, ended March 31. Revenue fell 8.2% to $314.8
million from $342.7 million.
   The two companies' results emphasize that the computer
industry isn't enjoying any universal upturn, despite the
better-than-expected results reported by International
Business Machines Corp. and Digital Equipment Corp. last
week.
   Mr. Miller of Wang said that revenue for the quarter was
down more than the 13% decline recorded during the first half
of the fiscal year. In the year-ago third quarter, Wang
reported a restated net loss of $63.7 million, or 39 cents a
share, on revenue of $721.4 million. Mr. Miller declined to
be specific about earnings, which Wang expects to report
today.
   He said that the results reflect the weakness of the
midrange computer industry, especially in the U.S. He said
European markets were about flat and some Asian markets were
up but Australia was down.
   The sales slump was worst in January and February when a
reorganization of corporate marketers to focus on customer
segments such as banks, lawyers and insurance companies
caused a "loss of momentum," he said. He added that "for
March and so far in April, we feel better."
   Wang will take one-time charges related to the planned
sales of its international leasing business, its Intecom
subsidiary and a financial information services business,
which are expected to be completed in a few weeks. Wang
previously announced sales agreements but hasn't disclosed
the write-offs. Charges will cover reductions from book value
and certain tax contingencies related to the leasing
business.
   Following the sales, Wang will pay off bank debt, reducing
such debt to $65 million. That would be down from $575
million last summer when Wang faced the credit crunch that
led to Mr. Miller's being hired to succeed Frederick A. Wang,
son of the late founder and chairman, An Wang. In that period
Wang has arranged to sell $600 million of "non-strategic"
assets, and still plans to sell $200 million more, Mr. Miller
said.
   In addition to its bank debt, Wang has $450 million in
long-term debt at relatively low interest rates.
   Mr. Miller said that as a result of the cost cutting and
lower interest costs, Wang is "on a path that will come very
close to operating break-even" before interest costs for the
fourth quarter, ending June 30. In the year-ago fourth
quarter Wang reported a restated record net loss of $374.7
million, or $2.29 a share, on revenue of $741.3 million.
Previously, Mr. Miller had said that he hoped Wang would
return to profitability during the quarter.
   Data General's loss was "less than I'd been forecasting,"
said Jay P. Stevens, an analyst with Dean Witter. Data
General is changing from a company that makes proprietary
computer systems to one that makes industry-standard
computers that use the Unix operating system. However, its
proprietary business has been shrinking faster than the new
business grows.
   Ronald Skates, president and chief executive officer, said
that the second-quarter results were an improvement from the
first quarter and said "we expect that second-half results
will show an improvement over the first six months. We are
beginning to see evidence that the strategic steps we have
taken will allow us to grow and become profitable."
   Wang's Class B shares closed yesterday at $4.75, off 12.5
cents, in American Stock Exchange composite trading. Data
General closed at $9.50, up 50 cents, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Rostenkowski Would Mull a Reduction
   In Capital-Gains Tax as Part of Package
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Chairman Dan Rostenkowski of the House Ways
and Means Committee said he would consider cutting the
capital-gains tax as part of a large deficit-reduction
package negotiated with the White House.
   In answer to a question during an address to the National
Venture Capital Association, the Illinois Democrat said "a
package could be put together that could possibly include
capital gains," and added, "I'm a fellow who works in the
vineyard of compromise."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The comments clarify what has gone largely unspoken --
particularly by Mr. Rostenkowski: One reason President Bush
might eventually embrace a big tax-increase and spending-cut
bill is that the package is a probable vehicle for the
capital-gains cut he wants.
   The comments also point up the common wisdom among
lawmakers and policy makers here that the most likely
solution to the fiscal stalemate this year is a summit
between leading lawmakers and high-level Bush administration
officials.
   Officially, Rep. Rostenkowski opposes the capital-gains
tax cut. Indeed, his prepared speech to the venture
capitalists, who are leading the fight to cut the tax,
asserted that he is prepared to make a "comprehensive case
against a preferential capital-gains tax rate."
   But his rhetoric softened when questioning turned to
compromises that might be necessary to accomplish Rep.
Rostenkowski's main goal this year, deficit reduction. In
effect, he said that compromises might be necessary to attain
the kind of budget cuts and tax increases that would
translate into a meaningful reduction in the budget deficit.
To date, President Bush has resisted supporting major tax
increases.
   Rep. Rostenkowski intends to pressure President Bush to
convene a summit by declining to move forward in earnest to
draft a tax-increase bill. Without an agreement on a tax
bill, he said, there looms the likelihood of automatic,
across-the-board spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law,
which neither lawmakers nor the administration prefer.
   Specifically, the chairman told a separate group
representing Coretech, a coalition of companies and
universities that is lobbying to extend the research and
development tax credit, that he intends to delay any tax bill
until there is a summit agreement. He would do that by
refusing to recommend a starting point for his tax-writing
committee, he said.
   "I intend not to do that until such time as there is some
movement," he told the group. The purpose, he explained, is
"to build a fire under 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue," the address
of the White House.
   In the Senate, Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine)
said in an interview that although he would discuss any
matter with the president, he intends to move forward with
the regular budget process, which involves approving a budget
resolution and following its outlines with tax-and-spending
legislation.
   In slow-moving congressional budget deliberations, the
House rejected two Republican-sponsored alternatives to a
fiscal 1991 deficit-reduction plan backed by the Democratic
leadership. The Democrats' plan -- to cut defense spending
more than President Bush seeks, to spend more on domestic
programs and to raise more in taxes -- is likely to pass the
House Tuesday after the lawmakers consider the Bush budget
and one crafted by the Congressional Black Caucus.
   The Senate Budget Committee made little progress towards
reaching consensus, even among its Democratic majority. In
something of a sideshow, the committee rebuffed a largely
symbolic attempt by Sen. Ernest Hollings (D., S.C.) to get an
endorsement of a reduction in the Social Security payroll tax
by $36.5 billion. Several senators who voted no said they
still favor cutting the payroll tax, but only if the plan is
coupled with a way to make up the lost revenue.
   The committee also rejected three Democratic-sponsored
plans that would have trimmed the deficit more than either
the House or the administration has proposed, primarily with
bigger defense cuts and larger tax increases.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Akzo N.V.:
   Company Posts 11% Drop
   In First-Quarter Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AKZOY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hurt by narrower profit margins, Dutch chemical giant Akzo
N.V. reported that first-quarter net income fell 11% from a
year earlier.
   Akzo recorded profit of 201.7 million guilders ($106.8
million) compared with the year-earlier 227.4 million
guilders even though sales rose 1.8%. Sales by the chemical
group rose to 4.58 billion guilders from 4.5 billion
guilders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Akzo said pretax operating profit fell to 8.2% of sales
compared with 9.1% a year earlier. The chemical group's
pretax operating profit fell to 375.2 million guilders from
410.4 million guilders.
   As with net profit, per-share earnings also declined 11%
to 4.66 guilders from the 5.25 guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Junk TV
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Whenever Congress debates campaign reform you can be sure
the real issue -- incumbent protections that limit political
competition -- won't be addressed. This week Congress debated
a proposal to require that all candidates be charged the
lowest possible rate by TV stations for their commercials. At
the same time, the House Administration Committee is about to
approve an extra $203,000 to hire new technicians for the
House TV studio. That's what Members use to send
taxpayer-paid satellite feeds and taped programs back to
their districts. Last year the existing staff had to put in
more than 4,000 hours of overtime to satisfy the demand. With
more than half the country able to get the privately financed
C-SPAN network, the only reason a propaganda organ like the
House TV studio exists is to ensure another election in which
98% of incumbents win.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dexter Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   DEX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DEXTER Corp. (Hartford, Conn.) -- This specialty chemical
company named as directors Bernard Fox, president and chief
operating officer of Northeast Utilities; Robert Furek,
president and chief executive officer of Heublein Inc., and
Max Weber, president and chief operating officer of
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. Four board members retired:
Walter Connolly Jr., former chairman of Bank of New England
Corp.; Donald Davis, chairman of the executive committee,
Stanley Works; Donald Roon, president of Roon Foundation, and
Peter Scott, retired chairman of Emhart Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Clears Routes
   For Continental
   And American Air
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX AMR JAPAN EUROP DAL AWAL HA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. Transportation Department granted Continental
Airlines, a unit of Houston-based Texas Air Corp., authority
to fly passengers and cargo between Houston and Tokyo.
   The agency also gave final approval to the sale by Eastern
Airlines, another Texas Air unit, of its Latin American
routes to American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp., Fort Worth,
Texas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continental has said it expects to earn $25 million a year
from the Houston-Tokyo route. The route calls for a stopover
in Honolulu, which also gives Continental a chance to compete
for Honolulu-Tokyo travelers. About 40% of U.S. traffic to
Tokyo flies through Honolulu. Continental said it will begin
flying the route daily on July 2.
   The department's decision is unrelated to a U.S.-Japan
route case that will greatly expand service to Asia. In that
case, which won't be decided until the fall, nine U.S.
carriers are competing for six new routes to Japan -- three
to Tokyo and three to other Japanese cities.
   The route authority granted to Continental once belonged
to Federal Express Corp., Memphis, Tenn., which had to
relinquish it because Flying Tiger Line, acquired by Federal
Express, already had a U.S.-Japan route. The Transportation
Department had said it would allow the succeeding carrier to
fly passengers, as well.
   One reason that Continental was chosen over five rivals
was that it proposed service without a plane change to
Houston, the only one of the nation's four largest cities
that doesn't have single-plane service to Tokyo, said Patrick
Murphy, the Transportation Department's deputy assistant
secretary for policy and international affairs. The other
candidates were American Airlines, Delta Air Lines of
Atlanta, the Aloha Airlines unit of Aloha Airgroup Inc. of
Honolulu, America West Airlines of Phoenix, Ariz., and the
Hawaiian Airlines unit of HAL Inc., Honolulu.
   In approving the transfer of Eastern's routes to American,
the department concluded that the sale is in the public
interest and won't conflict with aviation policy objectives.
   The agency's approval is the last hurdle for the
transaction, which will add $349 million to Eastern's
bankruptcy-law reorganization efforts. Eastern and American
have tentatively scheduled July 1 as the date American will
begin flying the routes.
   The department also approved the sale to American of
Eastern's Miami-Madrid route and of Continental's
Miami-London certificate. But the agency refused for now to
approve the sale of Eastern's Miami/Tampa-Toronto route to
American. It said it will begin a review to determine whether
American or another carrier should be given the authority.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FPL
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FPL GROUP Inc. (North Palm Beach, Fla.) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it lowered its ratings on this
utility holding company's Florida Power &amp; Light Co. and FPL
Group Capital Inc. subsidiaries. The rating concern said
about $4.8 billion of securities are affected. Moody's said
the changes stem from Florida Power's larger construction
program estimated for the 1990-1994 period, increased
financing and rate-relief requirements, and expected lower
internal cash generation. Ratings downgraded include Florida
Power's first mortgage and secured pollution-control revenue
bonds to single-A-2 from double-A-3; shelf registration of
first mortgage bonds to preliminary single-A-2 from
preliminary double-A-3; preferred stock to single-A-2 from
double-A-3; shelf registration of preferred stock to
preliminary single-A-2 from preliminary double-A-3; and
unsecured pollution control revenue bonds to single-A-3 from
single-A-1. Florida Power's prime-1 rating for commercial
paper remains unchanged. FPL Group Capital ratings lowered
include medium-term notes to Baa-1 from single-A-2; shelf
registration of medium-term notes to preliminary Baa-1 from
preliminary single-A-2; and commercial paper to prime-2 from
prime-1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Political Europe
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Is a United States of Europe in the making? We will
believe it when we see it.
   After all, the Magna Carta, Elizabeth I, Peel, Gladstone,
Churchill: Is the grand history of British governance really
going to end in a bureaucrat's office in Brussels? Colbert,
Napoleon and de Gaulle: Is the glorious tradition of French
sovereignty also about to culminate in some boxlike room in
the Berlaymont? Does German history also end in that squat,
graceless building by the Schuman metro station? Were Rome,
Athens and Madrid all meant to be mere bureaucratic outposts
of a new European capital in Brussels?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of those who will gather in Dublin this weekend for a
special European summit seem to think all this will come to
pass. The French and Germans claim they want a United States
of Europe up and running by January 1, 1993.
   The European Community's steps toward a single market and
monetary union were efforts to adapt to the emergence of a
global economy. But the talk of political union is less
focused and purposeful. It is mainly designed to send
foreign-policy signals. At the moment, the Germans are
primarily interested in reunification. Being ultra-European
is a way of indicating that a united Germany won't be a
threat to its neighbors. The French want to further
Franco-German relations, while trying to ensure that a
reunited Germany is a Gulliver tied down by the Lilliputian
directives emanating from the French-style bureaucracy in
Brussels.
   The British are reacting hesitantly as they always have
when a pan-European scheme emerged from France or Germany.
The small countries will join in if the price is right.
   In other words, the nations of Europe continue to act as
distinct nation-states, as distinct peoples, setting up
alliances when possible, but concerned above all with their
own national power and security.
   We can't help noticing that in the very week that Francois
Mitterrand scaled the rhetorical heights to declare that
Europe should be one, France banned a British airline from
charging more than $100 less than Air France on flights
between London and Paris.
   Though Helmut Kohl can be vague and eloquent about a
United States of Europe, his country has just slapped a
unilateral tax on all foreign trucks traveling on German
roads. It takes effect this July.
   The practitioners of symbolic diplomacy dismiss such
observations as small talk. It sends a "frisson" of delight
up certain European spines to imagine a common European home
that could stand up to the U.S., Japan and U.S.S.R. We are
not opposed to grand visions, and Europe's attempts to erase
ancient hostilities are welcome. But we would be more
comfortable if the ringing declarations sounded less hollow.
   Even the much advertised "1992" economic union will fall
far short of its billing. The Eurocrats will have to agree on
279 directives before unification is complete. Having cleared
away the easy decisions, they now face the hard ones, many of
which require unanimous support from the 12 nations. They
already have stalled on some big ones, notably those
concerning taxes. For 20 years, they have worked on
harmonizing direct company taxation with little to show for
their efforts. This month the EC commission scaled back its
ambitions, hoping that countries will at least come to
"mutual recognition" of tax policies of other members.
   Of the 158 directives that have been drafted by the EC, a
mere 21 have been enacted in all the member countries. As
with U.N. resolutions, member states feel free to delay or
ignore EC decisions. The much-criticized British actually
lead the way in implementing EC directives, a fact which they
remind their listeners of every five seconds or so. Italy has
so far ignored 51 of the directives.
   Idealists believe that slapping a quasi-governmental
structure on top of diverse states will ensure peace and
cooperation. The goal is worthy, but the U.N. has amply
demonstrated that more than an organizational edifice is
necessary.
   Centuries of European political philosophers have explored
the organic relationship between a people and its government.
If a government is not of a people, as well as for it, you
have at best a useless bureaucracy, and at worst a
dictatorship of a technocratic elite. If Messrs. Mitterrand
and Kohl really envision a European government of the people,
we need to hear more about how that is to be achieved.
   The Dublin summit would benefit from less vague talk about
"political unity" and more about whether the goal is to move
government closer to the people, or further away.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Sweet Scam
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Government officials talk a lot about how to keep jobs in
slum areas, but this story shows that the concern is often
little more than sentimental talk. Take the 3,500 workers at
the Brach Candy Co. plant on Chicago's impoverished West
Side. They may all lose their jobs because the government
won't let their plant escape import quotas that force it to
pay inflated prices for the sugar it uses.
   The Brach's plant has been producing candy since 1924, but
it lost $50 million last year because of aging equipment and
high labor costs. Its new owner, the Swiss firm of Jacobs
Suchard, has spent $44 million to modernize the facility, but
an extra $100 million will be needed to bring it up to
standard. The problem is a federal import quota that helps
the 11,000 U.S. sugar growers keep out cheap foreign sugar.
The quota costs U.S. consumers at least $3 billion a year,
and it forces Brach's to pay 24 cents a pound for sugar
rather than the world price of 15 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The extra money goes into the pockets of sugar growers.
The Agriculture Department estimates the average sugar-cane
farmer received $235,000 in annual subsidies between 1987 and
1989.
   Brach's says that if it can't cut its sugar costs it will
probably have to close the plant and move to either Canada or
Mexico. In Canada it could buy sugar at the world price, and
then ship candy to the U.S. almost tariff free. In Mexico it
would save millions on labor costs. Brach's wants to stay in
the U.S., so it has asked the federal government to add the
plant to a list of 260 designated foreign trade zones, most
of which are in depressed areas. That would allow Brach's to
buy sugar at the world price, save $20 million a year and
secure the 3,500 jobs of its largely black work force.
   The Bush Agriculture Department says it is appalled at the
extravagantly wasteful sugar program, and last week announced
it was declaring war on a House agriculture subcommittee's
effort to raise sugar subsidies even higher. However, it has
decided to oppose Brach's plea for a free trade zone because
it feels obliged to defend the present law. "If you approve
one, you'd have to approve everyone who applied," says John
Nuttall, head of USDA's sugar program. "You end up with a
disruption of the sugar price support program."
   The final decision will be made by the Foreign Trade Zones
Board, chaired by Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher. On
Monday, a Commerce Department examiner recommended that the
Brach's request be denied. The full board will review the
issue within a few weeks.
   We understand the Bush Administration's desire to use the
coming GATT trade talks to negotiate a reduction in sugar
subsidies rather than provoke a confrontation with Congress.
But the workers at the Brach's plant in Chicago can't wait.
Nearly a quarter of the jobs in the area have disappeared in
the past decade, and theirs could be next.
   Exempting Brach's from the sugar quotas might well mean a
flood of similar requests from other companies. Approving
them all would quickly end the sugar program. There would be
shrieks of outrage from the sugar lobby and its allies in
Congress, but the costs of the program would finally be
forced out into the open.
   We'd bet the sugar lobby would have a hard time restoring
the subsidies once the network news pitted images of the
minority workers at the Brach's plant against the prosperous
sugar growers of Hawaii.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manischewitz Seeks
   To Plead No Contest
   In Price-Fixing Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEWARK, N.J. -- B. Manischewitz Co., Jersey City, applied
to plead no contest to a federal indictment that it conspired
to fix the price of matzo served during Passover.
   The company, which earlier denied the charges and claimed
that its prices are fair, faces a penalty of $1 million, and
possibly more. The maximum penalty depends on the size of the
company's unlawful gains or the losses of consumers, said a
U.S. Justice Department spokesman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. Attorney here objected to the company's plea
request. U.S. District Judge Harold Ackerman gave the
government until May 11 to file papers explaining its
objection. Manischewitz will have until May 16 to respond to
the government's filing. On May 23, Judge Ackerman will
decide whether to accept the request.
   Justin P. Walder, Manischewitz's lawyer, says the request
to plea no contest "seemed like the practical and reasonable
alternative when you take into account the narrow scope of
indictment, the age of the allegations, the cost of defense
and prosecution and everyone's time."
   The conspiracy took place from "sometime in 1981" through
at least April 1986, the complaint says. Manischewitz,
according to the complaint, took in about $25 million of
revenue from sales of Passover matzo products in the U.S from
1981 to 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capital Outlays of Firms
   Rose 9.3% in 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Capital appropriations by the nation's largest
manufacturers rose 9.3% in 1989's fourth quarter from the
third quarter, the Conference Board reported.
   The increase followed declines in the second and third
quarters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Conference Board, which surveys the 1,000 largest
manufacturers quarterly, also said that capital spending rose
7.9%, after "sluggish increases" in the prior two quarters.
   Looking ahead, the board said, survey results suggest an
11.2% rise in capital appropriations in 1990, and a 2.6%
increase in capital spending.
   "Capital spending in 1990 will barely keep pace with
economic growth after running significantly ahead of the
country's overall growth for the past several years," said
Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein. "But in 1991,
capital spending is likely to climb faster than overall
economic growth and may continue rising for a year or two
beyond that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Three Networks
   Worked Together
   On Hostage Story
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS CCB GE TBSA MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- ABC News, CBS News and the Cable News Network
last weekend combined camera equipment and videotape crews in
the coverage of the release of Middle East hostage Robert
Polhill, network executives said.
   It is the latest example of the competitors working
together in the news-gathering process of a major foreign
story. According to Ed Turner, executive vice president of
CNN, the all-news network has been "experimenting with
networks on an ad hoc, event-by-event basis in some major
foreign stories for the past several months."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cooperation underscores how the major networks are, in
the words of one CBS News official, "grappling" with mounting
costs in the coverage of overseas stories. The official
characterized the Polhill story as an "experiment with how we
can all work together to save money without sacrificing our
competitive edge."
   The official, who did not want to be quoted by name, said
the news division, a unit of CBS Inc., would continue to work
together with CNN in sharing equipment "as long as we've
first satisfied Dan Rather," the anchor of the "CBS Evening
News."
   "We think there is a plot by the Islamic Jihad for the
Liberation of Palestine and the Syrian government to bankrupt
the American networks," said CNN's Mr. Turner with some irony
in a telephone interview. "The costs are too much."
   Specifically, the networks cooperated covering different
so-called non-exclusive events last weekend in Damascus,
Syria, where Mr. Polhill was brought after three years of
captivity in Beirut. CBS News and CNN also worked together in
Frankfurt, West Germany, where Mr. Polhill was taken after
Damascus.
   Eason Jordan, international managing editor of CNN, a unit
of Turner Broadcasting System Inc., said, "We all want our
share of exclusives, but taping a hostage coming off a plane
is something that we can cooperate on without losing
editorial independence."
   "The way we distinguish ourselves is through a Charles
Kuralt or Bob Simon script," said the CBS official, referring
to two CBS News correspondents.
   NBC News, a division of General Electric Co.'s National
Broadcasting Co. unit, shared some satellite time with the
British Broadcasting Co. and did not work with its three
competitors.
   A spokesman at ABC News, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC
Inc., said there was "nothing unusual" about the Polhill
cooperation. When there is no "competitive advantage," the
spokesman said, there are "informal pool arrangements"
between the networks. The networks also shared the cost of
transmitting the news footage by satellite, and, indeed, that
is not unusual.
   One network executive estimated that each news division
could have "easily" saved about $12,000 on last weekend's
story. "That's money that could go to enterprising stories,"
said the executive.
   The cooperation between CNN and other networks, in
particular CBS News, is a drastic reversal for the all-news
cable outlet. When CNN was first launched a decade ago, CBS
News crews were urged not to help any CNN crew, according to
several CBS News employees. But the situation has clearly
changed. Indeed, CBS Inc. executives, including Senior Vice
President Jay Kriegel and Broadcast Group President Howard
Stringer, held at least one meeting with Turner Broadcasting
executives in February about a possible partnership.
   Although those talks have yet to prove fruitful, there is
a possibility that CBS News and CNN might combine facilities
in locations such as South Africa and Berlin.
   The network news divisions are under enormous pressure
from their cooperate parents to trim costs. CBS News, for
instance, has an annual operating budget of about $300
million, but that includes the production of three prime-time
shows, including top rated "60 Minutes."
   Mr. Turner said domestically the networks rotate camera
crews on a weekly basis to cover press briefings given at the
Pentagon and State Department in Washington.
   Most recently, for example, the three networks and CNN
agreed to pool their election-polling units. "It would have
cost each network $12 million over four years to conduct exit
polls," said one official. "And for what? We all would have
gotten the same information."
   Now, the official said, the networks and CNN will split
the $12 million four ways. He added, "And, when we can, when
it doesn't compromise our broadcasts or affiliates, that's
what we'll do on foreign stories."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Payment for CFCs Tax
   Is Due Monday, Says IRS
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Makers and importers of products using
chlorofluorocarbons must deposit the first payment of a new
excise tax on the ozone-depleting chemicals by next Monday,
or pay interest on the tax, the Internal Revenue Service
said.
   But because the IRS has yet to issue regulations enacting
the new tax, the agency said it won't slap any additional
penalty on businesses that fail to pay the tax by the due
date. The excise tax, which was passed by Congress last year
and took effect Jan. 1, amounts to $1.37 per pound of CFCs.
Companies will estimate their tax based on the law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A wide range of industries have been awaiting word from
the IRS on how and when they are supposed to comply with the
new law. Most excise taxes are reported quarterly, with the
first-quarter returns and payments usually due by April 30.
With that date fast approaching, the IRS yesterday issued a
notice telling taxpayers what to do until the regulations
come out.
   The IRS notice also said that returns for the excise tax
won't be due until 30 days after the agency issues
regulations.
   CFCs are used as coolants; they are also used to make
plastic foam and to clean electronic parts. They are often
found in air conditioners, cars, televisions and an array of
other electronic products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Defunct 7 Days, in a First,
   Wins Prestigious Award
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   MDP TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For the first time, a defunct magazine has won
a National Magazine Award, the most prestigious award in the
magazine industry.
   7 Days, the New York City weekly that was folded by owner
Leonard Stern two weeks ago, won the award for "general
excellence" for publications with circulation less than
100,000. Mr. Stern had closed the magazine because of lack of
advertising and being unable to convert enough free readers
into paid subscribers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other winners in the general excellence category included:
Texas Monthly, for magazines with circulation between 100,000
and 400,000; Meredith Corp.'s Metropolitan Home for magazines
with circulation between 400,000 and one million; and Time
Warner Inc.'s Sports Illustrated, for magazines with
circulation of more than one million.
   The New Yorker, owned by Advance Publications Inc., won
two awards, for reporting and fiction. Conde Nast
Publications Inc.'s Vanity Fair won for essays and criticism.
   The awards are sponsored by the American Society of
Magazine Editors and supported by Magazine Publishers of
America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Compaq Computer
   Reports 11% Surge
   In 1st-Quarter Net
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Compaq Computer Corp.'s first-quarter earnings
exceeded most analysts' forecasts due to increased domestic
market share and unexpectedly strong European sales.
   The Houston-based computer maker said it had net income of
$92.2 million, or $2.13 a share, up 11% from $83.2 million,
or $1.95 a share. Sales surged 28% to $872.2 million from
$682.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Compaq's stock reacted favorably to the earnings
announcement, closing yesterday in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange at $98.25 a share, up $4.25.
   Compaq had warned analysts in late February that its share
of the market for high-end personal computers was eroding,
leading to projections of little if any earnings increase in
the first quarter. Most estimates ranged between $1.75 and
$2.11 a share.
   But a 56% increase in overseas sales exceeded company
expectations, said Michael Swavely, Compaq president of North
American operations. And North American sales increased 4%
despite a stagnant market, indicating increased market share.
   Mr. Swavely also said Compaq had preserved its 40% gross
margin, reflecting strong demand for products introduced
within the past six months, including a fileserver that can
link several dozen personal computers.
   Despite a flat first quarter for the industry, Compaq is
holding to its prediction that the U.S. market will grow by
5% to 10% in 1990. Fueling such growth, said Mr. Swavely,
will be new software applications that may be introduced as
soon as May. "That, I believe, will renew general excitement
among all customers," he said, and will in turn lead to "a
very aggressive new product year for Compaq."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unocal Is Seeking
   Tired, Older Autos
   Of Los Angeles Area
   ---
   Voluntary, $5 Million Program
   To Scrap Clunkers Aims
   At Cutting Air Pollution
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp. said it will buy and scrap
7,000 cars built before 1971 as part of a corporate program
to reduce pollution in the Los Angeles area.
   The $5 million voluntary repurchase effort by the oil
company is believed to be the first such step anywhere.
Unocal and regulatory officials said the program isn't tied
to pollution abatement at company facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Older vehicles account for a disproportionate share of
auto emissions. Those built before 1971, for instance, can
spew as much as 30 times the fumes of today's models. Some
economists have urged scrapping clunkers as a cost-effective
way to cut pollution. But the suggestion has been a political
hot potato, with conservatives opposed to government action
and liberals worried that repurchase programs or outright
bans would deprive the poor of transportation.
   Unocal said it will pay $700 a car and provide a free,
one-month bus pass to those who drive their cars to a
company-selected scrap yard. Would-be sellers must first make
an appointment by calling a toll-free number after Wednesday.
Unocal said it believed that these older cars can be
replaced, in some cases, for about $700 with cleaner-burning
models.
   In a related step, the company said it will offer free
emissions checks and tuneups at its Los Angeles-area service
stations for cars built before 1975. It estimated the cost of
this program at about $5 million. Unocal also said it will
begin a free roadside service for stranded cars that tie up
traffic.
   Unocal's repurchase program will remove less than 2% of
the 410,000 pre-1971 cars in the Los Angeles area, where the
company is based. According to company calculations, at best
its two programs will cut about 23 million pounds of the more
than four billion pounds of pollutants emitted annually by
vehicles in the Los Angeles region, whose air is the nation's
most polluted.
   However, company officials said they hoped their efforts
would encourage other companies to undertake similar
programs. "This is a good-faith effort by this company to
improve the quality of life in Los Angeles," said Richard J.
Stegemeier, Unocal chairman, president, and chief executive
officer.
   A local environmental agency applauded Unocal's plan.
"It's hard to conceive of the oil industry doing this just a
year or two ago," said Tom Eichhorn, spokesman for the Los
Angeles area's Air Quality Management District.
   But oil companies have adopted an environmentally
conscious theme of late. Atlantic Richfield Co., for
instance, has made a major marketing coup with a reformulated
gasoline designed to cut emissions in older cars. Other
companies have followed Arco's lead.
   Unocal won't reformulate its gasoline blends anytime soon,
Mr. Stegemeier said. The company is the fourth largest
gasoline marketer in the competitive Los Angeles area, with
about 14% of the market, company officials said. Arco is the
region's leading marketer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hewlett-Packard Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP
</CO>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Hewlett-Packard Co. said that 782
employees, or just under 1% of its work force, accepted an
early retirement package as part of the company's previously
announced plan to trim expense growth.
   The company, which makes computers and test and
measurement equipment, said the plan was available on a
voluntary basis to every employee at least 55 years old with
15 or more years of service with the company. Up to 2,400
workers were eligible for the early retirement package.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Employees who participated in the program received an
amount equal to one-half month's salary for each year of
service, up to a maximum of 12 months' salary. In addition,
retirees received the funds that had accumulated in their
accounts under the company's regular retirement plans.
   The company has 94,000 employees world-wide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. AND SOVIETS REACHED an accord to normalize trade
relations.
   For the first time in half a century, Washington and
Moscow agreed to a trade pact that would offer the Soviet
Union most-favored-nation status, meaning that its goods
could enter the U.S. at the lowest tariff rates, a senior
U.S. negotiator announced. The accord requires congressional
approval. A Bush administration official recently said that
superpower trade soon could total as much as $15 billion a
year, compared with between $1 billion to $3 billion in
recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pact had been jeopardized by an administration debate
over a Kremlin crackdown on Lithuania, but Bush this week
deferred any curbs on Moscow.
   ---
   CHENEY PROPOSED reductions in Pentagon plans for the
Stealth bomber.
   In a major concession to congressional budget-cutters, the
defense secretary called for building only 75 of the 132 B-2
Stealth bombers envisioned by the Defense Department, and he
urged significant cuts in two other aircraft projects.
Intended to save $35 billion over the next eight years,
Cheney's recommendations would involve cutting 90 aircraft
from the Air Force's planned 210plane fleet of C-17 troop
transports. He also proposed stretching out development of
new jet fighters.
   Rowny quit as a senior arms adviser to Bush over what
sources said he felt was undue haste in completing a
superpower pact on long-range weapons.
   ---
   An earthquake rocked western China, killing at least 115
people and destroying over 1,000 homes. The temblor, which
registered 6.9 on the Richter scale, also caused numerous
injuries, officials said. The earthquake occurred in the
Qinghai region.
   ---
   Lawmakers in Lithuania decided to impose food rationing,
starting May 1, as the Baltic republic continued to struggle
under economic sanctions that have cut certain supplies.
France and West Germany, meanwhile, proposed that Lithuania
temporarily suspend its drive for independence.
                                                                                                       

   Tens of thousands of Soviets joined widespread
demonstrations to mark the fourth anniversary of the
Chernobyl nuclear plant explosion. It was the Soviet Union's
biggest commemoration of the accident, in which official
reports said 31 people were killed.
   ---
   Shamir was chosen by Israeli President Herzog to form a
new government after Labor Party leader Peres failed in his
attempt to forge a coalition. The government headed by
Shamir, leader of the Likud bloc, collapsed five weeks ago
over its refusal to enter peace talks with Palestinians.
                                                                                                       

   Israel's Supreme Court upheld an eviction order against
150 Jewish settlers who have occupied a 72-room complex owned
by the Greek Orthodox Church in the Christian quarter of the
walled Old City in Jerusalem.
   ---
   The Justice Department found that Georgia's process for
electing superior court judges is racist. Under the ruling by
the department's civil rights division, 58 of 135 superior
court judgeships in 30 of 45 judicial circuits will cease to
exist unless election laws are changed.
   ---
   A gunman killed a Colombian presidential candidate aboard
a crowded jetliner. Former leftist guerrilla Carlos Pizarro,
38, who joined the race last month, was the third
presidential candidate assassinated in less than three years.
His bodyguards killed the attacker. Drug traffickers
reportedly claimed responsibility for the slaying.
   ---
   Ground controllers established contact with the two main
antennas on the Hubble Space Telescope after a communications
glitch blocked the first attempt to lock onto the device. The
shuttle Discovery trailed the telescope, which is starting a
15-year voyage to explore the reaches of the universe.
   ---
   Former hostage Polhill returned to the U.S. after three
days in West Germany following his release Sunday by
pro-Iranian extremists in Beirut. The 55-year-old New Yorker,
who spent 39 months in captivity, was taken to Walter Reed
Army Medical Center in Washington for medical tests.
   ---
   West Germany's Social Democrats said skar Lafontaine, who
was stabbed in the neck Wednesday at a campaign rally in
Cologne, would continue to challenge Kohl in December's
election. The opposition candidate was reported in
satisfactory condition. His assailant, a 42-year-old woman,
was committed to a psychiatric hospital.
   ---
   South Korea's government vowed to crack down on a wave of
labor unrest, and about 12,000 riot police ringed the
country's largest shipyard. Thousands of employees of Hyundai
Heavy Industries went on strike Wednesday at the shipyard in
Ulsan, and erected barricades to block the police.
   ---
   New York's highest court awarded the America's Cup to the
San Diego Yacht Club, upholding a ruling that the 1988
victory by the club's catamaran wasn't illegal. The decision
ends a challenge by New Zealand's Mercury Bay Boating Club,
which sailed a monohull vessel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Number Crunchers Struggling
   To Find Stocks That Add Up
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   UIS MER AXP RAL TDM CHV AN HAL GE KO GRN AIG OH CMH
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Number-crunching "technicians" are finding it
harder than usual to fall in love with stock charts these
days.
   For every favorite stock, "I think there are 10 least
favorites," says analyst Stan Weinstein as he pores over
charts of the price and volume action in various companies'
shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Weinstein is currently among the more bearish of
technical analysts, also known as chartists. Many of them
find little to get enthusiastic about in today's stock
market. Still, almost all of them have some charts they like.
   The accompanying graphic shows the favorite and least
favorite stocks of three prominent technicians.
   Technicians often don't know -- and say they don't care --
about the details of a company's business. Looking at a chart
doesn't tell them whether a company is profiting from motor
oil or magazines nor what the company is expected to earn
this year. Such matters are the province of "fundamental"
analysts, a breed that scorns the chartists, who often return
the sentiment.
   By studying a stock's price and volume trends, chartists
believe they get clues to future price changes before the
fundamental rationale for them is known. Nearly every major
brokerage house employs at least one technician. And some
successful money managers use technical analysis as part of
their arsenal.
   While technicians vary in their methods, most have a few
techniques in common. They typically are encouraged when a
stock's trading volume rises during price upswings and
declines during price dips. That, they say, is a sign of
strong underlying demand.
   Most technicians are intrigued when a stock price goes
flat for a while. If the flattening out follows a significant
drop, then it's a possible "base" for a future advance. If it
follows a long climb it may be a "top," signaling a decline
to come. Many technicians like lengthy bases, viewing them as
a sign that a subsequent advance will be big and sustainable.
   Dick Arms, vice president of Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner in
Albuquerque, N.M., is a technician's technician who devised
the Arms index (also known as the Trading Index, or TRIN), a
market-timing measure shown on most traders' electronic quote
machines. He believes that the market could rally in the next
few days but that stock prices will slide again in May.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average seems to be stuck in a
trading range of 2520 to 2820, Mr. Arms says. "We've been
back and forth in that range three times" since September. If
the industrial average breaks out of that range, he fears it
may be on the downside: He worries that the "wide sideways"
action of the average since October 1989 may represent a top.
   His favorite chart right now is that of Unisys, a computer
maker that "has been a dog for a long time," Mr. Arms says.
But now investors are "accumulating the stock. People are
sneaking into it." After a "climactic" decline in November on
heavy volume, he says, Unisys has been building a base.
   Lately, Unisys has shown increasing volume on advances,
Mr. Arms says, and "each time it dipped down, you get light
volume on those dips." Accordingly, he believes the stock,
which closed yesterday at 14 1/8 down 1/8, is poised to rise
into the low to mid-20s. Other charts that are "looking good"
to Mr. Arms are those of Merrill Lynch (at 21 3/4, down 5/8
yesterday), American Express (26 5/8 down 1/4) and Ralston
Purina (84 3/8 up 1 1/4).
   But he doesn't like the look of Tandem Computers, or of
energy stocks such as Chevron, Amoco and Halliburton. "It
looks as though {energy stocks} have run into resistance and
have topped," he says. Tandem had a nice long ride from March
1989 to March 1990, roughly doubling in price. But it
declined on heavy volume in April, and rally attempts since
have been unimpressive.
   Alfred Goldman, director of technical market analysis at
A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis, also predicts a
"trading-range" market. His favorite chart at the moment
belongs to General Electric.
   GE shares ran up in November and December, rising to 67
from 53. After such a run-up, Mr. Goldman says, weaker issues
usually face heavy profit-taking. But strong issues
consolidate and "work off their overbought condition." That's
just what GE has been doing, he says, "consolidating in the
60 to 66 range" for the past four months.
   Recently GE shares have been strong compared with other
stocks, and Mr. Goldman now thinks they may rise to around
73. GE closed yesterday at 64 5/8, up 1/4.
   Mr. Goldman's least favorite chart is Coca-Cola's. "Coke
worries me for a couple of reasons," he says. "The shares
doubled in 1989. It was one of 1989's biggest winners.
Frequently, last year's winners are the new year's hate
objects." Besides that, he says, the shares look "tired and
toppy," with a reduction in volume on advances and a pickup
in volume on declines. Coca-Cola closed unchanged at 77
yesterday.
   Straying into fundamental analysis for a minute, Mr.
Goldman says Coke shares "were overbulled," partly on
prospects of sales to Eastern Europe. But he thinks such
business will develop only gradually. "Are people going to be
buying Coca-Colas or are they going to be buying toilet
paper?" he asks.
   Mr. Weinstein, the most bearish of the three, is
"extremely negative" on the market outlook for the next three
to six months. One thing that discourages him is the
advance-decline line, a cumulative count of stocks setting
new 52-week highs minus stocks setting new lows.
   A week ago, the advance-decline lines for the New York
Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, and Nasdaq
over-the-counter market all closed at new 1990 lows, he says,
and the latter two were at levels below those prevailing
after the 1987 crash. "This isn't {just} the market talking
to us. It's screaming," he says.
   Another bearish sign: a string of several days in which
the Dow Jones Industrial Average was near a high, but the
tally of individual new lows outnumbered that of new highs.
In the past two decades, Mr. Weinstein says, that situation
has previously arisen only in 1973, 1981 and 1987 -- each
time before a big market decline.
   Mr. Weinstein expects a little rally to around 2,700 on
the Dow. "I would say thank you very much, and sell into it,"
he says. He then expects the average to drop below 2600, and
warns that if it falls below 2520 he sees no real support
until below 2300.
   Among the most vulnerable stocks, he believes, are
insurance issues, particularly General Re and American
International Group. "I would sell all insurance stocks," he
advises.
   But even Mr. Weinstein has a few charts that look good to
him, notably Oakwood Homes and Clayton Homes. "The mobile
home sector is coming to life," he says. "After getting
bombed," his index of mobile-home stocks has "formed a base,
and recently moved above its 30-week moving average," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Normal Schedules Resume
   At Ontario Assembly Sites
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Work resumed on normal schedules at General Motors Corp.'s
three vehicle assembly plants in Oshawa, Ontario, after some
workers walked off the job on Tuesday and Wednesday.
   The Canadian Auto Workers union employees left work to
protest the suspension of a local union leader by GM. But CAW
President Bob White called the walkout a violation of union
policies and urged the workers to return to their jobs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GM said it lost about 5 1/2 shifts of production, or about
30,000 cars and trucks, because of the work stoppage. The
auto maker assembles Buick Regal and Chevrolet Lumina
midsized cars as well as pickup trucks at the three Oshawa
plants.
   The auto maker called the strike illegal and met with the
Ontario labor relations board yesterday to discuss the
problem.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Court Throws Out
   Main Charge in Suit
   Filed Against CBOT
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A federal court threw out the primary count of
a farmer group's suit alleging that the Chicago Board of
Trade acted illegally last summer when it ordered Ferruzzi
Finanziaria S.p.A to sell much of its soybean holdings.
   The July order, made in an effort to block the Italian
conglomerate from what board officials have argued was an
attempt to corner the soybean market, sent soybean prices
plunging.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The farmer group, known as American Agriculture Movement,
said in a November suit that CBOT "manipulation" of the price
caused damages of more than $100 million.
   The court said in its ruling that the board's action
didn't violate the Commodities Exchange Act. It also said it
found "persuasive" the CBOT's arguments to have the remaining
three counts dismissed, but the court said a different legal
move -- a request for a summary judgment as opposed to the
motion for dismissal -- would be required. The remaining
counts allege CBOT violated the Sherman Antitrust Act and
other common-law strictures. American Agriculture Movement
couldn't be reached for comment.
   The CBOT's July action has already been reviewed and
cleared by the federal Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sun Microsystems
   Posts 18% Increase
   In 3rd-Quarter Net
   ----
   By William Celis III
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Sun Microsystems Inc., continuing
to contain costs while improving margins, posted an 18% rise
in third-quarter earnings, generally better than analysts had
expected.
   The maker of high-performance desktop computers said net
income in the quarter ended March 30 rose to $36.7 million,
or 40 cents a share, from $31 million, or 38 cents a share, a
year earlier. Revenue increased 27% to $632.2 million from
$497.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sun attributed the increased earnings to a host of
factors, including improved inventory management and tighter
financial controls instituted in recent quarters. The
company, whose margins in the past deteriorated because of
heavy spending, said it had a gross profit margin of 46%, its
highest in 18 months.
   "In most respects, it was a superlative performance," said
Peter Rogers, an analyst with Robertson Stephens &amp; Co., San
Francisco. "The company outdid itself."
   With this quarter, analysts said the company has largely
put behind it the problems of last summer when Sun stumbled
on a major product transition, had difficulty in obtaining
enough parts to build and ship new products and difficulties
with a new management-information system.
   Still bothering some industry observers, however, is the
unevenness of domestic markets. Sluggish capital spending has
resulted in low or declining U.S. sales for many computer
concerns. Sun, for instance, said that more than 50% of its
business in the quarter was generated by European and Asian
orders. A Sun spokeswoman said the continuing sluggishness
would result in a modest fourth quarter in U.S. markets, but
that the firm doesn't expect that to hurt overall
fourth-quarter results.
   Buoyed by the earnings report, which exceeded Wall Street
estimates of 30 cents to 35 cents a share, several analysts
boosted their expectations for the year. Mr. Rogers, for
instance, said he raised his estimate to $1.20 a share from
$1.10 a share.
   For the nine months, the company said net declined 23% to
$62.1 million, or 70 cents a share, from $81.1 million, or $1
a share. Revenue rose 32% to $1.77 billion compared with
$1.33 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Soybean Futures Prices Keep Climbing on Signs
   Of Weak Brazil Harvest Amid Strong Demand
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Prices of soybean futures contracts soared for the second
consecutive day yesterday amid signs of problems with the
crucial Brazilian harvest, which is about half complete.
   Some U.S. crop analysts have cut by 5% their projections
of the Brazilian harvest, which has been slowed by rainfall.
At the same time, the confusion caused by the Brazilian
government's stiff anti-inflation program appears to be
disrupting that country's exports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brazil and the U.S. are the two largest exporters of
soybeans. Brazil supplies much of the world's needs this time
of year. U.S. exports pick up after its harvest in September
and October.
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of the
soybean contract for July delivery jumped 16.25 cents a
bushel to settle at $6.425 a bushel.
   The problems in Brazil come at a time when demand is
growing in Europe and the U.S. for soybeans and soybean meal.
European demand for soybean meal as an ingredient in
livestock feed is strong partly because it is cheaper than
corn. In the U.S., cattle and poultry numbers are increasing.
   "The important fact is that world demand for meal and
beans is excellent," said Mickey J. Luth, an analyst at
Shearson Lehman Hutton, Chicago. "The sales and harvest in
South America are too slow to allow that demand to be met."
   The anti-inflation program by the Brazilian government
"has muddied the waters" for farmers there, Mr. Luth said. In
short, growers are holding onto their crops because they are
confused about how the program will affect prices and
currency exchange rates. That, in turn, is crimping the
supply of soybeans available for processing and export.
   One sign of a tightening of export supplies is the hectic
trading at Rotterdam, the port that handles much of the crops
shipped into northern Europe. According to analysts,
importers there are scrambling to find soybean meal because
of concerns that shipments from Brazil will be delayed.
   Some analysts also are trimming the size of the harvest in
Brazil.
   Mario Balletto, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, New York,
said that delays in the harvest because of rainy weather are
increasing the chances that production could slip to about 19
million metric tons.
   Earlier this month, the U.S. Agriculture Department cut
its estimate of the Brazilian soybean harvest to 20 million
metric tons from the 20.5 million metric tons it forecast in
March.
   The rally Wednesday was partly fueled by rumors that the
Soviet Union was interested in buying up to 400,000 metric
tons of U.S. soybean meal. The Soviet-related rumors
continued to circulate yesterday.
   The perception, at least, of a tight supply of soybeans
for export from Brazil is making U.S. traders increasingly
jittery about planting conditions in the U.S.
   Although soil in the Midwest is generally in the best
condition of the last two years, a recent spate of
unseasonably warm weather also contributed to the price rise
yesterday by fanning speculation about dry weather. However,
only a fraction of U.S. farmers have begun planting soybeans.
   Prices of corn futures contracts rose slightly. Prices of
most wheat futures contracts also edged higher.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices traded in a narrow range
and ended mixed, as the market turned quiet following
Wednesday's spurt of selling. July delivery platinum, which
led the decline Wednesday, recovered slightly yesterday to
end with a gain of $1.70 an ounce to $473.90. One analyst,
however, observed that the advance wasn't very impressive
following Wednesday's plunge of $22.50 at one point and a
closing loss of $16.60. June delivery gold was off 30 cents
an ounce to $373.30 and May silver was lower by 0.08 cent an
ounce at $4.9140. The trading atmosphere was far less
frenetic than on Wednesday, and the absence of further
selling by producers kept prices from falling sharply again,
the analyst said. Some light demand for platinum bullion
developed from Japan, the analyst said, but there was little
buying interest for gold and silver bullion. Technically, the
analyst noted, Wednesday's heavy trading in precious metals
resulted in what could be a price-depressing factor. Open
interest, or the number of outstanding contracts that must be
nullified by an opposite trade of delivery of a commodity,
rose in all three metals, which indicates a significant
number of new short sellers, or traders who sold contracts
expecting prices to decline. According to another analyst,
John Norris, director of precious metals trading at Citibank,
New York, not only was there a lack of follow-through selling
but also demand was lacking. "And where some demand did
appear, it died out quickly," he said. A further increase in
interest rates, as bond prices fell again, also damped buying
interest in precious metals, Mr. Norris noted.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Liquidation of the April contract, which ceased
trading at the close yesterday, was "orderly," according to
Commodity Exchange spokesman Robert McGrath. The contract
ended trading at $1.35 a pound, up one cent from Wednesday.
Earlier in the day, there were indications that the gap
between available exchange supplies of copper and the number
of April contracts that remained to be satisfied continued to
narrow, leaving a smaller number of contracts to be
liquidated during trading. As the session began, the number
of outstanding contracts dropped by 279 to 557, which is the
equivalent of 6,962 tons, while deliverable exchange
inventories of copper rose 1,975 tons to 6,004 tons. Later in
the day, the exchange revised inventories upward by 615 tons
to 6,619 tons. While the April contract expired without
difficulties, as is usually the case when there is a
disparity between deliverable supplies and outstanding
contracts, the concern about deliveries this time continued
right into the last day. April expired at a 15-cents-a-pound
premium over the May contract, which was unchanged from
Wednesday at $1.20 a pound. The premium reflects a continuing
tightness of immediately available supplies, according to one
analyst, who said: "Let's see what the copper market is going
to do now without the upward pressure of the April contract."
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: World oil prices were mixed but generally lower in
listless trading. Oil analysts said there was little news to
affect the markets. Traders, meanwhile, appeared to be
sitting on the sidelines until after next week's meeting of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which was
called to try to shore up sagging oil prices. In U.S. futures
trading, West Texas Intermediate crude for June delivery
dropped 19 cents a barrel to settle at $18.47. The July crude
contract was down nine cents to $19.08. The crude declines
further weakened gasoline futures, which had already turned
soft earlier in the week. Unleaded gasoline for May delivery
fell 1.26 cents a gallon to settle at 61.34 cents on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. June gasoline was off 0.92 cent to
60.5 cents. Heating oil showed strength, however, at least in
the May and June contracts. May was up 0.67 cent a gallon to
53.07 cents while the June contract rose 0.1 cent to 50.61
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL and USAir Post Quarterly Losses;
   Delta, Southwest Have Slender Profits
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL U DAL LUV
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Four major airlines confirmed predictions of a dismal
March 31 quarter, reporting poor financial results compared
with the year-earlier period.
   UAL Corp. and USAir Group Inc. recorded net losses while
Delta Air Lines and Southwest Airlines each eked out small
profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is the second consecutive quarter that airline results
have plunged. The primary culprit was an unexpected surge in
the cost of aviation fuel.
   UAL said the average price per gallon of fuel in the first
quarter rose to 73.3 cents, compared with 60.7 cents a year
earlier. The company said the rise contributed to a 23% jump
in fuel expense to $386 million from $315 million. Delta said
that fuel expense rose 27% and that it consumed 5% more than
in the year-earlier fiscal third quarter.
   "The thing that just kicked everybody in the pants was
fuel," said Vivian Lee, an airline analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co. She estimated that in some cases fuel costs rose 30% from
a year earlier.
   Comparisons with the year-earlier period also were hurt
because the busy Easter weekend this year didn't come until
after March 31. Last year, airlines also reaped a windfall
because of the strike at Texas Air Corp.'s Eastern Airlines.
Even with its return, however, Eastern hasn't recaptured that
many passengers, particularly the high-paying business
traveler who is the meat-and-potatoes flier for most
carriers.
   Carriers attempted to boost their financial performance
this year by raising fares several times, but the increases
apparently didn't offset the higher cost of fuel. USAir also
said it was hurt by the number of free tickets it shelled out
under its frequent-flier program.
   UAL, parent company of United Airlines, had a loss of
$36.4 million, or $1.68 a share, compared with year-earlier
profit of $65.4 million, or $3.03 cents a share.
   The Chicago-based carrier was particularly hurt by a
one-time, nonoperating charge of a $77.5 million settlement
it paid to Texas Air's Continental Airlines unit. The
settlement covered several lawsuits in which United was
charged with unfairly competing in the computer-reservation
business.
   Revenue rose 8.1% to $2.52 billion from $2.33 billion. At
a shareholders' meeting, UAL Chairman Stephen M. Wolf said he
was "clearly disappointed" by the results. Without the
one-time charge, results would have still been poor, he said.
   UAL stock fell 25 cents yesterday to close at $152.50 a
share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   USAir reported a first-quarter loss of $38 million, or
$1.05 a share, compared with net of $15.5 million, or 35
cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue barely increased to
$1.54 billion from $1.48 billion.
   Jack T. Ciesielski, an airline analyst at Legg Mason Wood
Walker Inc. in Baltimore, said improvements in on-time
performance and pilot scheduling kept USAir's results from
looking worse. Problems in both areas hampered the carrier
through the fourth quarter.
   USAir stock rose 25 cents to close at $27.50 in
yesterday's Big Board trading.
   Although both Delta and Southwest reported profits,
earnings were sharply down from a year earlier.
   Delta said net income fell 63% to $31.3 million, or 48
cents a share, from $85 million, or $1.73 a share, a year
earlier. Like its competitors, Delta blamed the decrease
primarily on the soaring cost of jet fuel. But the carrier
acknowledged it would be hard-pressed to match the
year-earlier numbers, when traffic was inflated by the strike
at Eastern that sent travelers scurrying to Delta.
   Still, Delta was able to increase its revenue 4% to $2.12
billion from $2.04 billion. Strong business traffic, higher
fares and more cargo business helped keep revenue high, said
Thomas Roeck, Delta's chief financial officer.
   In the first nine months, Delta net fell 15% to $228.7
million, or $4.15 a share, from $270.1 million, or $5.49 a
share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 9.8% to $6.34 billion
from $5.78 billion.
   In the quarter, Delta bought back 2,988,200 common shares
for $202.3 million, bringing the total number of shares
bought back to 6,255,662, at a total cost of $438.8 million.
Last year, in an effort to make a takeover of the company
more difficult, Delta placed 14% of its shares in an employee
stock option plan and sold 5% stakes each to friendly
carriers, Singapore Airlines and Swissair.
   Delta stock rose $1.125 a share yesterday to close at $74
in Big Board composite trading.
   Southwest's first-quarter net fell 74% to $5.1 million, or
18 cents a share, from $19.6 million, or 64 cents a share, a
year earlier. Dallas-based Southwest said higher fuel prices
pushed its operating expenses up 21.7%.
   In addition, the carrier said profit was further squeezed
by a decrease in nonoperating gains of $7.2 million. The
first quarter of 1989 was a record for Southwest.
   Still, revenue rose 14% to $260.6 million from $229.4
million.
   In a statement, Herbert D. Kelleher, Southwest's chairman,
president and chief executive officer, said he was grateful
"to report even a meager first-quarter profit." He called the
most recent period "one of the most difficult quarters in the
history of the airline industry."
   Southwest's stock rose 25 cents yesterday to close at
$24.25 a share in Big Board trading.
   AMR Corp., American Airlines' parent and the first carrier
to release March 31 quarter results, set the tone for the
industry last week when it reported a $19.3 million loss.
   Of the major airline holding companies, only Pan Am Corp.
and Texas Air have yet to report results. They aren't
expected to buck the industry trend; analysts figure their
results will disclose big first-quarter losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Robert Campeau to Repay Loans in Deal
   To Regain Control of His Troubled Firm
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC T.NA
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Robert Campeau has worked out a deal to regain
control of his troubled retail and real-estate empire.
   The embattled chairman of Campeau Corp. agreed to pay his
major personal creditor, Montreal-based National Bank of
Canada, 80 million Canadian dollars (US$68.9 million) to
retire C$153 million of personal loans, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
repayment works out to about 52 cents on the dollar.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, if Mr. Campeau pays C$40 million by
May 31, National Bank will return Campeau securities it
seized from him in January. The bank had registered shares
and convertible debentures representing 18.9 million Campeau
common shares, or a 37.7% fully diluted stake in the company,
when it said that Mr. Campeau had missed interest payments on
the C$153 million of debt.
   The filing didn't indicate the source of Mr. Campeau's
financing for the transaction, or whether he has obtained the
necessary funds. The seizure by National Bank decreased his
fully diluted stake in Campeau to about 21% from 43%.
   If Mr. Campeau regains those securities, he again will be
the largest shareholder in the company. The Reichmann
family's Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd. currently has a
38.4% fully diluted interest in Campeau. Olympia &amp; York
officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   The agreement between National Bank and Mr. Campeau also
stipulates that he will pay another C$40 million plus
interest after U.S. bankruptcy courts approve the
restructuring of Campeau's retailing units, Federated
Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp. Federated and
Allied sought protection from creditors in January under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and it could take
many months for the units to emerge from the proceedings. Mr.
Campeau must make the second C$40 million payment by Jan. 31,
1992 or National Bank will take back C$60.4 million of
Campeau convertible debentures.
   The agreement between National Bank and Mr. Campeau could
mean that he has the funds to settle the loans or has found a
financial backer. A spokesman for the Reichmanns said they
don't have any connection with financing related to Mr.
Campeau's accord with National Bank. Lawyers for Mr. Campeau
and National Bank declined to comment.
   In February, two other Canadian banks sued Mr. Campeau
because he missed payments on personal loans totaling C$39.2
million. Those banks declined to say whether Mr. Campeau has
approached them with a proposal to repay the debt.
   Lawyers close to the banks' court actions against Mr.
Campeau speculated that his agreement with the National Bank
might be an attempt to settle with all the banks for less
than full value of the loans.
   The Campeau securities that National Bank would return to
Mr. Campeau include 13 million common shares, the C$60.4
million of convertible debentures and four million preference
shares. The securities would be held by a holding company
controlled by the Campeau family. Mr. Campeau's stake in the
real estate and retailing concern includes about 3.6 million
shares held in trust for his son Jacques and daughter
Rachelle. Mr. Campeau previously sued them to retain voting
control over the shares. Jacques Campeau didn't know about
the agreement between his father and National Bank, a lawyer
said. Campeau Corp. has about 44.3 million shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Declined in April 14 Week
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 348,000
in the week ended April 14 from 371,000 in the previous week,
the Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended April 7 was a seasonally adjusted 2,302,000,
or 2.2% of those covered by unemployment insurance, down from
2,375,000 in the previous week, when the insured unemployment
rate was 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended April 7 fell to 2,560,300 from 2,728,000 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Transamerica Corp.:
   Quarterly Net Fell Slightly
   Despite Finance-Area Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Transamerica Corp., whose 10% gain in its finance sector
was offset by flat results or losses in other operations,
said first-quarter net income slipped slightly to $70.3
million, or 88 cents a share, from $70.9 million, or 89 cents
a share.
   The San Francisco-based financial services and insurance
concern said that sales in the quarter ended March 31
increased nearly 2% to $1.63 billion from $1.60 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transamerica said earnings improved in its finance
operations, which includes consumer and commercial lending,
leasing and real estate services, but there was some weakness
in other business lines. The company had $5.3 million in
after-tax, weather-related catastrophe insurance losses,
primarily in the personal and commercial divisions, and there
was softness in the marine and recreational-vehicle rental
markets.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Transamerica's shares closed at $34.875, down 37.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comex's Staloff Steps Down as Chief,
   President After Nine Months on the Job
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a setback for the Commodity Exchange,
Arnold F. Staloff resigned as president and chief executive
officer after only nine months on the job.
   Mr. Staloff is one of the most well-regarded executives in
the futures and options industry. When he was plucked from
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange in July to head the Comex,
the 45-year-old Mr. Staloff was heralded as someone who could
rejuvenate the languishing Comex by introducing new futures
and options products, his specialty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in recent months, according to Comex traders and
others familiar with the situation, Mr. Staloff's relations
with Comex's trader leadership, including Chairman Martin
Greenberg, increasingly soured. "It was one thing after
another," said one person close to Mr. Staloff. Mr. Staloff
couldn't be reached to comment.
   Traders say Mr. Staloff's resignation stemmed from the
type of power play that has long been common at New York's
futures exchanges. The resignation consolidates the power of
Mr. Greenberg, who has held the chairmanship for just over a
month and is the president of Sterling Commodities Corp., a
futures brokerage firm. Mr. Greenberg has privately expressed
his displeasure with Mr. Staloff, several traders said. And
Mr. Staloff resigned under pressure, they said. Mr. Greenberg
declined to comment through a Comex spokesman. Mr. Staloff's
resignation is expected to be announced today.
   For years, the biggest problem at the Comex, the nation's
fourth-largest futures exchange and the biggest
precious-metals marketplace, has been its failure to develop
innovative futures products to match the big Chicago
exchanges.
   While the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange launched wildly successful
financial-futures contracts in the 1980s, such as stock-index
futures and Treasury-bond futures, the Comex hasn't had a
successful new product since gold futures were developed in
the 1970s.
   Mr. Staloff's departure casts a further cloud over the
future of the Comex. For several years the exchange has been
losing market share to the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
nation's leading oil-trading marketplace. With Mr. Staloff's
departure, the Comex faces a leadership vacuum. Since
mid-1989, the exchange has lost other key leaders, including
longtime chairman and president Alan Brody and his successor
as chairman, John Hanemann. Earlier this year, Mr. Hanemann's
successor, Robert Fink, declined to run for a second term.
   Mr. Staloff isn't the only recent departure at the Comex.
Arthur Kaufman, the head of marketing appointed by Mr.
Staloff, left the exchange several weeks ago after less than
six months on the job, according to exchange officials.
   Although it is the world's major gold, silver and copper
futures exchange, the Comex is a distant fourth in size
behind the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Merc and the
New York Merc. Among the failures in new products at the
Comex was last year's scuttling of plans to start a
diamond-futures contract. Some traders had thought Mr.
Staloff could turn the Comex's fortunes around.
   A 16-year veteran of the Philadelphia exchange, Mr.
Staloff created the first foreign-currency options and
developed the exchange's computerized trading system. His
reputation was so strong, in fact, that when he joined the
Comex, he was called "a financial sector all-star" by
then-chairman Mr. Hanemann.
   Comex traders and people close to Mr. Staloff said they
weren't shocked that Mr. Staloff didn't mesh with the trader
leaders at the Comex. He was apparently ill-prepared for the
exchange's politically charged atmosphere, a person close to
him said. In an interview shortly after his appointment, Mr.
Staloff said he disdained sniping. "I hate it when people
talk behind my back," he said.
   It's understood that Mr. Staloff is weighing several
options for a new job, but Philadelphia exchange officials
couldn't be reached for comment on whether they would offer
him a job.
   Mr. Staloff's resignation leaves James Goodwin second in
command after Mr. Greenberg. Mr. Goodwin, who has served as
the exchange's compliance officer, currently is an executive
vice president.
   It's unclear how Mr. Staloff's resignation will affect the
negotiations between the Comex and New York Merc for a
proposed merger. In January, the boards of the two exchanges
tentatively agreed on a merger plan, but discussions have
stalled recently, traders said.
   With trading volume sluggish, the price of a Comex seat
has slumped in recent weeks, falling 35% to $90,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alcan Aluminium Ltd.:
   Rights Program to Deter
   Any Unwanted Bids Clears
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AL
</CO>
<LP>
   Alcan Aluminium Ltd. shareholders at the annual meeting
approved a holder rights plan, with the results indicating
many big holders voted against the plan.
   More than 14,000 holders voted 82.7 million shares, or
about 54.1% of those tallied, in favor of the plan, while the
68.4 million shares, or 44.7%, that were voted against it had
just 734 holders. Of the total cast, 1.2% didn't indicate
"yes" or "no."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's a violent reaction amongst institutional
investors" to holder rights plans, said David Morton, Alcan
chairman and chief executive officer. After the meeting, he
said the vote shows "the small shareholder is happy" with
Alcan's plan. He said the votes against the plan represent
institutional investors' "philosophical concerns" with such
plans, designed to make unwanted takeover bids prohibitively
expensive.
   Under Alcan's plan, rights attached to common shares allow
holders to acquire authorized but unissued stock at half the
market price, under certain conditions, including a person or
group's acquiring at least 20% of the shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Volume Lags as Traders Await Report
   On GNP; Stockholder Systems Up 51%
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter investors played their cards close to the
vest as they waited for today's quarterly report on the gross
national product, traders said.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index closed up 0.50 at 421.06, a
0.1% gain. Volume remained thin at 115.9 million shares, down
from 121.7 million shares. Advancing stocks again outpaced
decliners, 954 to 850. However, 133 shares hit new lows,
outpacing the 81 stocks that reached new highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "A lot of people were sidelined waiting for the GNP
numbers," said Mitch Meisler, director of OTC marketing for
Shearson Lehman Hutton. Mr. Meisler, who said he continues to
think that the stock and bond markets are headed for a rally,
called yesterday's action "sloppy, with no real trends."
   Business among institutional investors picked up at
Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, according to Robert Antolini,
head of the firm's OTC trading department. But he noted that
investors didn't place big bets among the most active stocks,
where prices were relatively stable. Among the most heavily
traded issues, Apple was up 1/8 at 38 7/8; Intel was up 1/4
at 40; Sun Microsystems gained 3/8 to 23; MCI Communications
rose 5/8 to 35 3/8; and Seagate Technology rose 1/4 to 11.
   Smaller investors continued to stay away from the market,
Mr. Antolini said. "It's the state of the securities business
at the moment," he explained. "Most of the retail orders now
have their money in mutual funds and let other people make
their decisions for them."
   Stockholder Systems of Norcross, Ga., was the day's
biggest gainer. Shares of the marketer of financial software
soared 51% to 14 after the company said it agreed to be
acquired by Nynex, the New York-based Baby Bell company.
Under a pooling transaction, each Stockholder Systems share
will be exchanged for one share of Nynex common worth between
$15 to $16.20.
   Two small biotechnology companies, Centocor and Xoma,
again stepped into the spotlight as debate continued over
which company will benefit the most from competing drugs they
are developing to treat septic shock syndrome.
   Centocor jumped 3 1/2 to 33 1/4 after Kidder Peabody
analyst Robert Kupor upgraded his investment opinion on the
biotechnology company to an "aggressive buy" from a "hold."
Mr. Kupor said in an interview that he thinks Centocor's
Centoxin will be used by far more doctors to treat septic
shock syndrome than a competing drug, Xomen-E5, developed by
Berkeley, Calif.-based Xoma, whose shares fell 1 1/8 to 18
3/4.
   Calling Centoxin far more effective in treating later,
deadlier stages of the syndrome, Mr. Kupor said he now thinks
the company will eventually capture about 75% of a world-wide
market for the drugs that he estimates will be $1 billion.
The analyst raised his earnings outlook for the Malvern,
Penn.-based company, and now expects Centocor to earn $1.45 a
share in 1991, $3.85 a share in 1992 and $5 a share in 1993.
   However, Shearson's Mr. Meisler said that firm's
biotechnology analyst, Teena L. Lerner, continues to think
that Xoma will come out on top in competition with Centocor.
   Phoenix-based Aztar was a newcomer among the most-actives.
Nearly 1.1 million of the casino operator's shares traded, or
about three times average volume; it closed up 3/8 at 6 3/8.
Paul E. Rubeli, president and chief executive, said in an
interview that the company expects to report a first-quarter
revenue gain of about 5.5%. Recently spun off from Ramada,
Aztar said casino revenues were up about 9% for the quarter.
   Aldus climbed 2 1/2 to 20. The Seattle, Wash., maker of
desktop publishing software reported net income for the first
quarter ended March 30 of 27 cents a share, down from 33
cents a year earlier. The earnings were no worse than
expected, one market maker said. He explained that shares had
been under pressure because of fears of especially
disappointing figures.
   Shares of Star States dove 33.3% to 3 1/2. The Wilmington,
Del., thrift holding company told shareholders Wednesday that
it expects to post a loss of $3.7 million in the first
quarter and will indefinitely suspend its regular quarterly
dividend of 10 cents a share, according to Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   First Constitution Financial of New Haven, Conn., tumbled
5/8 to 3 7/8 after canceling merger talks with GHKM Investor
Group. The thrift also suspended its dividend payments and
reported a loss for the first quarter ended March 31 of $3.60
a share, compared with net income of 40 cents a share a year
earlier. The quarter includes a $80.6-million provision for
loan losses.
   Concurrent Computer's shares fell 1/4 to 2 1/8 after the
Tinton Falls, N.J., company reported that "difficult market
conditions" might make it tough for Concurrent "to match our
third-quarter results" reported yesterday. Net income for the
third quarter, ended March 31, was one cent a share, compared
with a loss of 49 cents a year earlier, which included
extraordinary items.
   Shares of Infotron Systems dropped 1/2 to 5 after the
Cherry Hill, N.J., maker of data communications equipment
reported a loss for the first quarter ended March 31 of $1.41
a share, compared with year-earlier net income of 20 cents a
share.
   ---
   OTC BULLETIN BOARD: The Securities and Exchange Commission
is expected to approve today a long-awaited automated
quotation system for thinly traded stocks, SEC officials
said.
   Known as the OTC Bulletin Board, the system has been
awaiting SEC approval for two years.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory body for the OTC market, created the new
system to supervise better the trading and pricing of the
11,000 small stocks, so-called Pink Sheet stocks, that aren't
part of the Nasdaq computer system. The Nasdaq system gives
up-to-the-minute quotes on more than 4,000 OTC securities.
But the small stocks' quotes have been available just once a
day, either electronically or printed in the Pink Sheets by
the National Quotation Bureau, a unit of Commerce Clearing
House Inc., Riverwoods, Ill.
   The OTC Bulletin Board will provide intraday bid and asked
quotes on the smaller stocks. It is expected to be operating
by early summer, NASD officials said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Troika:
   Three Free-Marketeers
   Shape Bush's Domestic
   And Economic Policy
   ---
   Sununu, Darman and Boskin
   Often Slow Cabinet Plans
   For Federal Intervention
   ---
   Ex-Im Bank Gets the Word
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- One by one, cabinet officials have shuffled
through the heavy wooden doors leading to the West Wing of
the White House to learn, sometimes painfully, about the
troika that really controls domestic policy in the Bush
administration.
   These power brokers are the Bush administration's three
free-marketeers: John Sununu, the rumpled
engineer-turned-politician who is White House chief of staff;
Richard Darman, the consummate Washington operator who is
budget director; and Michael Boskin, the professorial
economist who is chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Together, these three have effectively shaped a social and
economic philosophy for George Bush, a president whose true
passion is foreign policy. They have been able to do so both
because they are in sync with the president's general
instincts on domestic affairs and because they know that the
way to please the gentlemanly Mr. Bush is to win debates
quietly, without allowing them to become public spectacles.
   Under their approach, economic growth is the holy grail,
free markets are sacrosanct and free trade is the American
mantra. They constitute a powerful "blocking coalition" that
swats down proposals at odds with this philosophy, says
William Niskanen, an economist in the Reagan White House who
now heads the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank.
Together they have thwarted Commerce Department schemes to
aid the high-definition television business, curbed the
Transportation Department's interest in restricting foreign
investment in airlines, and been instrumental in steering the
administration away from again formally citing Japan this
year as an unfair trader.
   Yet in an important twist on Reagan-era conservatism, the
troika isn't reflexively anti-government. The three endorse
government intervention in selected cases; to help working
parents with child-care costs and to expand rights of the
disabled, for instance.
   "These are people who believe problems can be fixed and
believe government can be brought to bear to fix them . . .
that all it takes is the right brains and right political
skills," says Deborah Steelman, a former Bush campaign policy
adviser who is now a Washington lawyer.
   And for all their hand-wringing about the budget deficit,
Messrs. Sununu, Darman and Boskin also agree that government
should spend more on basic research and development that is
too esoteric or expensive for the private sector.
   A few weeks ago, for instance, Energy Secretary James
Watkins and Deputy Secretary Henson Moore were called to Mr.
Sununu's office to meet with him and Mr. Darman to discuss
estimates that a giant new atom smasher in Texas probably
would cost $8 billion, $2 billion more than previously
estimated. At the meeting, Mr. Sununu asked lots of questions
about the design. Mr. Darman, his budget knife sheathed,
volunteered that the "supercollider" didn't crowd out
spending for other research. Their verdict was to plunge
ahead. "Pure science has to be provided for," Mr. Sununu
explains.
   But the troika's priorities sometimes appall some
Democrats. Rep. Richard Durbin of Illinois was taken aback at
a congressional hearing when Mr. Darman flatly declared that
he would rather take budget cuts in housing than in space
programs. "As far as I'm concerned, the Bush rhetoric about
kinder and gentler hasn't translated into the shifts of
funding I'd like to see," Rep. Durbin says.
   The Sununu-Darman-Boskin axis first formed during Mr.
Bush's presidential campaign, when they were among a select
group called to his Maine home for a June 1988 brainstorming
session. They had lunch together, found themselves
philosophically attuned and stayed in touch. "Campaigns tend
to bind," Mr. Sununu says. "People go through a tough time
together." These days, the informal axis accomplishes much of
its work in the dozens of unpublicized meetings and informal
hallway conversations in which the Bush administration makes
important decisions.
   The three aren't absolute equals. Messrs. Sununu and
Darman, whose jobs give them levers to control day-to-day
decisions, wield more raw power. Mr. Boskin stands out as the
first chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers to have
the president's ear since Alan Greenspan in the Ford years.
They also differ in temperament. Mr. Darman is often ruthless
with his staff; Mr. Sununu is considerate to his staff but
can be nasty to others; Mr. Boskin is relentlessly polite.
   The three share an academic background that each cites in
explaining their relationship. Mr. Sununu was an engineering
professor at Tufts University before he became governor of
New Hampshire. Mr. Darman taught at Harvard between stints in
the Ford and Reagan administrations. Mr. Boskin is on leave
from a teaching job at Stanford. Academia instilled in them a
common love for verbal jousting that they find stimulating,
but that colleagues sometimes find grating or arrogant.
   Mr. Darman's debating techniques were particularly evident
during internal arguments over the new Clean Air bill, which
he considered grossly expensive. One official recalls Mr.
Darman reading aloud from a government report on health
effects of smog: "Prolonged exposure can result in . . .," he
read, then paused dramatically. ". . . Coughing."
   The Export-Import Bank got a vivid lesson in how the three
operate earlier this year when it prepared a plan to help
exporters by subsidizing interest rates on commercial bank
loans already guaranteed by the federal government. Mr.
Darman was appalled at what he considered to be an
unwarranted dollop of government aid for business. He alerted
Mr. Sununu, Mr. Boskin and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady,
whose personal friendship with the president makes him a
valuable ally on occasion.
   When Ex-Im Bank Vice Chairman Eugene Lawson formally
proposed the plan at a cabinet-level meeting at the White
House, Mr. Darman pounced. He delivered a withering critique,
objecting both to the concept and to what he saw as a
transparent scheme to circumvent restraints on the federal
budget. Mr. Boskin chimed in, echoing the Darman arguments.
Others at the table whose departments had once supported the
scheme quickly backed away. Mr. Lawson was sent back to the
Ex-Im Bank with orders to reconsider.
   The bonds between Mr. Sununu and Mr. Darman are
particularly tight. Mr. Sununu clearly is Mr. Bush's closest
aide, seeing him at the start and close of every business day
and often personally negotiating with Congress on sensitive
legislation.
   Mr. Darman, in turn, is Mr. Sununu's closest ally. The two
meet informally at about 7:15 every morning in Mr. Sununu's
office, and then talk as frequently as two dozen times a day.
Their collaboration is so constant it sometimes spills into
their social lives. Mr. Sununu was unhappy several weeks ago
with remarks the Environmental Protection Agency had prepared
for a presidential speech on global warming, fearing they
suggested that Mr. Bush was willing to force drastic cutbacks
in American use of coal and petroleum products to cut carbon
dioxide emissions.
   So Mr. Sununu rewrote sections of the speech himself. At a
birthday party that night for Vice President Dan Quayle, he
slipped a copy of the edited version to Mr. Darman at the
dinner table. The budget director penciled in a few changes
of his own, and their version was sent to the president.
   Mr. Boskin, meanwhile, has transformed his post, which had
atrophied into irrelevance, into a potent force, largely by
cultivating close ties to President Bush himself. Mr. Boskin
sends the president a personal memo on some aspect of the
economy virtually every night, and Mr. Bush sometimes
responds with a handwritten note or by calling Mr. Boskin at
his Georgetown home. When the president invited tennis stars
John McEnroe and Andre Agassi to his private quarters at the
White House, he made a spur-of-the-moment call to Mr. Boskin,
a regular Bush tennis partner, to come over.
   Mr. Boskin shares with his partners a strong dislike for
grand government plans that they think smack of the kind of
centralized planning that socialist economies now are
abandoning. Recently, he learned through an aide of a report
the Energy Department was drafting on public hearings it had
held as it draws up a national energy policy. He concluded
that, among other things, the draft Energy Department
document didn't adequately stress the Bush administration's
determination to rely mainly on market forces rather than
regulatory schemes or subsidies to ensure energy supplies.
   So he raised a red flag at one of the daily meetings Mr.
Sununu holds for senior White House staffers. Mr. Darman and
Mr. Sununu shared his worries, and the three ordered aides to
revamp the opening section of the report, ensuring that the
word "market" appeared three times in one early paragraph and
striking entirely seven "action items" declaring a national
consensus behind policies the administration hadn't yet
debated.
   Of course, the Sununu-Darman-Boskin trio isn't always in
agreement. Mr. Darman battled more vigorously than the other
two against parts of the administration's Clean Air bill; he
and Mr. Boskin also argued that Mr. Bush should criticize the
bill passed by the Senate for deviating from an agreed-to
compromise.
   Mr. Sununu brokered a solution. Posing for photos with
Senate leaders, Mr. Bush made a little-noticed statement
congratulating the Senate leaders for "a major step forward,"
but pointedly termed their bill "only a first step" toward
striking a balance between environmental benefits and
economic costs.
   Conservatives generally applaud troika philosophies but
sometimes are unhappy with the willingness to negotiate at
all in such cases. On issues such as clean air, "what happens
is, the Bush proposal becomes the bottom line for bargaining
with Congress," and the outcome is inevitably more expensive,
says Mr. Niskanen.
   Combined, the Sununu-Darman-Boskin axis is more powerful
on domestic issues than any single cabinet officer, even an
old presidential friend such as Commerce Secretary Robert
Mosbacher. On high-definition TV, for instance, Mr. Mosbacher
wanted government help for manufacturers so they could
compete better against the Japanese. But after being summoned
to a meeting in Mr. Sununu's office, the secretary backed
down. Under the policy consensus that emerged, the
administration supports removing obstacles to private
businesses in general but opposes "the government picking out
a specific industry or different firms for favors," Mr.
Boskin says.
   While the troika's authority hasn't been formalized, it
has by now been noticed by many cabinet officers, who try to
avoid proposals that run afoul of the gospel. Transportation
Secretary Samuel Skinner, for instance, unintentionally set
off alarms in the White House last fall when he forced a
cutback in a planned foreign investment in Northwest Airlines
and seemed to say he wanted more power over debt-financed
airline mergers. After a series of meetings with the troika,
though, Mr. Skinner did an about-face, rejecting proposed
legislation on airline mergers that he once appeared to
endorse.
   He also seemed to learn from the experience. Later, when
Mr. Skinner's department was drafting a national
transportation plan, most differences with the White House
were carefully resolved to Mr. Darman's satisfaction at lower
levels -- and Mr. Skinner now is considered a solid "team
player."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Envirosafe Services Inc.:
   Ohio Panel Urges Renewal
   Of Hazardous-Waste Permit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ENVI
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Envirosafe Services Inc., King of Prussia, Pa., said an
adjudication panel in Ohio recommended the state renew the
company's hazardous-waste permit.
   The panel, appointed by the Ohio Hazardous Waste Facility
Board, also recommended to the board that volumes of wastes
accepted for disposal be reduced to a somewhat greater extent
than the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency authorized. For
example, the EPA said Envirosafe's new disposal cell near
Toledo, Ohio, could have a capacity of 3.8 million cubic
yards; but the state panel recommended only 2.2 million cubic
yards, Envirosafe said. The panel's recommendation also would
limit annual waste received by the Toledo site to 300,000
tons, though the limit could be raised later to 350,000 tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Envirosafe said that it doesn't believe the capacity
restrictions are justified and that it will urge the board to
adopt the higher capacities recommended by the federal
agency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston
   Acquires Stake
   In Sealy Corp.
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C22
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Boston Corp. acquired a 40% equity stake in Sealy
Corp., formerly Ohio Mattress Co., in a restructuring of its
ill-fated $457 million bridge loan that became known as "the
burning bed."
   First Boston, a unit of CS First Boston Inc., plans to use
the equity in an eventual attempt to resell the debt to
investors in the battered market for high-risk, high-yield
junk bonds. But the timing of that new sale remains
uncertain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first attempt to refinance the temporary bridge loan,
which enabled the leveraged buy-out firm of Gibbons, Green,
van Amerongen to acquire Ohio Mattress for about $965 million
a year ago, flopped last August just before the junk-bond
market collapsed. The loan then became one of many "hung
bridges" that Wall Street couldn't refinance.
   First Boston acquired the equity stake from Gibbons Green
and other holders in exchange for converting the bridge loan
into permanent financing at rates lower than those of up to
about 20% that it could have imposed unilaterally under terms
of the bridge.
   The terms reduce the stake of a group led by Gibbons Green
from about 90% to 50% on a fully diluted basis. In the same
restructuring, banks that lent Sealy $465 million agreed to
extend the maturity of some debts falling due in 1990 and
1991. Both Gibbons Green and First Boston also forfeited $17
million in fees they would have received under the original
buy-out terms.
   The agreement set a rate of 14% on $250 million in senior
cash paying notes, and 15.5% on $213 million of subordinated
notes that don't pay cash interest until 1993. Since March,
the senior notes have been held by CS Holding, which owns
44.5% of CS First Boston.
   Despite the extra equity, First Boston faces an uphill
struggle to recover the full amount of the loan because it
probably can't resell the bonds for their full face value
under current market conditions. The interest rates are
modest for junk bonds, and the market for non-cash-paying
bonds remains especially weak.
   However, Sealy chairman Malcolm Candlish said the
restructuring gives the company "financial stability which
will enable management to pursue its business strategy
aggressively." The maker of Sealy and Stearns &amp; Foster
mattresses was renamed Sealy Corp. in March. It reported a
loss of about $25 million for the year ended Nov. 30, 1989,
on sales of $702 million.
   First Boston wouldn't comment on whether it expects to
recoup its entire bridge-loan investment. The firm made an
unspecified provision last year against possible losses in
its merchant banking activities. David M. Malcolm, head of
the firm's high-yield finance group, said only, "We're very
comfortable with our position."
   The new terms give Sealy only a little breathing room.
Last year, Sealy reported earnings before interest, taxes and
depreciation of $105 million. The new debt structure requires
$81 million in annual cash interest payments, plus non-cash
interest of $33 million annually that comes due in 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.:
   Publishing Firm Had Loss
   Of $72 Million in 1st Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   HBJ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc. said its first-quarter loss
narrowed to $72 million from $116.1 million a year earlier.
   The Orlando, Fla., publishing and insurance company
indicated that the smaller loss was the result of three
factors. First, the publishing division's operating loss
narrowed to $28.7 million from $46.1 million. Second,
interest expense fell to $58.1 million from $87.4 million.
And third, the year-earlier period had a loss from
discontinued operations of $18.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest loss was $1.07 a share compared with $1.80 a
share. Revenue rose 15% to $276.9 million from $241.6
million.
   A Harcourt director said Wednesday that the company is
considering the sale of some of its assets to Thomson Corp.,
a Toronto publishing and travel concern. Officials at
Harcourt confirmed that the company is talking with third
parties about possible asset sales and is considering the
sale of some or all of Harcourt's existing public debt. But
Harcourt wouldn't identify the third parties or indicate what
assets might be sold.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy May Clear Easing
   Of Foreign Exchange
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- The Italian government plans to clear
today a decree that will abolish the country's remaining
foreign exchange restrictions, a senior government official
said.
   Nino Cristofori, undersecretary of the Council of
Ministers, said the cabinet will discuss completion of the
foreign exchange liberalization at its weekly meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move comes two months before the June 30 deadline set
by the European Community Commission to lift all barriers to
international capital flows.
   The decree, which senior monetary sources said is likely
to take effect in two to three weeks, will allow Italians to
open foreign bank accounts and hold foreign currency in
domestic accounts, and it completes a two-year process of
gradual easing of foreign currency controls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MEI Diversified Inc.:
   Candy, Snack Group Assets
   To Be Sold for $58 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MEI J.EZG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEI Diversified Inc., a Minneapolis-based snack and
health-food distributor, said it agreed to sell substantially
all of the assets of its candy and snack group to Ezaki Glico
Co. of Osaka, Japan, for $58 million.
   The sale of the unprofitable operation, which had 1989
sales of $107 million, marks MEI's planned departure from the
candy and snack business, the company said. MEI is "moving
into new directions," a spokesman said. MEI has been seeking
to expand into other fields, and last October agreed to buy
LecTec Corp., a Minneapolis-based medical products maker, for
about $17.6 million; that transaction is pending.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The sale of the candy and snack group, which is expected
to be completed by May 31, won't result in a gain, because
the purchase price approximates the book value of the assets
being sold, the spokesman said. MEI's major shareholders are
the investors Carl Pohlad and Irwin Jacobs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whirlpool Corp.:
   First-Quarter Net Fell 28%;
   Losses in Brazil Are Blamed
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WHR
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whirlpool Corp., hurt by deep losses in its Brazilian
interests, said first-quarter net income fell 28%, despite a
3.8% revenue increase.
   The Benton Harbor, Mich., maker of home appliances
reported net of $29.5 million, or 42 cents a share, down from
$40.7 million, or 59 cents a share, the year earlier. Revenue
rose to $1.64 billion from $1.58 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whirlpool said its "very strong earnings performance" in
the latest period was chilled by a 26-cents-a-share loss from
its equity interest in Brazilian operations; the year-ago
period had a loss of two cents a share from such operations.
   Brazil's economy has been brought to a "temporary
standstill" by recently introduced austerity measures there,
Whirlpool said, adding that there are modest signs of gradual
improvement.
   The company said North American revenue, operating profit
and unit volume rose, and added that it recorded a "solid"
first quarter in its European operations, which continue to
face tight margins.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Whirlpool common closed at $21.375 a share, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MARKETING
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD MO RBK MCD WEN CCB GE CBS JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Brew in One Hand,
   A Petition in the Other
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   DON'T BE FOOLED into thinking Beer Drinkers of America is
just a fun-loving fraternity. It has a shrewd agenda, and
clever backers.
   The three-year-old organization, which is based in Costa
Mesa, Calif., boasts 400,000 members in 30 states and
sponsors activities such as a "Party Smart" educational
program on 500 college campuses. For an annual fee of $10 a
year, members celebrate the camaraderie of imbibing and
receive a quarterly publication called Heads Up.
   But there's more to it than tossing back a few cold ones.
The group is also an aggressive lobbyist. When tax increases
on alcohol are threatened, the organization quickly, and
successfully, mobilizes its members in letter-writing
campaigns. Last year the group fought proposed increases in
beer taxes in New York, New Jersey, Florida and Arizona,
winning all but New York, says Rob Cook, a spokesman for Beer
Drinkers.
   And oh yes, the organization receives about a third of its
funding from beer marketers such as Anheuser-Busch Cos. and
Miller Brewing Co., a unit of Philip Morris Cos.
   That's where critics come in. Bob Reynolds, who heads a
group seeking an increase in California's alcohol taxes, says
that while the organization doesn't deny its ties to beer
marketers, "they're not straightforward about their sources
of funding." In fact, the group's literature doesn't mention
the link.
   "They're just putting a layer of consumers between the
government and the beer industry," adds Patricia Taylor,
director of alcohol policies at the Center for Science in the
Public Interest, a group in Washington.
   Mr. Cook concedes Beer Drinkers depends on money from
brewers, although he says the group is working to wean itself
from industry support. But beer lovers are a beleaguered lot,
who need protection from puritan activists, he says.
"Prohibitionists never went away."
   Brewers are happy for the support they get in return. Says
Stephen Lambright, an Anheuser-Busch vice president, "We
believe Beer Drinkers of America can be helpful in supporting
the right of American consumers to enjoy beer responsibly,
without undue government interference -- especially in the
form of discriminatory excise taxes."
                                                                                                       

   Parking-Meter Ads
   Hit a Detour in Boston
                                                                                                       

   IF PROPONENTS have it their way, Bostonians may soon see
commercial pitches when they pull up to parking meters.
   Two competing companies, Baltimore-based American Parking
Meters Inc. and Parc-Ads of a Mattapoisett, Mass., have
similar proposals to affix miniature billboards to Boston's
meters or poles. The companies would turn over a percentage
of the ad revenue to the city, not to mention report any
broken meters.
   "This gives advertisers a way to create impulse buying
among center-city pedestrians," says Tony Lockwood, of
Parc-Ads, a start-up company. Mr. Lockwood says McDonald's
Corp. and Reebok International Ltd. already have expressed
interest.
   Meter ads could generate up to $500,000 a year for the
city, figures Ted O'Hearn, the New England representative for
American Parking Meters, which already sells meter ads in
Baltimore.
   Just one hitch. Massachusetts has an outdoor advertising
law that specifically prohibits meter ads. A bill that would
give each municipality power to overturn the ban was
introduced by state Sen. William MacLean Jr. But the state
apparently isn't ready to relinquish control. The bill has
been relegated to a study committee, where bills often
languish.
                                                                                                       

   Small Rival Has a Bone
   To Pick With Wendy's
                                                                                                       

   WHICH COMES first, the chicken sandwich or the other
chicken sandwich?
   Executives at Chick-fil-A, a closely held Atlanta-based
chain with 413 restaurants, are hopping mad about Wendy's
International Inc.'s recent ads stating that Wendy's has the
"best chicken sandwiches in the business."
   That's impossible, says Jimmy Collins, president of the
smaller competitor, because Chick-fil-A's independent
research shows consumers consider his chain's sandwiches
tops. The problem, according to Chick-fil-A, is that Wendy's
independent research was skewed toward burger eaters, rather
than fast-food consumers in general. "We don't mind them
claiming to have the best chicken sandwich in the burger
business," Mr. Collins sniffs.
   A spokesman for Wendy's, which has 3,750 restaurants, says
the Chick-fil-A distinction between burger eaters and chicken
fans is meaningless because most fast-food buyers visit all
varieties of chains. "No one goes to just a chicken chain,"
he says.
   Chick-fil-A lawyers have taken their challenge to the
three major networks and several cable operators. ABC, NBC
and CBS have given Wendy's until May 1 to further
substantiate its claims, even though the ads finished their
scheduled run March 31.
   Wendy's has yet to respond to the networks' query, and the
company spokesman wouldn't disclose his chain's strategy.
Concludes the Wendy's spokesman: "We've looked at their
research, and we do not believe it's valid on a national
basis."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   BROOKLYN apparently has cachet with Japanese beer
connoisseurs, who are paying $15 a bottle for air-freighted
lager, dated for freshness, from the Brooklyn Brewery, a
two-year-old micro brewery in New York. . . . Arm &amp; Hammer
researchers claim yet another use for baking soda: When
dumped down incinerator ducts, the powder neutralizes
pollutants that cause acid rain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Whitehall Corp.:
   Victory Claimed in Dispute
   With Investment Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   WHT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whitehall Corp., Dallas, claimed victory in its proxy
fight with Cambridge Capital Fund Limited Partnership, a New
York-based investment company.
   Whitehall said it is confident, based on a preliminary
report from the independent inspectors of election, that its
slate of five directors had been re-elected. Roger Miller, a
general partner with Cambridge, said the fund wouldn't
comment until the final tally is released Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cambridge had put up its own slate of directors as part of
its strategy to gain control of Whitehall, which modifies and
maintains aircraft systems, sells underwater acoustic
technology to the Navy and makes marine sensor systems. The
fund had also offered to buy the 90.4% of Whitehall stock it
didn't already own for $20 a share, or about $62 million,
which was rejected by Whitehall's board. Whitehall refused to
meet with Cambridge to negotiate terms and said it would
"vigorously oppose" Cambridge's effort to unseat its board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aztar to Post Net
   Of Over $8 Million
   For First Quarter
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3D
</SO>
<CO>
   AZTR RAM
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Aztar Corp., the casino operator
recently spun off by Ramada Inc., expects to report
first-quarter net income of 20 cents to 23 cents a share, or
$8.2 million to $9.4 million, Paul E. Rubeli, president and
chief executive officer, said.
   "This is the first quarter that Aztar hasn't been
cluttered with the effects of the restructuring, and we're
pleased with the results," Mr. Rubeli said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 first quarter, Ramada had a net loss of $18.6
million, or 47 cents a share. Those results included
reorganization-related costs of about $2 million, as well as
losses from a Reno, Nev., casino that was closed in June
1989. Revenue rose to about $125 million from $118.5 million.
   Aztar was formed last year to acquire the casino assets of
Ramada Inc., whose lodging assets were bought for $540
million by New World Development Co. of Hong Kong. Aztar is
focused on the gambling industry and operates three casinos
in Las Vegas and Laughlin, Nev., and Atlantic City, N.J.
   The earnings will include a gain of about $4.1 million
from the sale of the Tropicana golf course and country club
in Las Vegas. The results will reflect tax-loss
carry-forwards that will offset income tax expense of about
$3.3 million.
   Casino revenue should show an increase of 9% to about $98
million, Mr. Rubeli said. Last year's quarterly casino
results suffered from an unusually low win rate at the Las
Vegas Tropicana, meaning that customers hit a lucky streak at
the casinos' expense. The win rate improved in the 1990
quarter but was still a little soft, Mr. Rubeli said.
   Costs and expenses have been trimmed substantially, as
last year's results included start-up costs from both the
Atlantic City and Laughlin facilities. TropWorld in Atlantic
City cut the number of bused-in patrons 44% in the first
quarter, and its revenue from slot-machines has risen.
   As expected, TropWorld is feeling the effects of the
opening of the Taj Mahal in Atlantic City and has experienced
a 7.7% drop in casino revenue in the three weeks since the
Taj opened. Mr. Rubeli noted that much of the market's
overall success will depend on the Taj's ability to attract
new business and that it's too early to assess its impact.
   The Las Vegas casino should get a boost from the June
opening of a major new casino across the street, and the
Laughlin property has maintained 98% occupancy at a higher
average room rate over last year, Mr. Rubeli said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Crown Resources Corp.:
   Option Obtained to Acquire
   Nevada Goldfields' Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   CRRS NGFCF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Crown Resources Corp. said it obtained a 30-day option to
acquire mining properties from Nevada Goldfields Corp. The
acquisition, if completed, is valued by Denver-based Crown at
$4 million.
   Under terms of the option agreement, Crown Resources would
pay Nevada Goldfields' secured lenders $1.5 million, assume a
$1.5 million note at the prime rate plus 1%, payable within
two years, and issue 100,000 shares of Crown common stock.
Nevada Goldfields' secured lenders also will receive 50% of
the net profit in one of the mining operations, with a
maximum payout of $1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In what a Crown spokesman termed a separate transaction,
Crown Resources also agreed to acquire, in a $1 million
private placement, 1,153,500 shares of Nevada Goldfields
common stock and warrants to purchase 500,000 more at $1 a
share. If the private placement is completed, Crown would
hold a 12.5% stake in Nevada Goldfields common stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Constitution Financial Corp.:
   Firm Posts 1st-Period Loss
   And Suspends Its Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   FCON
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   First Constitution Financial Corp. reported a
first-quarter loss and suspended the dividend. The New Haven,
Conn.-based company also said merger talks with an investor
group unraveled.
   The savings institution's loss was $39.4 million, or $3.60
a share, compared with year-earlier net income of $5.1
million, or 47 cents a share. First Constitution said the
principal reason for the loss was a $36.4 million addition to
reserves for loan losses and real-estate investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the value of its thrift equity portfolio
was written down by $3.5 million, but John J. Crawford,
president and chief executive officer, said, "Capital remains
well above all regulatory requirements." First Constitution
said that nonperforming assets at March 31 were $201.7
million, while reserves totaled $80.6 million. Total assets
were $2.4 billion.
   In October, First Constitution said it had agreed to be
acquired for $25 a share, or $273.5 million, by two related
investor groups created for the purpose. In February, it said
the investors wanted to renegotiate the deal.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, First
Constitution closed at $3.875, off 62.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   First Boston Creates
   Post on Fixed-Income
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.CSU
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- First Boston Corp. named Walid Chammah, a
managing director and head of asset-backed finance, to the
newly created post of head of fixed-income capital markets.
   Mr. Chammah, 36 years old, will coordinate First Boston's
investment banking division with its sales and trading
business, the firm said. He will report to Charles Murphy,
head of the investment banking group, and Ronald Stuart, a
senior manager in the fixed-income area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move reflects the increasing importance First Boston
places on the fixed-income business, officials of the firm
said. This business recently has been in the doldrums.
   Reporting to Mr. Chammah in his new post will be Richard
Dubusc, head of syndicate; Peter Milhaupt, head of the market
officers group; and Dennis Melchior, head of new-issue
marketing. Mr. Chammah also will remain head of First
Boston's asset-backed finance group.
   First Boston is a unit of CS First Boston Inc., which is
44.5%-owned by the parent of Credit Suisse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shawmut National
   Reports 37% Drop
   In First-Period Net
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   SNC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- Shawmut National Corp. reported a 37%
drop in first-quarter profit to $40.6 million, or 55 cents a
share, reflecting a sharply higher provision for possible
loan losses.
   In the year-ago quarter, the bank holding company earned
$64.7 million, or 85 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loan-loss provision was $69 million, up from $16.5
million. Higher nonperforming assets and $13 million in
expenses associated with a recent regulatory examination
contributed to the loss, Shawmut said.
   Partly offsetting those factors were a pretax gain of
$46.7 million from the settlement of certain pension
obligations and a tax benefit of $8.5 million from an
operating-loss carry-forward.
   "Our results reflect the continuing uncertainty of the New
England region and the particular problems in real estate,"
said Joel Alvord, chairman.
   Net interest income dropped 17% to $212.6 million from
$255.4 million. The net interest margin fell to 3.6% from
4.3%, dragged down by the company's higher level of
nonperforming assets and a lower level of deposits that don't
bear interest.
   Noninterest income rose 65% to $146.5 million from $88.5
million, largely because of the gain from the pension
settlement.
   According to preliminary figures, nonperforming loans and
foreclosed real estate totaled $1.16 billion, or 6.8% of
total loans and foreclosed properties as of March 31, the
company said. That compared with $1.02 billion, or 5.3%, as
of Dec. 31, and $273 million, or 1.5%, as of March 31, 1989.
   Total assets dropped to $24.9 billion from $27.9 billion
as of Dec. 31 as the company sold investments and securitized
assets to improve its liquidity and support its capital
ratios. Shareholders' equity equaled 5.7% of total assets as
of March 31, compared with 6.5%.
   The reserve for possible loan losses stood at $772.3
million as of March 31-up from $285.1 million.
   After-tax charge-offs in the first quarter were $35.6
million, including $20 million relating to Mexican debt
restructuring, compared with $13.1 million a year earlier.
Domestic after-tax write-offs rose to $15.9 million from
$14.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cies. Europeennes Reunis:
   De Benedetti Holding Firm
   Says Net Profit Gained 52%
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cies. Europeennes Reunis said net profit after payments to
minority interests totaled an estimated one billion French
francs ($177.6 million) in 1989, up 52% from 656 million
francs the previous year.
   The holding company for the investments of Carlo De
Benedetti noted, however, that the earnings figures weren't
comparable because of a merger with Dumenil-Leble S.A. in
December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cerus said consolidated revenue totaled 27.5 billion
francs last year.
   Management proposed a net dividend of 10 francs a share,
up from 7.4 francs a share paid out last year, Cerus said. A
shareholders meeting is set for June 20.
   Cerus oversees Mr. De Benedetti's stakes in Valeo S.A.,
Groupe Yves Saint-Laurent S.A., Societe Generale de Belgique
S.A., and other companies in Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Major Tokyo Stocks Decline in Narrow Trading
   But Other Shares Fare Better; London Issues Off
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's Nikkei stock index fell through the bottom of a
narrow trading range to close at its intraday low Thursday.
   But more issues advanced than declined, indicating that
the index's 225 issues absorbed much of the day's losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London shares eased and stocks in most other markets were
lower or mixed.
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down
139.78 points at 29424.58. The index gained 62.98 points
Wednesday.
   In Tokyo Friday, the morning session closed with the
Nikkei index at 29494.57, up 69.99 points.
   Thursday's volume on the First Section was estimated at
550 million shares, down from 700 million shares Wednesday.
   Winning issues outpaced losing issues, 490 to 411, while
199 were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the first section, which rose 7.42 points Wednesday,
slipped 0.41 point, or 0.02%, to 2200.10.
   The second section index, which fell 17.43 points
Wednesday, was up 6.89 points, or 0.20%, to close at 3515.72.
Volume in the second section was estimated at eight million
shares, down from nine million Wednesday.
   Market players said that despite speculation that
arbitrage selling probably would come in during the
afternoon, because futures premiums were low at the morning
close, such activity most likely didn't occur Thursday.
   But traders said that either index-related selling by
investment trust funds or simply basket trades involving the
Nikkei 225 stocks was responsible for the fall in prices
toward the end of the session.
   Keith Richman, head of futures and options arbitrage
trading at Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd., said the
program selling seemed to have had a small impact on cash
prices, but wasn't overly reacted to.
   Mr. Richman said that call options were being bought at
the close, with investors bidding up the futures, indicating
that the market wasn't too discouraged by the program
selling.
   Mr. Richman said that the market wasn't extremely bearish
Thursday, but added that some more selling is possible for
Friday, the last day before the Golden Week holidays begin.
   The market will be closed Monday, Thursday and Friday of
next week for the national holidays.
   Despite the "not-too-bearish" tone in the market, however,
Mr. Richman asserted that the dollar's continued strength
against the yen "doesn't really bode well" for major buying.
   Mr. Richman, who said he has been "mildly bearish all
week," noted that "a lot of people are waiting to sell {their
stocks} at 160" yen to the dollar.
   But Minami Omura, a broker at PaineWebber Inc., said she
thinks the 159-yen level for the dollar is largely discounted
in the market, as is the 160-yen level to some extent.
   "Of course, in the long term, {a 160-yen dollar} is not
good for the market," but for the next few trading days the
dollar at current levels shouldn't be too bearish, Ms. Omura
said.
   The dollar finished Thursday at 159.23 yen, up slightly
from 158.75 yen late Wednesday in New York and below 159.25
yen late Wednesday in Tokyo.
   One issue that was targeted by buyers Thursday afternoon
was Osaka Gas, whose stock ended at its bid price of 670 yen
($4.22), up 60 yen. A company spokesman said Thursday that
although no official announcement was made, the utilities
company has been experimenting with a new material called
activated carbon fibers.
   The spokesman said that applications for the new material
are still being researched, but the company has been holding
exhibitions for the product.
   Traders said Isuzu Motors and Suzuki Motors are still
benefiting from news Tuesday of new products. Isuzu was up 50
to 1,140, while Suzuki added 100 to 1,010.
   PaineWebber's Ms. Omura pointed out that many blue-chip
issues had been due for a technical rebound. Sony advanced
250 to 8,350, Pioneer added 50 to 5,980 and Fanuc gained 150
to 6,970.
   But Japan Airlines (JAL) was hit by profit-taking, falling
400 to 16,500. Most steel shares were also lower.
   London share prices ended mostly weaker Thursday, as a
marked loss of buying interest late in the session caused a
market largely considered bearish to crumble more than 11
points in the last two hours of trading, dealers said.
   Neither market makers nor institutional investors were
interested in taking fresh positions as the three-week
account ends Friday, traders said. "The market makers are not
keen on having any sort of book position at all," one said.
   Also, a downward turn on Wall Street around midafternoon
aided the slide of shares in London, traders added.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index
finished down 9.5 points at 2133.6, a touch above its
intraday low of 2132.5 reached in the first hour of official
trading. Scattered buying interest and firmer stock-index
futures earlier in the session led the market to an intraday
high of 2145.8 around midday.
   At the close, the narrower FT 30 share index was down 7.4
points at 1676.1. Volume was 510.9 million shares, better
than the 392.8 million that changed hands Wednesday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
finished at 2156, down from its close of 2158 Wednesday.
   Traders said Wednesday's release of a surprisingly wide
trade deficit figure did nothing to encourage the market's
situation, already suffering from a number of economic and
political woes.
   Features were sparse, although Guinness was one of the
strong gainers on the day. The brewing and distilling company
jumped 12 pence to 669 following news that a Paris court
decision has assured it a leading stake in French luxury
goods concern LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton.
   Elsewhere, Carlton Communications rose 12 to 484 as a
turnaround to a dismal recent performance continued.
   Rolls-Royce was easily the most active stock on the day,
with strong interest shown from unidentified foreign buyers,
dealers said. Rolls-Royce shares ended the day unchanged at
197.
   Reuters lost 21 to #10.48 ($17.16) after holding an annual
general meeting described by traders as not as bullish as
those in the past.
   Elsewhere, stock prices closed higher in Stockholm; lower
in Paris, Frankfurt and Amsterdam and mixed in Zurich,
Brussels and Milan. South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Taipei, Seoul, Hong
Kong, Manila and Wellington. Singapore was closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                   Apr 25   Apr 24    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ..........................  307.0    305.3   -  5.6
   Britain .......................  637.0    641.4   - 11.6
   Canada ........................  366.4    365.6   - 15.3
   Japan ......................... 1250.4   1247.1   - 24.5
   France ........................  583.9    586.1   +  3.0
   Germany .......................  295.5    295.1   +  3.6
   Hong Kong ..................... 2247.4   2245.5   +  7.2
   Switzerland ...................  200.9    201.7   -  9.0
   Australia .....................  296.4    296.4   - 10.5
   World index ...................  478.3    477.0   - 15.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CITICORP'S DEBT RATING was cut by Standard &amp; Poor's, the
latest blow to the banking industry. The downgrading affects
$30 billion of long-term and short-term debt as well as
preferred securities, though commercial paper wasn't
affected. S&amp;P cited Citicorp's relatively low levels of
capital and loan-loss reserves, putting more pressure on the
bank to sell assets and issue more common stock.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury bond and note yields surged above 9% to the
highest level in a year as dealers slashed prices to attract
buyers. One analyst called it a "fire sale." Stock prices
were mixed, while the dollar strengthened.
   ---
   Ames Department Stores filed for Chapter 11 protection,
ending efforts to become a giant discount retailer. The
filing came as talks with lenders stalled and many unpaid
vendors had stopped deliveries to Ames's stores. Ames was
hurt by its $800 million purchase of Zayre two years ago.
   ---
   New York Comex's president and chief executive, Arnold
Staloff, resigned after only nine months on the job. Staloff,
who was expected to rejuvenate the languishing exchange, is
said to have run into conflicts with Comex's trader
leadership.
   ---
   Donald Trump is discussing the sale or refinancing of
nearly every major asset he holds, including the recently
acquired Trump Shuttle.
   ---
   Robert Campeau has worked out a deal to regain control of
his troubled retail and real-estate empire. The Campeau Corp.
chairman agreed to repay his major personal creditor, which
would let him to recover Campeau shares seized in January.
   ---
   McDonnell Douglas plans to lay off about 3,000 workers at
its transport-aircraft unit, which posted an $84 million
first-quarter loss. The unit had been hoping to boost
employment for development of two new jetliners.
   ---
   OPEC plans to focus entirely on cutting production at next
week's meeting in order to prop up prices. The proposed 5%
reduction would apply only through May and June.
   ---
   A capital-gains tax cut would be considered by Ways and
Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski as part of a large
deficit-reduction package negotiated with the White House.
   ---
   Four major airlines posted dismal quarterly results,
mostly because of higher fuel costs. UAL and USAir each had
losses, while Delta and Southwest reported small profits.
   ---
   Xerox reported a bigger-than-expected loss of $254 million
for the first quarter, reflecting a one-time charge for its
financial-services unit. But the core business-equipment
operations posted a 20% profit gain.
   ---
   First Boston acquired 40% of Sealy in a restructuring of
an ill-fated $457 million bridge loan to the company.
   ---
   Wang's revenue slump worsened in the latest quarter, and
one-time charges will cause the computer company to post a
"significant loss," Chairman Richard Miller said.
   ---
   Chrysler is considering more ways to consolidate
production to cut costs. Possibilities include closing
another assembly plant in a few years in addition to the two
being shut this year.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 141,330,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2676.58, up 10.14; transportation 1139.05, up 2.67; utilities
206.61, up 0.31.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3214.67, off
14.81.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.11, up 0.74; spot
index 136.28, up 0.96.
   Dollar: 159.23 yen, up 0.48; 1.6803 marks, up 0.0018.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Volkswagen AG:
   Marketing Venture Formed
   With East German Partner
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Volkswagen AG, a West German auto maker, said it formed a
50-50 marketing joint venture with its East German partner,
VEB IFA-Kombinat Personenkraftwagen.
   The venture, to be based in Karl-MarxStadt in East
Germany, will market the East German makes Trabants and
Barkas, and Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT vehicles. Individual
marketing operations will be set up for the different brands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volkswagen has said it expects its total auto
manufacturing joint-venture project with VEB IFA-Kombinat to
cost about five billion marks ($2.98 billion). In March, the
company said that it will invest an initial 350 million marks
and that it plans to assemble about 50 Volkswagen Polos daily
in a plant near Zwickau.
   Volkswagen said that 400 dealers in East Germany have
already been nominated for marketing of Volkswagen and Audi,
and 140 for marketing of SEAT. Through the dealer network,
Volkswagen said, its entire auto program, including the sale
of used cars, is to be made available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, April 26, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/8% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.25% 30 to 89 days; 8.20% 90 to 179 days;
8.05% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.35%
30 days; 8.37% 60 days; 8.40% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.80% one month; 7.85% two
months; 7.88% three months; 7.86% six months; 8.12% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.35% one month; 8.63% three months;
8.80% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.26% 30 days; 8.27% 60 days; 8.32%
90 days; 8.37% 120 days; 8.37% 150 days; 8.37% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/2% to 8 3/8% one month; 8
9/16% to 8 7/16% two months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/16% three
months; 8 13/16% to 8 11/16% four months; 8 7/8% to 8 3/4%
five months; 8 15/16% to 8 13/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/2% one month;
8 11/16% three months; 8 15/16% six months; 9 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 23, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.78% 13 weeks; 7.91% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.69%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.63%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.25%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.79%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UAL Corp.:
   Wolf Tells Holders Meeting
   Unions' Offer Is `Doable'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The chairman of Chicago-based UAL Corp., Stephen M. Wolf,
told shareholders he believes a buy-out proposal from United
Airlines' three unions is a "doable transaction," after he
was pummeled with questions from holders skeptical of the
offer.
   Mr. Wolf was generally optimistic about the offer's
chances of success. At the same time, some of the statements
he made at UAL's annual meeting yesterday could hamper the
unions' efforts to obtain bank financing for the $4.36
billion bid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wolf, who the unions want to replace, criticized the
terms the bid offers to United's 26,000 non-unionized
employees. He also said he plans to announce a major aircraft
order shortly, a move that would place additional debt on the
airline at the same time the buy-out group is trying to
obtain financing.
   Mr. Wolf didn't say why he believes the unions' buy-out
proposal is unfair to non-unionized employees. The
concessions required under the unions' proposal are far less
than the concessions Mr. Wolf sought from the non-unionized
workers as part of an earlier labor-management bid. That bid
collapsed last fall when the buy-out group failed to obtain
financing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Citizens &amp; Southern Corp.:
   Earnings in First Quarter
   Fell 28% to $41.6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CTZ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citizens &amp; Southern Corp. reported that first-quarter
earnings fell 28% to $41.6 million, or 64 cents a share,
reflecting a $54.8 million charge for problem loans.
   The quarter's results, which compare with $57.8 million,
or 90 cents a share, posted the year before, were slightly
better than many analysts had expected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, some analysts slashed profit estimates as much
as 50%, from a range of 93 cents to 97 cents a share,
following the Atlanta superregional's announcement that
results of a special examination by the U.S. Comptroller of
the Currency could force Citizens to take a first-quarter
charge to offset possible loan losses.
   The targeted exam is part of a current sweep by federal
regulators of commercial real-estate portfolios at big banks
in the Southeast. The exams, in most cases, have been
followed by charges to the companies' first-quarter earnings.
   Citizens' first-quarter addition brings its problem-loan
reserve to $248.9 million, a 15% increase from the $216.2
million set aside at year-end 1989. Loan write-offs decreased
31%, however, to $22.1 million from $31.9 million at
year-end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ames Seeks Protection Under Chapter 11
   After Retailer's Talks With Lenders Stall
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira and Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ADD F.SGF GIT RBD SLE OAT BEBA
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ames Department Stores Inc., its dream of becoming one of
the nation's biggest discount retailers shattered by an
ill-fated acquisition, filed for protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   The filing in bankruptcy court in New York came as
negotiations with its lenders stalled and as shelves at
Ames's 680 stores were becoming barren as many vendors
stopped delivering new merchandise because they hadn't been
paid for past shipments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoping to restore confidence among suppliers, Ames said
Chemical Bank of New York has agreed to provide the company
$250 million in financing, pending bankruptcy court approval,
that could be used to pay for new merchandise.
   Ames, after contacting a number of large vendors,
expressed confidence that shipments would soon be resumed.
But some merchants indicated they still haven't decided
whether to resume shipments.
   Ames's bankruptcy-court filing is the latest sign of
trouble in the retailing industry. The Allied and Federated
store units of Campeau Corp. filed for Chapter 11 protection
in January, and last summer the Bonwit Teller and B. Altman
units of Sydney, Australia-based Hooker Corp. also filed for
bankruptcy protection. B. Altman has since been liquidated,
as has most of Bonwit Teller.
   Unlike those retailers, whose problems were largely
related to leverage, Ames's troubles stem from both the
mismanagement of the Zayre discount chain it acquired two
years ago and the debt it took on to help finance the
purchase.
   Ames bought the Zayre stores for almost $800 million in
the belief it could turn around the ailing chain. Instead,
problems at the Zayre stores pulled down Ames.
   "Ames stumbled because management didn't run the Zayre
stores properly," said Peter J. Solomon, who operates his own
investment banking firm in New York. "After Ames bought the
Zayre chain, management changed the inventory, the pricing,
and alienated the customers." Mr. Solomon added, however,
that other discounters also believed that rapid expansion was
the only way to successfully compete against K mart and
Wal-Mart.
   Some believe that Ames, based in Rocky Hill, Conn., may
have to liquidate its unprofitable Zayre stores as part of
any reorganization plan. The former Zayre stores were the
major factor in the $228 million loss the company said it
expects to report for the year ended Jan. 27. The losses
caused a cash squeeze that resulted in vendors not being paid
and raised questions about Ames's ability to make debt
payments.
   "They will have to scale back the size of their
operations," said Craig Davis, director of research at R.D.
Smith &amp; Co., an investment firm that specializes in
bankruptcies and restructuring. "The core Ames business was a
fairly stable franchise and I think a move to scale back is
likely and positive for the long term."
   In its filing, the Northeast discount chain listed $1.67
billion in assets and $1.44 billion in liabilities. Among
vendors listed as Ames's largest unsecured creditors are:
   Societe General Financial Corp., $14 million; Gitano Group
Inc., a New York manufacturer of women's and men's apparel,
which is owed $5.3 million. It said it will take a charge of
about 10 cents a share for its first quarter in connection
with Ames; Rubbermaid Inc., owed $4.5 million; Sara Lee
Corp., $3.9 million; J.P. Stevens &amp; Co., $3.2 million; and
Quaker Oats Co.'s Fisher Price unit, $2.9 million.
   In addition, Beeba's Creations Inc., a San Diego importer
and wholesale distributor of women's clothing, said it will
take a charge of $740,000 in its third quarter ending May 31
as a result of writing off its Ames receivables of
$1,250,000. Beeba's added that it has about $1.5 million of
orders from Ames and that it expects to be able to resell the
merchandise if it is unable to establish acceptable payment
terms with Ames.
   In filing for bankruptcy-court protection, Ames hopes to
get sufficient merchandise back in its stores to improve its
core business. Ames executives, who reportedly have been
avoiding creditors for weeks, called about 150 of their
biggest vendors assuring them of payment for new shipments.
The remaining 5,000 vendors are being reached by mail.
   "We're encouraged by their response," said Douglas Ewing,
vice president, investor relations, for Ames, adding that 98%
of the largest vendors reached said they would resume
shipments. "Vendors might be wounded at heart but cash is a
great healer," said Mark Matheson, director of research at
Cruttenden &amp; Co., Newport Beach, Calif., which follows Ames's
manufacturer market.
   Ames has about $125 million in cash, and analysts have
estimated that it could raise another $75 million to $100
million by liquidating the inventory at 74 unprofitable
stores that it plans to close.
   Some shippers, however, remain nervous. Despite Ames's
reassurance of its extra cash supply, at least one key
factoring company said that it won't allow its apparel
clients to ship new merchandise to the troubled chain.
"Before we give the green light, we want to understand which
assets are free and clear," said this credit executive, who
asked not to be identified. "There is talk about a prior bank
loan being collateralized in some way."
   Indeed, Ames, which grew with its Zayre acquisition to
become the fourth-largest discount retailer with more than $5
billion in annual sales from $2.1 billion previously, will
have an uphill struggle. The discount market is among the
hardest hit segment of the sagging economy in the Northeast.
   While trying to mend relations with vendors, Ames also is
fighting time. "The next few months are vital shipping months
with summer and back-to-school {buying}," said Richard
Mercier, retail analyst for Moody's Investor Service Inc.
Moreover, competition is increasing as discount giant
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. moves into the Northeast.
   The company must refocus on what made it successful before
the Zayre purchase, retailing experts said. "What Ames must
now do is take a strong look at who their customer is today
-- I don't really think they know -- and to build from
there," said Rohit Deshpande, marketing professor at the Amos
Tuck Graduate School of Business at Dartmouth College.
   Ames, whose chief executive officer, Peter Hollis, had
earlier worked for Zayre, "thought it was buying an ailing
patient when in reality it had bought a cadaver," said Howard
Davidowitz, a retail consultant. It then proceeded to try to
incorporate Zayre into Ames's "every day low price" marketing
strategy. But that confused Zayre consumers, who were
attracted by sales and went elsewhere when Zayre stopped
advertising them.
   Getting rid of the Zayre stores, generally located in
metropolitan areas, would enable Ames to return to its roots
in small towns. "Wal-Mart won't tread into the smaller
markets and Ames can operate there safely with much success,"
said Mr. Davidowitz. "It was the big city urban environment
that was the company's downfall."
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Ames shares
closed at $1.625, up 12.5 cents, on volume of 1.2 million
shares.
   The Chapter 11 filing immediately prompted both Moody's
and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. to lower their ratings on Ames's
debt.
   Moody's lowered its ratings on about $354 million of the
company's long-term debt. Ratings downgraded were Ames's
sinking fund debentures to CA from single-B-3 and its senior
subordinated reset notes and its convertible subordinated
debentures to Ca from Caa.
   S&amp;P cut its ratings on Ames subordinated debt to D from
triple-C-plus, affecting about $355 million of Ames
securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Raychem Corp.:
   Loss of $108 Million Posted
   For Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   RYC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Raychem Corp., citing a $90 million restructuring charge,
said it had a loss of $108 million, or $3.01 a share, in the
fiscal third quarter compared with net income of $2.4
million, or seven cents a share, a year earlier.
   Sales in the quarter ended March 31 increased 8% to $292
million from $270 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Menlo Park, Calif., maker of aerospace, automotive,
electronics and telecommunications products attributed the
decline to the electronics sector. Those operations
experienced price erosion, product shifts from defense to
commercial markets, high unit costs in U.S. factories and
costs of making newer commercial products.
   As a result of the company's changing business and product
mix, it said an $8 million provision for inventory
obsolescence was included in the cost of products sold in the
quarter. It said the obsolescence provision was $4 million a
year ago.
   In the first nine months, the company had a loss of $97.8
million, or $2.75 a share, compared with net of $23.4
million, or 67 cents, a year earlier. Sales climbed nearly 5%
to $819.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Norsk Hydro AS:
   Norsk Hydro Pretax Profit
   Fell 27% in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   NHY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Norwegian industrial and energy concern Norsk Hydro AS
said pretax profit in the first-quarter tumbled 27% to 1.62
billion kroner ($249 million) from 2.23 billion kroner in the
first quarter a year earlier.
   Norway's largest company said its operating profit fell
26% to 1.89 billion kroner from 2.57 billion kroner in the
first three months of 1989, despite a 31% gain in oil and gas
operating profit to 797 million kroner from 608 million
kroner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Per-share earnings were 4.00 kroner vs. 6.10 kroner in the
year-earlier period.
   Norsk said results were hurt by the agriculture, light
metals and petrochemicals divisions, which suffered from
prices lower than in 1989.
   The light metals division reported a 55% decline in
operating profit to 471 million kroner from 1.05 billion
kroner.
   Norsk announced plans to expand its Norwegian aluminum
production by 44% to 915,000 metric tons a year at a cost of
around 10 billion kroner.
   Hydro Aluminium AS produces 635,000 tons a year of the
light metal. Expansion plans concern smelters at Aardal Verk
and Sunndal Verk. Per-Christian Endsjoe, executive vice
president of the unit, said the first stage of the expansion
could be completed as early as 1993 or 1994.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Samuel Belzberg Plays Down Reputation
   As a Raider in Armstrong Proxy Fight
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel and Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Samuel Belzberg started accumulating the stock of
Armstrong World Industries Inc. in October 1988, he never
dreamed of being stuck with a $31 million paper loss and a
messy proxy fight. But 18 months later, that's his
predicament.
   The stocky patriarch of one of Canada's wealthiest
families built his reputation as a corporate raider. He
acknowledges that much of the family fortune was accumulated
through a strategy that critics call "greenmail" -- acquiring
sizable stakes in U.S. companies, threatening a takeover and
then selling out at a premium to another bidder or the
frightened target itself. In 1986, the Belzbergs made about
$41 million from runs at Ashland Oil Inc. and USG Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the 61-year-old Mr. Belzberg says that greenmail isn't
his family's style any longer. "Life changes," he said in a
rare interview, "and what's done at a certain time changes.
We're not going to do that anymore."
   The Belzbergs' latest corporate clash began last summer.
Holding a 9.85% stake in Armstrong through various companies,
including its flagship, First City Financial Corp., the
family said it might make a bid for the Lancaster, Pa.,
building products company -- or just sell its stock.
Armstrong said it wasn't interested in a takeover, and the
Belzbergs said they declined a buy-back offer from the
company, although no price was discussed.
   Now, with Armstrong's stock trading at about $6 a share
less than the Belzbergs paid for it, the usually private Mr.
Belzberg is waging a proxy fight at the Armstrong annual
meeting. On Monday, shareholders will consider the family's
nominees for four board seats. And they will vote on measures
that would remove some restrictions on mergers and make it
easier for shareholders to take action without management's
consent.
   To woo institutional investors, Mr. Belzberg has been
campaigning hurriedly this week, starting in California and
moving through the Midwest to New York. Although some
institutions suspect the family' motives in the proxy battle,
they do find some appeal in Mr. Belzberg's corporate
governance arguments and his board nominees.
   Furthermore, Armstrong's recent support of a strong
Pennsylvania anti-takeover bill, expected to be signed into
law today, may have undercut the company's cause with
institutional investors.
   "The Belzbergs are clearly interested in a takeover," said
Howard Sherman, director of the proxy analysis arm of
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., which advises such
mammoth investors as New York City's public pension fund and
Fidelity Investments. "But we think the shocking behavior by
the Armstrong board with respect to pushing for this bill
really destroyed their credibility."
   When the Belzbergs began to take an interest in Armstrong,
it looked to them like a textbook takeover play. The buy-out
boom was in full swing then, and "Armstrong was on a lot of
people's lists," says Scott Robbins, vice president of First
City Capital Corp., a Belzberg merchant bank. Mr. Belzberg
says he first learned of Armstrong from a trolling investment
banker.
   But with Armstrong's management actively opposing a
takeover, slack demand for the company's durable goods, and a
devastated junk bond market, no bidders have emerged. Mr.
Belzberg himself says he can't find takeover financing on
terms that suit him, although he hopes a cash-rich strategic
buyer or co-buyer might yet appear.
   Without a buyer, Mr. Belzberg maintains that the best
long-term value for Armstrong's shareholders would come from
slashing overhead and selling off several businesses,
including furniture and insulation. Proceeds could be split,
he says, between dividends and reinvestment in the company's
flagship floor and ceiling divisions. "They're not doing a
bad job," says Mr. Belzberg. "But how many core businesses
can you have?"
   Armstrong executives declined requests to be interviewed
for this article.
   Winning the Armstrong proxy fight won't be easy for Mr.
Belzberg. First, there is the matter of the Belzberg
reputation, which Armstrong is reviewing in full-page
newspaper ads: Besides the family raider history, Armstrong
is reminding holders of a federal court ruling that Mr.
Belzberg's son, Marc, illegally "parked" stock with Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. in the family's run at Ashland Oil.
   Furthermore, Armstrong argues that the Belzbergs are
financiers, not industrialists. The company attacks the
Belzbergs' history of "management" of industrial companies:
the dismemberment of Scovill Inc., which the Belzbergs bought
in 1985, and the financial troubles of H.H. Robertson Co., a
target in which the family has a 25% stake and several board
seats.
   Mr. Belzberg estimates the proxy fight is costing him $3.5
million. Nevertheless, he hints that he may have to liquidate
his position and move on. "We've taken a loss before," he
says.
   And what of his next moves? "Sam has proven decade-in and
decade-out that he can adapt to changes," says Gerry
Schwartz, chief executive of Onex Corp., Canada's biggest
leveraged buy-out concern. "I expect he'll probably put more
emphasis on operating companies" instead of taking stock
positions.
   The Belzberg family's earliest investments were in Alberta
real estate. Sam and his two brothers, William and Hyman,
made their first fortunes speculating on property, eventually
creating a far-flung financial concern under the umbrella of
First City Financial.
   Mr. Belzberg says the real issue at stake in Monday's
proxy fight is management accountability to shareholders.
   "This management is basically looking for a way to protect
themselves," Mr. Belzberg says. "They're clouding the issue
because they don't want to say in the paper: `We're trying to
take your vote away and here's why.'"
   Specifically, Armstrong's shareholders cannot call special
meetings, act by nonunanimous written consent or directly
propose amendments to the company charter. Mr. Belzberg would
like to see those prohibitions overturned. He also wants to
elect four "independent" directors to the 14-member board to
better represent shareholder interests. (The vote on the
prohibitions will probably be non-binding, pending a federal
court ruling on their legality.)
   "Why should directors and management, unless they're
unsure about their abilities, try to insulate themselves from
shareholders?" he asks. After all, he says, he himself must
answer to First City's shareholders, particularly if
performance suffers. "My brothers might kick me out."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Securities Totaling $30 Billion
   Are Downgraded by Standard &amp; Poor's
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In another blow to the nation's banking
industry, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. downgraded the long-term
and most short-term debt of Citicorp, the nation's largest
bank.
   The downgrading affected $30 billion of debt and preferred
securities of Citicorp, the parent of Citibank. The lone
obligation that escaped the downgrading was Citicorp's
commercial paper, an important source of short-term funds
that was affirmed at A1-plus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard &amp; Poor's cited Citicorp's "aggressive" posture in
maintaining levels of capital and reserves for possible loan
losses well below those of competing banks.
   While Citicorp debt remains investment-grade, the
downgrading is bound to raise the cost of money for the bank
and to intensify pressure on Chairman John S. Reed to boost
capital and reserves for loan losses through asset sales and
issuance of new common shares.
   In a statement, Citicorp said, "We are disappointed in
S&amp;P's action. We are confident that the strength of
Citicorp's core businesses and well-positioned global
franchises will continue to provide excellent returns and
growth."
   The announcement of the downgrading came after the close
of trading yesterday. orp shares ended unchanged at $22.375
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Citicorp is the 44th and largest U.S. banking company to
have its credit ratings downgraded in recent months. The
downgradings reflect worries about the banking industry's
rising level of bad loans, particularly for commercial real
estate in the Northeast and Southeast, and about bank loans
for highly leveraged transactions, such as leveraged buy-outs
and recapitalizations.
   Just last week, the other major rating agency, Moody's
Investors Service Inc., announced a review of Citicorp
obligations for a possible downgrade. In the wake of that
announcement, yields on Citicorp debt have climbed.
   Citicorp, with $230 billion of assets, is by far the
largest U.S. bank holding company. Long noted for its
aggressive banking practices, Citicorp has kept its capital
and reserves for loan losses at levels below those of most
competitors. At a recent meeting for securities analysts, Mr.
Reed said, "I'm as concerned about capital efficiency as
capital sufficiency."
   At the end of the first quarter, Citicorp reported equity
of 3.6% of assets, well below the industry norm of 4%. That
places it near the bottom of the nation's 50 largest banking
companies. Moreover, analysts noted that percentage drops to
2.9% when they factor in good will, or the premium paid over
book value in acquisitions, and an adjustment for an
accounting change that Citicorp hasn't yet adopted.
   Meanwhile, Citicorp's nonperforming loans, especially on
commercial real estate and highly leveraged transactions,
have climbed sharply, but reserve levels have lagged well
behind.
   A Citicorp official, however, expects the downgrading to
have a "marginal" impact on Citicorp's earnings this year
because the banking company gets about 60% of its funds from
deposits, which generally aren't affected by ratings changes.
Last year, Citicorp raised about $2.5 billion in long-term
debt and expects to sell even less long-term debt this year.
   As of March 30, Citicorp's $4.5 billion reserve for
possible losses stood at 61% of its loans that are more than
90 days past due and 2.8% of total loans. Most competitors'
reserves generally are 70% to 80% of past-due loans and about
5% of total loans.
   A Citicorp official maintained that those industry norms
may be appropriate for some banks but not for Citicorp. The
company's global reach and diverse product lines, the
official said, give it an inherent stability that allows it
to run with leaner reserves and capital.
   S&amp;P reduced the double-A rating on Citicorp's long-term
debt to double-A-minus and the rating on its subordinated
debt to single-A-plus from double-A-minus. Citicorp's
preferred stock was dropped to single-A from single-A-plus.
The rating on its flagship Citibank's letters of credit,
certificates of deposit and deposit notes was reduced to
double-A/A-1-plus from double-A-plus/A-1-plus.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Georgia Judgeship Elections Held Racist
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KRI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Georgia's process for electing superior court judges was
called racist by the U.S. Justice Department.
   The far-reaching decision by the department's civil rights
division could thrust Georgia's courts into turmoil,
according to both sides in a lawsuit. The ruling covers 58 of
the state's 135 superior court judgeships in 30 of 45
judicial circuits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unless the matter is dealt with through a special
legislative session changing election laws or is resolved
through settlement or a legal challenge, no elections for
those posts can be held and the judgeships would cease to
exist when the judges' current terms expire at the end of
1990 and 1992.
   "It's a landmark, historic decision," said Tyrone Brooks,
a Georgia state legislator and lead plaintiff in a federal
suit filed against the state in Brunswick, Ga., in 1988 with
the aid of the American Civil Liberities Union. "The judicial
branch is in for a change."
   Michael J. Bowers, Georgia's attorney general, called the
ruling "a setback." He said he will keep trying to settle the
case while continuing a legal fight.
   In a letter, John R. Dunne, the new assistant attorney
general for the civil rights division, told Mr. Bowers that
the state's manner of electing judges was designed
deliberately to discriminate against blacks. In his first
major decision since taking office April 2, Mr. Dunne said
black voting power is diluted by Georgia's combined use of
at-large circuit elections and a requirement that judicial
candidates win by a majority.
   In at-large districts, which generally cover a wide
geographic area, voters select more than one judge for the
region. Such elections can dilute a voting group's power if
that group is a minority within the circuit. In contrast,
single-judge districts give neighborhoods sole power to
select the judge for that district.
   The ruling doesn't address remedies for the problem. Only
five of the state's 135 judges are black. No black has ever
defeated a white incumbent judge, the ruling said.
   Under Section Five of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 18
states with a history of voting-rights violations --
including Georgia -- must submit changes in laws governing
elections to the civil rights division for prior approval to
ensure that the changes do not discriminate. The Justice
Department previously raised objections to the methods of
electing judges in Louisiana, Mississippi and North Carolina.
   The suit charged that Georgia didn't obtain the
department's clearance on certain judicial posts and attacked
the manner of electing judges. A special three-judge federal
district court panel in Brunswick ruled last December that
the state had to submit information on the judges to the
agency.
   Mr. Bowers could seek a hearing before the U.S. District
Court in Washington, D.C., or seek review of the Brunswick
court's decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
   ---
   AMERICA'S CUP victory by San Diego is upheld by New York's
highest court.
   The decision is the final word in the contentious dispute
between the San Diego Yacht Club and the Mercury Bay Boating
Club of New Zealand. The New Zealand challenger had claimed
that San Diego violated the spirit of the 132-year-old
international contest by using a catamaran to defeat New
Zealand's 90-foot monohull in 1988. Mercury Bay claimed that
the rules required San Diego to use a boat similar in size to
the challenger's.
   The New York Court of Appeals in Albany ruled that while
San Diego's use of the catamaran might not have been fair, it
wasn't illegal. In a 5-2 decision, the judges said the courts
aren't the proper forum for determining the fairness of a
sport.
   "The question of whether particular conduct is `sporting'
or `fair' in the context of a particular sporting event . . .
is wholly distinct from the question of whether it is legal,"
wrote Judge Fritz Alexander II in the majority opinion.
"Questions of sportsmanship and `fairness' with respect to
sporting contests depend largely upon the rules of the
particular sport and the expertise of those knowledgeable in
that sport; they are not questions suitable for judicial
resolution."
   The court said that nowhere in the rules governing the
contest is the defending yacht club required to race a vessel
similar to the challenger's entry. The America's Cup is
governed by New York state law because it was formed by the
New York Yacht Club.
   Andrew Johns, an attorney for the New Zealand club in
Auckland, said Mercury Bay accepts the court's decision as
final and is preparing for the next race, expected to be in
1992. "It's all systems go. We're back to an on-the-water
campaign," he said. But he added that the court's
interpretation of the rules gives an unfair advantage to the
defender. "What the majority has said is `anything goes.'
There is no restriction on the defender on length or any of
the other factors that the challenger must give notice of,"
Mr. Johns said.
   Harold R. Tyler Jr., an attorney for the San Diego club,
said Mercury Bay's own interpretation of the rules would have
put the defender at a disadvantage. Because the race has to
be held 10 months after the challenge is made, the San Diego
club wouldn't have had enough time to construct a 90-foot
monohull to match New Zealand's entry, he said.
   "Fairness is a slippery concept," Mr. Tyler said. "It's
sort of like beauty -- it's all in the eye of the beholder."
   Both Mr. Tyler and Mr. Johns said that an agreement
reached by many yacht clubs in 1988 will probably prevent
similar disputes from occurring again. The lawyers said the
case may also lead to changes clarifying the rules of the
competition.
   ---
   BOESKY'S TAX RETURNS won't be made available for
Mulheren's defense.
   A federal judge ruled that lawyers for John Mulheren are
not entitled to receive copies of Mr. Boesky's tax returns
and the financial and bank statements of Ivan Boesky and his
family.
   At the urging of lawyers for Mr. Boesky and prosecutors in
the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan, U.S. District Judge
Miriam Cedarbaum rejected a subpoena submitted by lawyers for
Mr. Mulheren seeking the documents. Mr. Mulheren, once one of
the nation's most powerful arbitragers, is scheduled to go on
trial on May 14. A federal grand jury indicted Mr. Mulheren
last June on 42 counts of securities fraud, mail fraud,
conspiracy and record-keeping violations.
   Mr. Mulheren was accused of "parking" stock with Mr.
Boesky, the convicted former takeover speculator. Parking
occurs when an investor sells securities with the
understanding that they will be repurchased, usually at a
prearranged time and price. The government said Mr. Mulheren
used the tactic to conceal the true ownership of the parked
securities. Mr. Mulheren has pleaded innocent to the charges.
   Thomas Puccio, the New York attorney who is representing
Mr. Mulheren, said he was seeking Mr. Boesky's personal
income tax returns for the years 1983 through 1987 and his
bank and other financial records for 1985 through the present
to show that Mr. Boesky wasn't left broke, as his lawyers
suggested, after he agreed to pay $100 million in fines to
settle insider trading charges against him in 1987.
   Mr. Puccio said that Mr. Boesky got a "sweetheart deal"
from the government and had "many millions more than he told
the government." Mr. Puccio said that as a witness against
Mr. Mulheren, Mr. Boesky will be "biased in favor of the
government" because the "government allowed Mr. Boesky to
hold on to many millions of dollars" after he paid the fine.
   Mr. Puccio's argument in court yesterday presages what is
likely to be the mainstay of the defense in the case against
Mr. Mulheren. Mr. Puccio will try to impeach the credibility
of Mr. Boesky, the government's main witness in the case, by
attacking his finances and asserting that he lied about his
dealings with Mr. Mulheren, among others, to reduce his
prison term. Mr. Boesky recently completed a three-year
prison sentence.
   Assistant U.S. attorney Scott Gilbert and Charles Davidow,
a lawyer for Mr. Boesky, argued that Mr. Puccio is trying to
embark on a "fishing expedition," and that the government's
1986 plea bargain agreement with Mr. Boesky did not require
that he give up all of his money.
   "I really am not satisfied that this subpoena is not
fishing and is material" to the case against Mr. Mulheren,
Judge Cedarbaum said. Mr. Puccio said he would submit another
subpoena requesting more specific information about Mr.
Boesky's finances.
   ---
   KENTUCKY NEWSPAPER loses key appeals court ruling in libel
case.
   In a unanimous decision, the Kentucky Supreme Court
ordered that a new trial be held in a libel case against the
Lexington Herald-Leader by a former University of Pittsburgh
assistant basketball coach.
   The ex-coach, Reggie Warford, sued the Knight-Ridder Inc.
newspaper over a two-part series published in 1985 on
corruption in college basketball. The Pulitzer Prize-winning
articles alleged that Mr. Warford violated recruiting rules
by offering money to a Kentucky high school basketball star.
   The trial judge dismissed the case at the conclusion of
the evidence on the grounds that Mr. Warford was a public
figure and had failed to meet the public-figure standard of
proving reckless disregard for the truth.
   The state supreme court, however, disagreed on both
counts. It said Mr. Warford "did not assume the risk of
public scrutiny" as a coach and therefore was not a public
figure and did not have to comply with the stringent
reckless-disregard standard. In addition, the court ruled,
there was sufficient evidence presented in the case to allow
a jury to find reckless disregard.
   The suit stemmed not from the actual publication of the
articles but from their reprint in a special tabloid the
newpaper distributed nationwide to colleges and the press.
Mr. Warford, who lost his job in 1986 after the hiring of a
new head coach, claims that the reprinted articles prevented
him finding other coaching positions.
   The Herald-Leader says it will seek a review of the
appeals court decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
   "Beyond our own institutional interest, we're concerned
about {the decision's} effect on free speech and free press
in Kentucky," said John S. Carroll, the paper's editor.
   ---
   Laurie P. Cohen contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citizens Savings Sues
   2 U.S. Units; Breach
   Of Contract Alleged
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CSFCB
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Citizens Savings Financial Corp. said it sued two
federal agencies for breach of contract involving Citizens'
acquisition of an Illinois thrift.
   The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Washington,
charges that the U.S. government broke an agreement made with
the company when Citizens acquired American Savings Bank, a
failing thrift, in December 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Citizens, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. agreed to
provide financial assistance to Citizens, including a cash
contribution, when it made the acquisition. That cash
contribution -- $86 million -- was to be credited to
Citizens' regulatory capital account and amortized over 25
years.
   In 1989, however, those two federal agencies were
abolished under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery
and Enforcement Act. With the passage of that act, according
to Citizens, all previous regulatory agreements were voided
-- including Citizens' ability to count $86 million toward
its capital account.
   Citizens filed its suit against the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Office of Thrift Supervision, the
successors to the two abolished agencies. Citizens said it is
asking the court to declare that the Financial Institutions
Reform Act resulted in a breach of contract and, thus, took
Citizens' property without just compensation and due process
in violation of the Fifth Amendment. The suit also seeks an
injunction prohibiting enforcement of those provisions of the
act that breached the original agreement.
   Officials at OTS said they hadn't seen the suit and
couldn't comment. The FDIC said that while it also hadn't
seen the litigation, it believes the spirit of the act is
correct.
   Citizens is a $4 billion, five-state federal savings bank,
with 92 offices in Florida, Illinois, Ohio, California and
Virginia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Building Contracts
   Grew 4% in March,
   F.W. Dodge Reports
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Construction contracting grew 4% in March from
February, reversing a five-month slide that had been heavily
concentrated in the Northeast, F.W. Dodge said.
   The gain stemmed from a 15% rise in nonresidential
projects -- commercial, industrial and institutional building
-- said the forecasting division of publisher McGraw-Hill
Inc. The value of residential building, which includes
single-family and apartment units, slipped 2%; while
so-called non-building construction -- public works and
utilities -- eased 1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Institutional building, the nonresidential sector that
includes schools and health-care facilities, continued
strong, rising 29% in March.
   But office construction, included under the commercial
heading, "has been declining for four years and is still on
the way down," said George A. Christie, vice president and
chief economist at Dodge. "It's the single most overbuilt
category of construction since the mid-'80s boom, and it's
going to be the longest one to dig it's way out."
   March construction equaled a seasonally adjusted annual
rate of $244.98 billion, compared with $235.97 billion, in
February.
   Dodge reported that its index grew to 156 in March, from
150 in February. The index, a seasonally adjusted leading
indicator of construction, uses a base of 100, which was set
in 1982.
   The value of first-quarter construction fell 6%, from
first-quarter 1989, Dodge reported, to an unadjusted $52.65
billion, from $56.11 billion.
   Despite the overall gain in non-residential building, the
Northeast and South still lagged behind first-quarter 1989 in
construction -- contracting value by 25% and 8%,
respectively, Dodge said. In the North Central region and the
West, construction gained 5% and 3%, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   OPEC Ministers Hope to Announce Cuts
   In Oil Production at Meeting Next Week
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OPEC plans to keep next week's meeting brief and to a
single point -- output cuts -- to prop up the price of
petroleum.
   The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries'
ministers intend to announce at their Geneva meeting, which
begins Wednesday, production cuts that, at least on paper,
will total more than one million barrels a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to people close to the organization, the
reductions are likely to apply only through May and June,
reflecting OPEC's effort to calm world oil markets in the
face of the traditionally soft second-quarter demand. It is
expected to announce second-half production quotas at a
midyear conference that begins June 25.
   OPEC sources confirmed that the ministers are leaning
toward announcing a 5% cut for the two months, probably
across-the-board. It's understood that the three big Persian
Gulf producers that have been producing above their quotas --
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates -- will
agree to reduce output if the others make a similar, if only
symbolic, gesture.
   But the impact on the actual pace of OPEC oil output is
less clear. For one thing, it isn't known if the ministers
intend to figure the percentage cut against OPEC's official
first-half production ceiling of 22 million barrels a day or
on its actual output, which has been running up to two
million barrels a day higher.
   More important, nearly half the reductions to be announced
may have already been made. OPEC in recent weeks has been
making some involuntary reductions in output. The oil glut,
brought on by excess OPEC production, has clogged shipping
and storage facilities, and created balky buyers. According
to people who monitor OPEC production, members are now
pumping less than 23.5 million barrels a day, down from
March's 24 million barrels a day.
   "Markets have become swamped with Mideast crude to such an
extent that producers are now unable to find buyers because
storage tanks are simply too full to take any more," OPEC
Listener, an industry analysis service, reported. Also, some
OPEC producers are curbing output rather than offer deeper
price discounts, the service added.
   Such constraints recently have trimmed as much as 200,000
barrels a day off Kuwait's output and 100,000 barrels a day
from Saudi Arabia's production, according to industry
analysts. Some other Persian Gulf producers, such as the
Emirates, have had to curtail production because of oil field
maintenance.
   Oil markets have remained volatile, however, and some oil
ministers are known to be worried that a fractious OPEC
meeting next week might trigger a collapse in petroleum
prices, which are already down one-fourth from early this
year.
   And the outcome or conduct of an OPEC meeting is never
easy to predict. The Geneva session isn't intended to be a
full ministerial conference; it is billed only as a meeting
of the committee of eight ministers who are charged with
reviewing markets and making recommendations. But all 13
ministers of OPEC have been invited and are expected to
attend, which means the meeting could be turned into a
full-blown special conference at a moment's notice.
   That would open the door to discussions of any topic,
including controversial ones ministers now hope to avoid, and
prolong the time OPEC ministers are in the spotlight. As a
result, there is speculation that OPEC's leading members have
a premeeting agreement to keep the session as short as
possible -- no more than two days -- and to avoid debate on
such contentious topics as production quotas.
   "The ministers will meet the second {of May} and the
third, and it will be over," said a senior OPEC official
yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   C STD FRE GE EUROP T.TD FORGN G.DBK FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler Corp. -- $1 billion of Auburn Hills Trust
guaranteed exchangeable certificates, due May 1, 2020, was
priced at par to yield 12 3/8%. The noncallable certificates
are unconditionally guaranteed by Chrysler. The size of the
issue was increased from $800 million. Rated Baa-2 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Salomon Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   East Bay Municipal Utility District, Calif. -- $120
million of water system subordinated revenue bonds, Series
1990, due June 1, 2001-2006, 2018 and 2020, apparently were
won by a Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. group with a bid setting the net
interest cost at 7.636%. The bonds, rated single-A-1 by
Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, were priced for reoffering
to yield from 7.20% in 2001 to 7.60% in 2020. Current
interest serial bonds were priced to yield from 7.20% in 2001
to 7.50% in 2006. There are $78.6 million of term bonds
priced at par to yield 7 1/2% in 2018 and $20.9 million of
term bonds priced at par to yield 7.60% in 2020. Bonds due in
2018 are insured and rated triple-A by Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of real
estate mortgage invesment conduit securities is being offered
in eight classes by Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. The offering,
Series 169, is backed by Freddie Mac 9% securities with a
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.2 years.
For classes with details available, the securities yield as
much as 10.27%, which represents a spread of 1.27 percentage
points above the Treasury 10-year note for a security with an
average life of 10.97 years.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Banco de Santander (Spain) -- $200 million private
placement of perpetual floating-rate notes priced at par, via
Shearson Lehman Hutton International. Interest is paid at
0.575 percentage point above the six-month London interbank
offered rate for the first five years, and 0.60 percentage
point above Libor in years 6-10; thereafter undisclosed.
   Halifax Building Society (United Kingdom) -- 300 million
marks ($178.5 million) of bonds at the six-month Libor plus
1/32 due May 1995 and priced at 100 1/4, via Westdeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale.
   World Bank (agency) -- 200 million Swiss francs ($137.2
million) of 7 1/2% seven-year public bonds priced at 101 1/2
via Swiss Bank Corp.
   Cheltenham &amp; Gloucestor Building Society (U.K.) -- #75
million ($122.6 million) of 15 5/8% bonds due Oct. 8, 1992,
priced at 101.15 via lead manager JP Morgan Securities Ltd.
Long first coupon.
   General Electric Co. (U.S.) -- 130 billion lire ($105.5
million) of 13% bonds due June 4, 1993, priced at 101 1/2 to
yield 12.95% less fees, via Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. Fees
1 3/8.
   Toronto Dominion Bank, London branch (Canadian parent) --
100 million Canadian dollars (US$86.2 million) of 14 1/8%
bonds due June 5, 1992, priced at 101.85 to yield 13.69% less
full fees via lead manager Scotia McLeod. Fees 1 1/8.
   Deutsche Bank Finance N.V. Curacao (West German parent) --
100 million Swiss francs of 7 1/2% public bonds due May 16,
1995, priced at 101 1/4 via Deutsche Bank Suisse. Guaranteed
by Deutsche Bank AG.
   Export-Import Bank of Korea (Korea) -- 105 million
European currency units of 11% bonds due May 11, 1995, priced
at 101 5/8 via lead manager Merrill Lynch International Ltd.
The bonds are callable and puttable in May 1993 at par.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Black &amp; Decker Posts
   First-Quarter Profit
   After 3 Losses in a Row
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   BDK
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOWSON, Md. -- Black &amp; Decker Corp. said it returned to
profitability after posting losses for three consecutive
quarters.
   The maker of power tools and household appliances said net
income for the first quarter ended April 1 was $10 million,
or 17 cents a share, compared with $25.9 million, or 44 cents
a share, a year earlier. Sales jumped 76%, to $1 billion,
from $570.7 million, reflecting the acquisition last year of
Emhart Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company cited higher operating margins, brisk sales in
Europe and generally stronger demand for locks and hardware
in the U.S. among reasons for the improved performance. But
Black &amp; Decker's interest expenses have remained steep since
acquiring Emhart, a move that pushed debt to about 80% of
total capitalization.
   For the latest quarter, interest expenses were higher than
expected because of the sluggish pace of the company's
asset-sale efforts and steeper borrowing costs in Brazil. The
company said it plans to implement "additional strategies"
later this year to lower its interest costs.
   Those steps will include a program for selling certain
receivables and an effort to restructure the company's
sterling-denominated debt. The company didn't disclose how
much of such debt it has. As of April 1, long-term debt was
$2.85 billion and short-term obligations exceeded $800
million.
   This week, Black &amp; Decker sold Emhart's headquarters
building for $17 million. Nolan Archibald, chairman and chief
executive, said the company also has recently applied about
$500 million in Emhart asset-sale proceeds to the reduction
of debt.
   However, he noted a "continuing weak retail environment"
in the U.K., a recent slowdown in Australia and
hyper-inflation in Brazil as factors that pose difficult
challenges for the rest of this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas to Furlough 3,000
   At Its Transport-Aircraft Subsidiary
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONG BEACH, Calif. -- McDonnell Douglas Corp., on the
heels of an $84 million first-quarter loss at its
transport-aircraft unit here, said it would lay off roughly
3,000 workers at the site, probably all of them salaried
personnel.
   The cost-cutting move, which would affect about 6% of the
subsidiary's work force, reverses the unit's previously
stated goal of hiring new employees, even as the U.S.
military budget shrinks in coming years. The company had
thought that the development of its new commercial jetliners,
the MD-11 and MD-90, would allow it to add about 1,000 this
year to its rolls here, already at 50,000 or so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet an admittedly "poor financial performance" has led
McDonnell Douglas to reconsider. The company said it has
undertaken "extensive efforts" to trim non-payroll expenses
for such things as utilities and supplies. However, "those
cuts have proved insufficient," the company explained in a
statement, "leaving little choice" but to lay people off.
   For the employees here, most of whom have already
experienced considerable hardship because of a massive
restructuring in February 1989 that forced them to redesign
their jobs and then reapply for those slots, the prospect of
a reduction was stunning news. "I think some people are
shellshocked," one employee said late yesterday afternoon.
   McDonnell Douglas stressed that the announcement of
layoffs, the first at the Long Beach factory since 1983, had
nothing to do with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's proposal
yesterday to chop the Air Force's planned fleet of C-17 cargo
planes, which are built here. "It's an unfortunate
coincidence," one company official said.
   Doug Griffith, president of a United Auto Workers local
that represents about 19,000 hourly McDonnell Douglas
production-line workers, said he was promised that his
membership "wouldn't be impacted" and that only general and
administrative functions would be eliminated.
   He said, in fact, that there would probably be more hires
on the MD-11 line as it matures and moves to fill the 344
orders for the tri-jet booked to date. But, according to a
company spokesman, any addition there would now have to come
as the result of intracompany transfers. "There are a lot of
instances where people have changed from blue collar to white
collar over the years, and they may elect to accept one of
those opportunties that remain open," he said. Moreover,
there is a possibility of workers coming to Long Beach from
McDonnell Douglas's jet-fighter facility in St. Louis, where
several lines are slated for closure by the mid-1990s.
   Late yesterday, McDonnell Douglas disclosed that to keep
the employment level at its St. Louis factory as stable as
possible, it was even going to begin assembling MD-11 nose
sections, which it will then ship here.
   McDonnell Douglas is counting on the Long Beach plant to
be its big breadwinner by the end of the decade. But the
transport unit, which has grown from fewer than 15,000 people
in 1984, hasn't been able to capitalize on its huge backlog,
and is suffering from inefficiencies. "They're straining
under the load," Mr. Griffith said. "There has literally been
a hemorrhaging of money."
   The action at McDonnell Douglas adds pressure to an
industry that already is experiencing downsizing. The
Machinists union said a few weeks ago, for instance, that
Calabasas, Calif.-based Lockheed Corp. was going to lay off
about 2,500 workers, the bulk of them also white collar, in
an effort to reduce overhead costs. Lockheed, though, has
said no definite figure has been determined. General Motors
Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft Co. division, Northrop Corp. and
Boeing Co. all have been reducing their work forces in recent
months.
   McDonnell Douglas employed a total of almost 128,000 at
the end of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Two Marshall Field's
   Executives to Resign
   Following Takeover
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   DH BTI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Marshall Field's top two executives said they
will leave the department store chain after it is acquired by
Dayton Hudson Corp.
   "The responsibility is so changed that I don't feel I
could be effective," Philip B. Miller, Field's chairman and
chief executive officer, said at a news conference. Mr.
Miller led an unsuccessful management bid to buy Field's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Field's said the chain's 56-year-old president and chief
operating officer, Burnett W. Donoho, will quit too. Mr.
Donoho wasn't at the news conference.
   Dayton Hudson, which agreed to buy Field's from B.A.T
Industries PLC for $1.04 billion last week, has said it plans
to merge most of Field's central office operations into its
department-store unit in Minneapolis. Mr. Miller said about
1,450 of the 1,700 Field's central office jobs will be
eliminated, including the entire merchandise buying, store
planning and financial operations. He said Dayton Hudson
plans to keep credit operations, special events and public
relations staffers in Chicago.
   Sporting the white carnation and green badge that all
Field's managers wear, the 51-year-old Mr. Miller said he has
no plans at the moment, but will probably stay in retailing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasury Yields,
   At 9%, Reach
   12-Month High
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   C ADD JAPAN EUROP FRE
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on Treasury notes and bonds spurted
above 9% yesterday, the highest level in a year, as bond
dealers slashed prices in an effort to attract buyers.
   "The market is really getting trashed; it's a fire sale,"
said F. Ward McCarthy Jr., a managing director at Stone &amp;
McCarthy Research Associates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The high yields have encouraged scores of individual
investors to buy bonds for the first time in months. But
large institutional investors, who carry far more weight than
small investors, are reducing their bond portfolios for fear
that prices will continue to erode.
   Dealers said these big investors, both domestic and
foreign, began to sell bonds early in the day on rumors that
the government's report on first-quarter gross national
product, due out this morning, will show a large jump in
economic growth.
   While that may be good for businesses and the economy, the
bond market reacts badly to such news because investors fear
that a pickup in economic activity could lead to higher
inflation and interest rates, two trends that reduce the
value and appeal of most fixed-income securities.
   "With GNP coming, some investors are terrified. They don't
want to own bonds," said Jay Goldinger, a trader at Capital
Insight, a brokerage firm in Beverly Hills, Calif.
   The selling picked up steam as the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond yield broke above 9%, a technical support level,
for the first time since May 1989. At that point, "the bond
market dropped like a stone," said Christopher Rupkey, a
financial economist at Mitsubishi Bank. "People were focusing
on 9% and when rates vaulted that level, selling
accelerated," he said. The yield rose as high as 9.04% but
ended at 9.03%.
   Michael Krauss, a technical analyst at Shearson Lehman
Government Securities Inc., believes the next technical
support level will be 9.10% which was the previous high yield
on the 30-year bond. He expects the bond market to rally at
that level, at least for a brief period. "I'm long-term
bearish," he said.
   Yesterday's selling caused the price of the benchmark
30-year Treasury bond to fall 3/4 point, a loss of about
$7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Reports
expect the government to report this morning that
inflation-adjusted gross national product grew at an annual
rate of 2.7% in the first quarter. That's more than double
the 1.1% growth rate in the fourth-quarter and suggests to
traders that interest rates could be headed higher.
   "There is a general perspective that the market will lead
the Federal Reserve into a policy firming that eventually
will lead to a higher federal funds rate," said Joel Kazis,
manager of government trading at Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp;
Co. The federal funds rate, which banks charge each other on
overnight loans, has remained at about 8 1/4% since late
December.
   Also contributing to the market's depression was a huge $1
billion offering of 30-year bonds by Chrysler Corp.'s Auburn
Hills Trust. Dealers said underwriters and some investors who
bought the bonds hedged their positions by selling 30-year
Treasury bonds. Chrysler's guaranteed exchangeable
certificates were priced at par to yield 12 3/8%.
   Adding to the market's bearish mood was concern about next
month's quarterly refunding of the federal debt, at which
time the government is scheduled to auction $30 billion of
securities.
   "If the market can't absorb $10.5 billion of two-year
notes," that were sold by the government on Wednesday,
"people are wondering what will happen," next month at the
refunding, said Mr. McCarthy. The two-year note auction was a
disappointment and caused bond prices to slide after the
auction results were announced. Although small investors were
big buyers of the two-year notes, institutional investors
shied away from the auction.
   The talk of the market was Chrysler's giant $1 billion
30-year bond offering.
   The size of the issue was increased from an originally
planned $800 million, a surprising development considering
underwriters at Salomon Brothers Inc. initially had trouble
drumming up sufficient demand for the bonds.
   But orders materialized after Salomon was forced by
investors to sweeten the terms of the issue. The 30-year
securities were priced at par to yield 12.375%, far higher
than the 11 3/4% to 12% yield that Chrysler anticipated.
Underwriters also made the bonds more attractive by adding a
noncall feature. The bonds had been slated to be callable in
10 years. Investors prefer noncallable issues because there's
no risk of early redemption if interest rates fall.
   The bond certificates will actually be issued by Auburn
Hills Trust, which will hold the title to Chrysler Technology
Center and lease the facilities back to Chrysler. The parent
company will guarantee the issue.
   Unlike previous Chrysler deals, yesterday's issue provided
bondholder protection in the form of event-risk language.
Essentially, should Chrysler debt be downgraded, or upgraded,
the coupon on the issue would be adjusted to reflect the
change.
   For example, if Moody's Investors Service Inc. or Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp. downgrade Chrysler debt one full rating
category, the coupon on the issue would be increased by 2.5
percentage points.
   In trading yesterday, most investment-grade bonds posted
declines of up to 3/8 point.
   Most junk bonds ended unchanged to slightly lower. One
notable exception: Ames Department Stores Inc. The retailer's
junk bonds, which had been losing ground for weeks, advanced
on news that the company filed for protection under Chapter
11 of the federal bankruptcy code.
   Ames's 13% senior subordinated reset notes rose two points
to close at 22. Sometimes, a company's bonds will rise
temporarily after a bankruptcy filing as so-called vulture
investors scramble to amass large blocks of bonds. The active
trading drives prices higher.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a price of
94 12/32 to yield 9.03% compared with 95 2/32 to yield 8.97%
on Wednesday. The latest 10-year notes ended at a price of 96
10/32 to yield 9.05% compared with 96 25/32 to yield 8.98% on
Wednesday.
   Short-term rates rose yesterday. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills ended at 7.83% for a bond
equivalent yield of 8.078% while the discount rate on
six-month bills ended at 8.01% for a bond-equivalent yield of
8.442%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were unchanged to 3/4 point lower in late
dealings, as a large number of institutional sellers
contributed to the session's brisk activity.
   "There are more sellers than buyers," said one trader.
"We're very low and there are very few people sticking up
their heads to buy bonds."
   To characterize the market's weakening tone, a trader
pointed to the 2024 term bond of an issue of $283 million
Transmission Agency of Northern California revenue bonds.
Late in the session, the bond was quoted at 94 3/8 to yield
7.45%, which is eight basis points higher than the original
offering level. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage
point.
   In new-issue activity, a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. group
successfully bid for $120 million East Bay Municipal Utility
District, Calif., water system subordinated revenue bonds.
The bonds were priced for reoffering to yield from 7.20% in
2001 to 7.60% in 2020.
   Among active bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% issue due in 2018 fell 1/4 point to 95 1/4, to yield
7.60%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A rebound in the value of the yen and rumors that a large
Japanese securities firm was marking up prices boosted the
Japanese government bond market.
   Dealers said that trading activity, however, remained
thin. On Tuesday, the Finance Ministry auctioned the May
issue of the 10-year Japanese government bond. Market
participants said the top bidders at the auction were Salomon
Brothers Asia Ltd., Daiwa Securities Co., Yamaichi Securities
Co. and Nomura Securities Co.
   Dealers said with three of next week's trading sessions
closed for Japanese national holidays, the market is not
expected to move much by the end of the week.
   At the 3 p.m. JST (2 a.m. EDT) close of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond had risen
0.22 point to 86.11 for a yield of 7.345%.
   In other markets:
   -- British government bonds fell again, although the pace
of the declines slowed markedly after Wednesday's hectic
sell-off. Dealers said that yesterday's price declines were a
carry-over from Wednesday, when a wider-than-expected March
current account deficit caused long-term government bonds to
fall 1 3/8 point.
   Yesterday, the benchmark 11 3/4% Treasury bond due
2003/2007 ended 10/32 lower at 94 17/32 to yield 12.52%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage rates are heading toward 11% because of recent
losses in the mortgage-securities market.
   The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. offered yesterday to
buy fixed-rate 30-year loans from lenders for 10.67%, up
nearly one-tenth of a percentage point from Wednesday and the
highest rate in nearly a year.
   Since consumers pay about 3/8 percentage point more than
the Freddie Mac posted rate, fixed-rate mortgage soon should
be nearing 11%.
   Meanwhile, mortgage securities continued their recent
slide and ended 7/32 to 11/32 lower on the day.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
May delivery ended at 93 10/32, down 10/32; the 9 1/2% issue
at 95 30/32, down 9/32; and the 10% issue at 98 19/32, down
7/32. Freddie Mac's 9 1/2% securities were at 95 3/4, down
11/32.
   Dealers said there was fairly heavy selling of mortgage
issues by a number of institutional investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Demand for Industrial Materials Climbs
   ---
   Trend Indicates Manufacturing
   Is Exceeding Forecasts
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   RBW GR TKR WTHG DOW
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rising demand for industrial materials signals a stronger
manufacturing pace than some people expected.
   U.S. manufacturing hit a recent bottom in January, when a
majority of the nation's auto plants closed for several weeks
to reduce inventories, and many other factories also
throttled back. Now manufacturing executives say business is
coming back surprisingly briskly, although it will be some
months before the order upturn bolsters profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Business is picking up across the board," says Joseph H.
Stegmeyer, vice president and chief financial officer at
Worthington Industries Inc., Columbus, Ohio. "Orders are
strong at all nine locations across the country where we
process and distribute steel." In Columbus, Worthington's
plants are operating six or seven days a week to keep up.
   The upturn has boosted operating rates at the nation's
steel mills to nearly 90% of capacity, from 78% during
January. And it isn't only steel. Demand has improved for a
wide range of other industrial products as well, ranging from
castings to computer chips.
   Dow Chemical Co., Midland, Mich., reports strong demand
for its polyethylene and polystyrene plastics, as well as for
caustic and other basic chemicals. Nuts and bolts, truck
tires, anti-friction bearings and other manufactured items
used primarily by industry are doing much better, too.
   "I'm really pretty bullish," says Michael K. Evans, a
Washington, D.C., economic consultant. "Industrial production
will rise at a 4% annual rate for the balance of the year,"
he forecasts, bolstered by strong exports and higher business
spending for facilities and equipment. By contrast,
industrial production rose only 1% over the past 12 months.
   To be sure, Mr. Evans is more optimistic than most. Some
economists worry that we're seeing mainly an auto-related
uptick rather than a basic change. Factory jobs declined by
69,000 in the first quarter, says Maury Harris, chief
economist for PaineWebber Inc.
   "It's too early to say manufacturing has turned the
corner." He expects industrial output to edge up at only a 1%
to 2% annual rate for the rest of the year, because he
foresees little, if any, further recovery in auto production
and "weak demand for anything related to construction" or
home sales.
   While the National Association of Purchasing Management's
manufacturing index -- which includes orders, production,
inventories and other factors -- rose in March to the highest
level since last June, it remained below the point that would
indicate manufacturing was expanding.
   Furthermore, many manufacturers are reporting sharply
lower first-quarter profits, partly because prices of many
industrial products remain well below year-ago levels.
Despite another round of employment cuts and other
cost-reduction measures, earnings for all of 1990 are likely
to fall, many economists say, the second consecutive year of
decline.
   Buoyant demand in 1987, 1988 and early 1989 encouraged
producers to launch plant expansions and buy equipment to
relieve production bottlenecks. Some of that new capacity in
paper, plastics and other materials is coming into production
this year, holding down prices in spite of improving demand.
Meanwhile, wages, salaries and employee benefits are about 5%
higher this year.
   Increased international competition also limits the
ability of manufacturers to pass along cost increases,
"eroding corporate profits," says Theodore H. Tung, senior
vice president and economist for National City Bank of
Cleveland. "This isn't like the 1970s when U.S. companies
could charge whatever they wanted when demand picked up."
   Still, there's been a noticeable improvement in
manufacturing, partly reflecting the rebound in auto
production. Auto assemblies in the first quarter plunged to
less than 1.5 million, 23% below a year earlier, slashing
orders for steel, tires, glass and a host of other industrial
products. For the second quarter, however, auto makers expect
to turn out nearly 1.8 million cars, down a more modest 8.2%
from a year ago. Truck output will be almost flat with the
1989 second quarter and 21% above the first three months,
according to industry sources.
   While auto sales aren't booming, auto makers are keeping a
sharp eye on inventories, and nobody expects widespread plant
closings such as occurred last January. And auto makers won't
suddenly turn off the order faucet in a massive inventory
correction.
   Wagner Castings, a Decatur, Ill., automotive foundry, has
bounced back to near-capacity operation, after dropping to
about 50% from December through March. However, "we don't
know how much of current output is going to refill the
pipelines," says Ross D. Lake, executive vice president and
chief operating officer of Sudbury, Inc., Wagner's parent.
   But the manufacturing recovery goes well beyond the auto
industry. Non autodependent businesses such as plastic
resins, electronic parts and oil field equipment are showing
improvement, producers say.
   At Worthington, "our Chicago plant's orders are up very
strongly, and they don't do a lot of auto business," says Mr.
Stegmeyer. "Our South Carolina plant, which sells large
amounts of steel to producers of lawn and garden and
electrical equipment, also is up strongly." Overall,
Worthington's March orders were higher than the year
earlier's healthy levels, he says.
   For Timken Co.'s roller bearings, the auto market, while
improving, is one of the weaker spots, says Joseph S. Toot
Jr., president of the Canton, Ohio, bearings and specialty
steels concern. But because many other industries have picked
up, "we're enjoying a higher level of business than we
anticipated."
   Akron, Ohio-based B.F. Goodrich Co. has sold out
practically its full polyvinyl chloride capacity for the next
few months, says Don Knechtges, vice president, marketing and
business management, for the vinyl division. Demand has been
better than anticipated, putting the vinyl division "into a
pretty snug position." PVC is a basic plastic material used
for pipe, siding, wire insulation and a host of other
applications.
   As one indication of the PVC turnabout, Goodrich in the
past few weeks was able to put through a price increase of
three cents a pound, or nearly 10%, and plans another
two-cent rise for May. However, that would recover only about
half the price drop that occurred in the previous nine
months.
   Materials producers say they're confident customers are
buying for immediate use rather than to build inventory. "We
have many orders with very short lead times -- they need the
material now," says Worthington's Mr. Stegmeyer.
   In fact, the order upturn in part reflects the end of
inventory cutting. Companies started building stocks and
placing multiple orders for materials in late 1988 or early
1989, when prices were soaring and shortages appeared to be
developing. But they quickly cut orders in the 1989 second
half, when the economic slowdown turned those hedge buys into
excess inventory.
   Now stocks have returned to relatively low levels. The
Commerce Department reported last week that business
inventories in February shrank to 1.48 months' shipments,
from 1.51 months in January and 1.49 months a year earlier.
   Some manufacturers may have cut too deeply. RB&amp;W Corp., a
Mentor, Ohio, fastener manufacturer, is working overtime at
some plants to meet urgent delivery requests, says John J.
Lohrman, chairman and chief executive officer. Only six weeks
ago RB&amp;W was working 32-hour weeks, because customers weren't
ordering nuts and bolts. "Some of our customers apparently
overdid" the inventory cutting, and are asking for
accelerated deliveries now, he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks End Higher on Earnings;
   Compaq Computer Up 4 1/4 to 98 1/4
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Thanks to some surprisingly good earnings
reports, stocks finished higher for the second straight day
despite another slump in the bond market.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 10.14 to 2676.58.
The advance lacked broad participation: 764 issues declined
on the New York Stock Exchange while 677 advanced. Broader
market indices also gained, but not as much: Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 0.89 to 332.92; the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 0.36 to 182.66; and the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index gained 0.60 to 310.12. Volume
on the Big Board totaled 141,330,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Treasury bond yields rose through the 9% level at
midmorning to 9.03% late in the day, a move that dragged down
stock prices. But stocks rebounded in afternoon trading, as
investors began buying stocks of large companies that have
reported strong earnings in recent days.
   "Even companies where earnings were down year over year
are reporting earnings that are higher than the consensus,"
said Joseph J. McAlinden, head of research at Dillon Read.
"And a broad cross-section of companies are coming in with
higher-than-expected earnings."
   One was Compaq Computer, which reported first-quarter
earnings of $2.13 a share, sharply ahead of most forecasts.
Earlier this week, investors shunned the stock, fearing bad
news. But yesterday Compaq shares recovered with an explosive
opening gain of 6. The stock finished 4 1/4 higher at 98 1/4
on 1.4 million shares.
   Today's report on first-quarter gross national product may
confirm the aggregate strength in the economy that seems to
be showing up in the earnings of many companies. A consensus
of estimates by economists polled by Dow Jones Capital
Markets report forecasts GNP growth at an annual rate of
2.7%. In the fourth quarter of last year, GNP rose at a 1.1%
rate. Additionally, two inflation measures based on GNP are
expected to have climbed at rates of more than 5% in the
quarter, well above fourth-quarter levels.
   Mr. McAlinden said the stock market's resilience in the
face of rising bond yields "is telling you that the American
business cycle is pretty decent."
   Said Thomas R. Walsh, head of equity trading at Nikko
Securities International: "On balance, I've seen people ready
to buy stocks now, which I haven't seen in a long time."
   Among other shares of large companies that are attracting
investors because of their earnings performance,
Bristol-Myers Squibb gained 2 1/8 to 54 7/8 on volume of 2.1
million shares. Prudential-Bache Securities increased its
1991 and 1992 earnings estimates and repeated a buy
recommendation on the stock.
   Du Pont, which rose 7/8 Wednesday after its first-quarter
earnings report met expectations, added another 1 1/8 to 37
on 1.7 million shares. First Boston raised the stock's
investment rating to "strong buy" from "buy" and increased
its estimate of 1990 earnings. The firm took the same action
on Dow Chemical, whose shares gained 7/8 to 62 1/4.
   Procter &amp; Gamble, which gained 1 1/8 Wednesday in response
to a well-received earnings report for its fiscal third
quarter ended last month, advanced another 1 1/4 yesterday to
70 3/4.
   Sara Lee went down 7/8 to 28 5/8 on 1.8 million shares
after Merrill Lynch trimmed its earnings projections for
fiscal 1990 and 1991 in the wake of Sara Lee's fiscal
third-quarter earnings report, issued Wednesday. The firm now
expects Sara Lee to report net income of $1.92 a share for
the year ending in June, down from a forecast of $1.95, and
$2.15 to $2.20 a share for the next year, down from $2.20 to
$2.25.
   Steven A. Kroll, president of SLH Asset Management, said
the recent rise in rates and numerous disappointments in the
first-quarter results released so far have made "proven
earnings growers" look more attractive.
   "Earnings, earnings and earnings -- that's the key," Mr.
Kroll said, adding that any rallies in the market at this
point "are going to be suspect" while the bond market
struggles and rates remain high.
   Safeway closed 10% above the price at which underwriters
sold a 10% stake in the company in an initial public
offering. Ten million shares were sold in the offering at
$11.25 each; the supermarket company's stock ended the
session at 12 3/8, with 2.2 million changing hands.
   Norton, which slid 1/2 to 88 1/4, was the most active Big
Board issue for the second consecutive session as 2.6 million
shares were traded. BTR of Britain, whose takeover offer of
$75 a share for the company was rejected, disclosed that it
had sold its entire 1.7% stake. As reported, Norton accepted
a $90-a-share bid from France's Saint-Gobain.
   Republic New York dipped 1/8 to 43 3/8 on 1.2 million
shares following the sale of about four million shares at
$43.50 apiece, made in connection with the company's
acquisition of Manhattan Savings Bank.
   Illinois Power fell 1 7/8 to 16. A hearing examiner with
the Illinois Commerce Commission recommended that the utility
receive a rate increase of $27.7 million, rather than the
$215.7 million increase it requested.
   Seagull Energy rose 1 to 22 5/8. The company reported that
first-quarter earnings rose about 23% from a year earlier and
the full-year outlook is "very positive."
   Conversely, Gleason tumbled 2 3/8 to 18 3/4 after posting
first-quarter net from continuing operations of 10 cents a
share, compared with a loss from continuing operations a year
earlier.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.23
to 344.75. Volume totaled 15,030,000 shares compared with
16,060,000 Wednesday. There were 266 issues advancing, 271
declining and 245 unchanged.
   Weatherford International gained 3/8 to 5 7/8 after the
completion of an offering of three million shares, sold at
$5.50 each.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Votes Major Provisions That Add
   About $3.3 Billion to 1990 Spending Bill
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/27/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate approved major provisions of a
fiscal 1990 spending bill that would add almost $3.3 billion
to domestic and foreign-aid accounts, including $720 million
in economic assistance to the new governments of Panama and
Nicaragua.
   By a 51-48 margin, the Republican leadership narrowly beat
back a Democratic proposal to cut $120 million from the
proposed aid to Panama. But to finance the accompanying
domestic initiatives, the Pentagon will be forced to accept
deeper reductions than it has wanted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Provisions adopted last night would rescind an estimated
$1.54 billion from selected military operations accounts, and
an across-the-board cut of approximately 1.6% would result in
further reductions of an estimated $2.1 billion. A portion of
these funds is restored elsewhere to cover a shortfall in
Pentagon personnel accounts, but the net reduction in
military appropriations would be more than $2.86 billion in
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   For the Bush administration, the Central American package
remains the centerpiece of the legislation, but the State
Department has been forced to fight at each step in the
Senate against Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd.
   The West Virginian quoted from the Bible, Shakespeare and
Daniel Webster in a tub-thumping call for domestic programs,
and he crafted his amendment to discomfort his opponents and
appeal to an assortment of environmental, agriculture, and
Western state interests.
   The largest single transfer would have been to clean up
hazardous nuclear-weapons plants under the Energy Department,
and the provision played on the anxieties of Mr. Byrd's GOP
counterpart, Sen. Mark Hatfield, whose Oregon constituents
must worry about the troubled Hanford facility in Washington
state. "Moses was 40 years in the desert," said Mr. Byrd.
"We're talking about 40 years of inadequate attention to an
environmental problem."
   The final package preserves $300 million for Nicaragua and
$420 million for Panama, but the victory last night came only
after a day of intense lobbying in which the White House was
needed to shore up support among wavering farm state
Republicans. Hours later, the State Department was forced to
tap the same GOP support in a fight to waive the Gramm-Rudman
deficit law involving the department's budget. In this fight,
Democrats cast themselves as populist budgeteers vs. the
allies of multilateral banks.
   The 62-30 roll call on the budget waiver was just two
votes above the super-majority needed to lift the
Gramm-Rudman restrictions and frees up an estimated $363
million in previously appropriated funds. More than half is
expected to go to international organizations, such as the
United Nations and World Health Organization. But it also
affects more parochial interests such as a Rio Grande River
pollution problem important to Sen. Phil Gramm (R., Texas),
who supported the waiver of the budget law that bears his
name.
   Though Central America has so far dominated the debate,
the bill is likely to become a testing ground, too, for
various provisions related to the Middle East. An estimated
$400 million is provided in housing-loan guarantees for
Israel to be used in resettling Soviet Jewish refugees, and
separate amendments have been filed condemning Iraq and
calling, in effect, for an end to trade relations with
Baghdad.
   Among domestic accounts, an estimated $11 million was
added last night to assist Louisiana sugar growers hurt by a
severe freeze this winter. The greater threat to final
passage, however, is a laundry list of social amendments
renewing fights over abortion rights and the death penalty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           5.00%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.74%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.83%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.84%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.88%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           6.98%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900427-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900427-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   DD MEDC FQA NSC BU LLX BHI NWK CYM AWAL POM SPW RTC WIT AS
PET FHPC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Du Pont Co            $ .90  $ .79  (6)   ...        13.92
  Medical Care Intl       .32    .29  (4)   .29  (7)   10.34
  Fuqua Industries        .30    ...        .22  (5)   36.36
  Norfolk Southern        .84    ...        .74 (12)   13.51
  Brooklyn Union Gas     2.46    ...       2.18  (3)   12.84
  Louisiana Land          .47    ...        .42  (6)   11.90
  Baker Hughes            .23    ...        .21 (10)    9.52
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Network Eq Tech       $ .04  $ .29 (6) $  .36 (15)   86.21
  Cyprus Minerals         .65    .99 (3)    .97  (5)   34.34
  America West Air       (.17)   ...       (.06) (6)  183.33
  Potomac Electric        .04    ...        .29  (6)   86.21
  SPX Corp                .30    ...        .53  (3)   43.40
  Rochester Tel           .43    ...        .52  (5)   17.31
  Witco Corp              .63    ...        .74  (5)   14.86
  Armco Inc               .12    ...        .14  (4)   14.29
  Pacific Enterp          .92    ...       1.02  (4)    9.80
  FHP Intl Corp           .35    ...        .38  (9)    7.89
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   FHP INTERNATIONAL Corp.'s recently reported fiscal third
quarter earnings of 35 cents a share were about in line with
analysts' average estimate of 34 cents a share. Because the
estimate was incorrect in Thursday's Quarterly Earnings
Surprises table, due to a database error at Zacks Investment
Research, the company's results shouldn't have been included
among negative surprises.
   (WSJ April 30, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
