<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It Does Get Them
   This Big Headline
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Here's Wall Street's latest tactic to lure
investors:
   MAKE THE WORDS BIGGER.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a marketing ploy, Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. this week
issued what it says is the first "large-type" prospectus for
an investment product issued by a major brokerage house.
   Everything in the oversize prospectus, including the fine
print, is about a third larger than normal; that increased
the document to 26 pages from 24.
   The name and logo alone take up four inches on the cover,
but perhaps that's understandable. The name is Shearson's
Directions Unit Investment Trust Series 86.
   The big-type version costs Shearson more money, of course.
But the brokerage company, a unit of American Express Co.,
thinks it can make back even more by attracting more
investors whose eyes may have faded. (Unit trusts are already
attracting investors with an average age of 59, six years
older than the typical Shearson customer's age of 53.)
   "It's a `value-added' kind of thing," says Shearson's
director of unit trusts, Robert Topol, who's 65 himself. Mr.
Topol says a typical unit-trust investor "is the older
client, and he has more money. And if he's like me, if I
don't have bright lights I can't read easily, and if I can't
have big print, I can't read it right."
   But does bigger type mean a better investment? Not
necessarily. Many unit trusts -- which are unmanaged
portfolios with a fixed set of securities, often municipal
bonds -- have been disappointing. The problem, in part, is
that the portfolios can't be updated to reflect changes in
the marketplace.
   Still, at least Shearson is showing interest in a
neglected group of investors, says one expert on marketing to
the mature.
   Ken Dychtwald, chairman of Age Wave Inc. in Emoryville,
Calif., and a Shearson consultant, says Wall Street is used
to catering only to "young, good-looking yuppie types." But
one day, Mr. Dychtwald says, Wall Street will happily
discover what older folks have to offer. "We're talking," he
says, "about trillions of dollars of wealth here."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Summer Movies Off to Bruising Start
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC NWS SNE PCI CCB DIS NLN MCA OPC VIA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The battle of the big-budget summer movies is starting off
with a blast, with several films already bruised at the box
office.
   This is clearly Hollywood's most profligate summer, with
10 high-priced, high-profile movies jockeying for attention
in the next few weeks: "Die Hard II," "Days of Thunder," and
"Another 48 Hours," to name a few. With stiffer competition,
the costs of marketing movies is hitting the stratosphere.
And although opening weekends are setting records, each new
movie threatens to cannibalize what's already out there.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last weekend, for example, Carolco Pictures Inc.'s "Total
Recall," the violent, action-packed thriller starring
muscleman Arnold Schwarzenegger, pulled in $25.5 million, the
year's biggest opening weekend. But there were victims: The
box office take for the previous weekend's big hit, "Back to
The Future Part III" from MCA Inc.'s Universal Studios, fell
a whopping 46% to $10.3 million at 2,025 screens. "Cadillac
Man" from Orion Pictures Corp. was down 46%, and Walt Disney
Co.'s "Firebirds" plunged 49%.
   Even if the big-budget movies aren't U.S. box office
blockbusters, however, the burgeoning world-wide appetite for
American movies probably will produce profits for most of
them. "People are writing off the possibility of big profits
this summer because there's so much competition" and the
films cost so much to make, says Mara Balsbaugh, an analyst
at Smith Barney Harris Upham Inc. But while costs are
soaring, she says, "the revenue side of the equation has also
become enormous, with the overall level of business expanding
everywhere."
   Increasingly, Ms. Balsbaugh notes, domestic box office
revenue accounts for only about 20% of some movie's revenues,
with post-theatrical markets such as video and television and
overseas markets bringing in the lion's share. Theaters in
France, Europe and the U.K. are being expanded and
refurbished, often by U.S. companies that also own movie
studios, such as Paramount Communications Inc. and Time
Warner Inc. Foreign television and home video markets are on
the upswing.
   Still, U.S. box office performance remains a crucial
barometer of big success in other markets. And some industry
observers worry that the box office drops last weekend may be
a harbinger of things to come. Granted, the drops were
magnified because they were being compared with the three-day
Memorial Day holiday, but they were substantial nonetheless.
   "The demise of `Back to the Future Part III' is scary,"
says Dennis McAlpine, an analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "You
have one big opening weekend, then the next movie comes in
and you lose your audience." If a movie can keep showing in a
number of theaters, it won't flop, but "you've got to do huge
business in that first weekend, or you're dead."
   For the next few weeks, the competition may be
particularly brutal, because many of the big-budget movies
are action/adventure films that appeal to basically the same
audience. Tomorrow, for example, Paramount opens "Another 48
Hours," a shoot-'em-up sequel to the 1982 hit starring Eddie
Murphy and Nick Nolte.
   "If `Another 48 Hours' cuts into `Total Recall,' then
`Dick Tracy' comes along and cuts into `48 Hours,' then
`Robocop' does it to `Dick Tracy,' and `Days of Thunder' does
it to `Robocop,' you could have seven or eight movies that do
$100 million but no blockbusters out of the bunch," says Mr.
McAlpine. (Not long ago, $100 million was considered a
blockbuster, but these days big hits take in $150 million to
$250 million.)
   "Week after week there are pictures opening, then another
picture is there to potentially knock it off," says Phil
Garfinkle, executive vice president of Entertainment Data
Inc. "But the overall level of business is encouraging, and
the marketplace can support more than one megahit at a time."
Last summer, he notes, while "Batman" was a huge hit,
grossing more than $250 million in the U.S., other movies
such as "Indiana Jones and The Last Crusade" and "Lethal
Weapon 2" were also huge hits.
   "Last summer, the market demonstrated that it will expand
to take in a variety of product," says Barry London, who
heads distribution and marketing at Paramount. "The question
now is how much appetite there is this summer and how much
the market can expand, and no one will know the answer to
that for the next few weeks." Mr. London and others expect
this summer to top last summer's record box office
performance.
   Studios are usually loath to disclose their production
costs, referred to as "negative costs" in the industry, or
say how much they are spending on releasing films.
   News Corp.'s Fox, for example, dismisses estimates by
analysts such as Paul Kagan Associates that "Die Hard II"
cost over $60 million to make, saying they are way too high.
But Fox won't say what the movie did cost. Studios also
dispute some of Kagan's estimates for releasing costs, which
include getting thousands of film prints to theaters and
heavy advertising.
   But clearly, studios are spending heavily on television,
print, and other advertising to get a big opening for their
movies this summer. "Prints and ads for a major summer
release can top $30 million, with over two-thirds of that
spent before the film ever opens," says Larry Gerbrandt, an
analyst for Kagan's Motion Picture Investor. He says that
such costs have risen even faster than production costs,
"sometimes approaching the cost of making the film itself."
   Carolco, for its part, says Kagan's estimates that "Total
Recall" cost $60 million or more to make are too high; the
"mid-50s" is more like it. The company also says Kagan's $27
million estimate of releasing costs is too high.
   But "Total Recall" illustrates how movie companies say
they can cover their bets even with a hugely expensive
picture. Before the movie's opening, Carolco says, it had
already taken in revenue from so-called foreign "presales" of
rights, and also received an advance payment from its own
49%-owned home video unit. In an unusual move, Capital
Cities/ABC Inc.'s network agreed to buy television rights to
the movie before its release, and Carolco has an agreement to
sell its movies to Viacom Inc.'s Showtime cable network.
   The movie is being distributed to theaters by the Tri-Star
Pictures unit of Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures
Entertainment, which gets a substantial percentage of the box
office take. But Tri-Star also pays most of the releasing and
advertising costs. "When you put all of this together, we
were in positive profit margins before the movie opened,"
says a Carolco executive. He says another benefit is that the
company gets additional funds from various markets based on
the film's box office performance.
   While most of the attention focuses on the big-budget
action films, movies offering an alternative to women,
families and others put off by too much violence may reap
rewards this summer. "I'm trying to find pictures like
`Parenthood,' `Uncle Buck,' and `Dead Poets Society' that
weren't perceived to be big hits and ended up doing
substantial business" last year, says Mr. Garfinkle of
Entertainment Data.
   Disney, for example, is opening "Betsy's Wedding," a
family picture starring Alan Alda on June 22, when Orion
opens "Robocop II." And Universal will release "Ghost Dad," a
family comedy starring Bill Cosby, on June 29, the same time
that Paramount opens "Days of Thunder," an action-packed
movie about the race-car world featuring Tom Cruise and a lot
of car wrecks.
   If the heavy competition bloodies some studios this
summer, they may rethink their strategies next year. The old
rule of thumb that movies had to be released during Christmas
or the summer to be big hits no longer applies; this spring,
a number of movies did huge business, including Paramount's
"Hunt for Red October," Disney's "Pretty Woman," and New Line
Cinema Co.'s "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," all still
pulling in moviegoers.
   "This bunching up of all the big expensive movies in the
summer may not be repeated next year, or at least not quite
so dramatically," predicts Mr. Gerbrandt of Kagan.
   ---
   Risks and Rewards of Some of This Summer's Major Movies
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 PRODUCTION  RELEASING  TOTAL PROJECTED PROJECTED PROJECTED
      COSTS     COSTS*  COSTS   REVENUE    PROFIT      LOSS
      (in       (in     (in     (in        (in        (in
 millions) millions) millions) millions) millions) millions)
                                                                                                       

 Die Hard II (Fox)
      $62      $30      $92      $175       $83      ($69)
                                                                                                       

 Total Recall (Carolco)
       60       27       87       189       102       (16)##
                                                                                                       

 Days of Thunder (Paramount)
       45       30       75       176       101       (56)
                                                                                                       

 Another 48 Hours (Paramount)
       38       24       62       162       100       (47)
                                                                                                       

 Dick Tracy (Disney)
       32       30       62       173       111       (47)
                                                                                                       

   *Includes prints, advertising and prerelease promotion
                                                                                                       

   **Assumes $100 million domestic box office revenue income
from home video rentals, cable television and other sources,
but not from consumer video purchases
                                                                                                       

   #Assumes film is unsuccessful at the box office and
recovers only 25% of total costs
                                                                                                       

   ##Carolco's marketing arrangements limit its downside risk
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Star Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STRRC
</CO>
<LP>
   STAR TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (Sterling, Va.) -- Robert C.
Compton, 43 years old, president and chief executive officer
of this maker of high-performance computer products, assumed
the additional post of chairman. He succeeds Herbert S. Shaw,
57, who will remain a director. The board also accepted the
resignations of Ralph R. Shaw and J. Robert Newton, reducing
board membership to four. No successors were appointed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Primerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PA
</CO>
<LP>
   PRIMERICA Corp. (Greenwich, Conn.) -- This
financial-services concern named Daniel J. McAthie to the new
post of vice president and treasurer of Fingerhut Cos., its
70%-owned direct-mail marketing unit in Minneapolis. Mr.
McAthie had been vice president and treasurer of CVN Cos., a
direct-marketing company in Minneapolis acquired last fall by
QVC Network Inc., a West Chester, Pa., television retail
merchandiser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highland Superstores' Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<LP>
   PLYMOUTH, Mich. -- Highland Superstores Inc., a consumer
electronics retailer, said its May sales rose 1% to $63.9
million from $63.1 million a year earlier. Sales at stores
open at least one year fell 1%. The data exclude sales from
the Shreveport, La., and Milwaukee markets, which the company
recently left.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Danforth Revels in Role of Pirates' King
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   X PNC
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- It's a cool, damp night at Three Rivers
Stadium, and Douglas D. Danforth sits in a heated luxury box,
a scorecard at his side. The retired Westinghouse Electric
Corp. chairman peers out at the field, where the Pirates have
runners on second and third.
   The batter lines a single to right field. Mr. Danforth
leaps to his feet and waves the runners home. "Come on] Come
on]" he yells. Pirates 6, Los Angeles Dodgers 0. "What we
gotta do is get 10 runs ahead and stay there," he exclaims.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His enthusiasm is understandable. Mr. Danforth became the
Pirates' chairman and chief executive officer two years ago,
instilling a tough bottom-line management style that marked
his years at Westinghouse. In the process, Mr. Danforth has
found new life after retirement, turning a favorite pastime
into a vocation.
   After a bleak season in 1989, the Pirates are giving the
67-year-old Mr. Danforth plenty to cheer about. The
high-flying Pirates have been baseball's biggest surprise
this year, leading the National League Eastern division.
What's more, management believes the scrappy club can sell 2
million tickets, enough to eke out a profit.
   In many ways, Mr. Danforth has far more problems running
the Pirates than he had leading a Fortune 500 company. Among
other things, at Westinghouse he never had to worry about
sore arms, rainouts and daily news coverage. "We only had to
go public once a quarter," he says with a sly grin.
   And he confesses to some frustration. "The biggest
difference in running the Pirates is that you're absolutely
helpless in what happens out there," Mr. Danforth says,
motioning toward the field. "In business, if you have a
product with a reliability problem, you can fix it."
   Nonetheless, Mr. Danforth's friends and family say he's
having more fun than ever with the Pirates. "When people hear
he's the CEO of the Pirates, they think that's the most
wonderful thing," says his high school sweetheart and wife of
47 years, Janet. "Then he'll say he was also the CEO of
Westinghouse, and they'll say, `Oh.'"
   The Pirates' turnaround is particularly sweet for Mr.
Danforth, who five years ago played a leading role in keeping
the team in Pittsburgh. He helped put together a
public-private partnership that bought the club at a time
when many here thought the debt-ridden, last-place team,
which was hurt by a drug scandal involving a number of its
players, was a blight on the city.
   Although those problems have been solved, the Pirates'
nine local corporate owners, including USX Corp. and PNC
Financial Corp., have discovered that owning a baseball team
isn't necessarily a field of dreams. Last season, the Pirates
finished fifth and lost $1.3 million because of an
arbitration ruling that found all baseball owners guilty of
collusion in 1985 and 1986.
   That has led to rumors that the club still may leave
Pittsburgh, its home since 1887. Under the 1985 buy-out
agreement, the team could be put up for sale this year. Mr.
Danforth, however, says only a financial collapse would lead
to a sale.
   The Pirates' chairman has become something of a
mover-and-shaker in the major leagues, heading two different
committees, including one in charge of expansion. The
responsibilities have made for a travel-packed retirement.
   Mr. Danforth has always been passionate about baseball.
Growing up in Syracuse, N.Y., he took dates to minor league
baseball games. He played catcher for Syracuse University --
"I was average but aggressive" -- and his gnarled fingers
evidence his years behind the plate. When he wasn't digging
curve balls out of the dirt, he earned a degree in
engineering.
   He is known for his cool and calculating temperament --
but not with men on base. "Helluva slide]" Mr. Danforth
bellows after the Pirates' Andy Van Slyke scores on a
sacrifice fly.
   But Mr. Danforth doesn't allow emotion to cloud his
management of the Pirates. When the Dodgers bring in a relief
pitcher, Jim Gott, Mr. Danforth says: "He's the guy we dumped
last year. He's got a sore shoulder, and he wanted a
guaranteed contract. We wouldn't give it to him. We pay for
performance."
   He also demands loyalty. He fired the team's general
manager, Syd Thrift, in 1988 after the Pirates had one of
their best seasons in years. Press criticism focused on Carl
Barger, the Pirates' president, even though Mr. Danforth is
chairman. "That's the sign of a good manager," says Bernard
Mullin, the Pirates' senior vice president for business
operations.
   "You've got to work within a structure and Syd couldn't,"
Mr. Danforth says. There are worse fates than being fired,
though. Mr. Danforth breeds llamas on his farm outside
Pittsburgh. A surly creature named Freckles once took a bite
out of his owner. "We made a rug out of him," Mr. Danforth
says.
   At Westinghouse, which has diverse lines of businesses in
broadcasting, financial services and manufacturing, Mr.
Danforth was a paternalistic but demanding executive who set
clear goals, expected them to be met and knew the numbers.
   His impatience with mistakes of any kind is clearly
evident at the baseball game. In the seventh inning, the
Dodgers mount a rally when the Pirates' left fielder boots a
line drive and a run scores. "Oh my God, that was a bad
play," grumbles Mr. Danforth, sipping a beer. "He didn't get
in front of the ball. A bad play."
   Moments later, another run scores when the pitcher drops
the ball covering first base. "Dammit]" Mr. Danforth yells.
Pirates 7, Dodgers 5.
   For the Pirates, Mr. Danforth establishes budgetary
guidelines and meets each year with department heads.
Although he isn't directly involved with player negotiations
and trades, he is consulted on virtually all moves that
affect the bottom line.
   The Pirates have about $38 million in annual revenue,
pocket change compared with Westinghouse's $12.8 billion. But
Mr. Danforth says the two organizations share at least one
attribute. "Marketing's the key, whether it's baseball or
lighting systems," he says.
   Playing in a mid-sized market, the Pirates will never have
the television revenue of teams in larger cities, although
the team must pay competitive salaries with clubs in New York
and Los Angeles.
   Then there's the rain; bad weather has kept attendance low
this season. "The weather has absolutely killed us this
year," Mr. Danforth sighs.
   The Dodgers don't, though. The game ends on a double play.
Pirates 9, Dodgers 5. "We had it all the way," Mr. Danforth
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Banana War:
   Honduras Farm's Sales
   To a Rival of Chiquita
   Spark Bitter Struggle
   ---
   Officials Go to Docks to Halt
   Fruit Shipments Claimed
   By an Irish-British Firm
   ---
   Remembering `the Octopus'
   ----
   By Jose De Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM CQB U.FII EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PUERTO CORTES, Honduras -- In Nicaragua, the Contras are
handing in their weapons. In El Salvador, guerrillas are
talking peace. But in this usually placid tropical port, war
has broken out.
   A banana war.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On one side is the Honduran subsidiary of the U.S. company
Chiquita Brands International Inc. -- formerly United Brands
Co., earlier United Fruit Co. On the other is an upstart
ex-subsidiary of Chiquita's, Fyffes Group Ltd., now owned by
the big Irish-British fruit importer Fyffes PLC. Fyffes
precipitated hostilities this year by ordering bananas from a
grower that Chiquita says has an ironclad contract to supply
Chiquita.
   The outside world's appetite for bananas is strong, and
demand will grow with Europe's economic integration and
Eastern Europe's developing ability to import. But the supply
of green gold, so-called by banana men because it is cut and
shipped green, is limited. It greatly disturbs Chiquita that
a major supplier has defected to Fyffes. Chiquita says it
will enforce compliance with its contract, but strictly by
legal and ethical means.
   "We can't afford to let Fyffes get that fruit," says
Manuel Rodriguez, a Chiquita vice president wearing a
guayabera in his temporary office in the old company town of
La Lima. Fyffes Chairman Neil McCann counters: "We will stay
here as long as necessary."
   In Honduras, Chiquita's 80 or 90 other independent growers
are following the war with great interest. The independents
account for nearly one-third of the 34 million boxes of
bananas Chiquita shipped from Honduras last year. "This is
{Chiquita's} biggest and best division," says Laurence Swan,
a Fyffes marketing executive. "Lose it here, and that's it."
Independent banana growers in Ecuador, Panama, Costa Rica and
Colombia would love to see more competition from buyers and
are watching the fight, too. "If people realize Fyffes can
induce producers to break contracts, then everybody will do
it," says Chiquita's Mr. Rodriguez.
   "It's the most serious threat the U.S. banana companies
have had to their privileged position, perhaps since the
beginning of the century," says Mark Rosenberg, a Honduras
expert at Florida International University.
   For the moment, Chiquita -- whose United Fruit predecessor
was called "the Octopus" by Hondurans -- has prevailed. El
Tiempo, Honduras's most influential newspaper, has
editorialized acidly that the "banana republic system" is
alive and well in Honduras, if nowhere else. The main
casualties of the war have been bananas. Chiquita has
obtained a court order that has empowered officials to
confiscate about 300,000 boxes of Fyffes-bound bananas, worth
about $3.6 million abroad.
   Some of the seized fruit has been pilfered and some has
spoiled. Most has been sold for small change in Honduras,
where the demand for bananas is not exactly insatiable. This
strikes Fyffes partisans as tragic. "As a professional banana
man, I'm appalled," says Tim Stickney, a Fyffes agricultural
specialist in Belize.
   At the heart of the war is a contract dispute between
Chiquita and the Echeverri family, Honduras's largest
independent banana growers. Chiquita accuses Fyffes of paying
the Echeverris $2.5 million to break their company's
long-term contract with Chiquita in order to sell to Fyffes,
which offers higher prices -- and pays in dollars, rather
than the shaky Honduran lempira.
   The Echeverris assert that the contract has expired and
that, in any case, Chiquita itself had violated certain
provisions, thereby voiding it. Fyffes says that the
Echeverris are free to sell to whom they please and that it
has done nothing wrong.
   One Honduran judge has ruled for Chiquita. In a different
legal action, another judge has ruled that the Echeverris can
sell their fruit to Fyffes. Chiquita's judge, however, seems
to have more muscle.
   Through legal maneuvering -- and, Chiquita men say, the
intimidating presence of hundreds of banana workers at the
port -- Fyffes and the Echeverris were able to ship three
boatloads of bananas from Puerto Cortes in early spring.
Since May 11, however, a Fyffes freighter, the Frost Cetus,
has bobbed fruitlessly at the harbor, at a cost of $5,000 a
day.
   Court officials, accompanied at times by soldiers in
combat gear, have confiscated truckload after truckload of
fruit. Chiquita's Mr. Rodriguez says that the Honduran
government and military, initially confused by the legal
maneuvering, now are fully aware of Chiquita's superior legal
position.
   In March and April, court officials supervised the
unloading of more than 2,000 tons of bananas from two vessels
chartered to Fyffes by Seatrade Groningen B.V., a Dutch
concern. In one instance, the ship company says, the captain
reported that his ship was unloaded at gunpoint -- although a
judge on the scene denied in an affidavit that any force was
used. More recently, three trainloads and 68 truckloads of
green gold were confiscated. On the way to port, one
fruit-laden train was derailed when its locomotive, crewmen
said, hit a railroad spike that someone had jammed into the
space between two lengths of rail. At a press conference two
days later, lawyers for Chiquita's subsidiary denied any
responsibility for the incident.
   On a recent night at the port, a police lieutenant,
toothpick firmly planted in his jaw, orders the confiscation
of three truckloads bound for the Frost Cetus. A woman in a
flaming pink dress, Marta Moran, who is a lawyer for the
Echeverris, suddenly appears on the scene and waves a court
paper in the officer's face. "Show me your order]" she barks.
"My paper against your paper]"
   Sullen stevedores press in on the lieutenant and his four
men, who carry rifles. "Load the bananas]" one of the dock
workers shouts. "I have four cubs at home who have to eat."
   The police retreat, but the Fyffes-Echeverri victory is
short-lived. The judge on Chiquita's side has been found
partying at Studio 54, a discotheque, and again approves
seizure of the bananas. The lieutenant returns to the dock
with a court order -- and a dozen soldiers in battle gear.
The three truckloads of bananas are impounded.
   In another recent incident, witnesses say, police with
automatic rifles, accompanied by at least two Chiquita
employees and a Chiquita lawyer who is an alternate member of
the Honduran supreme court, burst into a hotel here. They
sought to detain for questioning a Fyffes official and the
Fyffes agent who arranged the Echeverri agreement.
   Confronted by the hotel manager, the raiding party was
unable to produce proper warrants. The Fyffes men had escaped
anyway; one had ducked out a back entrance. But a visiting
Fyffes director who resembled one of the wanted men was
almost arrested, witnesses say. Chiquita says its lawyer was
there to identify the Fyffes men, for whom there were valid
arrest warrants.
   Some Fyffes officials now travel with bodyguards and mask
their identities. Two executives carry 90,000-volt stun guns
bought in Miami. "I'll take one {captor} with me, if need
be," one jokes nervously.
   Peace talks have begun. Last week, about eight security
guards from both sides waited in the lobby of a hotel in San
Pedro Sula, their guns discreetly hidden from view, as
lawyers from Chiquita and Fyffes held what a Fyffes man
called a "tense" three-hour meeting. Both sides pledged to
seek ground on which to resolve their dispute.
   There are diplomatic pressures to do so. The two sides met
this week after gentle prodding from the American and British
ambassadors here; they had responded to a request from the
president of Honduras. Ireland, the home of Fyffes PLC, has
no representation here. But the Fyffes Group subsidiary is
headquartered in London. The British ambassador to Honduras
is Peter Streams, a heavyset, cigar-smoking diplomat given to
wearing pale-pink safari outfits on his visits to Puerto
Cortes. He says he has "expressed concern" over the dispute
many times to the Honduran government.
   Also on the diplomatic front, Fyffes offcials have met
with officials of the European Community in Brussels.
Chiquita officials, Mr. Streams says, have explained their
position to the British Foreign Office in London. U.S.
Ambassador Cresencio Arcos says the dispute has become a
"loselose" situation for Honduras, with total victory by one
side or another damaging the nation's reputation either in
the U.S. or in Europe. He is counseling the antagonists to
reach a "mutually acceptable agreement."
   As a Chiquita subsidiary, Fyffes Group had acquired most
of its bananas from former British colonies -- Belize,
Jamaica, the Windward Islands -- and from Surinam, and sold
them in the British market. In 1986, FII PLC bought Fyffes
Group. As part of the deal, United Brands (now Chiquita) got
a minority interest in the new FII Fyffes (now Fyffes). Then,
last September, United Brands sold its interest in Fyffes.
"We didn't think it was a very valuable company," says a
Chiquita spokeswoman in Cincinnati.
   Mr. Swan says Fyffes never meant to start a war with
Chiquita. But it needed an additional source of bananas, and
to enter Honduras -- next door to Belize, where Fyffes had
long sent ships -- "was a logical geographic decision," he
says.
   Fyffes is the fifth-largest company whose shares are
traded on the Dublin stock exchange. But with total sales of
$600 million a year it is dwarfed by Chiquita, whose banana
sales alone last year were $1.4 billion.
   If Chiquita has been winning the legal side of the war,
the affair has been a public-relations disaster. The
spectacle of Chiquita squashing a Honduran grower that had
managed to get better terms from Chiquita's much smaller
competitor has rekindled Hondurans' historical resentment of
"the Octopus." In the bad old days, Hondurans say, the
company "made and unmade presidents."
   Some U.S. diplomats are irritated by all this. One says
that tactics of the Fyffes and the Echeverris have exploited
the negative side of the U.S. firm's history in Honduras and
"sparked a smear campaign."
   As recently as 1974, during the last banana war (which was
set off by a fight for market share between United Brands and
Castle &amp; Cooke Inc.'s Latin American subsidiary, Standard
Fruit Co.), United Brands paid $1.25 million to Honduran
government officials to lower a banana export tax. In 1975,
shortly before the bribes became public knowledge, United
Brands Chairman Eli Black committed suicide by jumping from
his New York office window. The Honduran government later
collapsed.
   In the green fields and tin-roofed packing stations of the
Echeverri farm, the sympathies of sweat-drenched banana
workers clearly lie with Fyffes. Since the Echeverris began
dealing with Fyffes, wages have jumped, in some cases even
doubling to about $10 for a 12-hour day from $5. Sunday
overtime at double pay has become common. Fyffes accepts even
the smaller bananas at the bottom of a bunch, for which
Chiquita had no use.
   "Chiquita threw away down from here," says Oscar Bonilla,
a lanky man with a mouthful of gold teeth, his hand halfway
down a strand of bananas hooked to a wire assembly line.
"With Fyffes, we use the whole strand. We pack more boxes, we
earn more money."
   Workers say that for years, under the Chiquita contract,
the Echeverris were strapped for cash and couldn't meet some
of the obligations they had agreed to in labor negotiations.
(Chiquita says the farm has been badly run.) But if Fyffes's
money keeps flowing in, the workers expect more benefits,
including housing, that had been stalled earlier. "If we have
to go to the port 20 times, we will do it," vows Mr. Bonilla.
"If we have to load the fruit ourselves, we will do it. If we
have to fight, we will do it."
   But in Puerto Cortes, Simon Templeman, Fyffes's bearded
shipping manager, sits slumped on the dock watching as
another truckload of confiscated bananas is driven away.
"This is what happens in a banana republic," he says
dejectedly. "The big guys win."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Multivitamin Doses
   During Pregnancy
   Called Unnecessary
   ---
   U.S. Study Also Relaxes View
   On Amount of Weight
   Women Ought to Gain
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ACY BMY ICI
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The multivitamin supplements that many women
take during pregnancy aren't generally necessary, because
proper diets can provide most of the nutrients expectant
mothers need, an Institute of Medicine study concluded.
   A lengthy study by medical and nutritional experts found
that "iron is the only known nutrient for which requirements
cannot be met reasonably by diet alone." It recommends
low-dose iron supplements during pregnancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, the study takes a more relaxed view of weight
gain during pregnancy, saying that increases in the range of
25 to 35 pounds are appropriate for women of normal
prepregnancy weight. The new range is an increase from the 20
to 25 pounds suggested 20 years ago.
   These recommendations, which are in line with existing
standards, aren't likely to have much impact on current
practices. Taking multivitamin supplements, which include
iron, during pregnancy "is a deeply ingrained custom; it's
generally regarded, particularly by patients, as something
that you do," said Roy Pitkin, the chairman of the medical
school and the department of obstetrics and gynecology at the
University of California, Los Angeles. Dr. Pitkin headed the
study for the Institute of Medicine, which is affiliated with
the National Academy of Sciences.
   However, Dr. Pitkin suggested that part of the Institute's
report, entitled "Nutrition During Pregnancy," could moderate
growing interest in the so-called periconceptional use of
vitamin supplements -- their use in a span of several months
immediately before and after conception. Several recent
studies have reported the periconceptional use of vitamin
supplements containing folate, or folic acid, may provide
some protection against neural tube defects, which can cause
such birth defects as spina bifida. But the study concluded
that there isn't enough evidence to support a recommendation
for periconceptional use of vitamins.
   The vitamin industry promptly attacked the panel's
finding. J.B. Cordaro, president of an industry group called
the Council for Responsible Nutrition, said, "This
outrageously anti-health report potentially dooms thousands
of children to an early death or at best substantial
disability due to serious birth defects." The Council said
there is "growing evidence that women who take multivitamins
containing folic acid as part of their normal life style have
a signficantly lower risk" of having babies with neural tube
defects.
   The panel recommended further research on the connection
between multivitamins containing folate and neural tube
disease. In the meantime, it suggested that women of
childbearing age increase their consumption of fruits,
vegetables, legumes and whole-grain breads and cereals, all
good sources of folate.
   The study, which was sponsored by the maternal and child
health bureau of the Department of Health and Human Services,
recommends that women of normal prepregnancy weight who are
carrying single fetuses aim for a weight gain of about one
pound a week during the second and third trimesters.
   Its recommendation is somewhat higher than the 22 to 27
pound range suggested by the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, but it's in line with the
weight-gain many physicians feel comfortable with, Dr. Pitkin
said. Over the last few decades, physicians have become more
relaxed about weight gain during pregnancy. In general,
larger weight gain reduces the number of low birth-weight
babies, but it also can make it more difficult for mothers to
lose weight after pregnancy, the report warned.
   The report notes that women of less than normal weight
should gain in the range of 28 to 40 pounds.
   Although the report recommends against the use of
multivitamin supplements for most women, it says that
high-risk groups -- women who are malnourished or carrying
more than one baby, along with smokers and drug and alcohol
abusers -- should take supplements.
   The college agrees multivitamin supplements aren't
necessary for healthy women on well-balanced diets. However,
unlike the institute, the group recommends supplements of
folic acid, as well as iron.
   Leading multivitamin supplements for pregnant women are:
Materna from the Lederle Laboratories division of American
Cyanamid Co.; Natalins from the Mead Johnson division of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.; and Stuartnatal and Stuart Prenatal
from Stuart Pharmaceuticals, a division of ICI Americas Inc.
ICI is a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
   Kate Ruddon, an official of the college, agreed that
another finding that multivitamin supplements aren't
necessary won't change use patterns. "Our recommendations
have been around for a long time, and most fellows of the
college know what they are and most still recommend a
multivitamin supplement," she explained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disney's `Dick Tracy' Movie Is Gunning
   To Become a Big Hit, but Perils Lurk
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Executives at Walt Disney Co. don't want to
discuss it much, but he's out there, a shadowy figure,
gliding through alleys, stalking the city: Batman.
   To most people, last summer's box office sensation may be
as old news as T-shirts at the bottom of the drawer. But the
specter of "Batman" haunts Disney as it prepares to release
its own crime-fighter flick, "Dick Tracy," June 15. During
these last critical days, Disney is playing the hard game of
balancing essential hype with the perils of sky-high
expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even as they unleash a last-minute barrage of publicity,
riddle TV screens with more than a dozen different
commercials, plug the movie with at least nine posters --
devoting an estimated $30 million to marketing and other
costs of the release -- Disney executives hope they're not
setting themselves up for a fall.
   It's a situation of their own making. Because of a host of
built-in marketing difficulties, Disney set out to create
"Dick Tracy" as an "event" movie. But if it's going to be an
event -- where moviegoers feel they must see it -- it has to
draw young viewers who rush to see it, tell their friends,
then plunge back into the theaters.
   "Dick Tracy" is a perfectly good movie, says Scott
Wallace, president of Act 3 Communications' theater unit,
based in Los Angeles. "Very playable," he adds. It better be,
since he's booked the film into many of his theaters. But, he
adds, "it's no Batman. I'll be delighted to see it do $100
million" at the box office.
   Only a handful of films, including "Batman," have ever hit
$200 million, but as the movie business enters a high-stakes
summer predicted to break last year's box office record,
perception counts for a lot. Four films already have hit $100
million this year. "Ghostbusters II" grossed $100 million
last year but is considered a disappointment in Hollywood.
   "There's no analogy to `Batman' in any sense," says Disney
studio chief Jeffrey Katzenberg, "and any expectation or
comparison based on it would be foolish on our part. For a
movie to do $200 million is a freak of nature." Mr.
Katzenberg won't discuss his expectations for "Dick Tracy,"
but some Disney executives say their own romantic comedy
"Pretty Woman" may turn out to be the year's No. 1 movie.
   But the comparison of "Dick Tracy" with "Batman" is no
coincidence, as Disney well knows. The company is targeting
the film to all audiences, but the slightly square
comic-strip character, whose heyday dates back several
decades, is no more familiar to many young viewers than the
Katzenjammer Kids.
   That didn't bother Disney. The company doesn't invite new
characters into its stable casually: Its ethos is a tightly
controlled one, whether in the phalanxes of lawyers guarding
the copyrights on Mickey Mouse and friends or in the
self-contained atmosphere of its theme parks.
   Disney's vaunted marketing machine set about reinventing
Dick Tracy. The beauty of it, a Disney executive says, is
that although the title has a "resonant feeling" and provides
a "deep tug" to adults, for most young people, Dick Tracy can
be whatever Disney turns him into. "It's like `The
Untouchables,'" the movie executive says, referring to
Paramount Pictures' successful 1987 release. "The adults
remember it, and the kids discover it."
   Richard Cook, head of Disney's film distribution arm,
adds: "We looked at it as an asset. It's not that much unlike
the way we reintroduce our classic films to each young
generation every seven years."
   Another problem Disney faces is that unlike its
competitors, which this summer have Tom Cruise, Mel Gibson
and Arnold Schwarzenegger to sell, it has 53-year-old Warren
Beatty, whose last film before the disastrous "Ishtar" was
"Reds" in 1981. Worse yet, much of the publicity Mr. Beatty
is generating, dwelling on his amorous proclivities, is
negative. Disney isn't even trying to market him to young
viewers. And while "Batman" had Jack Nicholson, "Dick Tracy"
has Al Pacino and Dustin Hoffman, but Disney can't advertise
them because they were paid as actors rather than stars.
   So, as Warner did with "Batman," Disney has spent months
selling the concept and look of the movie. Starting last
Christmas, it rolled out three logos and three in-theater
trailers. The goal, which appears to have been achieved, was
ensuring that nearly everyone in the nation knows about the
film.
   "We knew the picture had achieved `event' status," says
Mr. Cook. The question of whether people get a shivery sense
of anticipation when they think about it is a different
matter. Disney, which says it has been too early for research
to track "want-to-see" until just about now, dismisses
Hollywood scuttlebutt that the film ranks low in some
surveys.
   While the buildup to the movie itself was proceeding, more
than 70 merchandising licenses were bid out to marketers of
T-shirts, watches, raincoats and toys. Sixteen different
high-concept villains, including Pruneface and Flattop, add
to the mix. Dick Tracy's profile isn't as ubiquitous as
batwings were, but the idea is the same.
   The "Batman" similarities continue in the film itself: the
overpowering, cartoonlike music by Danny Elfman, who composed
both scores; the self-contained setting of the film, achieved
with striking production design; and Mr. Beatty, like Michael
Keaton, in the title role as a determinedly self-deprecating
hero.
   Disney privately claims to have made "Dick Tracy" for a
relatively paltry $30 million; other estimates range up to
$40 million, including $8 million for Mr. Beatty. Disney says
that during the 10 years that a "Dick Tracy" project was
circulating in Hollywood, three other studios had a crack at
making it but couldn't figure out how to do it cheaply
enough, because of the costs of set building and expensive
location work.
   Disney solved the problem by putting the entire production
into a sound stage. As director, Mr. Beatty reportedly was
made financially responsible for any cost overruns, and Mr.
Katzenberg, the studio chief, kept a rein on Mr. Beatty's
tendency to tinker endlessly.
   It helped that Madonna, who plays Breathless Mahoney,
worked for relatively little. With her wildly successful
concert tour storming the world these past few months,
Madonna's presence in the movie could have been the answer to
Disney's problem of attracting teen-agers. But they haven't
highlighted her in the marketing.
   For one thing, Madonna's track record in movies has been
spotty. But Disney executives also were wary of Madonna's
brand of kinky weirdness. Her current tour includes simulated
sex interspersed with religious imagery and sadomasochism,
and characters wearing Dick Tracy overcoats and hats dancing
in bikini briefs.
   Soon after, the company decided to shift "Dick Tracy" to
its Touchstone imprint, reserved for more adult-oriented
films, from the Disney name. Fearing that the Disney label
turns off teen-agers, the company has long wanted to broaden
it, and "Dick Tracy" -- despite a PG rating, some stylized
machine-gun fire and a sultry moment or two from Madonna --
is suitable for young kids. But Madonna's public persona just
doesn't jibe with the Disney label, executives feared.
   Despite the risks, Disney has enough confidence in "Dick
Tracy" to have been screening the picture for the media for
more than two weeks. Exhibitors who have seen the film are
generally enthusiastic.
   But "there's no such thing as a leadpipe cinch," says Mr.
Cook. Every film has to please audiences. "Batman" didn't get
great reviews, but the film had a certain hypnotic pull on
young people.
   Still, at its relatively low cost, "Dick Tracy" is much
less of a financial gamble than Fox's "Die Hard II" or
Paramount Pictures' "Days of Thunder." The reputation of
Disney's film executives is safe for 1990 with the sleeper
success of "Pretty Woman." Disney's stock price, now as
always, has more to do with theme park attendance than
movies.
   But Disney wants more than just a hit movie: It wants to
welcome Dick Tracy into the synergistic fold, selling the
merchandise in its chain of stores, building theme park
attractions based on the character, and having the film join
the theater and video rotation of Disney classics. If the
film should somehow prove a flop, the only real risk may be
to the company's pride.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CHH
</CO>
<LP>
   CARTER HAWLEY HALE STORES Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Thomas E.
Dokter, formerly president and chief executive of this
retailer's Broadway-Southwest unit, was named president of
its Broadway-Southern California operation, effective July
15. In his new post, Mr. Dokter, 51, will succeed Richard
Clayton, 47, who was named to the new post of vice chairman.
Carol Greer, 47, was named to succeed Mr. Dokter as president
and chief executive of the Broadway-Southwest. Ms. Greer is
currently senior vice president and general merchandise
manager at Federated Department Stores' Atlanta operation,
Rich's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pic `N' Save Wins
   Round in Board Battle
   With Girard Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal judge here barred Girard Partners
L.P. from soliciting shareholder support for its campaign to
oust Pic 'N' Save Corp.'s board until Girard makes certain
additional disclosures about itself.
   U.S. District Court Judge Robert Bonner ruled that Girard
can't resume solicitation of shareholder consents and proxies
until 10 days after the information is filed. He also ordered
Pic 'N' Save to delay the annual meeting until July 2 from
June 20 and extended the deadline for Girard's delivery of
consents to Pic 'N' Save to June 22 from June 10.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pic 'N' Save, a Dominguez, Calif., discount retailer, said
that in granting the preliminary injunction, the court found
that Girard's solicitations violated U.S. securities laws.
The court also dissolved that portion of an order issued last
week that restrained Pic 'N' Save from soliciting revocations
of consents and proxies for the annual meeting.
   In La Jolla, Calif., David H. Batchelder, Girard's
controlling shareholder, didn't return telephone calls for
comment.
   Pic 'N' Save recently put itself up for sale in an
apparent attempt to convince investors that the incumbent
board is more dedicated than Girard to promoting shareholder
interests. Girard holds a 6.7% stake in the company and is
trying to gain a majority of board seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blood Tests Used
   More Extensively
   For Life Insurance
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Life-insurance companies are requiring blood samples from
more and more applicants mostly because of the AIDS epidemic.
But the practice has had other effects besides helping
insurers turn away people exposed to the deadly virus.
   The ability to analyze blood for cholesterol levels and
other indicators is one factor that has prompted many
companies to offer lower rates to people judged "preferred"
risks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, the blood analyses are also leading some
insurers to "rate" -- that is, demand higher premiums from --
a small number of people who wouldn't previously have been
identified as "substandard" risks.
   Around 6% to 8% of applicants are being rated at Lincoln
National Life Insurance Co., up from 5% to 7% before blood
testing was so extensive, says Donald Chambers, chief medical
director at the Fort Wayne, Ind., company. He says the added
ratings mostly reflect findings of impaired liver function,
high cholesterol and previously undetected diabetes.
   Insurers are also postponing action on some applications
until the individuals' doctors can sort out what the abnormal
test readings mean. "We are not going to write the insurance
until the situation is resolved, or at least defined," says
John Snore, vice president for underwriting and claims at
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Newark, N.J.
   Most insurers are requiring blood samples from people who
seek life-insurance coverage of $100,000 or more. But some
companies have gone down to $50,000, at least in
jurisdictions where the risk of acquired immune deficiency
syndrome looms largest. For instance, Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Co., Springfield, this month dropped to a
$50,000 threshold in California, while holding at $100,000
elsewhere.
   Insurers have also expanded their scrutiny of urine
specimens over the past few years to include tests for
cocaine use. A "surprisingly high" 1% of people tested by
Prudential are showing up as cocaine users and thus are being
turned down for insurance, Mr. Snore says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Apply to Join IMF,
   Mull World Bank Entry
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Switzerland formally applied for membership
in the International Monetary Fund, and is expected to apply
to join the World Bank.
   Switzerland has long had close informal ties with the both
institutions. It is a member of the "Group of 10" industrial
nations, which stands ready to lend to the IMF, when
necessary, to help it provide credit to countries having
international payments difficulties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, its three major commercial banks frequently
have been underwriters of World Bank debt, and Switzerland
has contributed to various special World Bank accounts. The
country also is a financial backer of the International
Development Association, a World Bank affiliate which
provides interest-free credits to poorer Third World nations.
   Assuming IMF member countries approve the Swiss
application and the country takes the necessary legal steps
to enable it to sign the IMF's articles of agreement, it
could become a member by year end, according to a spokesman
for the 152-nation agency. World Bank officials said a Swiss
request for membership there will be processed as soon as it
is received. Countries seeking to join the World Bank first
must qualify for membership in the IMF.
   The Swiss Federal Council decided "in principle" in 1982
to join the two international agencies, but it temporarily
shelved the idea in 1986 after Swiss voters rejected the
Swiss government's proposal to join the United Nations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VPI's Carter Is Renamed
   Quorum Communications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U.VPI
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Carter Organization, which dropped founder
Don Carter earlier this year after he admitted stealing from
clients, now has dropped his name, too.
   Carter, the pre-eminent proxy solicitor of the 1980s,
collecting shareholder votes in some of Wall Street's epic
corporate takeover battles, renamed itself Quorum
Communications. Quorum is owned by VPI Group PLC of Britain,
which bought it from Mr. Carter in 1987 for $75 million. The
Carter Valin Pollin investor relations consulting unit is
being folded in as a Quorum division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Quorum's chief executive officer, Dennis Mensch, said the
change "should make it clear that we are looking to the
future, rather than relying on the past, to establish our
corporate identity."
   Mr. Carter founded the firm in 1974. His sentencing, which
had been scheduled for yesterday in state court, was
postponed to July 10. He faces a maximum four-year prison
term for grand larceny involving false billing and
overcharging of corporate clients, and for tax evasion. In
London, Angus Maitland, VPI chairman, said Quorum has come
"through a very difficult period. This has tempered the
company" and allowed it to return its focus on serving
blue-chip clients.
   Mr. Mensch said Quorum has cut its staff to 77 from about
100 in early May, when the company said Arthur Ross,
president and co-chief executive, would leave in a few months
as part of a cost-cutting move. The company has been hurt by
the slowdown in corporate merger activity, but Mr. Ross has
reported "almost no client defections."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, June 6, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.10% 27 to 44 days; 8.075% 45 to 59 days;
8.025% 60 to 89 days; 8% 90 to 119 days; 7.95% 120 to 149
days; 7.90% 150 to 179 days; 7.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.17%
30 days; 8.15% 60 days; 8.10% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.78% two
months; 7.82% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.15% one month; 8.23% three months;
8.27% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.05% 30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.96% 90
days; 7.93% 120 days; 7.92% 150 days; 7.88% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/ 16% five months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 3/8% three months; 8 7/16% six months; 8 5/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 4, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.69% 13 weeks; 7.62% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.04%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.99%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.84%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Czechoslovak Smiles Fade as Election Approaches
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MELNIK, Czechoslovakia -- As dusk settles over rural
Bohemia, a weary Valtr Komarek hurries through a snack-bar
dinner before his fifth and last campaign speech of the day.
   As his Civic Forum aides dine on pork chops and local
wine, the first deputy prime minister and favored candidate
in the district is subdued. Last November's "Velvet
Revolution" ended 40 years of Communist rule. But the cloak
of good will and consensus that wrapped the country is
unraveling, as easy transitions to democracy and free markets
prove elusive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The velvet has some holes in it now," says Mr. Komarek, a
59-year-old academic economist. "There is a sort of
pre-election restlessness, even aggressivity. The humanism is
gone."
   Tensions heightened after a bomb exploded in Prague's Old
Town Square last Saturday, injuring 19 people and inflaming
suspicions that supporters of the old regime were bent on
disrupting this weekend's elections for the federal
Parliament and the Czech and Slovak republic legislatures.
And at a Sunday rally in Cikhaj, east of Prague, a man made
an aborted dagger attack on the chairman of the Czechoslovak
People's Party.
   These incidents could dissipate what solidarity remained
from Vaclav Havel's peaceful revolution as the country
prepares for its first free elections in four decades. A
rending dispute over economic reforms has unsettled many
people, who see no improvements in their life styles but hear
increasingly about threatened inflation and mass
unemployment. The reform government is criticized for letting
Communists remain as industry managers and in senior
government jobs, particularly with the security police.
   Frictions resurfaced during this spring's "hyphen crisis"
over Slovakia's demand that Czechoslovakia's name be changed
to Czecho-Slovakia. A patchy compromise, allowing the Czech
and Slovak republics to call the country what they want, only
glossed over a simmering regional rivalry.
   The shift in mood is striking in a country that, after a
late start, threw off communism more completely than its
Eastern European neighbors. But Czechoslovaks are still
looking to leaders of the revolution to rekindle the fire
that brought this country of more than 15 million to its
feet. Above all, they still look to Mr. Havel, the morally
principled playwright-president, for unifying leadership.
   Thus, the bulk of the electorate appears set to vote for
Civic Forum -- the political movement of 14 small parties,
ranging from conservatives to environmentalists, that Mr.
Havel helped put together. Out of fear of and contempt for
the crippled Communist Party, Czechoslovaks seem willing to
overlook economic woes. Civic Forum is thus likely to be
awarded a chance to settle into policy making for this next
Parliament's abbreviated two-year term.
   "We are going to vote for them because they started the
revolution and took all the risks," says Jiri Podlezak, a
40-year-old Prague truck driver. His friend, Jan Pocinek,
adds: "A skilled worker will always get a job. . . . The
important thing is that the Communists don't get in."
   Pre-election polls, a novelty here, are sketchy. But of
Czechoslovakia's 23 parties, Civic Forum and its Public
Against Violence affiliate in the Slovak Republic are
expected to get 30% to 40% of the national vote. In fact, the
group expects a bigger vote when undecided voters make a
choice on election day. "The polls still support us," says
one Havel aide. "There was a certain phase of discord two
months ago, when the degree of disagreement was dangerously
high, but people settled down and sorted things out."
   One of the first acts of the newly elected Parliament will
be to choose a president. In a campaign of symbols, this
presents voters with a strong incentive for ensuring a large
Civic Forum faction in the national legislature, which would
preserve the strongest symbol of all: President Havel, who
has agreed to forgo another two years of writing if called.
   Mr. Havel has somehow remained aloof from the squabbling.
He has set the mood rather than specified the details of the
country's political and economic reforms, which are left to
the cabinet. Indeed, the president has spent the bulk of his
time traveling abroad "to repair Czechoslovakia's image after
40 years of totalitarianism," in the words of one aide.
   More in the middle of the country's policy machinery is
Prime Minister Marian Calfa, a former Communist who is
running in his native Slovakia on the Public Against Violence
ticket. Mr. Calfa says he would prefer a narrower coalition
government than the confused Consensus Cabinet he has now,
which still has two seats occupied by Communist Party
members.
   Civic Forum's likely coalition partner, Mr. Calfa says,
would be the Christian Democratic Alliance, a new
center-right group that is already the country's
second-strongest political grouping, with an estimated 13% of
the vote. Receiving financial and logistical support from
Western conservative parties -- including West Germany's
Christian Democrats -- the alliance is strongest in Slovakia.
   As in the recent elections in East Germany and Hungary,
most voters appear ready to shun anything that smacks of
leftwing ideology. Many other parties are either tainted by
past service in the National Front or are too new to allow
them to stand out from the crowd.
   "Every party here is saying the same thing -- supporting
democracy and free markets; their true political identities
won't emerge until after the elections, and that will become
a crucial phase for all of us," says Jan Skoda, vice chairman
of the Socialist Party, which is struggling to get the 5%
minimum vote required for parliamentary representation, after
failing to regain its reputation by merging with the Social
Democratic Party.
   "The people don't want to hear the name socialism -- it
gives them heartburn," says Mr. Skoda, whose party was more
of a centrist liberal party before World War II. "It seems
logical that the pendulum is swinging to the right in
Czechoslovakia, but probably not forever."
   Civic Forum's opponents are biding their time, looking
beyond this ballot to the 1992 elections. By then, they
reason, rising unemployment and fears of losing social safety
nets could revitalize support for more leftward-leaning
parties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Forget Marketing,
   Build Better Cars
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   I was amused and dismayed by your May 4 article "GM Begins
Quest to Win Back Consumer Confidence." I was amused because
GM management has taken 10 years to admit publicly what
owners of 1980s vintage GM cars know by heart: The cars were
poorly designed, shabbily constructed and erratically
supported. GM's continuing drop in market share shows the
buying public is not as naive as the marketing professionals
believe.
   I was dismayed that some forces in GM management still
have not learned the lessons of their 1980s failures. The
belief that better marketing will improve their car sales is
a delusion. Consumers desire quality products offered at a
reasonable price. Engineering and production quality are
necessary to produce a competitive product. The auto maker
should not expect improved sales until its cars match the
performance of competitive models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Timothy James Daniel
   Irving, Texas
   ---
   GM's cold relations in my case was topped only by its
computer calling me at 3 a.m. to ask if I was happy with my
'86 Buick in the midst of its 71 days in the shop the first
year.
   It's too late, GM.
   Gary L. Hawkins
   Torrance, Calif.
   ---
   Despite the $40 million ad campaign, and the hundreds of
millions spent to buy out H. Ross Perot, GM doesn't have 25
cents to send me a letter explaining why it won't stand
behind the pile of junk it sold me labeled "Chevrolet."
   From all the GM people I interacted with, I encountered
the attitude that it's foolish to expect much when you
purchase a GM product. I've learned my lesson.
   Cheryl Klein
   Ridgefield Park, N.J.
   ---
   Perhaps GM would be better served by taking the $40
million it's going to spend on advertising and putting it
toward a money-back-guarantee program. Any average guy on the
street knows from experience that what any company tells you
about its quality and service really doesn't mean anything
unless the company puts it in writing with a money-back
guarantee.
   I haven't forgotten the new 1981 Oldsmobile that was in
the shop 21 days in the five months I owned it. I haven't
forgotten the burned-out transmission hundreds of miles from
home and the consequential damages that weren't covered.
   By the way, the Toyota's going strong after nine years and
116,000 miles. It has required little besides ordinary
maintenance.
   H.L. Pierson
   Newark, Del.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Control Data Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONTROL DATA Corp. (Minneapolis) -- William J. Miller was
named executive vice president and chief financial officer of
this computer systems and services concern. Mr. Miller,
acting president of Control Data's Micrognosis unit, succeeds
John K. Buckner, who resigned as chief financial officer in
August 1989. Since that time, the company's president and
chief executive officer, Lawrence Perlman, has served as
acting chief financial officer. Mr. Miller was formerly
president and chief executive officer of Imprimis Technology
Inc., a former Control Data unit that was sold to Seagate
Technology Inc. Control Data said John J. Driver, vice
president, marketing, for Micrognosis, will succeed Mr.
Miller as president of the business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Roy F. Weston Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WSTNA
</CO>
<LP>
   ROY F. WESTON Inc. (West Chester, Pa.) -- Henry Diamond, a
partner in the Washington, D.C.-based environmental law firm
Beveridge &amp; Diamond, and Marvin O. Schlanger, senior vice
president and chief financial officer of Arco Chemical Co.,
were elected directors of this environmental engineering,
design and consulting company, expanding board membership to
13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BZMT CNA HOLX REFR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BizMart Inc., offering of 2,750,000 common shares, of
which two million will be offered by the company and 750,000
by holders, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Robertson,
Stephens &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   CNA Financial Corp., shelf offering of up to $500 million
of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Hologic Inc., secondary offering of 700,000 common shares,
to be sold by holders, via Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc., Needham &amp;
Co. Inc. and Adams, Harkness &amp; Hill Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Modtech Inc., initial offering of 1.2 million common
shares, of which one million shares will be sold by Modtech
and 200,000 by a holder, via Seidler Amdec Securities Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Research Frontiers Inc., offering of 786,500 common
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Expects Ad Revenue
   Shortfall of $200 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- National Broadcasting Co. said it expects a
shortfall of $200 million in advertising revenue this year
because of a decline in the broadcast network audience and
NBC's own faltering prime time lineup.
   NBC President Robert C. Wright disclosed the expected
shortfall at a meeting with the network's 200-plus affiliates
at NBC's annual convention in Washington, D.C.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., has experienced a
slide in viewership from key demographic groups. The result
was the network had to give advertisers free time, or make
good, when a show failed to deliver the audience size
guaranteed to a sponsor.
   In the past TV season, NBC was off 12% from last year in
women viewers 18 to 49 years old and 14% in men 18 to 49,
according to A.C. Nielsen Co. figures.
   All three major broadcasting networks have been hurt by a
sharp drop in ratings that network officials said is the
result of problems with Nielsen's methods of compiling data.
Nielsen officials insisted there is nothing wrong with its
system, although it has agreed to examine ways of improving
it.
   Although NBC finished the 1989-90 season No. 1 for the
fifth year, its ratings were down 9% from last year. And last
month, CBS Inc.'s TV network finished only one-tenth of a
ratings point behind NBC. May is one of four months each year
that local stations use ratings to determine advertising
rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Your Attack on a Myth
   Repeats Another Myth
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Your otherwise-excellent May 11 editorial "Real Soldiers,"
which attacks the myth of Soviet "liberation," repeats the
myth of 20 million Soviet civilian deaths during World War II
(your figure of 27 million total deaths less seven million
military deaths, of which almost half were sustained in the
wars of aggression against Poland and Finland, when the
Soviets were allies of the Nazis).
   In his carefully documented book "Stalin's Secret War,"
Nikolai Tolstoy puts the figure of Soviet civilian casualties
attributable to the Germans at about seven million. The
balance was directly or indirectly attributable to Soviet
policies during the Finnish campaign -- compelling the
evacuation of people suspected of pro-German sympathies; NKVD
purges; unprecedented mortality in the greatly swollen camps
of the Gulag, and 2.5 million Soviet refugees handed back to
the Soviets by the Allies in 1945 (Operation Keelhaul).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anthony T. Bouscaren
   Professor of Political Science Emeritus
   Le Moyne College
   Fayetteville, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Those Vietnam Dominoes Keep Falling
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   In regard to "Setting the Vietnam Record Straight,"
editorial page, May 4: Without questioning the honest intent
of Arthur Kobler, W. Gage McAfee and Warren Williams, their
attempt to justify the U.S. invasion of Vietnam by proposing
that the legacy "is profoundly constructive" is redolent of
the immortal phrase, "the patient died, but the operation was
successful."
   The record can never be set straight until participants
and historians forbear making such statements as "it was
devastating . . . but . . . " The inclusion of that awful
word "but" is the standard political justification for
keeping open options for the next conflagration. The honor
and dignity of the 55,000 American servicemen who died in
Vietnam cannot be sustained (or vindicated) by economic
successes. Their lives were much more important.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Perhaps the three gentlemen have overlooked the recent
events in Europe where, without bloodshed, an economically
free society has emerged from 45 years of communist
aggression. And we didn't use one napalm bomb.
   Patrick A. Dunn
   Decatur, Ga.
   ---
   I quote Messrs. Kobler, McAfee and Williams, " . . . the
transcending legacy of the U.S. war effort is profoundly
constructive: It is the growing prosperity of the 300 million
people who live in Southeast Asia outside of Indochina and
Burma." Apparently, the domino theory will never die. I
suggest they read Barbara Tuchman's "The March of Folly,"
especially the chapter titled "America Betrays Herself in
Vietnam," and Michael Sheehan's "A Bright and Shining Lie."
They should address themselves to Ms. Tuchman's and Mr.
Sheehan's profoundly disturbing analyses of the domino theory
as the rationale for America's war in Vietnam. As for the
transcending legacy of Vietnam: Why not include the loss --
perhaps forever -- of America's high moral reputation, the
disintegration of authority, widespread drug use and the
crippling of presidential power. This legacy from Vietnam has
had an undoubted and profoundly transcending effect on
America, destructive not constructive.
   Sidney Marks
   Knox, Ind.
   ---
   The U.S. committed three gigantic errors in the Vietnam
War. If we citizens forget them, our leaders may err again.
   1. We had no overall goal or purpose.
   2. Our leaders didn't know, or didn't want to know, how
badly the war was going.
   3. Our troops had so many restrictions placed on them
there was no way they could win.
   Elected and appointed officials who made a mess of things
can never be brought to trial. However, we should remember
our Vietnam debacle -- that we may never repeat it.
   Tony Weissgarber
   Lt. Col., USAF, Retired
   San Antonio, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moscow Offers Assurances It Won't Slow
   Emigration of Jews, U.S. Official Says
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TURNBERRY, Scotland -- The Soviet Union assured the U.S.
that it won't impede the emigration of Soviet Jews despite
its public threat last week to do so, according to a senior
U.S. official.
   During a private meeting Tuesday night in Denmark, Soviet
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze told Secretary of State
James Baker that Moscow has "no plans to change {its}
approach to emigration," the official said. The Soviets have
allowed virtually unrestricted emigration during the past 18
months, and Mr. Shevardnadze emphasized that Moscow is
"committed" to continuing this policy, the official added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The clarification helps avoid what could have become a
contentious issue between Washington and Moscow. Messrs.
Baker and Shevardnadze were in Denmark to attend an
international human-rights meeting. The U.S. official briefed
reporters aboard Mr. Baker's plane as it departed for a
meeting here of foreign ministers from members of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, during a news
conference in Washington last Sunday after his summit meeting
with President Bush, threatened to slow or halt the issuance
of exit permits unless Israel promises to stop settling the
Soviet-Jewish refugees in occupied Arab territory. Mr.
Gorbachev said he has been "bombarded" with complaints from
Arab governments about resettlement in the occupied
territories. Mr. Gorbachev's remark produced sharp criticism
in the U.S. and puzzled American officials because he hadn't
said it privately.
   Mr. Shevardnadze explained to Mr. Baker during their
meeting Tuesday that the Soviet president's statement was
meant "to demonstrate that we {the Soviets} would like to
have certain understandings from the Israelis because there's
a problem here as far as we're concerned," according to the
U.S. official's account.
   The Bush administration strongly supports the
unconditional emigration of Soviet Jews. But it, too, has
pressed Israel to bar the refugees from settling in the
occupied territories, saying that their settlement there
would be an obstacle to peace efforts. As the flow of Soviet
Jews to Israel has reached 10,000 a month, Arab governments
have grown increasingly alarmed that the refugees will
displace Palestinians.
   Israel claims that fewer than 1% of Soviet-Jewish refugees
settle in the occupied territories. President Bush disagrees
with this figure, however, because it doesn't include Soviet
Jews who have settled in the outskirts of East Jerusalem,
which Israel occupied after the 1967 Six-Day War. Israel
considers united Jerusalem its capital. Mr. Bush provoked a
storm of protest in Israel earlier this year when he urged
Israel to stop settling refugees in the occupied West Bank
and East Jerusalem.
   The senior American official also said that Mr.
Shevardnadze wasn't certain when the Soviet Union's
parliament, the Supreme Soviet, would approve a pending law
codifying Mr. Gorbachev's open-emigration policy. Earlier
this year, the Soviets had predicted the law would be passed
before the Washington summit. But Mr. Shevardnadze told Mr.
Baker that with the new political freedom in the Soviet
Union, Mr. Gorbachev doesn't control the Supreme Soviet's
legislative calendar. Right now, he said, the parliament's
"whole preoccupation" is with economic reform.
   President Bush signed a trade pact with Mr. Gorbachev at
the summit, but he won't submit it to Congress or grant
Moscow most-favored-nation trade status until the Soviet
emigration law is passed. The Soviet delay in passing the law
takes some pressure off Mr. Bush. Congress is expected to
resist approving a trade agreement until the Soviets lift
their economic embargo of Lithuania and begin talks with its
government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swedish Bank Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's third largest commercial bank,
PKbanken, and one of the country's most profitable banks,
Nordbanken, completed their merger.
   PKbanken's successful bid for Nordbanken, presented last
December, marked the end of a fierce battle for the
provincial bank between PKbanken and Sweden's largest
commercial bank, S-E-Banken.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West Germany
   Posts Positive
   Economic Data
   ---
   Country's Aim to Finance
   Unity Through Growth
   Is Gaining Credibility
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Although the final cost of
unity is still an open book, West Germany's aim to help
finance German unification with economic growth is taking on
credibility.
   West Germany's statistics office announced that the
country's gross national product grew by an
inflation-adjusted and seasonally-adjusted 2.5% in the first
quarter from the preceding period. The measure of output of
goods and services was up a real 4.4% from the first quarter
of 1989 after adjustments for inflation, raising prospects
for bigger tax flows.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, however, news from East Germany worsened
with a report that unemployment had almost tripled in just
two months, depicting a rapidly unraveling East German
industry structure.
   East Germany's minister for labor and social affairs,
Regine Hildebrandt, said this week that unemployment had
jumped to just over 100,000 by the end of May from 65,000 in
April and 35,000 in March.
   On the brighter side of the wall, economists predict that
West Germany's first-quarter business expansion can be
sustained for the full year as domestic industry continues
boosting production and expanding capacity to rebuild East
German industry and integrate the two economies. Scores of
West German firms already are shifting resources into East
Germany for access to eastern markets, though the full force
of West German capital won't begin to be felt until after
monetary and economic union on July 1.
   Continuing to break from its former reliance on export
trade for growth, Europe's largest economy again imported
more goods in the first quarter than it sold abroad,
reflecting a rising dependence on foreign industries to help
overcome emerging capacity bottlenecks at home. First-quarter
imports rose 12.7% in a year, compared with a 10.2% rise in
exports.
   Another warm winter boosted West German construction
activity 7.4% from a year ago. West German companies
accelerated expenditures on the modernization and expansion
of production facilities, reflected in an inflation-adjusted
15.9% jump in capital spending from the first period of last
year. Private consumption rose by 4% over the same span,
bolstered by income tax cuts in January and the nearly one
million immigrants arriving from Eastern Europe since early
last year.
   Booming domestic business activity has accommodated many
of the new arrivals. Some 552,000 jobs have been created over
the past year, helping to reduce West Germany's jobless rate
in May to 7% from 7.3% in April, the government's labor
agency said yesterday. The unemployment measure was West
Germany's lowest since June 1982, when 6.8% of the work force
was without jobs.
   Bonn expects to rake in 8.2 billion marks ($4.86 billion)
more in 1990 tax revenue than originally planned. But the
windfall could be quickly forgotten next year if Chancellor
Helmut Kohl's government sticks to its promise to introduce a
25 billion mark corporate tax relief in January.
   "The economy is performing beyond most expectations and
clearly will boost tax revenue," said Hermann Remsperger,
chief economist for Berliner Handels &amp; Frankfurter Bank. "But
the question is whether spending growth can be held in check,
whether current tax structures stay intact."
   West German inflation, running at a mere 2.3% annual rate
in May, could begin climbing toward 4% and beyond by next
year after the mark becomes East Germany's official currency
in July, adding more than 100 billion marks to the
Bundesbank's money supply.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   For Bad Backs,
   Is No Therapy
   Best Therapy?
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EMPI MDT MDEV SDYN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A widely used treatment for chronic back pain, one of the
nation's most common ailments, isn't any more effective in
relieving symptoms than no treatment at all, medical
researchers say.
   Their findings, published in today's New England Journal
of Medicine, are certain to provoke controversy among
patients, doctors and manufacturers of devices for the
therapy, called transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation,
or TENS. Indeed, one maker of the devices disputed the
conclusions and asserted that the study is flawed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   About 31 million Americans suffer from low back pain,
which accounts for about one-quarter of all lost workdays and
for about $16 billion in medical costs each year. Researchers
say that eight of 10 people suffer back pain at some point
during their lifetimes. Doctors usually can neither pinpoint
the cause of the pain nor prescribe a cure. While a variety
of treatments are available, little is known about how well
they work.
   Electrical nerve stimulation, in which pulses of
electricity are administered through electrodes taped to the
body, is one such treatment. The intent is to negate or block
the transmission of pain sensation from the inflamed area to
the brain.
   Typically, patients buy TENS units for as much as $600, or
rent them for $60 to $90 a month, and use them at home. The
devices are covered by most insurers, including Medicare and
many Blue Cross &amp; Blue Shield plans. Medtronic Inc.,
Minneapolis, Empi Inc. and Medical Devices Inc., both St.
Paul, Minn., and Staodynamics Inc., Longmont, Colo., are
among companies that make the devices.
   A research team headed by Richard A. Deyo of the Seattle
(Wash.) Veterans Affairs Medical Center, found that 47% of
patients treated with TENS for four weeks reported
improvement in pain symptoms while 42% of those administered
with a placebo or dummy treatment experienced similar relief.
   The study involved 145 patients, half of whom received
actual electrical stimulation from a TENS device and half of
whom used the same equipment but with the electrical pulse
disabled.
   In addition, half of each group also were assigned a daily
regimen of stretching and other exercises in combination with
the treatment. In each case, their symptoms improved over the
treatment alone, the researchers said.
   But among all patients, in a follow-up two months after
treatment ceased, only those who continued to exercise
maintained improved symptoms. And "there was little evidence
. . . of change in behavior or daily functioning" in any
case, they said.
   "The study is saying that for chronic low back pain, the
TENS unit isn't an effective treatment," says Nicholas E.
Walsh, chairman of physical medicine and rehabilitation at
the University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio,
and a co-author of the study.
   It also suggests, the researchers concluded, "active"
exercise would be more beneficial than "passive" treatment
such as TENS for chronic back pain, although a longer period
of exercise than 30 days may be necessary to provide
significant improvement.
   Not surprisingly, makers of TENS devices disagree. Michael
Connoy, president of Empi, maintains the study shows that
TENS is just as good as exercise for low back pain, and thus
particularly appropriate for patients who are unable to
exercise regularly. In addition, he charged that 30-day
treatment evaluated in the study is too short to determine
its effectiveness, that the intensity of the electric pulse
was too low, and that a 45-minutes-a-day session, as required
of participants in the study, is too short, especially when
patients first use the devices.
   Mr. Connoy also said the U.S. Office of Inspector General
recently issued a report saying that 80% of Medicare patients
surveyed believed the units were beneficial in reducing lower
back pain, and that most of 26 doctors surveyed also
considered them useful.
   Mr. Connoy said Empi expects to sell about 40,000 of the
units this year, with a value of about $15 million, up from
$12.2 million last year. He estimated that national market at
$75 million.
   Units from Empi were used in the study, Dr. Walsh said.
   In addition to patients, purchasers of TENS units include
physical and occupational therapists, chiropractors and
physicians, Dr. Walsh said. Other treatments for back pain
range from various drugs, including pain relievers, muscle
relaxants and anti-depressants, to traction, exercise,
chiropractic manipulation, massage, acupuncture and
biofeedback.
   Few controlled studies have been done to determine the
effectiveness of any of these approaches, Dr. Walsh says. "We
spend a fortune {on back pain} in this country," he says.
"We've spent very little on research into what's effective."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers Hanover Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. said it agreed
to purchase credit-card accounts and receivables from
Midlantic Corp., Edison, N.J.
   At April 30, the receivables totaled about $252 million;
Manufacturers Hanover said it is paying about a $60 million
premium. The bank said it purchased the business to expand
its national credit-card operations. The purchase will boost
its credit-card receivables to more than $3.3 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Midlantic Corp., a bank-holding company, said the sale
will help restructure its balance sheet. The company has been
hurt by the deteriorating New Jersey real-estate market.
   Midlantic said it will enter into an agreement to continue
providing customers with credit cards under the Midlantic
name.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Storage Technology Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STK
</CO>
<LP>
   STORAGE TECHNOLOGY Corp. (Louisville, Colo.) -- Fred
Moore, staff vice president, strategic planning, at this
maker of data storage equipment, was named corporate vice
president, long-range strategic planning, a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ethics Package Is Adopted
   By Voters in Los Angeles
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Voters here adopted an ethics package that
requires increased financial disclosures by city officials,
bans outside employment by officials, and requires partial
public financing of campaigns. But it also gives substantial
pay raises to several top officials.
   The ballot measure, affirmed by 57% of the voters, emerged
as a result of controversy last year over Mayor Tom Bradley's
outside financial dealings. At the time, Mr. Bradley
appointed a commission to draft a new city code of ethics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ethics package adopted by voters was a combination of
that commission's proposal and separate proposals made by
City Council members. The proposals were the subject of
heated debate, and council members tacked on numerous
amendments, including the pay boosts. The measure increases
pay of the 15 council members 40% to $86,157, and the mayor's
pay 9.2% to $112,004.
   Geoffrey Cowan, the public-interest attorney who headed
the outside commission to draft the new code, called the
ballot measure "the most comprehensive package of ethics and
finance reform in the country."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Canada's Dollar Rises as Negotiations
   On Quebec's Status Appear to Progress
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Reports suggesting headway is being made in
negotiations on Canada's constitutional deadlock pushed the
Canadian dollar higher against its U.S. counterpart.
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and others taking
part in marathon negotiations on the issue of Quebec
province's constitutional status said federal and provincial
officials had made progress in the discussions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither Mr. Mulroney nor other officials who spoke would
divulge details of the private talks in Ottawa, but their
assessment was enough for the market, which bid the Canadian
dollar steadily higher through the North American day. In
late afternoon New York trading, the Canadian dollar was at
85.49 U.S. cents, up from 85.03 U.S. cents late Tuesday.
   In other dealings, the U.S. dollar rose modestly against
the mark and yen, but slipped slightly against the pound.
   Canada's talks are a last-ditch effort by Mr. Mulroney to
win a consensus among Canada's 10 provinces on a proposed
constitutional amendment that would codify French-speaking
Quebec's status as a "distinct society" within Canada.
   New Brunswick, one of three provinces stubbornly holding
out against the amendment, tentatively agreed Monday to
ratify the measure. Newfoundland and Manitoba oppose it on
grounds that a liberal interpretation of the "distinct
society" clause by Quebec might allow Francophone authorities
to dilute the civil rights of Quebec's sizable
English-speaking minority.
   Quebec has said it won't tolerate any changes to the
amendment and will secede from Canada if it isn't passed. All
10 provinces must ratify the measure by June 23 for it to
become law. The talks have been in session for the past four
days.
   Market participants said there will have to be some
results if the Canadian dollar is to avoid a quick
retracement of yesterday's gains. "If there's no news by the
end of the week, no change in position," the Canadian
currency will fall no matter how evident a "friendly tone"
is, said Thomas Benfer, senior marketing representative at
Bank of Montreal in New York.
   In late afternoon New York trading, the U.S. dollar was at
1.6885 marks, up from 1.6850 marks late Tuesday, and at
152.65 yen, up from 152.45 yen. Sterling was at US$1.6875, up
from US$1.6870.
   In Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was trading at 152.45 yen
soon after opening at 152.49 yen; it closed in Tokyo
Wednesday at 152.60 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was
trading at about 1.6880 marks, down a bit from Wednesday's
Tokyo close of 1.6888 marks.
   The mark was hurt by reports of possible East German labor
unrest in coming days, giving up small gains to the U.S. and
Japanese currencies, participants said.
   News that owners of small independent businesses in East
Germany have asked their employees to strike in protest of
the current terms of unification heightened market concern
that the costs of unification could rise.
   The small-business owners said they feared being squeezed
by the 1-to-1 conversion of East German mark wages and
salaries into West German marks, which will occur at the same
time business accounts are halved by a 2-to-1 exchange rate.
   The squeeze could jeopardize as many as 350,000 jobs, one
business spokesman said. Groups representing the retail,
restaurant and service industries have called for a strike
today in Berlin and a national walkout tomorrow.
   Comments late in the day by Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan
that he doesn't see underlying deterioration in the U.S.
economy had little effect on the U.S. dollar.
   The U.S. currency rose slightly against the yen, as market
concerns about Japanese inflation and the large amount of
Japanese debt secured by inflated real-estate prices tended
to balance the positive factor of Japan's robust economy,
said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in
Minneapolis.
   In Europe, the dollar ended modestly weaker, although
action was thin and largely focused on non-dollar activity.
In Tokyo, a report that U.S. Federal Reserve officials don't
support lower interest rates helped the dollar edge up.
   On New York's Commodity Exchange, current-delivery gold
dropped $2.40 to settle at $357.40 an ounce, the lowest close
since July 30, 1986. Estimated volume was a moderate three
million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $456.25 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Gain Slightly as Traders Await
   Expiration of June Options, Futures Contracts
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index rose softly in light trading with
many participants cautious ahead of today's expiration of
June options and futures contracts.
   Meanwhile, prices in London ended moderate trading near
their intraday lows, as the market failed to muster any
strength for a late-day rally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei Index of 225 issues gained 31.88 points to
32953.50. The index slipped 3.75 points Tuesday. But
decliners yesterday outnumbered advancers 498 to 438, while
180 issues were unchanged.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the Nikkei index was
up 91.32 points to 33044.88.
   Wednesday's volume on the first section was estimated at
600 million shares, up a bit from 567.9 million on Tuesday.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues in the first
section, which lost 2.31 points Tuesday, slipped 1.86 points,
or 0.08%, to 2423.07.
   The second section index rose 26.20 points, or 0.65%, to
4039.37. The index added 20.23 points Tuesday. Volume in the
section was estimated at 30.7 million shares, up from 29
million shares Tuesday.
   Because many participants are anticipating a potential
overhang of positions outstanding amid the June options and
futures contract expiration today, market atmosphere was
fairly cautious throughout yesterday, traders said.
   Limited buying in blue chips in the morning was met by
arbitrage selling and profit-taking, while early sentiment
was weak on softer bond and currency markets, traders said.
   But in the afternoon, at least one of the Big Four
Japanese securities firms was seen buying approximately 10
million shares of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, resulting in a
minor rally in shipbuilding shares, according to Masahiko
Tsuyuzaki, chief trader at Tachibana Securities Co.
   Other financial institutions later pursued large-capital
issues -- particularly steel stocks -- although rounds of
profit-taking chipped away at gains, the trader said.
   At the same time, major foreign brokerage houses bought
lightly on programs linked to the Nikkei 225 issues,
observers said.
   Speculative buying also drove up prices on selected
shares, the traders said.
   They added that a late rumor, which began after the close
of cash trading but before the futures closing, boosted
activity somewhat in futures trading.
   An announcement by Narita Airport officials that flights
from Japan to and over the Soviet Union were redirected by
flight-control authorities in Moscow sparked speculation of a
coup in the region. But Narita officials reportedly gave no
explanations, outside of citing flight-traffic problems, to
warrant such a rumor, traders said.
   Mitsubishi Heavy Industries rose 30 yen to 1100 yen (20
cents to $7.21) on trading house buying, while the rest of
the sector also posted healthy gains.
   Mitsui Engineering &amp; Shipbuilding rose 30 yen to 1030 yen,
Hitachi Zosen gained 10 yen to 885 yen, Kawasaki Heavy rose
12 yen to 997 yen, and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries
rose 30 yen to 1200 yen.
   Auto stocks were also firmer, with Isuzu Motor rising 20
yen to 1090 yen, and Toyota adding 70 yen to 2610 yen.
   Other large-capital issues, including Kawasaki Steel, NKK
and Nippon Steel, advanced.
   On the other hand, high-technology electrical shares ended
lower after battling profit-taking.
   Sony fell 90 yen to 8560 yen, Pioneer slipped 40 yen to
6160 yen, and TDK fell 90 yen to 6610 yen.
   Meanwhile, London opened lower, and continued its downward
slide as profittakers moved in and market makers marked
prices lower. In addition, a poor showing by stock futures
reinforced stocks' downward momentum.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell
21.6 points to 2358.5, after falling as many as 25.6 points.
The day's high was when the index was down 12.7 points.
   Other indexes reflected the trend. The Financial Times 30
Share Index dropped 12.9 points to 1881.
   Volume was a moderate 429 million shares, compared with
618.2 million issues Tuesday.
   In the futures markets, the June FT-SE 100 index contract
closed at 2399, down from Tuesday's close of 2423.
   Share losses were spread across most sectors, with the
largest declines recorded by Bass, down 30 pence to #10.70
(51 cents to $18.05), Lloyds, down 12 pence to 297 pence,
Pearson, down 16 pence to 739 pence, and RMC, down 14 pence
to 691 pence.
   The few companies posting gains included Asda, up 5 pence
to 113.5 pence on unconfirmed rumors of a takeover bid. This
gain helped the sector, with Associated British Foods, up 4
pence at 409 pence, and Grand Metropolitan, up 5 pence to 642
pence.
   Rank rose 5 pence to 836 pence, while Hillsdown was up 6
pence to 265 pence, and STC gained 9 pence to 275 pence.
   Elsewhere, stocks ended lower in Amsterdam, Madrid,
Frankfurt, Milan, Zurich, Stockholm and Paris, and mixed in
Brussels. South African gold stocks closed marginally higher.
   In the Asian and Pacific region, shares closed higher in
Hong Kong and Singapore, and lower in Sydney, Manila,
Wellington and Taipei. Seoul was closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                              Jun 5     Jun 4     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ....................  338.5     339.2    +  4.1
   Britain .................  707.4     707.6    -  1.9
   Canada ..................  397.5     397.0    -  8.1
   Japan ................... 1365.8    1367.5    - 17.5
   France ..................  579.5     584.9    +  2.2
   Germany .................  300.8     296.6    +  5.4
   Hong Kong ............... 2354.2    2347.6    + 12.3
   Switzerland .............  227.9     226.8    +  3.3
   Australia ...............  311.1     310.9    -  6.1
   World index .............  527.3     526.8    -  7.1
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcoa Closes Its Bauxite Mines
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AA
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Aluminum Co. of America said it closed its
last bauxite mines in the U.S., resulting in the layoffs or
retirements of 200 employees. The mines, in Saline County,
Ark., are adjacent to Alcoa's bauxite refinery and alumina
chemical facilities.
   The company said the mining and refining operations were
shut down because of insufficient reserves of bauxite.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alcoa also said it will close permanently about 275,000
metric tons annually of alumina production capacity. Alumina
is the raw material from which aluminum, and alumina
chemicals, are made. A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62
pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Lockheed Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LK
</CO>
<LP>
   LOCKHEED Corp. (Calabasas, Calif.) -- Kenneth N.
Hollander, 48 years old, previously vice president,
marketing, at the Ford Aerospace Corp. unit of Ford Motor
Co., was named vice president, international business
development, a new post at this aerospace concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tyco Toys Says Talks Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   TTOY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNT LAUREL, N.J. -- Tyco Toys Inc. said that talks
between it and a party seeking to acquire the company were
terminated without an agreement being reached. The party's
identity wasn't disclosed.
   The toy maker said last week that it received an
unsolicited approach from the potential buyer. Tyco's stock,
which rose on heavy volume following that announcement,
closed yesterday at $22.75 a share in national
over-the-counter trading, down $4.75.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Trans Mountain Pipeline Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TMP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRANS MOUNTAIN PIPE LINE Co., Vancouver, British Columbia,
said it plans to issue 35 million Canadian dollars (US$29.8
million) of 11.50% Series C debentures, maturing June 20,
2010. Trans Mountain, an oil pipeline concern 67.1%-owned by
B.C. Gas Inc., British Columbia's natural-gas utility, said
net proceeds of C$34.6 million will be used to reduce
short-term debt. It said the issue, which follows a prior
C$30 million debenture offering, completes financings linked
to a C$61 million pipeline expansion program that is now
completed. The debentures, which are redeemable at the
company's option, will be purchased and subsequently offered
privately by Gordon Capital Corp., a Toronto-based securities
dealer, the company said. The issue is expected to close June
20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   SCEcorp
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCEcorp., Rosemead, Calif., said its Southern California
Edison unit sold $200 million of 31-year first and refunding
mortgage bonds to a group of underwriters led by Salomon
Brothers Inc. for about $191 million. The 9.25% bonds were
purchased by Salomon for 95.44% of the principal amount.
Salomon will reoffer the bonds, due 2021, at 95.92%. The
company will use proceeds from the financing for redeeming,
repaying or retiring debt, financing construction, or other
general corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Staples Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   SPLS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAPLES Inc., a Newton, Mass., discount office-supplies
retailer, said it is making a public offering of $70 million
of 7% convertible subordinated debentures, due June 1, 2015,
priced at par and convertible into common stock at $30 a
share. Net proceeds will be used for financing new store
openings and additional distribution facilities, increasing
working capital, and other general corporate purposes.
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. is lead manager and Montgomery
Securities and PaineWebber Inc. are co-managers of the
offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Government Smoke Alarm Could Save Teens' Lives
   ----
   By Michael Gartner
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Dr. Louis Sullivan
   Secretary of Health and Human Services
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Washington, D.C. 20201
                                                                                                       

   Dear Dr. Sullivan,
   I'm sorry to bother you with two letters in six weeks, but
I have a couple more things on my mind.
   First, though, thanks for sending me a copy of your
graduation speech at Simpson College in Indianola, Iowa. It
was a fine speech. George Washington Carver, that onetime
Simpson student, is revered on campus, so using his life as
the basis for your speech was smart. And the message that you
took from that -- "You must assume responsibility for the
life you lead" -- was a good one for those young Iowans.
   Thanks, too, for telling the students that even if they
leave Iowa "you must never let Iowa leave you." I hope they
listened to both your messages.
   Young people are a great resource for this nation, which
brings me to my reason for this letter. I read your recent
testimony to the Senate Finance Committee in which you urged
states to ban cigarette-vending machines as a way to stop
youngsters from taking up smoking, and I think you're on to a
terrific idea. Your proposal for licensing tobacco dealers
and then enforcing the ban on sales of cigarettes to minors
also is a good one.
   Tobacco is after all a drug, a drug that kills, so it
makes sense to begin treating it like one. The warnings on
the package have helped, and the constant campaign against
smoking waged first by Surgeon General C. Everett Koop and
now by you has helped even more, if you read the statistics
on the decline in smoking the way I do.
   Smoking clearly is a terrible problem for youth and adults
alike. The Journal of the American Medical Association
reported the other day that each year three million Americans
under 18 consume almost one billion packs of cigarettes and
26 million containers of snuff. The profits from these sales
-- illegal in 44 states -- total more than $200 million a
year, the Journal reported.
   You talk about how smoking kills 1,000 Americans a day, a
fact that Robert Sack, a lawyer in New York (for this
newspaper, among others), put strikingly the other day in a
speech in Oregon. Every two months, he said "more Americans
are killed by tobacco smoke than were killed in the entire
Vietnam War. It would take six monuments the size of the
Vietnam War Memorial in Washington to accommodate the
engraved names of tobacco victims during a single year."
   Since the average age that people begin smoking is 13,
"the addiction that fosters tobacco use can be considered a
childhood disease," the Journal of the American Medical
Association says. Thus, Mr. Sack's monuments are, in a way,
monuments to children, which is all the sadder.
   Making cigarettes difficult to buy, as you propose, is one
way to cut down on teen-agers' smoking. But there is another
way, the way that Dr. Koop and you have discovered: Keep
talking about it. The way to fight bad ideas is through
speech, exposing an idea as dumb or substituting a better
idea. You and Dr. Koop have been saying that smoking is dumb,
lethally dumb, for years now, and it is working.
   I have an idea that will expand on that. I proposed it
before in these pages, and I assume that since it wasn't
immediately embraced by you and your colleagues and proposed
as law that somehow you missed it. So I'd like to propose it
again.
   In the late 1960s, courts ruled that television stations
had to run one anti-smoking advertisement for every four
cigarette commercials they ran. Cigarette consumption
dropped, and that's probably the main reason cigarette
companies didn't complain when courts later banned all
cigarette advertising from the airwaves. For the free
anti-smoking commercials disappeared then, too, and the
companies merely switched their advertising to media whose
advertising policies were beyond the reach of the courts.
When the anti-smoking ads disappeared, smoking started rising
again. It kept going up until Dr. Koop took up the cause.
   So this is my proposal: Have the government produce
anti-smoking ads and buy time to broadcast them, plaster them
on billboards, and print them in big and mighty newspapers.
Raise taxes to finance this. A two-cents-a-pack tax would
yield more than $600 million a year, far less than the $2.5
billion the companies spend annually to promote their 250
brands, but enough to get across the message that smoking
kills. California has recently launched a scheme like this,
and I'll bet it works.
   The beauty of this idea, like the beauty of your idea
about vending machines, is that it doesn't stifle speech. It
furthers it. Banning advertising of cigarettes, as more and
more people are proposing, is a frightening remedy, for it
censors us, it muzzles us, it takes away that dear right of
free speech. As long as cigarettes are legal, the folks at
Philip Morris should be able to pitch the joys (whatever they
are) of smoking just as freely as you and I talk of the
evils.
   As Mr. Sack said in that Oregon speech, "when debate is
full, right is most likely to triumph. When speech is
throttled, issues are buried and only the status quo can
prevail."
   I have another idea, too. I just read a report pointing
out that insurance companies, college endowments and state
retirement funds own some $2.5 billion of tobacco stocks.
Tobacco stocks might be a good investment, but there seem to
be some ironies here: insurance companies investing in a
product that shortens lives, colleges investing in a product
that will kill off some of their best and brightest graduates
in the prime of their careers, states investing in a product
that will deprive many pensioners of long and happy
retirements.
   Since that report was issued, a new group, the Tobacco
Divestment Project, has sprung up, and it already has
persuaded the City University of New York to unload its
tobacco holdings. Harvard, too, is getting rid of its tobacco
stocks.
   Might it not be a good idea, Dr. Sullivan, to start
talking about this a lot, the way you talk about the evils of
smoking, so that maybe some other big investors will
reconsider their positions? Who knows -- if teen-agers have a
hard time finding cigarettes, if Americans in general are
bombarded with messages about the ills of smoking, and if
investors start pondering the wisdom of certain investments,
maybe the number of smokers will drop dramatically.
   Meantime, I hope you'll keep repeating what you told those
Simpson students about George Washington Carver's views on
smoking: "If God had intended the human nose to be used as a
chimney, He would have turned our nostrils up."
   I suspect that might be the line those youngsters will
remember from that fine speech you gave.
   But don't worry. That's one line more than most students
remember from most graduation speeches.
   Best wishes, Michael Gartner
   ---
   Mr. Gartner is editor and co-owner of the Daily Tribune in
Ames, Iowa, and president of NBC News in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Job Bias Overstated?
   Better Ask the Victims
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   To hear Peter Skerry tell it ("Hispanic Job Discrimination
Exaggerated," editorial page, April 27), employment
discrimination against Hispanics is "exaggerated." The
villains are Hispanic leaders -- abetted by "their liberal
allies" -- who conspire to circulate the pernicious notion
that "America is the land of racial discrimination."
   What is truly pernicious is Mr. Skerry's effort to deny
that discrimination on the basis of race, national origin and
alienage or citizenship status is still entrenched. Until
people recognize bias is not a problem that was "taken care
of" in the 1960s, but one that has been ignored in many
respects since then, it is unlikely there will be a serious
national commitment to combat discrimination in all its
forms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reality is that the employment-sanctions provisions of
the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) have resulted
in unfair disadvantages for substantial numbers of people who
look or sound "foreign." A 1988 hiring audit by the New York
City Commission on Human Rights showed that, of 86 employers
tested, 41% evidenced disparate treatment on the basis of
whether the test caller had an accent or not. The report of
the General Accounting Office confirms the existence of a
widespread problem. In recognition of the problem, the New
York City Human Rights Law now prohibits discrimination on
the basis of alienage or citizenship status.
   Mr. Skerry tries to trivialize or ignore the evidence:
Based on the GAO report, "only" 5% of employers actually
refuse to hire those who look or sound foreign; "only" 29% of
Hispanics who live in Southern California claimed to have
experienced at least some bias personally. Viewed in the
context of the overall Hispanic population of the U.S., Mr.
Skerry is shrugging off discrimination against "only" many
thousands of people. When he describes the practice of some
employers of imposing documentation requirements on "only
those who look or sound foreign" as "technical
non-compliance," it is the principle of equal treatment under
law that he is consigning to the category of the technical.
   His suggestion that a relatively low number of complaints
means IRCA-based discrimination is "not even noticeable to
its victims" (and cannot therefore be widespread) is
disingenuous. As noted in the commission's 1988 report,
immigrants are reluctant to speak out for fear of reprisals
given past experience with government agencies, the existence
of a language barrier and inadequate efforts to communicate
to people harmed the availability of remedies for
discriminatory conduct.
   Perhaps most destructive is Mr. Skerry's assertion that
Hispanics do not face the same problems as African-Americans.
It is essential that both communities resist the temptation
to spend any energy arguing the proper arrangement of a
hierarchy of discrimination. We must recognize that the fight
against discrimination is one and indivisible, and our
efforts must be directed accordingly.
   Dennis deLeon
   Commissioner/Chair
   Commission on Human Rights
   City of New York
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Marks &amp; Spencer PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.MAR
</CO>
<LP>
   MARKS &amp; SPENCER PLC (London) -- Vincent H. McGinlay, 39
years old, formerly executive of menswear at this retailer,
was named executive vice president and general merchandise
manager at Brooks Brothers Inc., filling a vacancy at the
apparel retailing division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gottschalks' May Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GOT
</CO>
<LP>
   FRESNO, Calif. -- Gottschalks Inc. said May sales
increased 23% to $18.4 million from $14.9 million in May
1989. Same-store sales -- sales at stores open more than a
year -- were up 12%, the department-store company said.
   Apparel sales led the increases and home sales also grew,
a Gottschalks official said. For the 17 weeks ended June 2,
sales were up 22% to $71 million from $58.3 million a year
before. Same store sales were up 12% in the period,
Gottschalks said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Borrowing by Governments
   And Private Sectors Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Borrowing by households, nonfinancial
businesses and federal, state and local governments grew at a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7.9% in the first quarter,
up from 7.7% the prior quarter, the Federal Reserve Board
said.
   Borrowing by the federal government grew at a 13% annual
rate in the first quarter, while private borrowing grew at a
6.3% rate, the Fed said. First-quarter borrowing by the
nonfinancial sector totaled $771.2 billion, consisting of
$295.8 billion by the federal government and $475.4 billion
by the private sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total credit-market debt owed by the nonfinancial sector
at the end of the first quarter was $9.99 trillion, compared
with $9.81 trillion at the end of the fourth quarter and
$9.24 trillion a year earlier.
   Within private-sector borrowing, nonfinancial business
borrowing increased at a 6.3% rate, compared with 6.6% the
previous quarter. Household borrowing rose at a 6.5% rate,
compared with 9.6% the previous quarter. State and local
government borrowing grew at a 5.5% rate, compared with 2%
the previous quarter. State and local borrowing is included
in the total private borrowing figures.
   For all of 1989, total nonfinancial debt grew 7.8%,
compared with 9.1% in each of 1988 and 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Greenspan Says Economy
   Hasn't Deteriorated Lately
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan said that despite recent weak employment numbers,
he doesn't see any underlying deterioration in the U.S.
economy.
   The Fed chairman's comments, made at an international
monetary conference in San Francisco, followed a report in
The Wall Street Journal Tuesday that Fed officials have no
plans to ease short-term interest rates in the near future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Greenspan also said that it is unclear whether the
unification of Germany will lead to higher interest rates
around the globe, "I think it's much too soon, at this stage,
to make any judgments about what the effect on interest rates
will be," he said. Mr. Greenspan said there was little good
information about how the monetary union of East and West
Germany would affect the economy, or overall savings and
investment.
   "Without having a particularly good fix on those critical
points, I don't see how it is realistic to make judgments
about what" interest rates will be, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LATAM AFRIC FORGN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHANGES AT AUSCHWITZ
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Poland is removing communist propaganda from Auschwitz,
the Nazi death camp preserved as a Holocaust museum.
   Removing the propaganda will amount to giving Auschwitz
back to the Jews, said Stefan Wilkanowicz, secretary of the
government's International Commission on the Future of
Auschwitz. Although more Jews were gassed at Auschwitz than
anywhere else, existing exhibits "are done in such a way that
the fate of the Jews is marginalized," he added.
   Most Holocaust historians estimate that more than 90% of
the victims at Auschwitz were Jews. But this is stated
nowhere at the museum, which portrays the Jews as just one of
the 19 ethnic groups or nationalities killed at the camp.
   Poland's new Solidarity-led government, embarrassed by a
recent Roman Catholic-Jewish dispute over a Catholic convent
at Auschwitz, has tripled its subsidy for the museum to
$315,000.
                                                                                                       

   PROTECTIONISM IN SWEDEN
                                                                                                       

   Sweden's agricultural sector is among the most protected
in the world, costing consumers an extra 18 billion kronor
($3 billion) a year for basic agricultural commodities such
as cereals, dairy products, meats and sugar, according to a
report by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
According to GATT, the average Swedish household could save
8,500 kronor a year if current protectionist measures were
eliminated. Parliament is scheduled to vote Saturday on a
plan to end some of the protectionist measures.
                                                                                                       

   BRAZIL GOES AFTER SMOKERS
                                                                                                       

   The Brazilian government has instituted new anti-smoking
measures. The measures, which went into effect at the
beginning of June, include a ban on cigarette sales to those
under 18, a ban on TV advertising for cigarettes between 6
a.m. and 9 p.m. and a ban on free samples. Current laws
prohibiting smoking in elevators, on buses and in other
public areas are routinely ignored in Brazil, where an
estimated 54.6 million people -- or about a third of the
population -- smoke.
                                                                                                       

   AFRICA'S TRAGEDIES
                                                                                                       

   One child dies every minute in Ethiopia of malnutrition or
preventable disease, Unicef officials told a news conference.
In Mozambique, they said, one child in three dies before
reaching the age of five. The officials said that war,
drought and donor fatigue combined to produce such grim
statistics in parts of Africa. Unicef has appealed for $15.3
million for emergency work in Ethiopia and $11.7 million for
Mozambique.
                                                                                                       

   NEW COINS FOR TAIWAN
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's central bank said it would issue gold-bullion
coins early next year to commemorate the 80th anniversary of
the founding of the Republic of China. The coins will be
denominated at 1,000 New Taiwan dollars (US$37) each, the
Central Bank officials said. The new coins will be sold
principally to local consumers, officials said, although they
didn't rule out the possibility that they would be exported
in the future.
                                                                                                       

   PROPOSED FILM BAN IN BRITAIN
                                                                                                       

   Britain's opposition Labor Party called for a ban on a
Pakistani film that depicts the death by lightning of British
author Salman Rushdie. The film "International Guerrillas,"
which portrays Mr. Rushdie as a decadent playboy dedicated to
the overthrow of Islam, has been playing to packed houses in
Pakistan. The real Mr. Rushdie has been in hiding since
Iran's late Ayatollah Khomeini told Moslems to kill him,
charging that his novel "The Satanic Verses" blasphemed
Islam. Labor Party spokesman Donald Anderson said he opposed
censorship but the film could hurt race relations in Britain.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA'S GENDER IMBALANCE
                                                                                                       

   Millions of Chinese men have failed to find a wife, and
eligible women will be in even shorter supply in coming
years, according to a survey published by Beijing's China
News Service.
   The service said the serious imbalance in the ratio of men
to women in China would worsen over the next 20 years. A
random check on 100 unmarried Chinese adults showed 93 were
men, it said.
   Bachelors were found to outnumber single women by 10
million within the 29- to 49-year-old age group, the news
service said. It said rural men faced the bleakest prospects
as more and more city dwellers turned to rural areas to find
brides.
   The report didn't give any reason for the sex-ratio
imbalance. But last February, the service attributed the
disparity to such factors as the drowning of baby girls in
rural areas, modern techniques allowing doctors to identify
fetal gender and the availability of abortion. Many Chinese
still believe it is imperative to bear a son to carry on the
family name.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Brazilian President Fernando Collor de Mello was slightly
burned on his arm and face when he threw a torch onto a pile
of confiscated narcotics, officials said. The incident
happened when Mr. Collor was visiting a farm in the central
Mato Grosso do Sul state. . . . A new British 5 banknote
portrays Queen Elizabeth II with a double chin, wrinkles and
slight bags under her eyes. "It makes me look so old," one
London newspaper quoted the 64-year-old monarch as telling
the new note's designer. "But then I suppose I am old."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Ryka Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   RYKA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RYKA Inc., a Weymouth, Mass., maker of athletic footwear
for women, said it signed a letter of intent to raise $4
million through a public stock offering, subject to approval
by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Ryka intends to
sell units consisting of one share of common stock and one
warrant, exercisable over a five-year period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Car Sales in Britain in May
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- May new-car sales in Britain, measured by
registrations, totaled 173,896, a 13% decline from a year
earlier but a 4.2% rise from April, the Society of Motor
Manufacturers and Traders Ltd. said.
   Imports took a 55% share of the market in May, down from
58% in April and 56% a year earlier. Total imports, including
cars produced overseas by British manufacturers, fell 1% to
95,207 in May, compared with the previous month, and were off
14% from a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Motor Co., Dearborn, Mich., sold 47,996 cars in May,
up 11% from April but down 12% from a year earlier. Ford's
market share was 28%, up from 26% in April and unchanged from
a year earlier. Detroit-based General Motors Corp.'s May
sales advanced 9.7% to 27,685, compared with April, and
slipped 8.9% from a year earlier. GM's market share edged up
to 16% from 15% both in April and a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   No Red Squirrels?
   Mother Nature
   May Be Better Off
   ----
   By Michael D. Copeland
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   A mountain near Tucson, Ariz., has become the latest
battleground in the war between environmentalists and
developers. Opponents of a proposed $200 million observatory
on Mount Graham claim that its construction threatens the
existence of the Mount Graham red squirrel, which lives only
at the summit of this mountain. The diminutive squirrels,
totaling slightly more than 100 in number, were listed as
endangered in 1987 under the Endangered Species Act. They are
being used in an attempt to halt this project, just as the
snail darter, the northern spotted owl, and the dusky seaside
sparrow have been used to interfere with previous
construction or resource-use decisions.
   Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan recently questioned
whether the interference on behalf of a single species is
worth the cost, and suggested that Congress consider
increasing the flexibility of the Endangered Species Act. His
remarks, which included the statement, "Nobody's told me the
difference between a red squirrel, a black one or a brown
one," may not earn high marks from environmental groups. But
they make considerable sense to much of the scientific
community.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The view that the loss of a single species can have
disastrous consequences represents a misguided notion about
the significance of individual animal or plant categories.
The Endangered Species Act assumes that preserving one
species has enormous value or benefit. But this assumption is
not warranted.
   Suppose we lost a species. How devastating would that be?
"Mass extinctions have been recorded since the dawn of
paleontology," writes Harvard paleontologist Stephen Gould.
These evolutionary disruptions delineated the major
boundaries of geologic time. The most severe of these
occurred approximately 250 million years ago, at the end of
the Permian Period, with an estimated 96% extinction of
species, says Mr. Gould. The cause of these extinctions is
uncertain, but possibilities include global cooling,
radiation and sea-level fluctuations. There is general
agreement among scientists that today's species represent a
small proportion of all those that have ever existed --
probably less than 1%. This means that more than 99% of all
species ever living have become extinct.
   Yet, in spite of these extinctions, both Mr. Gould and
University of Chicago paleontologist Jack Sepkoski say that
the actual number of living species has probably increased
over time. The "niches" created by extinctions provide an
opportunity for a vigorous development of new species, a
process called speciation. Periods of mass extinctions have
been followed by increases in the number of species, as when
small mammals expanded rapidly after dinosaurs disappeared.
   Thus, evolutionary history appears to have been
characterized by millions of species extinctions and
subsequent increases in species numbers. Indeed, by
attempting to preserve species living on the brink of
extinction, we may be wasting time, effort and money on
animals that will disappear over time regardless of our
efforts.
   Advocates of preservation often contend that the process
of evolution has endowed each species with a genetic
accumulation of characteristics that enhance its chances of
survival. If a species becomes extinct, this genetic history
disappears forever and cannot be passed along to future
species. The loss of any single species detracts from the
genetic pool, this argument goes, and reduces the range of
possibilities for future adaptation.
   But Mr. Gould challenges this view. In his book "Wonderful
Life" he writes that traits that enhance survival "do so in
ways that are incidental and unrelated to the causes of their
evolution in the first place. . . . A trait with no previous
significance, one that had just hitchhiked along for the
developmental ride as a side consequence of another
adaptation, may now hold the key to your survival."
   In other words, traits that have helped a species survive
in the past are not particularly important to the future
survival of that species or to its offshoots. The evolved
survival traits of an endangered species are no more valuable
than the traits of the new species that will eventually
evolve after its extinction. Preserving a species will not
necessarily increase the survival chances of future
generations.
   Why, then, are environmentalists so concerned with strict
enforcement of the Endangered Species Act? The answer is that
saving species is often a subterfuge for achieving other
goals, such as the prevention of development. When the Sierra
Club's Legal Defense Fund attempted to delay a federal sale
of old-growth timber in the Pacific Northwest, Andy Stahl,
one of its analysts, made this fact quite clear. He called
the northern spotted owl "the wildlife species of choice to
act as a surrogate for old-growth protection, and I've often
thought that thank goodness the spotted owl evolved in the
Northwest, for if it hadn't we'd have to genetically engineer
it . . . we can use it to protect a lot of old-growth."
Evidently, Mr. Stahl is more concerned with old-growth timber
than with the spotted owl.
   Opinion is divided on whether the Mount Graham red
squirrel will actually become extinct if the observatory is
built; some say that the squirrel will have no trouble
existing in the thousands of acres of nearby coniferous
forests. But even if we lose this small population, we can
rest assured that the consequence will not be evolutionary
Armageddon. Whether the telescope should be built is a
question to be decided by careful weighing of costs and
benefits by the owners and developers. They should consider
the potential loss of the squirrel as a possible cost, but
not measure it as a disaster.
   ---
   Mr. Copeland is executive director of the Political
Economy Research Center in Bozeman, Mont.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Drug-Test Results
   Of New York City's
   Transit Unit Barred
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Citing inaccurate testing procedures, a
federal judge quashed thousands of marijuana tests performed
on New York City Transit Authority employees in the
mid-1980s.
   U.S. District Judge Robert P. Patterson, in a 100-page
opinion, also invalidated the Transit Authority's policy of
having employees who are neither suspected drug users nor in
safety-sensitive jobs take urine tests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We believe this is the first case in which an entire
drug-testing program has been invalidated for violating the
due process rights of public employees," said Edward J.
Davis, staff attorney for the Legal Action Center, which
brought the 1985 class action lawsuit against the Transit
Authority. "Public employers now have to be very careful to
use accurate drug-testing methods, and to provide employees
with adequate opportunity to challenge the results."
   A Transit Authority spokesman said the agency had no
comment on the decision other than to say, "We do plan to
appeal it, and feel it will be overturned in the appeals
process."
   In his decision, Judge Patterson said urine samples were
frequently contaminated at collection sites, and that
laboratory methods were innaccurate. Moreover, he noted that
employees weren't given adequate notice of test results, or
access to some of their samples, so that they could have them
independently tested to challenge the results.
   The decision came after a partial settlement last February
in the same suit. At that time, the Transit Authority agreed
to compensate about 100 employees, including rehiring many
who had been fired after undergoing testing. It paid other
employees compensation of up to $25,000. Yesterday's decision
covered the remaining employees who joined the suit.
   Judge Patterson has set a conference for June 19 to begin
defining compensation and to determine whether an injunction
is needed to cover current testing policies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Board of Contributors:
   In Search of Our National Interest
   ----
   By Irving Kristol
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   In the years after World War II, the New York Times made a
bold editorial decision. It decided that its opening pages,
usually running to at least half the first news section,
would be devoted to international news, rather than to
national news, as had been the custom. It was a bold decision
because it ran against the well-nigh editorial assumption
that Americans were more interested in reading about their
own country (or even their own locality) than about foreign
affairs. The Times's editors thought that, with the U.S. now
a world power, and one engaged moreover in defending the Free
World against messianic communism movements, international
affairs were more important than domestic developments. If
Americans didn't realize that, they should be led to realize
it, and the Times would play its part.
   I have always admired the courage and idealism behind that
decision -- except of late. As a regular reader of the Times
I now find myself skimming those pages, and even being
irritated by what I now feel to be their obtrusiveness. With
every passing month, the editorial emphasis seems more and
more off-key. I dutifully read the headlines and opening
paragraph or two, and then move on, remembering little and, I
now realize, caring less. Somehow the world has changed with
the collapse of Soviet (and Chinese) imperialism; many of the
world's problem areas seem awfully distant from the U.S. --
and no longer particularly interesting from the point of view
of American foreign policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Take the following news stories, which, in any recent
week, one could find reported on at some length in the Times:
   -- In Liberia, a dissident military faction is leading a
rebellion -- apparently successful -- against the dictatorial
and corrupt government of a tyrant called Doe. The rebels are
led by a former associate of this Doe, named Taylor. No one
has any idea what these rebels stand for, and it is possible
that they don't stand for anything except replacing a Mr. Doe
with a Mr. Taylor.
   I read the accounts of this situation with a sense of
numbness. What am I supposed to feel and think? If the
Soviets (or the Chinese or even the Cubans) were involved, I
would know what to think, since we would then be confronting
a challenge. But this is a purely internal Liberian matter,
and while I am saddened by the sufferings of the Liberian
people caught up in this conflict, I see no reason why
Liberia today should even be within the purview of American
foreign policy -- or why the Times should be devoting so much
space to it.
   -- In Ethiopia, a brutal Marxist regime is being seriously
threatened by a rebellion whose leaders seem to be equally
barbaric Marxists. Again, the Ethiopian people are suffering
horribly at the hands of both combatants. But the sad truth
is that one's fund of compassion for suffering peoples all
over the world is limited. In any case, absent Soviet
involvement, Ethiopia has pretty much slipped off the
spectrum of American foreign policy, so far as I can see. We
have no national interest there, and my own interest in
reading about events there is minimal.
   -- In Cambodia, a war is being fought by a Vietnamese
puppet regime, the forces of the abominable Pol Pot (who is
supported by the Chinese), and other groups whose sole virtue
seems to be that they are not allied with the one or the
other. We are very much involved at the diplomatic level,
opposing the Vietnamese and Pol Pot, and we also send some
military aid to the "third forces," though to no apparent
effect.
   Why are we so concerned, and so involved? Cambodia, to its
misfortune, is of great interest to neighboring Communist
Vietnam and Communist China, who at the moment are using it
as a battleground. It is also of keen interest to neighboring
Thailand, a nation friendly to us, understandably
apprehensive about its neighbors, and therefore deserving of
the military aid we sent it.
   But the future of Cambodia is obviously of no serious
interest to the U.S. We have no power to shape the future of
that land, and we seek no such power. Only the Times and
State Department bureaucracy, on inertial guidance and still
taking their bearings from a global Cold War, remain
interested.
   -- In Myanmar (a.k.a. Burma), the military rulers have
allowed elections that, on paper at least, resulted in a
victory for the opposition. Not only the Times but the
American media as a whole have given this event much coverage
-- though, having read it all, I still don't know what the
"democratic" opposition stands for, or whether one can take
it seriously as a political force. Nevertheless, there is no
doubt that Burma (as I still insist on calling it) has been
terribly misgoverned in recent decades, and that a change is
welcome. It is especially welcome if the change results from
free elections.
   But having said that, what else is there to say? We have
never had any involvement with Burma, nor do we have any
reason to be involved with it today. Yes, it would be nice if
Burma evolved into a liberal democracy, Western-style. But
that is a Burmese option, not an American responsibility,
since we have no influence in that land. And if Burma evolves
in some less attractive direction? Well, we have lived with
such a Burma for some four decades now, and the American
people seem not to have experienced any trauma as a
consequence.
   There are many other examples that can be given, but they
all add up to one conclusion: With the end of the Cold War,
an era of American foreign policy has come to a close. We won
that war. "Global containment" of communism did work -- far
better, indeed, than we anticipated. Communist governments
still exist, to be sure, but the era of communist
expansionism has come to an end. So where, we have to ask,
does that leave us? What is our foreign policy now about?
   This question, alas, is not one that the State Department
seems able to focus on. The State Department, very much at
home in NATO, keeps desperately seeking new reasons for its
continued existence. It even solemnly negotiates with the
Soviets over whether a united Germany will be a member of
NATO, and whether (and how many) American and Soviet troops
might be stationed there. But if one thing is certain it is
that it is the Germans who will decide this issue, and one
can reasonably expect that, 18 months from now, the Germans
will have asked both American and Soviet troops to leave --
which they will do. Whatever else the Germans decide with
regard to NATO will be up to them, and to them alone.
   The only innovative trend in our foreign-policy thinking
at the moment derives from a relatively small group,
consisting of both liberals and conservatives, who believe
there is an "American mission" actively to promote democracy
all over the world. This is a superficially attractive idea,
but it takes only a few moments of thought to realize how
empty of substance (and how full of presumption]) it is.
   In the entire history of the U.S., we have successfully
"exported" our democratic institutions to only two nations --
Japan and Germany, after war and an occupation. We have
failed to establish a viable democracy in the Philippines, or
in Panama, or anywhere in Central America. Why should anyone
think we can do so in Eastern Europe or Southeast Asia? If
these countries are going to be functioning democracies, they
will have to achieve that goal the old-fashioned way -- by
working at it. Free elections are only the beginning.
   That leaves us with a policy vacuum. We are still a world
power and have every intention of remaining so. This means
that a traditional kind of isolationism is out of the
question. But we are now a world power that is no longer
compelled by an adversary to be interested in every part of
the globe. We are now free to pick and choose and assemble a
coherent agenda. In short, we are now free to define our
national interest, instead of having it defined for us.
   It has been so long since we have had this
intellectual-political task that we have quite forgotten how
to go about it. Reviving the idea of "national interest," and
giving it national substance, ought to be at the top of our
national agenda. It is far better that we do this job rather
than permit bloody circumstance and ad hoc responses to do
the job for us.
   ---
   Mr. Kristol, an American Enterprise Institute fellow,
co-edits The Public Interest and publishes The National
Interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Schwarzenegger in Search of His Soul
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   "Total Recall," the latest Arnold Schwarzenegger film, is
based on a short story by Phillip K. Dick called "We Can
Remember It for You Wholesale." The story contains an
interesting idea about the human soul: Do you have one if
your memories don't exist, or if your memories are really
somebody else's?
   But the film makers have concentrated on the expectations
Mr. Schwarzenegger arouses in his most devoted fans, the boys
and young men who have made him a superstar. So the question
of memory and identity become subordinated to the main
questions: How many times can Mr. Schwarzenegger survive
severe kicks to the groin? How many people and mutants must
be blown up before the young male appetite for comic-book
violence is sated?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though director Paul ("Robocop") Verhoeven bombards the
audience with groin kicking and human incineration, his
target viewers seem willing and able to accept even more than
he gives them. I saw this movie at noon on opening day in a
theater filled almost entirely with boys and young men. They
especially liked a scene in which Mr. Schwarzenegger uses an
innocent bystander on an escalator as a shield against his
pursuer's bullets. When the man had been machine-gunned to
limpness and Mr. Schwarzenegger had tossed his deflated and
bloody remains aside, the audience applauded.
   Though this scene occurs fairly early in the movie, I
already was wishing for a memory implant like the one Mr.
Schwarzenegger's character receives, one that would erase all
knowledge of "Total Recall" (except the trailer, which was
far more enjoyable than the film).
   The movie's deterioration into a pulpy bloodfest occurs
fairly rapidly and is especially disappointing because Mr.
Schwarzenegger's hulking superstructure makes him a perfect
science-fiction character. He looks like he was concocted in
a lab -- but he's no monster. Even his inability to act can
seem endearing.
   The movie opens with the promise of the camp humor Mr.
Schwarzenegger has pulled off in the past and a
science-fiction idea that touches a real nerve. There's Mr.
Schwarzenegger, wandering on the face of Mars (it's red and
rocky) with a woman. They behave as tenderly as possible
toward each other through their bulky space suits, until Mr.
Schwarzenegger falls and his suit rips and the loss of oxygen
brings him to the awful end of his nightmare.
   He wakes up to the "reality" of the future, where he lives
with his blond Barbie-doll wife, Lori. Actress Sharon Stone,
who plays her, has the same plastic sheen and a pair of the
same pneumatic-seeming muscles as Mr. Schwarzenegger. When
they embrace you expect to hear the click-click of hard
synthetic surfaces meeting. (At least the audience members
don't take the romance any more seriously than they take the
violence. They cackled when Mr. Schwarzenegger growled in his
Teutonic rat-a-tat: "Come on baby, you know you're the girl
of my dreams.")
   His name-in-the-future is Doug Quaid, and he is a
construction worker in a world Mr. Verhoeven and his
production designer, William Sandell, have conceived as a
series of underground parking lots and concrete buildings.
There are some nifty touches, especially the subway security
camera that shows passengers on its monitor as skeletons
scurrying toward the trains.
   Quaid's life is a bore (no wonder, that blank robochick
Lori]) except for his nightmares about Mars, which are
recurrent and horrible except for the athletic brunette who
stars in all of them. These fantasies give him the urge to
visit Mars, which has become a colony of earth. But he isn't
a rich man, so he makes his way instead to Rekall Inc., a
company that offers to implant fake memories into your brain.
For a fee, Quaid can think he's been to Mars. The slick
salesman offers hassle-free vacations, fantasy lives;
anything that appeals can become part of Quaid's reality.
   So far, good enough. The troubles start after Quaid's
implant doesn't take, because his memory already has been
erased, and he has to go to Mars to find out who he really
is.
   Mars is a disappointment, even technically (except for the
automated taxi driver who can take you anywhere but doesn't
recognize the command to "just drive"). Venusville, the
planet's slum where the outcasts and mutants live, looks
fake. The best the film makers could come up with is a
prostitute with three breasts (you can sense their
desperation; they trot her out for the same joke three
times).
   Now Quaid has to find out if he's Quaid, or if he's
Hauser, a government agent who turned rebel sympathizer, or
if he's Hauser, a fink. But this search for self, or selves,
gets drowned out in the blast of gunfire. The story becomes
so pinched by the action that when the screen accidentally
went dark several minutes before the climax, several people
around me wondered aloud whether the movie was over.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Somewhere in "To tal Recall" lurks a
condemnation of in terplanetary colonialism. The notion was
pursued far more successfully in "Outland," Peter Hyams's
1981 outer-space version of "High Noon," with Sean Connery as
an adventure hero whose memory -- and everything else -- is
intact.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Panel Targets `Circle of Poison'
   As It Votes to Ban Some Pesticide Exports
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Agriculture Committee voted to
ban the export of unsafe pesticides.
   The move was an effort to protect U.S. consumers who eat
imported foods from the so-called circle of poison. A
loophole in current law allows U.S. agrichemical companies to
export pesticides even if they aren't registered for farm use
or aren't tolerated on foods in this country. Illegal
residues of these pesticides, including some suspected
carcinogens, often are found in imported fruits and
vegetables as well as some beef and dairy products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If the Environmental Protection Agency says a pesticide
is too unsafe to be used on American-grown food, then it is
too unsafe to be used on foreign-grown food," asserted Sen.
Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), the committee chairman.
   The panel adopted the legislation, part of the 1990 farm
bill, by voice vote despite the objections of the National
Agricultural Chemicals Association, a trade group comprising
pesticide manufacturers whose export sales totaled $2.2
billion last year. The group warned that the bill, among
other things, could impede trade in agricultural products and
force companies to move plants overseas, eliminating jobs in
the U.S.
   The Senate committee's vote was expected to spur House
action on an identical measure sponsored by Reps. Leon
Panetta (D., Calif.), Dan Glickman (D., Kan.) and Mike Synar
(D., Okla.). Rep. Synar already has held hearings on the
circle-of-poison issue.
   The U.S. imports 33 billion pounds of fruits and
vegetables a year, roughly one-quarter of its total
consumption. The Food and Drug Administration inspects only a
tiny fraction of the imports, but government inspectors have
found about 5% to be tainted with pesticides. Recent FDA
sampling showed 10% of imported peas and 8% of imported pears
contained illegal residues, while U.S.-grown peas and pears
contained none.
   Besides barring exports of unsafe pesticides, the Senate
legislation would prohibit imports of any food tainted with
pesticides that are banned in the U.S. It also would revoke
residue tolerances that remain on the books for such
pesticides. This provision would put U.S. farmers on the same
competitive footing as foreign growers, who currently can use
certain effective pesticides that aren't registered for use
on U.S. farms.
   "The point of this legislation is to eliminate the double
standard in pesticide policy," said William McNichol, a
director of a consumer group fighting what it considers
pesticide misuse. The bill, if enacted, would be first
substantial change in pesticide law since 1978.
   Among other things, the bill would require U.S.
manufacturers to obtain prior consent from foreign countries
before shipping potentially hazardous pesticides across their
borders. And it would require safety instructions on
pesticide labels to be written in the language of the
importing country.
   To help the FDA screen imports, the measure would require
U.S. importers to list the pesticides generally used on
imported foods. The bill has 25 co-sponsors in the Senate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MHC
</CO>
<LP>
   MANUFACTURERS HANOVER Corp. (New York) -- John D. Zutter
Jr., executive vice president of this banking company, was
named country manager, overseeing all of the corporation's
operations in Britain. Mr. Zutter was previously in charge of
the global financial-institutions division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Taxers' Freedom Day?
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   With Congress and the Bush White House sitting down again
this week to resume their seance over taxes and the federal
budget, there has been a fair amount of expectant
palpitations in Washington over California's Proposition 111.
The purpose of the initiative was to double the state's
current nine-cents-per-gallon tax on gasoline to build new
roads as well as tie the state's Gann spending limit to
income growth in the state rather than to inflation. The hope
was that passage of Prop. 111 would liberate politicians
elsewhere from the gravitational pull of anti-tax sentiment.
The theory runs like this:
   In 1978, Californians passed Proposition 13, the anti-tax
and anti-spending initiative that crested atop a wave of
voter fury over ever-rising property taxes, which of course
the politicians were pouring into ever-expanding public
commitments. California's former Governor, Ronald Reagan,
rode this sentiment into the White House, and used it to cut
federal taxes, which choked off Congress's ability to create
new, open-ended entitlements, such as subsidized health-care
schemes. George Bush then soared into the White House atop a
no-new-taxes pledge, which many Republicans in Congress now
regard as the one issue that distinguished them from the
Democratic Party, forever sentenced to the purgatory of its
tax-and-spend legacy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But before the folks who think Prop. 111's passage means
they can start entreating America to return to the glory days
that pre-dated the Reagan presidency, a few words of caution.
   Though they had opposite goals, the California proposition
that made the tax revolt a household word and the one Tuesday
that will raise taxes for roads have something crucial in
common: With these initiatives, Californians have essentially
taken the authority to tax away from the politicians,
preferring to do it themselves for discrete, identifiable
purposes. This is a far cry from now saying that people are
willing to send another $25 billion in new taxes into the
dark and bottomless maw of Congress. It's our sense that
voters by now have lost most of their faith in the modern
political system's ability to discipline its spending.
(Another California initiative to force money-related ethical
reforms on the state's legislators passed 63% to 37%.)
   And despite Prop. 111's adoption by a vote of 53% to 47%,
the initial exit polling is revealing. Urban voters favored
the tax increase, rural voters opposed it and suburbanites
split 50-50. Those voters identified as "rich" backed the
doubling of the gasoline tax 60% to 40%, while those
identified as "poor" opposed it by about the same margin. In
the same poll, conservatives were found to be strongly
opposed, while liberals strongly favored the measure. Thus we
have the poor and conservatives united on an economic issue,
with liberals and the rich on the other side. Perhaps Prop.
111 really is a straw in the wind.
   The political instinct to tax is so strong today that we
shouldn't have to wait long for a test of Prop. 111's
significance. The people in California who earn their incomes
from the public sector have been about driven crazy by the
state's anti-tax years, and the first signs may emerge today
when Governor Deukmejian and legislative leaders meet for
their own budget summit.
   There is some feeling that the Democrats would dearly like
to add a bracket or two on top of an already progressive
income-tax schedule. But at a press conference yesterday,
Governor Deukmejian was in a feisty "no more new taxes" mood,
baiting the Democrats to saddle their gubernatorial candidate
Dianne Feinstein with an income-tax boost.
   So we'd say the meaning of California's Prop. 111 comes
down to this: Democrats and various Beltway economists are
sitting there wondering if they can get a hand on the tax gun
again, while the opposition is whispering the words of a
famous President: Go ahead, make my day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Hitachi Introduces a Line
   Of Mainframe Computers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   HIT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Hitachi Ltd. of Japan introduced a line of
mainframe computers, the first of the new generation of
IBM-compatible machines that will come out in the next few
quarters.
   The machines, as previously reported, easily outdistance
those on the market from International Business Machines
Corp., Fujitsu Ltd. and Amdahl Corp., which is 46%-owned by
Fujitsu and sells machines that Fujitsu designs. Consultants
said that the Hitachi machine with three central processors
can operate at 124 million instructions per second, and that
the four-processor machine runs at 150 mips. By contrast,
IBM's most powerful machine runs at 112 mips, and the fastest
Fujitsu/Amdahl mainframe runs at 108 mips.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The machines coming from IBM and Fujitsu/Amdahl are
expected to be roughly comparable to the Hitachi hardware.
Still, Hitachi, which has been the laggard at the high end of
the mainframe market, is finally expected to become a player
there.
   Hitachi said shipments will begin in the third quarter.
Its 80%-owned U.S. arm, Hitachi Data Systems, said it will
begin shipments in the 1991 second quarter. That, again, puts
it roughly on a par with IBM and Fujitsu/Amdahl, which are
expected to begin U.S. shipments between the 1991 second
quarter and the end of the year.
   Hitachi Data said a typical three-processor system will be
priced at $11.8 million, and a typical four-processor system
at $14.4 million. Consultants said these prices are about 10%
to 15% less than IBM charges for each unit of computing
power, the normal discount needed to compete with IBM.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   `World 8 in 13 Seconds'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD GAL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   For anyone who both holds a full-time job and has tried to
complete Super Mario Bros. on a Nintendo videogame system,
this news is what you've been waiting for. A Nintendo
spokesman says that a new device called Game Genie, made by a
competitor, supercharges its games so that characters can
suddenly leap higher, run faster and kill more enemies.
Instead of cheering this victory of man over machine,
Nintendo has sued the maker of Game Genie. Nintendo fears
people will become bored if its games are too easy to play.
Not to worry. Players might use the device once (is it really
true that when Mario rescues the Princess there are several
minutes of credits and nifty music?) but the fun will always
be in the challenge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newspaper Tests `New' Romania's Freedom
   ----
   By Camil Petrescu
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   As the Romanian election results hit the newsroom of
Romania Libera, the mood became sober. Romania Libera is
Romania's largest independent newspaper, and might be
expected to welcome change in the former communist state. But
the paper's editors recognize that the victory of Romania's
National Salvation Front means they stand a good chance of
facing more old-world-style oppression.
   The people gathered in the executive editor's office were
worried because they had done what newspapers do in
democratic countries: criticized a political grouping. In
their case, the target of criticism had been the National
Salvation Front. That group served as the political umbrella
under which, after the December revolution, the communists
who lost Romania's civil war found refuge. Now, under the
cover of the Front, they have won the peace. Journalists at
Romania Libera fear that their paper will top the hit-list.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Given the frailty of democracy in Romania now, they have
good reason to fear. Already, post-Ceausescu, the newspaper
had faced harassment: anonymous phone threats, sabotage of
distribution, public attacks from government officials.
   Control is, of course, nothing new to the Romanian press
-- or to Romania Libera's staff. The previous regime used the
press as a propaganda machine. Under the Ceausescu clique,
even a small typographical error could get a few editors
fired. The government controlled Romania Libera in that era.
   But three Romania Libera journalists were arrested for
trying to publish a "samizdat". Two of them, Anton Uncu and
Mihai Creanga, endured six months of interrogation before
they went free. Demonstrators who overthrew Ceausescu
liberated a third, Petre Mihai Bacanu. Together with Florica
Ichim, another democratic thinker, these gentlemen formed the
nucleus that took over Romania Libera after the dictator's
fall. They changed the direction of the paper, transforming
it into the main voice of anti-communist forces. They
retained the paper's old name, Romania Libera ("Free
Romania"), because they saw a certain prophecy in it.
   To understand the importance of Romania Libera, it helps
to review the press scene. More than a thousand papers were
born after Ceausescu's death. Seven appear daily. Their
circulation is, by American standards, huge. Romania Libera
sells close to 1.5 million papers daily -- an outstanding
figure given Romania's population of 23 million.
   Many of these papers have only four, or, occasionally, six
pages. They lack advertising; they have few headlines. These
are so obscure it is hard to tell what the article underneath
is about. News drowns in a sea of commentary.
   Politically, Romania Libera is unique among the dailies.
Other newspapers changed their names in an attempt to escape
the old communist taint. But even under their new names,
those papers kept their old political affiliations. They even
felt comfortable with the brand of neo-communism that the new
provisional government, the National Salvation Front, has
embraced. Two of the nation's seven dailies belong to the
organized opposition, the Liberal and Peasant parties. Four,
including Adevarul, Romania Libera's main competitor, are
controlled by the Front (Adevarul, in fact, is the old
Communist Party organ, printed under a different name).
   That means that the only important paper independent of a
political party is Romania Libera. In fact, it's not hard to
see the similiarity between Romania Libera and La Prensa, the
Nicaraguan paper around which opposition rallied during
Daniel Ortega's regime. Beyond the press, Front leaders
control other media: radio and television.
   Today's neo-communists, of course, are more sophisticated
in their censorship. Against Romania Libera, they are using a
velvet glove instead of a mailed fist. They have many
advantages on their side: The printing presses on which
Romania Libera is printed were bought from the government.
The government controls distribution. The government also
collects subscription fees and puts them in a government
bank. Editors fear the government will take over the paper
and publish it itself.
   To avoid that, the journalists at Romania Libera have
taken a brave step. Editors have made use of a decree made
during the honeymoon period shortly after the Ceausescus'
demise. The decree allows private enterprises -- but if they
have fewer than 20 employees. Because Romania Libera employs
about 120 journalists, editors like Messrs. Uncu and Bacanu
have set up six companies, with fewer than 20 staffers each.
In this way Romania Libera became the first private
enterprise in Romania -- it even got the first certificate of
privatization, number 001, to prove it]
   But the struggle had just begun. In an attempt to place
obstacles before the paper, the government tripled the price
of paper overnight. (Significantly, the regime did not raise
prices on other staples.) This move cut into Romania Libera's
profits -- leaving it with only a 10% margin. (At the black
market rate, the paper costs only about a penny a copy.) In
addition, the government cut paper supplies: Romania Libera's
circulation has been reduced to 870,000 from 1.5 million
because the authorities claim a "lack of paper."
   The government hindered distribution by delaying thousands
of copies left in the warehouse. Its justification for this
step was an odd one: It argued that the papers "don't sell."
This is strange considering that in Romania these days, the
lines of people who want to buy papers are longer than the
ones of those who want to buy food. In the case of Romania
Libera, the shortage created a new brand of crime, newspaper
theft. The paper's editors have printed reports of newspaper
thieves who steal thousands of papers and sell them for 10
times the price.
   Phone threats have also come -- threats that, given the
violence that has taken place in this country lately, have to
be taken seriously. The Front's most recent efforts to
discredit the paper have been attacks in the press or ones
direct from government officials. Adevarul tried to associate
the paper with neo-Nazis.
   Now that, after the election, the Front has a firmer
control of power, editors will continue to fight for the free
press in Romania. They feel they have no choice. Before the
election, Prime Minister Petre Roman called Romania Libera a
"dirty rag." Defending democracy, the editors at Romania
Libera acknowledge, might be seen by some as a dirty job.
But, they point out, somebody's got to do it.
   ---
   Mr. Petrescu is the U.S. correspondent of Romania Libera.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Bookshelf: Sappho Goes to Roches Ridge
   ----
   By Bruce Bawer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Clea Shawn, the middle-aged heroine of Lisa Alther's
shrewd, funny fourth novel, "Bedrock" (Knopf, 325 pages,
$19.95), is a cosmopolitan woman if ever there was one. She
lives in a Manhattan townhouse, works as a travel
photographer, and enjoys an open marriage to an executive for
whom she feels a "sororal affection." Though she's had a
number of affairs -- hormones, we're told, are "her
recreational drug of choice" -- a recent mugging and a newly
empty nest have somehow turned her off romance.
   Instead, she's drawn to Roches Ridge -- a seemingly
idyllic Vermont hamlet where she buys a second home. Far from
being a paradise, though, Roches Ridge proves to be just what
its name suggests: a pesthole. Among other things, it has a
separatist-lesbian colony, a newfangled mortuary called
Deathworks, and a restaurateur who derives her beliefs from
Shirley MacLaine. That there's only a skin-deep difference
between the godless city and this corner of God's Country is
underlined by Clea's discovery that directly beneath the
local topsoil lies solid bedrock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Clea's fantasies die hard. That's her flaw as both
woman and artist: A specialist in escapist amours and glibly
pretty photographs, she's loath to confront the bleaker
aspects of reality. Not so her best friend, Elke, a Holocaust
survivor and sculptor (her name a near mirror image of
Clea's) who traffics almost exclusively in violent images. To
Elke, Clea's a hopeless idealist, an embodiment of "American
innocence." Yet the two share not only friendship but an
unconsummated mutual passion. Together, we're meant to see,
they might (a) make a splendid couple and (b) help each other
grow as artists.
   In the neat contrasts it draws between these women, and in
the orderly way it leads them to their fates, "Bedrock" may
be a tad overcalculated. It doesn't read that way, though.
Consistently, Ms. Alther's wit gives breath and bite to what
might otherwise seem contrived. This is not her first book in
which lesbian love threatens a marriage; but the fairness and
irony with which she observes everyone -- man and woman,
straight and gay -- keeps her from coming across simply as a
booster for extreme feminism or homosexuality.
   Ms. Alther makes plain her belief in the centrality of
feeling to artistic creation, and her disdain for faddish art
that is "designed to thwart, obscure, and mock both
engagement and passion, substituting novelty and whimsy,
alienation and absurdity." Granted, "Bedrock" is at times
less engaged and passionate than it is mocking and whimsical
(and even absurd), but that won't disappoint admirers of her
best selling "Kinflicks." Surely the serious story of Clea
and Elke's friendship often seems to occur a world away from
the novel's more bizarre subplots. And Clea may strike some
readers as preposterously blinkered, taking far too long to
realize she's been "photographing chateaux while most people
are huddling in shacks." Yet this is on the whole a wise,
highly diverting novel, one that ponders contemporary urban
sensibilities with both a compassionate heart and a sardonic
eye.
   ---
   Scott Spencer is -- well -- another matter. His 1979 best
seller "Endless Love" was routinely dopey, but his fourth
novel, "Secret Anniversaries" (Knopf, 257 pages, $19.95), is
truly a standout -- the plot exceptionally fatuous, the
execution astonishingly amateurish. It's 1940, and Caitlin
Van Fleet, a poor Hudson Valley girl, is caught by a rich
couple in bed with their son. Naturally, they ship her off to
Washington to work for the congressman who happens to be
their dinner guest that evening. Soon she's having a fling
with the congressman's female assistant, who eventually dies
in an airplane explosion set by a Nazi sympathizer.
   It's all as synthetic as can be. The gay stuff is
thoroughly unconvincing; and the political message -- for a
political message is what this book boils down to -- is
spelled out in the most callow terms. Mr. Spencer wants to
remind us that before Pearl Harbor the U.S. had a powerful
right-wing isolationist movement, led by the likes of Charles
Lindbergh and Father Coughlin. The novel's bad guys are of
this company, as we can tell from their tidy little
anti-Semitic speeches. Some of the good guys are communists,
whose allegiance to Stalin is surely as shameful as
Lindbergh's isolationism, though we don't hear about this in
other little speeches.
   Mr. Spencer attempts to complicate his simple story by
jumbling the chronology. Then he tries to dress up his
rudimentary prose with an occasional pseudo-poetic locution.
He is spectacularly bad at this. "It was winter, dead
winter," he writes, "the very core of the coldest time." When
Caitlin's parents sleep, she hears "the noises of their
repose."
   Even more conspicuous is Mr. Spencer's penchant for inept
imagery. Every page offers another ungainly metaphor or
baffling simile. Trudging through snow, Caitlin's shoes "made
a noise like a dog chewing a chunk of charcoal." Her passion
for the rich boy is "like signals from a radio tower in a
world without radios." Later in life, she tries "to find her
reflection in a mirror over which time had cast an
impenetrable shadow." One gets the impression that Mr.
Spencer wrote "Secret Anniversaries" in order to use up all
the figurative language he'd scribbled in his notebook over
the years. That's as good an explanation as any for this
book's existence.
   ---
   Mr. Bawer is a literary critic living in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   DD GP SPLS FNM EUROP J.MRE I.BNL AEGNY SCE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Du Pont Co. -- $1.85 billion redemption amount of
zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes due June 14, 2010,
priced at $218.55 for each $1,000 note for a yield to
maturity of 7.75%. The size of the issue was increased from
an originally planned $1.1 billion. The notes can be put back
to the company in the fifth, 10th and 15th years for cash,
common or subordinated repayment notes, at Du Pont's option.
The notes are convertible into common at $47.375 a share,
representing a 19.56% premium over yesterday's closing price.
Rated double-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be
sold through First Boston Corp.
   Georgia-Pacific Corp. -- $600 million of credit-sensitive
notes in a two-part offering priced through underwriters led
by Bear Stearns &amp; Co. The first part, $300 million of 10%
notes due June 15, 1997, was priced at par. The non-callable
notes were priced at a spread of 150 basis points above the
Treasury's seven-year note. The second part, $300 million of
10.10% notes due June 15, 2002, was priced at 99.937 to yield
10.109%. The non-callable notes were priced at 165 basis
points above the Treasury's 10-year note. The notes are
called credit-sensitive because the coupon on the securities
will be adjusted upward in case of a credit rating downgrade
and downward in the event of a rating upgrade. The issue is
rated Baa-3 by Moody's and double-B-plus by S&amp;P.
   Southern California Edison Co. -- $200 million of 9 1/4%
first and refunding mortgage bonds due June 15, 2021, via a
group led by Salomon Brothers Inc., to be reoffered at 95.919
to yield 9.67%. The bonds, which are non-callable for five
years, were priced at 123 basis points above the Treasury's
30-year bond. The issue is rated double-A-2 by Moody's and
double-A by S&amp;P.
   Staples Inc. -- $70 million of 7% convertible subordinated
debentures due June 1, 2015. The debentures are priced at par
and are convertible into common at $30 a share. Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. is lead manager.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   University of Texas Board of Regents -- $80 million of 5
1/4% permanent university fund 25-year variable-rate notes,
apparently won by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group. The notes,
which are rated double-A/VMIG-1 by Moody's and
single-A-1-plus by S&amp;P, are priced initially to yield 4.49%.
The notes have a mandatory put date of June 11, 1990.
                                                                                                       

                        MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300.1 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 13 classes by Shearson
Lehman Hutton. The offering, Series 1990-76, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities with a weighted average coupon
rate of 10.20% and weighted average remaining term to
maturity of 29.50 years. Price and yield data weren't
immediately available.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 11 classes by Goldman
Sachs &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-77, is backed by new
stripped mortgage securities formed from Fannie Mae 10 1/2%
securities. Goldman Sachs took all the principal-only strips
from the new strips trust, 79-CL, and most of the
interest-only strips from the trust and used them as
collateral. The use of a portion of the interest-only strips
effectively lowered the coupon rate on the collateral. The
remaining interest-only strips not pledged to the Remic were
sold separately. Price and yield details weren't provided.
There is a weighted average coupon rate of 11.11% and a
weighted average term to maturity of 28.5 years.
                                                                                                       

                        AGENCY
                                                                                                       

   Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corp. -- $325
million of 15-year fixed-rate, non-callable bonds to be dated
and delivered June 12. The interest rate on the bonds will be
announced today. The offering will be made through a limited
selling group of securities dealers and dealer banks. Members
of the Federal Farm Credit Banks Consolidated Systemwide
Bonds Selling Group also are eligible to participate through
the reallowance. The issue will be available in book-entry
form only, through the Federal Reserve System.
                                                                                                       

                     EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Mitsui Real Estate Development Co. (Japan) -- 30 billion
yen of floating-rate notes due June 20, 1995, priced at
100.10, via Nomura International PLC. Fees 0.40.
   Lavoro Bank Overseas N.V. (Italian parent) -- 10 billion
yen of 6 7/8% Eurobonds due Sept. 29, 1995, priced at 101 3/8
via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Guaranteed by Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro. Fees 1 7/8.
   Swedish Export Credit Corp. (Sweden) -- 50 million
European currency units of 11% Eurobonds due June 27, 1990,
priced at 101.625 via Sanwa International Ltd. Fees 1.
   Kemira International Finance (Finland) -- 150 million
Finnish markka of 13 1/2% Eurobonds due July 27, 1993, priced
at 101.375 via Postipankki. Guaranteed by Kemira Oy. Fees 1
3/8.
   Aegon N.V. (Netherlands) -- 100 million Swiss francs of 7%
privately placed notes due June 26, 1995, priced at 101 5/8
via Swiss Bank Corp. Fees 1.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FCC Decision
   On Bell Firms
   Voided by Court
   ---
   Agency Planned to Allow
   Regulated, Unregulated
   Units to Be Combined
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   BLS PAC NYN BEL SBC USW AIT MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals-court panel in San
Francisco overturned a Federal Communications Commission
decision to allow the Bell companies to combine their
regulated and unregulated subsidiaries.
   The three-judge panel said the agency's decision was
"unlawfully arbitrary and capricious," and sent the matter
back to the FCC for further consideration. The appeals court
criticized the agency for basing its decision on insufficient
information. The court's ruling could be a setback for the
Bell companies. Although there has been relatively little
integration so far, the Bells believe that combining
regulated and nonregulated operations would improve
efficiencies and help to cut costs. The FCC said it was
reviewing the ruling and had no immediate comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 1985 FCC decision, known as Computer III, grew out of
the agency's efforts to regulate the increasing
interdependence of telephones and computers, and actions to
encourage the development of a robust "enhanced-services"
industry. Enhanced services generally refer to computer-based
services that benefit customers, such as storing data within
the telephone network.
   After the Bell System breakup in 1984, the commission
required so-called structural separation of unregulated and
regulated businesses. In August 1985, however, the commission
decided to lift that requirement, replacing it with so-called
nonstructural safeguards to prevent cross subsidies and other
anti-competitive behavior.
   Yesterday, the court vacated two FCC orders: one that
allowed the Bell companies to merge their regulated telephone
operations with unregulated businesses, and a second that
pre-empted state regulation of telephone companies' provision
of enhanced services.
   Spokesmen for some Bell companies, including Pacific
Telesis Group and Bell South Corp., said company lawyers were
studying the decision and had no immediate comment. A
spokesman for MCI Communications Corp., which had petitioned
for the appeals-court review, said the company "is delighted
with the decision. The regulated and nonregulated Bell
company subsidiaries should be separate."
   In a summary of its decision, the court noted that the FCC
abruptly reversed itself just 14 months after arguing that
the Bell System breakup didn't reduce the need for separate
subsidiaries. At that time, the FCC presented a new argument:
Changes in the telecommunications marketplace cut the risks
of Bell companies using revenues from their monopoly phone
businesses to help their competitive and growing
enhanced-services businesses.
   The court said the record compiled by the commission in
the Computer III proceeding "yields no support for the
commission's position that market and technological changes
have reduced the danger of cross subsidization" by the Bell
companies. Thus, it said, it was arbitrary and capricious to
drop the requirement for separate units and rely instead on
cost-accounting regulations to protect consumers and
competitors.
   Nevertheless, the summary said the commission "made a
plausible case" that consumers would benefit from lifting the
requirements because the Bell companies could operate more
efficiently and that the growth of technologies that bypass
the local phone networks would reduce the threat that Bell
companies would discriminate against competitors in providing
access to their networks.
   As for pre-empting the states on regulation of
enhanced-service providers, the court said the agency "failed
to carry its burden of showing that its pre-emption orders
are necessary to avoid frustrating its regulatory goals." It
is unlikely, however, that the agency will determine that
regulation should revert to the states, creating a crazy
quilt of rules for enhanced-service providers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Sweetens Mileage
   In California Air Rivalry
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL AMR U
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- UAL Corp.'s United Airlines unit is raising the
industry ante in the lucrative California market.
   United said it is awarding members of its frequent-flier
program triple mileage for flights between San Francisco and
Los Angeles. It said the offer is retroactive to April 7 and
will remain in effect until year end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It also said United frequent fliers who make 10 one-way
trips in the California corridor between April 7 and Dec. 31
will earn double mileage for non-corridor flights that
include one of several California airports.
   The action comes in the wake of stiff competition in the
California market. United is in the midst of a heated battle
with several of the country's biggest carriers for dominance
in the West Coast corridor, the busiest market of any pair of
metropolitan areas in the country, which also includes
Oakland and San Jose to the north and Burbank, Ontario, Long
Beach and Orange County to the south. In the past several
months, carriers have been beefing up flight schedules,
introducing low promotional fares and hyping service changes
in bids to gain a competitive edge.
   United called the latest move its "strongest commitment in
its history to California and the West Coast."
   A spokeswoman for American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp.,
said the carrier hasn't decided whether it will match
United's action. "We don't think it's a smart move for
American Airlines at this time," she said. USAir Group Inc.
said it is studying the move. Officials at Delta Air Lines
weren't available to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW FREST EUROP LOTS MMM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DIVIDEND INCREASES slow in response to lower corporate
profits.
   There have been 653 dividend increases this year, 175
fewer than last year at this time, says Arnold Kaufman of
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. Given the current pace, he estimates
1990 will see no more than 1,480 increases -- the lowest
since "the early 1970s' dividend freeze under the Nixon
administration." Other gloomy statistics: Some 109 companies
have omitted dividends, double the year-earlier number, while
46 companies have decreased their dividend, compared with 38
last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Dividends lag profits and profits have been deteriorating
for the last year or so," says Marshall Acuff of Smith
Barney. The picture, he says, may begin brightening as
profits start to improve in the second half. But Carmine
Grigoli of First Boston is less optimistic. He says any
improvement in earnings will reflect last-year's big
writeoffs, not real profit growth this year.
   Still, dividend dollars for the S&amp;P 500 will increase 9%
this year, as 1989's record number of dividend hikes are felt
for the first full year, Mr. Kaufman says.
                                                                                                       

   HOSPITAL CHARGES rank last as a good buy with consumers.
   A Conference Board survey of 7,000 families finds some 61%
of consumers believe they're getting "poor" value for their
money with hospital charges. Other areas of high consumer
dissatisfaction: lawyers' fees, premium pay TV, auto
insurance and college tuition. Used cars received almost
universally poor ratings, but new U.S. cars ranked nearly on
a par with foreign cars. "Sudden price rises make buyers feel
they are getting less value for their dollars," says Fabian
Linden, executive director for the board's consumer research
center.
   What do consumers see as a good buy? Poultry tops the
list, with more than two of every five rating it a "good"
value. Close behind are videotape rentals, TV sets, fruits
and vegetables and appliances. Also seen as good values are
meat, pet food, haircuts, fish, electricity, restaurant meals
and telephone service. "People tend to have a sound intuitive
sense of what things should cost," Mr. Linden says, noting
the average consumer has been shopping for 25 years.
                                                                                                       

   PRODUCT REFORMULATION gains ground as environmental
concerns grow.
   Corporate America is focusing more attention on trying to
get solvents, chlorofluorocarbons, heavy metals and other
unecological chemicals out of their products. The paint
industry, for one, is advocating "absolute, total
reformulation" as part of a call for national standards, says
Thomas Graves of the National Paint and Coatings Association,
Washington. The idea: "To bite the bullet once rather than
biting the bullet many times over" as states pass new
regulations on hydrocarbons.
   Efforts to replace solvents at 3M, begun in 1975, have
brought reformulation of such things as adhesive in
electrical tape. "We've got research projects going for every
major solvent use in the company," says Rick Renner,
spokesman. Growing concern over the use of heavy metals in
plastics' pigments prompts the Society of the Plastics
Industry to ponder developing protocols for evaluating
materials environmentally.
   By mid-July, Dow Chemical Co. will have phased out CFCs as
blowing agents used in making Styrofoam insulation.
                                                                                                       

   BIG MAC PRICES are one way to determine a currency's
worth, says Heiko Thieme of Deutsche Bank in New York. By
extrapolating implied purchasing power based on Big Mac
prices, he concludes that Hong Kong, Singapore and
Yugoslavian currencies are greatly undervalued.
                                                                                                       

   A FAMILIAR FACE: Since coming to power in 1985, Mikhail
Gorbachev has been mentioned twice as often on network news
as Pope John Paul II, says Joe Foote, a Southern Illinois
University professor. In 1989 alone he was mentioned 645
times, almost half as many as President Bush.
                                                                                                       

   MASHED SQUASH or pumpkin won't be accepted in the
home-canned food competition at the Missouri State Fair. Nor
will jams and jellies sealed with paraffin. Why? Neither
method complies with new U.S. Department of Agriculture
safety guidelines on home canning issued last year.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE COMPANY WOES reflect growing costs and limited
dollars.
   Layoffs, cancelled seasons and red ink are taking center
stage in the dance world. Dance Theatre of Harlem cancelled
its New York season this winter after unexpectedly losing key
bookings. The Joffrey Ballet -- short some $2 million --
nearly cut the last three stops of its season when artistic
director Gerald Arpino briefly resigned after doing battle
with his board. And the venerable American Ballet Theater is
tightening its belt, reducing the size of the company to try
to make ends meet.
   "The dance business today is reaping problems that have
their genesis in the dance boom of the '70s," says Richard
Philp of Dance Magazine. Having expanded, companies are now
finding costs rising at a time when new dollars are harder to
find. Audience growth "can't keep pace with the number of
companies," says Jane Hermann, ABT director, of the shakeout
in progress.
   The impact: fewer performances, fewer new productions and
smaller companies, company officials say.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Lotus Development Corp. sells a book of poetry
written by employees to benefit organizations that care for
AIDS patients. . . . Counseling by Mail, launched by two
Manhattan psychotherapists, is designed to provide mail-order
therapy for shy, busy or housebound people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Land's End Says
   Gaitskill Left Job
   In Merchandising
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   DODGEVILLE, Wis. -- Lands' End Inc.'s top merchandising
executive resigned at a time when analysts believe the
catalog company isn't doing enough to freshen its selection.
   Russell C. Gaitskill, a department-store veteran who
joined Lands' End less than two years ago as its executive
vice president of merchandising, said he left to pursue
"other things" including the possibility of starting his own
manufacturing business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lands' End named David Dyer as his successor. Mr. Dyer, 40
years old, joined Lands' End in July as managing director in
charge of launching a separate catalog of bed and bath items
and other home accessories. He had been a merchandising
executive at the Burdines unit of Federated Department Stores
Inc.
   A spokesman said Mr. Dyer's appointment doesn't signal any
change in direction at Lands' End. "We're going to continue
to focus on freshening our product line," he said.
   The 41-year-old Mr. Gaitskill nevertheless hinted in an
interview that he may have had differences with senior Lands'
End executives over product introductions. He said he
"absolutely" wanted to bring in new merchandise, but wouldn't
comment on the reaction of his superiors.
   "I don't think it's a matter of being unhappy," he said of
his decision to leave Lands' End. "It's a matter of being
mismatched."
   Mr. Gaitskill drew a distinction between his background in
merchandising at Federated's Lazarus unit and Lands' End,
which he described as "more of a marketing" company. "One is
the medium and one is the product," he said.
   Analysts attribute Lands' End's current troubles to its
failure to introduce enough fresh merchandise to capture the
imagination of its customers. Just 11.5% of the company's
catalog items this past year and 8% the year before were new.
Lands' End plans to increase that percentage this year to 15%
to 18%. A separate children's clothing catalog is planned for
August and the bed and bath catalog is due next year.
   But the company, which sells mostly traditional casual
clothes like khaki pants and rugby shirts, has already hit
some serious snags. After sailing smoothly through the 1980s,
ringing up annual sales and profit gains of more than 40%,
net income for the year ended Jan. 31 fell 10% to $29.1
million, or $1.45 a share, on sales of $545.2 million.
Earnings for the first quarter ended May 4 plunged 64%. And
analysts say earnings for the current fiscal year could
decline more than 10%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   For Small Businesses, Pace of Profit Growth Has Slowed
   ---
   Tougher Times for Entrepreneurs
   May Spur Layoffs, Other Cutbacks
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   A government report shows what many small-business owners
know only too well: It's getting tougher to make a killing.
   The growth rate of small-business profits has shrunk.
According to a U.S. Small Business Administration report,
earnings of non-farm sole proprietorships and partnerships
last year increased only 6.2% from the previous year. That's
a decline from 6.7% in 1988 and 9.2% in 1987 -- and a sharp
fall from 20.8% in 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The figures are important: Non-farm sole proprietorships
and partnerships account for about 80% of the nation's small
enterprises, notes Bruce D. Phillips, the SBA's director of
database development.
   The profit-growth slowdown may prompt another round of
belt-tightening, economists say. They think owners will
consider moving into cheaper spaces or trimming their supply
orders. Even more likely, they'll lay off employees, says
David L. Birch, president of Cognetics Inc., a Cambridge,
Mass., consulting firm. Labor accounts for nearly half of the
typical small business budget, he says.
   Indeed, the problem has entrepreneurs fretting. Many
small-business owners claim they've already trimmed their
companies as much as they dare. Perry Case, owner of farm
implement stores in McCook, Neb., and Oberlin, Kan., says his
profit margins have dwindled since 1987. He has slashed
employee benefits in recent years and held down pay. He says
he doesn't know where to pare further. Although the
agricultural depression of the 1980s reduced by half the
number of rival dealers in his territory, competition remains
intense. "We're selling more {this year} but making less," he
says.
   A few unusual factors have contributed to the sag in
profit growth. The slumping real-estate market has left
real-estate partnerships awash with red ink. And the Tax
Reform Act of 1986, which made partnerships a less attractive
form of ownership, has prompted owners to switch their
enterprises to the corporate form.
   Of course, small businesses could be faring far worse.
While small businesses' profit growth rate slipped last year,
corporations' actual profits declined 5%. William C.
Dunkelberg, chief economist of the National Federation of
Independent Business, also notes that his surveys of more
than 2,000 small companies show their earnings have grown
steadily since 1983.
   "Though {profit growth rates} might be weakening a wee
tad, small business almost never had it so good," he
maintains. The NFIB is the largest small-business trade
group.
   Still, the indicator's regional trends show that no area
of the country had as much growth last year as two years
earlier. Small businesses in the nation's midsection --
stretching from Texas and Louisiana to Montana and the
Dakotas -- have yet to shake off the effects of the oil and
farming recessions. Growth in proprietors' and partners'
income in that area continues to trail the national rate.
   Hardest hit has been Wyoming, where earnings actually have
dropped for three years in a row. "In a lot of the towns,
proprietors hang on in hopes they'll continue to survive,"
says John Birch, professor of economics at the University of
Wyoming at Laramie. "It's their home state, and a lot of them
don't want to move."
   In Rawlins, Wyo., a town whose fortunes collapsed with the
energy industry, Michael Hickman, a construction contractor,
says he made money in 1988, broke even last year and doesn't
expect a profit this year. Moreover, he's working harder than
ever for the business he gets. He used to rely on local
contracts, but he now travels as much as 300 miles to find
work. This spring brought a new round of disappointments: Few
projects were bid so his summer workload is light.
   Elsewhere, though, things look brighter. For instance, in
the western states of California, Arizona, Hawaii and Nevada,
proprietorship and partnership income grew 6.8%, faster than
the national rate. In New York and New Jersey, the measure
jumped 8.5%, the highest rate in any of the country's 10
regions.
   Economists explain that the diverse business communities
in New Jersey and New York have enabled them to outpace the
nation for several years running. In New York, not only have
services mushroomed, but other small-business-dominated
industries, such as manufacturing and wholesale trade, remain
strong.
   Meanwhile, contractions in the financial and publishing
industries have prompted some laid-off individuals to start
businesses. Tom Cassidy, who lost his sales job at John Wiley
&amp; Sons Inc., a New York publisher, launched his own company
two years ago to sell books in Asia. He said he expects he'll
make $100,000 this year -- 35% more than he did at Wiley.
   ---
   Despite profit growth, another report suggests there may
be trouble ahead for small businesses in two areas of
entrepreneurial prosperity: the Northeast and the West. The
American Express Co. report on the health of small business
indicates that both areas suffered large declines in new
incorporations during the second half of last year. The
report is based on a semiannual survey of five million small
businesses by Cognetics.
   In the survey's nine-state Northeast region, the number of
business starts plummeted 10.5% during the second half from a
year earlier. The 13 Western states saw starts fall 12% -- a
sharp reversal from a 3.8% increase the prior year.
   Nationally, starts fell 4.2%, compared with a slip of 0.1%
the year before. Barbara Barsa, vice president of American
Express's Small Business Services, says the drop means small
business will have "less of an impact" on the economy in
coming months because start-ups account for a large share of
employment growth.
   In the Midwest, new incorporations in last year's second
half declined only 1.4%. And there's one bright spot for
start-ups: the South. That 17-state area posted a 2.6% uptick
in new incorporations. That's a sign of a possible turnaround
in a region where increases in small-business employment have
been trailing national rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allied Capital Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JKHY ALII
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONETT, Mo. -- Jack Henry &amp; Associates said it agreed to
be acquired by Allied Capital Corp. II for $4 a share, or
about $14 million.
   Jack Henry is a data-processing software company. Allied
Capital is an investment concern in Washington, D.C.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemp Warns That Biggest FHA Fund
   Risks Insolvency Unless Premiums Rise
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The largest Federal Housing Administration
fund will be broke by the end of the decade, predicted
Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, who urged higher FHA fees on
mortgages with low down payments.
   Mr. Kemp told the Senate subcommittee on housing and urban
affairs of a five-part strategy the Bush administration is
proposing to Congress "to ensure that the FHA continues to
meet its historic mission to provide affordable
home-ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income
American families."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FHA's mutual mortgage insurance fund, which insures
low down-payment mortgages on single-family homes, currently
is solvent, Secretary Kemp said, but posting losses of $350
million yearly. The losses result mainly from defaults on
insured mortgages. The fund's net worth shrank to $2.6
billion at the end of fiscal 1989 from $8 billion in 1979.
   "Eventually, therefore, FHA will have a negative net worth
unless something is done," he added in a prepared statement.
"This is the clearest possible evidence of the urgent need to
reform FHA and manage it properly." The FHA is an agency of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   The "reform" strategy would impose an additional 0.5%
annual premium onto loans with lower down payments, which are
considered higher risks. The term of the added premium would
vary with the size of the down payment. The current premium
is 3.8% of the loan amount.
   Closing costs would no longer be financed in the mortgage,
under Mr. Kemp's plan. "Home buyers would have to pay
two-thirds of the closing costs, in cash, when they buy the
house," he said. "With this change, every home buyer would
have at least 2% real equity in their home, which will reduce
defaults."
   The additional premium and the closing-cost proposal would
make it more difficult for low-income families to buy homes,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. "In
addition to increasing premium fees on those least able to
afford higher fees, the proposals double the amount of cash
the FHA home buyer will need up front to buy a home, thereby
raising the cost of housing and negating the very benefit
that the program has provided to homeowners for the last 50
years," complained Warren Lasko, the association's executive
vice president.
   Suzanne Hutchinson, executive vice president of the
Mortgage Insurance Companies of America, said her group
supports greater flexibility in the FHA premiums so they
"more accurately reflect the risk." She suggested, however,
that low-income, first-time home buyers be given special
consideration.
   Mr. Kemp told the senators he will announce within the
month a plan to streamline procedures to reduce the FHA's
inventory of properties under foreclosure. The 80,000 houses
in the inventory cost the government $500 million a year to
maintain. "Foreclosed and boarded-up homes do not improve
with age . . . ," Mr. Kemp said. "FHA can achieve substantial
savings if it can cut its losses on foreclosures."
   In testimony to the subcommittee, a General Accounting
Office housing expert said that allowing FHA to raise its
loan limit "would have the greatest effect" on increasing the
fund's cash balance. But John Ols, the GAO's director of
housing and community development issues, added that the loan
ceiling, which is currently $124,875, shouldn't be raised
until the fund is sound, which it now isn't.
   Mr. Kemp cited a Price Waterhouse accounting firm study of
the FHA that said raising the loan limit wouldn't
significantly affect the status of the fund. "The resources
of FHA should not be committed to allowing relatively
high-income borrowers to buy homes with very low down
payments," he said.
   He added that the FHA should stop insuring second homes.
"FHA's job is to help low- and moderate-income families
become first-time home buyers," the secretary said, "not
first-time second home buyers."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS --
   A Couple of Fish Stories:
   World's Costliest Rods...Trout Inside Beltway
   ----
   By Tom Mann
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Washington, D.C. -- At the age of 12, I was initiated into
the fraternity of fly fishermen by a pantheistic rabbi who
refused to spray for mosquitoes at the summer camp he owned
because he thought it would upset the balance of nature. He
showed me how to pluck pink-fleshed native brook trout from
the primeval waters of northern Wisconsin spring creeks, and
taught me how to tie flies. Since then, I've been building a
collection of fly-tying materials including hare's ear masks,
junglecock feathers, and tools such as bodkins and
whip-finishers. My waders hang ever-ready in the basement
beside my rod cases, and my fishing vest is loaded with
hundreds of flies. I'm a member of Trout Unlimited, the
Federation of Fly Fishers and the Anglers of the Au Sable. I
dream of trips to prime fishing spots like New Zealand and
Patagonia, but I spend most of my time in Washington, D.C.,
working as a government lawyer. When the so-called "real
world" starts to feel oppressive, I escape for a quick fix of
fly fishing inside the Capital Beltway.
   The full moon glints yellow off the water, as I scan the
surface for the dimples made by rising fish. A flick of my
graphite fly rod, and my "torpedo taper" line snakes out,
dropping a deadly two-inch-long concoction of silver tinsel,
turkey wing feathers and clipped deer hair called a Muddler
Minnow on the ghostly white reflection of the Washington
Monument. A twitch of the fly, a savage strike, and I'm fast
to a chunky large-mouth bass, my 10th of the evening. As I
gently release the fish, people strolling by from the Vietnam
Memorial stop and stare. Once, the spot where I'm fishing was
occupied by "temporary" Quonset huts erected on the Mall
during World War II. Young Richard Nixon worked there in the
wartime Office of Price Administration. As president, he
ordered them torn down, making way for the National Park
Service to create the Constitution Gardens pond. Today, it's
an urban ecological success story, with a self-reproducing
population of bass and bluegills, aquatic plants and insects,
ducks and geese. The pond also contains Japanese koi, a kind
of giant goldfish, but these finicky members of the carp
family can't be induced to strike at my flies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A mile or so from Constitution Gardens, the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal empties into the Potomac. A pre-railroad
transportation venture by a group of colonial capitalists
that included George Washington, the C&amp;O Canal was a favorite
retreat of the late Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas,
who hiked along its towpath and led the campaign to have it
added to the National Park system. As the canal passes
through the upper part of Georgetown, mulberry trees overhang
its banks, creating another boon for fly fishers in the
federal city. Huge carp loll along the banks in early June,
gorging themselves on the sweet mulberries that fall into the
water. In the 1970s, an artful angler named Barry Serviente
ran a fly shop in Georgetown. After watching the feeding
fish, he had some imitation mulberry flies tied up with deer
hair dyed pink and purple, and bingo, he was catching carp on
a fly] It isn't like catching cutthroats in a pristine
Montana trout stream, but it is serious sport, with some
monster carp topping 20 pounds.
   Across the Potomac in Arlington, Va., the boulder-strewn
upper portion of a stream called Four Mile Run flows through
a wooded glade of parkland before it widens into a
cement-lined flood control channel and empties into a marshy
cove just to the south of National Airport. Four Mile Run is
another urban ecological success story. Like other Potomac
tributaries, Four Mile harbored native brook trout before the
area around the Nation's Capital became densely settled. More
than three centuries of successive farming and urbanization
eventually destroyed the prehistoric fish population, and
only a few years ago the creek bed was littered with broken
bottles and other garbage. But in 1988, the Northern Virginia
chapter of Trout Unlimited joined forces with the Arlington
County Recreation Department, and launched an ambitious
project to restore trout to Four Mile Run. After the waters
were tested and found suitable, groups of volunteers spent
two days picking the litter out of the creek bed, and 4,000
trout from a hatchery were stocked. The program is now in its
third year, and has proved that it is possible to have clean
water in an urban environment. Restored though it may be,
Four Mile Run is more often fished by children using the
forbidden "garden hackle" (i.e. earthworm) than fly-rod
purists like me. I have even read reports of people fishing
there in suits] But it still offers a handy bucolic escape.
   The most secluded fish venue inside the Beltway is one
I've never actually had the nerve to try: Rock Creek, just
downstream from the National Zoo. Here, the creek is
surrounded by dense woods on both sides, and the only access
is a bicycle path. Most cyclists are too intent on their own
athletic pursuits to notice the large-mouth bass and
bluegills swimming boldly about in these sheltered waters.
Profuse growths of poison ivy line the banks here, no doubt
sheltering copperheads and other pests. The Park Police have
a stable located right around the corner, and I always
thought they didn't want you fishing there. But a new
stream-side sign appeared this year, announcing that fishing
in Rock Creek is permitted with a valid D.C. license. If I
can somehow get through all the snakes and poison ivy and
slip into the stream, I know I'll catch a lot of fish.
   ---
   Mr. Mann is a lawyer for the Department of Energy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AXP
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Richard M. Scroggins
was promoted to senior vice president, from vice president,
for corporate real estate and general services. The post
involves planning and developing facilities for the travel
and financial-services company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P Forms Apparel Group
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   NC CHRS GPS LTD TJX CC HD LOW MES PCLB TAN TOY
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it formed a new
industry group from the Retail Specialty group to consist
only of apparel retailers. The concern also transferred Nacco
Industries from the coal group to the manufacturing group.
   The new group in the company's 500-stock index, Retail
Specialty (Apparel), has four companies: Charming Shoppes,
Gap Inc., Limited Inc. and TJX Cos. The remaining companies
in Retail Specialty are Circuit City, Home Depot, Lowe's
Cos., Melville Corp., Price Co., Tandy Corp. and Toys "R" Us.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Standard &amp; Poor's said the shift of Nacco reflects its
change from primarily coal production to manufacturing. The
company also makes forklift trucks and household appliances.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Upjohn Set to Sell Africa Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KALAMAZOO, Mich. -- Upjohn Co. said it signed a letter of
intent to sell its Asgrow S.A. seed operations in South
Africa to the unit's management. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Completion of the deal is subject to U.S. and South
African regulatory approval. Upjohn will continue to operate
its Upjohn Ltd. human-pharmaceutical and animal-health
business in South Africa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitel Unit Sets Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MLT CDIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANATA, Ontario -- Mitel Inc., a U.S. unit of Mitel Corp.,
agreed to pay as much as $10 million to acquire Coradian
Corp., a U.S. distributor of telecommunications equipment.
   Mitel, a maker of telecommunications equipment, said the
price could be reduced to a minimum of $7.5 million,
depending on Coradian's financial results. Coradian, based in
Latham, N.Y., had 1989 sales of more than $27 million. It
reported a loss of $247,000 for the 1990 first quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Best Buy Co.'s Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   BBY
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Best Buy Co., a retailer, said its May
sales rose 25% to $40 million from $32 million a year
earlier. Sales in the company's first quarter ended last
Saturday rose 21% to $127 million from $105 million a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS --
   A Couple of Fish Stories:
   World's Costliest Rods...Trout Inside Beltway
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Until we found a Thomas &amp; Thomas catalog in our mailbox
the other day, we hurt a little inside every time we got free
catalogs from mail-order outfits.
   For years it's been painfully obvious that these catalog
companies had our mail-order persona all wrong. They seemed
to think of us as nothing more than a plaid-shirted crappie
fisherman who made his own compost, liked loon T-shirts and
penguin shower curtains.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But when our Thomas &amp; Thomas catalog turned up, we felt
redeemed enough to suppress the suspicion that somebody
muffed their mailing list. This couldn't be a mistake. Thomas
&amp; Thomas is a small, 21-year-old company in Turners Falls,
Mass., that sells fishing tackle. Sort of. Actually it sells
fishing stuff to the SERIOUS FISHING EQUIPMENT INVESTOR. It
isn't for the carp and sucker fishing crowd, the bullhead and
bluegill gravel-pit boys, or even for the pros out on the
Masters Walleye Circuit ($300,000 in prize money and a berth
in the Sept. 13-15 World Walleye Championship in Dubuque).
Even if you're a monster Muskie man, T&amp;T isn't for you.
   No night crawlers, bobbers or Uncle Josh pork rinds in
this catalog. It is 71 pages long and there isn't a single
tackle box in it. No Pikie Minnows, Berkley Power Grubs,
Jitterbugs or Dardevles either. We couldn't even find the
Sputterfrog Buzzbait and the Pee Wee Wart, two of the 10
hottest new lures in fishing, according to Gerald Almy,
Sports Afield magazine's lures &amp; flies columnist.
   Not that we want a Pee Wee Wart. Back in our semi-pro
fishing days, there weren't any Pee Wee Warts. We lived
within BB-gun range of the Shiawassee River up in Michigan,
and when we came to the realization one day that shooting out
street lights was both dicey and driving up the cost of BIG
GOVERNMENT, we turned our attention to small-mouth bass and
trash fish.
   Naturally, we tried to limit our time doing this to normal
school hours. Actually, we probably spent more time wading
around the mighty Shiawassee looking for artificial baits
that beer-drinking grownup fishermen lost on snags, a pursuit
that got much more lucrative after we learned to pre-position
and stake down old rope under the water exactly where we
figured the grownups would cast their lures. Soon our tackle
boxes bulged with spoons and flatfish, Lazy Ikes and River
Runts.
   Those, of course, were the days when fish had a chance.
Today's so-called fisherman has depth-sounding sonars such as
the Eagle Ultra, with its "Advanced Fish I.D. System" and a
128-pixel picture with split-screen zoom that not only spots
fish but gives their size, species, range and any special
dietary requirements.
   We had to turn over rocks in the Shiawassee to get our
hellgrammites, the carnivorous, dark-brown aquatic larvae of
the dobsonfly, so tempting to small-mouths. Now, through
Cabela's, in Sidney, Neb., you can get 2,500 Class Maggies --
real live blue fly larvae, imported from England and dyed
special colors in a "secret process" -- for $29.95.
   Insider information may be a no-no on Wall Street, but in
walleye country they publish an entire Walleye In-Sider
newspaper that one fishing magazine says "is like riding in
the boat with the pros]" And if that doesn't make the fish
just give up and jump into your boat, there's every sort of
plastic worm and spinner and jig, and even the "Fish Laser
Flasher," a silver spoon that has a holographic picture of a
school of actual baitfish on its side.
   Thomas &amp; Thomas doesn't sell this stuff. T&amp;T sells bamboo
fly rods that cost as much as my folks paid for our farm.
Sure, that was a few decades back and it was a modest farm --
60 acres, house, chicken coop, outdoor plumbing -- but $2,000
seems a bit steep for a fishing pole you'd actually want to
fish with.
   "That's just it," explained Len Codella, one of T&amp;T's
managing directors. "Many of our limited-edition rods are
never used to fish because they border on works of art. If
you spend $3,000 for a rod, you're probably a collector. But
our $1,600 rod, it's bought to fish."
   T&amp;T turned out its first limited edition on its 10th
anniversary, in 1979. Ten rods were made, and sold out in
three days for $850 apiece. Current market value: $5,200. Six
other limited-edition rods and one reel have been offered to
the public. A complete set of seven rods and one reel was
sold at auction recently for $33,000.
   "There are probably 60 million license-buying fishermen
out there and probably no more than 150,000 SERIOUS fly
fishermen -- and that's our market, guys for whom fly fishing
is a lifestyle," Mr. Codella explained.
   They buy more than $1 million of T&amp;T gear annually. Said
Mr. Codella: "We sell everything we can build. We are capable
of building 150 to 175 rods a year. At one point, there was a
one-year wait for a rod. Now it's down to three or four
months."
   The Tonkin Cane they use is a very special bamboo from
Guangxi Province in China that takes a T&amp;T craftsman a good
45 hours to turn into a fly rod. The bamboo is split into six
strips, milled to a tolerance of less than a thousandth of an
inch, laminated under pressure into a single hexagon onto
which nickel-silver assembly ferrules, a Portuguese ring cork
grip and a handcarved wood and nickel-silver reel seat are
mounted and guides are hand-wrapped with thread; varnish is
applied and rubbed -- two to four coats.
   "Bamboo is fascinating material; it gets people fired up,"
Mr. Codella told us. "There's some magic in bamboo, and great
bamboo rods are kind of like a Strad."
   Ronald Reagan got fired up enough to give a matched set of
T&amp;T salmon rods to Prince Charles and Lady Diana, and another
rod to Malcolm Fraser when he was Australia's prime minister.
Eric Clapton, the rock 'n' roller, owns some. So does William
"Jake and the Fatman" Conrad.
   We thought Orvis, which sends out about 25 million
catalogs and sells $80 million in stuff annually (more
clothes than fishing gear), bordered on the hoity-toity until
we met T&amp;T. "When guys get tired and bored with Orvis, they
find T&amp;T," Mr. Codella says.
   Even the cover of the Thomas &amp; Thomas catalog (100,000
copies go out annually) is for the SERIOUS FISHING EQUIPMENT
INVESTOR. It depicts a painting of a brown trout by Dutch
artist Adrian Swier, a limited 500-copy signed edition of
which can be had for $65.
   We think we'll pass. Our eye is on the new Chartreuse
Flake Mister Twister Poc'It Hawger, which the Cabela's folks
say is just the thing for "negative mood bass." Only $1.99.
   ---
   Mr. Sterba is a senior writer for the Journal in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Lynch Launches a Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., a New York-based securities
firm, said it launched Austro-Hungary Fund Ltd., a $50
million closed-end fund to invest in listed stocks in the
Austrian and Hungarian markets. A closed-end fund issues a
fixed number of shares that are traded like stocks.
   The dollar-denominated fund is expected to be the first
foreign company listed on the Hungarian Stock Exchange when
that market reopens on June 21, said Charles Lillis, a
director of Merrill Lynch's international unit here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fund's portfolio will be equally divided between
Austrian and Hungarian issues, with the Austrian investments
emphasizing companies with business links to Hungary, said
Peter Kysel, a managing director of Lloyds Investment
Management International, the new fund's adviser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northwest Air's Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL, Minn. -- Northwest Airlines, a unit of NWA Inc.,
said its May traffic rose 11% to 4.17 billion revenue
passenger miles from 3.76 billion miles a year earlier. A
revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
   The airline said its May load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, dropped to 64.3% from 66.1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first five months of this year, Northwest's
traffic rose 19% to 19.82 billion revenue passenger miles
from 16.73 billion miles a year earlier. The load factor rose
to 63.8% from 62.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Split Revives Lehman Name
   ----
   By William Power and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. split
itself into two major divisions -- one taking the resurrected
name of Lehman Brothers -- in the brokerage firm's latest
effort to revive its sagging fortunes.
   Under the long-awaited change, to be completed in August,
Shearson will halve its businesses with each part accountable
only to itself and ultimately to parent American Express Co.
One is a Lehman Brothers division responsible for investment
banking and trading; the other is a Shearson Lehman Brothers
division, with nearly 10,000 stockbrokers, responsible for
individual-investor brokerage activities and money
management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shearson hopes the revival of the 140-year-old Lehman
Brothers name, dormant since Shearson's 1984 takeover of
Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc., will rally the troops after
months of management and financial turmoil at Shearson. It
remains to be seen whether the name change will have any real
benefit.
   The changes mean that Shearson traders, investment bankers
and research analysts will announce themselves as "Lehman
Brothers" employees; stockbrokers who deal with the public
will be called "Shearson Lehman Brothers" brokers.
   In effect, the regrouping recognizes that two major
takeovers undertaken by Shearson in its rapid expansion in
the 1980s, first of Lehman Brothers and then of E.F. Hutton &amp;
Co., never really worked.
   Some say Shearson should never have tried to force the
integration of Lehman, in particular, into the rest of
Shearson, the nation's second-biggest securities firm. It was
"a major mistake" when Shearson deemphasized the
tradition-rich Lehman Brothers name, said Peter J. Solomon,
who was a Lehman partner for 29 years and now runs Peter J.
Solomon Co., an investment banking firm. "There's always been
value to the Lehman name."
   It's more than symbolic that under the regrouping the
Shearson name is de-emphasized and the Hutton name, acquired
in Shearson's ill-fated purchase of Hutton after the 1987
stock market crash, is purged completely. Earlier plans
called for "Hutton" to remain at least in the name of the
holding company.
   Shearson's top officials acknowledge that at this point,
Lehman Brothers is the best they have in their family of
names, and the names Shearson and Hutton clearly aren't in
that category.
   "Clearly, Lehman Brothers is one of the premier names,"
said Howard L. Clark Jr., Shearson chairman, who will now be
chairman of both new divisions as well. "I don't think it has
lost its luster. And bankers and traders are looking forward
to the resurrection of the name."
   Analysts say dividing the firm into two separate
businesses makes sense, noting that other securities firms
that are more narrowly focused, such as investment bank
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and the A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons
brokerage firm, have done well lately.
   "A nickel and a nickel is still a dime in terms of what
they ultimately earn, but to the extent it helps the capital
markets side of the business, it's a plus," said Lawrence
Eckenfelder, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   But the split is only a first step, analysts said. "It's a
good game plan," said James Hanbury, an analyst at Wertheim
Schroder &amp; Co., "Now they have to go ahead and run it."
   The regrouping triggered several new executive
appointments and is likely to cause weeks of additional
middle-level employee shuffling at Shearson, officials
familiar with the plans said.
   Shearson will rename itself Shearson Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.; its broker-dealer unit will be renamed
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
   As expected, the Lehman Brothers division will be headed
by Richard S. Fuld Jr. and Sherman R. Lewis Jr., who will be
co-chief executive officers. Mr. Fuld will also be president,
and Mr. Lewis will be vice chairman and head of the executive
committee.
   As previously reported, heading the Shearson Lehman
Brothers division as president and chief executive will be
Jonathan S. Linen, an American Express official who just
joined Shearson.
   For now, Shearson's big Boston Co. money-management
company will remain a separate subsidiary, but there are
plans to fold it into the Shearson Lehman Brothers division
later in the year.
   The Shearson regrouping is part of American Express's
effort to revitalize Shearson after a series of financial
setbacks and management turmoil, including the forced
resignation of Shearson Chairman Peter A. Cohen early this
year. American Express, which long had wanted to reduce its
Shearson stake, instead has had to pump more than $1 billion
into the firm in a plan in which it will acquire the shares
of Shearson's common it doesn't already own.
   To pay for retrenchment efforts, Shearson took $787
million in charges in the first quarter, giving it an
industry-record $915 million loss.
   Mr. Clark said the regrouping has "both strategic and
symbolic significance. By placing similar businesses under
common management," Mr. Clark said, Shearson will foster
"`entrepreneurialism and teamwork."
   At the very least, the split will make each division
easier to spin off or sell in the future, analysts said. Mr.
Eckenfelder said such takeover speculation has already been
"a plus" for American Express stock, "although it shouldn't
attach a couple points to it."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
American Express stock closed at $31.25 a share, down 12.5
cents and off its 52-week high of $39.375.
   Some Lehman veterans now at other Wall Street firms are
angry at Shearson for reviving the Lehman name they still
cherish, especially while few top former Lehman partners,
among them Mr. Fuld, remain at Shearson.
   Purging the 86-year-old Hutton name, meanwhile, doesn't
sit too well with some former Hutton employees. "It's a shame
to lose the name. It was a great name for many, many years,"
lamented Scott Pierce, Hutton's president from December 1983
through late 1985.
   Still, Mr. Pierce, now a top official at Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, said it probably makes sense from
Shearson's viewpoint to lose the Hutton identity because
Shearson was the acquiring firm and Hutton doesn't have the
tradition of Lehman Brothers.
   There are practical benefits to the Shearson regrouping,
said Mr. Clark. For example, only about one-third of the
mutual funds Shearson brokers now sell are its own, said Mr.
Clark. "By grouping asset management and {brokerage
activities}, we hope to have them work more closely together
and sell more of our own products," he said.
   Shearson cut 2,000 employees early in the year. As for
further staff reductions, Mr. Clark said, "We have more
fine-tuning to do, as opposed to significant layoffs. What I
don't want to do is to cut into muscle."
   Mr. Clark said he will head a companywide executive
committee whose members include Messrs. Fuld, Lewis and
Linen. Other members are: John R. Laird, Boston Co. chairman;
Jerome H. Miller, who directs the money-management business;
Joseph J. Plumeri II, who heads the domestic branch network;
Ronald J. Yoo, chief administrative officer; Robert Druskin,
chief financial officer; and David S. Hershberg, chief legal
officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Is Goddess Worship
   Finally Going to Put
   Men in Their Place?
   ---
   Spiritual Movement Reveres
   Mother Earth and Power
   Of the Female `Energies'
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   In the beginning, there was no God. There was the Goddess.
She peered into the great void and created the Heaven and the
Earth, and in this new domain women ruled. The world was
peaceful and both sexes worshipped Her.
   But then, about 3,000 B.C., men decided they had a better
idea. They installed male deities -- among them the sun god
Marduk, who did in Tiamat, the mother of all gods, by pumping
air down her throat and blowing her to bits. Things, sadly,
haven't been the same since.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Or so say people like Ruth Barrett. Ms. Barrett, who lives
in Los Angeles, is a Goddess worshipper, one of a growing
number of revisionists who believe it's high time to give
credit where credit is due: It was a woman who molded Earth,
argues Ms. Barrett, and it is men -- and their male gods --
who messed it up. "We don't want men to wear dog collars and
be on leashes," she says. "But patriarchy must be put in its
place."
   So it is that Evie-Kaiulani Daufin, a lapsed Catholic, has
found spiritual enlightenment not in church but in the Garden
of the Goddess in Costa Mesa, Calif. On a recent sun-splashed
afternoon, Ms. Daufin, decked out in a grass skirt and bead
necklace in the shape of fallopian tubes and ovaries, joins
five others in the Garden (actually, someone's backyard) for
a fertility rite.
   They giggle as they plunge a 12-foot pole into a hole they
have dug in "Mother Earth." Then Ms. Daufin, a journalism
professor, dances with the other women around the Maypole.
The worshipers include a graying ex-nun who calls herself
Changing Woman. They purify themselves with burnt sage, sing
in a circle, clutch their wombs and beseech the Goddess to
make their lives more fruitful. Their wails reach a feverish
pitch and peak in a primal scream.
   Just another New Age fad? No way, says Judith D. Auerbach,
who studies gender issues at the University of Southern
California's Institute for the Study of Women and Men. "Women
first wanted to apply feminism to political and economic
realms, then to their families," she says. "Now, they want it
in their spiritual lives." Goddess worshipers believe that to
recreate a harmonious world, traits they consider male
(dominance, aggressiveness, competitiveness) must give way to
female "energies" (intuition, nurturing and compassion).
Women should be revered, they say, because they bear
offspring, and are thus linked to nature's cycles.
   "This isn't just God in drag," insists Susan Gitlin-Emmer,
an artist and Goddess worshiper in Reseda, Calif. To her, the
Goddess is earth-bound, represents harmony -- not hierarchy
-- among all living things, and can take on many faces.
Lunaea Weatherstone, who publishes a magazine on pagan
rituals, has fashioned an altar to the Goddess. It bears a
statue of Aphrodite, a crystal penis, purple candles, a
chalice and a shell. It is here, she says, that she worships
the Goddess on solstices, equinoxes and Groundhog Day.
   Goddess worship has been around for a long time, but a
recent spate of academic works on Goddess religions, and
growing debate in traditional faiths about male bias in
theology, has brought in a new wave of believers. Worship
groups -- mostly, but not exclusively, female -- have sprung
up from California to Massachusetts. Now there are Goddess
newsletters, Goddess books, a California Goddess hotline and
a monthly cable-television Goddess show (with host Starr
Goode). Ms. Barrett, a self-described witch, says she gets a
steady stream of students for her year-long course on the
Goddess. One big draw: the introductory lesson in spell
casting.
   In San Francisco and Los Angeles, the Circle of Aradia and
Women Spirit Rising, both worship groups, now stage elaborate
public rituals. During the equinox last fall, 200 women in
Long Beach, some dressed in embroidered robes, others naked,
streamed into a cavernous room lit by candles. One high
priestess, sword in hand, walked in a circle, calling out the
powers of earth, wind, fire and air. "Blessed Be]" the crowd
rejoined.
   Ms. Daufin attended that ceremony. "Women were singing,
wailing, jumping, planting seeds in an urn full of earth,"
she says. As the chanting became frenzied, the priestess
inveighed against rape and child abuse. Exhausted, everyone
fell to the ground.
   Judith Piquet, a Los Angeles actress and masseuse, prefers
a more private "mystery dance" when she prays. She
demonstrates: Standing beside two altars in her bedroom, Ms.
Piquet closes her eyes and sensuously slices the air with her
hands. She begins to breathe heavily. A look of ecstacy comes
over her face and, as her Rubenesque figure quivers, the
dance ends abruptly. "I am trying to dance out the separate
aspects of the Goddess in me," she explains.
   Ms. Piquet says she tried mainstream religions, but felt
they patronized women. "You've got the Father, the Son and
the Holy Ghost. Three men. Not a woman in sight," she says.
Three years ago, she moved into a communal house with four
women who worship the Goddess. "Everything fell into place. I
saw how devalued women had been," says Ms. Piquet. Some of
the women, she says, pray for the time when science will make
men unnecessary for procreation.
   Which isn't to say that all Goddess worshipers are
anti-male. Most worship groups say men merely need
enlightenment, that once they embrace the Goddess they, too,
can find greater glory. But some aren't so sure. To them, men
are "PJ's" short for patriarchal jerks, the font of the
world's ills, a lost cause, beyond redemption. Tempers can
quickly flare: When one Goddess magazine, Sage Woman,
suggested men could join the movement, some of its 3,000
readers canceled their subscriptions in protest.
   Barbara Malcolm, a graduate student at the University of
Southern California, videotaped a ceremony near Los Angeles
that was equally impassioned. The Ocean Amazons were meeting
that day, and the women were sharing war stories about PJ's
they once knew and loved. "Be with us now]" they beseeched
the Goddess. "Help us emerge from our dark traps of
self-doubt."
   They dug a hole in the ground and stuffed it full of
pictures of fashion models torn from magazines -- more male
objectification of women, the Ocean Amazons felt. "I am
incensed by Madison Avenue," seethed one. "Death to the
patriarchy]" she shouted, jamming an ad for liposuction into
the hole. Afterward, the women gazed at themselves in
hand-held mirrors. "I am Goddess," each intoned.
   But men who might feel alienated by all of this can take
heart: A new spiritual movement -- a sort of sexual
counterpoint to Goddess worship -- is gaining favor. This one
is called the "mythopoetic men's movement" and considers
itself a refuge from male-bashing, a place where men can go
to explore their own "gender-spirituality."
   When mythopoetic groups meet, the conversation tends
toward how women exploit men and objectify them as work
objects. The groups explore a masculinity of yore, one they
see as steeped in courage, compassion, fathering and
chivalry. Shepherd Bliss, a San Francisco psychologist,
guides mythopoetic groups into the woods, where they sing
songs, read poetry, revere warrior figures and beat drums.
"We want to recreate the wild man -- someone vital and
fresh," he declares.
   In one recent outing, he says, the men crawled on all
fours, pretending to be animals. They had mud fights, engaged
in bragging contests and urinated together on trees. They
made masks "to allow the primitive side to develop." They
cradled each other and meditated. "We cook for ourselves. We
tell stories. We spend a lot of time weeping," Mr. Bliss
says.
   Sometimes, on the hillsides around Los Angeles, the
spiritual movements meet. On a recent afternoon, a
mythopoetic group beat its drums above Malibu. The 200 men
were searching for lost masculinity and a link to Father
Earth. Their efforts were briefly interrupted, however, when
a group of Goddess worshipers, holding a ritual for Mother
Earth nearby, let go with their primal screams.
   Some of the men were enraged, but not Rick Welt. "There
was a sense of communication, of being whole with the women,
even if it just happened on a psychic level," he says. "It
was the epitome of sacredness in the 1990s."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Polish Bank's New York Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank Polska Kasa Opieki S.C., Poland's largest
commercial bank, said it will open a branch office in New
York later this year.
   Theodore M. Sysol, an attorney for the bank, said the Park
Avenue branch will be the first full branch operation of any
Eastern bloc banking concern. A few other Eastern European
banks have representative offices in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bank Polska branch will provide commercial banking
services including taking deposits in excess of $100,000,
making loans, arranging wire transfers and providing letters
of credit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Comptroller Finds More Regions
   Where Real Estate Woes May Hurt Banks
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The comptroller of the currency said that
his office has identified areas of the country where
weakening real estate values could hurt banks but that the
problems in those areas aren't as bad as the one in New
England.
   Comptroller Robert Clarke, the top regulator of federally
chartered banks, made the disclosure in testimony before the
House Small Business Committee. He wouldn't identify the
geographical areas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Clarke said the comptroller's office planned to talk
to bankers in the regions and "might do targeted
examinations" of real estate loans to determine how
widespread the problem is. Following targeted examinations in
New England, banks in the area set aside more than $2 billion
for potential losses. The comptroller's office has previously
said it is looking at real estate lending in the mid-Atlantic
and Southeast regions.
   Mr. Clarke said the newly identified problems were "not
comparable" in magnitude to the troubles in New England.
   Testifying before the committee, Mr. Clarke and other
federal banking regulators reiterated their belief that there
isn't a widespread credit crunch induced by tougher bank
examinations, as some business groups have charged.
   While surveys have shown that banks are tightening credit
standards for small and medium-size businesses, the main
cause isn't stricter regulation, said Federal Reserve Gov.
John LaWare. "Those banks that indicated they were taking
steps to tighten credit most often cited as reasons their
concerns about the general economy or the prospects for
particular industries," he said.
   Mr. LaWare also cited a recent survey by the National
Federation of Independent Businesses which found "less
borrowing by small firms, but supported the view that during
the first quarter these firms had no unusual difficulty"
obtaining credit.
   Statistics show a moderate drop-off in lending in New
England, particularly for real estate construction, but
that's a healthy reaction to the overbuilt markets, the
regulators said. Mr. Clarke noted that office vacancy rates
in Boston increased to 14.6% in 1989 from 7% in 1983.
   Though most committee members didn't criticize the
regulators, Rep. Richard Neal (D., Mass.) said he had heard
from small-business people, contractors and banks. "A curtain
has been dropped on some of the entrepreneurship we've seen
in New England over the last decade," he said.
   The regulators did agree that at least some banks have
reacted to the tough regulation of the New England banks by
reining in lending to credit-worthy borrowers. Paul Fritts,
head of bank supervision at the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., said, "A banker looks around and sees 700 or 800 bank
failures in the last few years and says, `I don't want that
to happen to me.'"
   It "appears that some bankers have reduced their lending
to credit-worthy customers," Mr. Clarke said. "We are taking
steps to encourage the bankers not to overreact."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Health Insurance
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   When tots protest their bedtime,
   I feel inclined to say,
   "It's best you get your rest now --
   You may have kids someday]"
   -- Richard C. Shebelski.
   ---
   Hear, Hear
                                                                                                       

   Why the fuss about the national deficit? We said that this
is a free country; we never said free and clear.
   -- Gil Stern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USAir's Traffic Fell in May
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   U
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- USAir, a unit of USAir Group Inc., said
its May traffic declined less than 1% to 2.97 billion revenue
passenger miles from 2.98 billion a year earlier. A revenue
passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one mile.
   The carrier's May load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, fell to 58.9% from 62.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first five months of this year, USAir's traffic
rose 5.8% to 14.23 billion revenue passenger miles from 13.45
billion a year earlier. The load factor fell to 58.7% from
59.1%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Morgan Stanley's Jeffe,
   McClelland to Succeed
   Fogg in Finance Area
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc., in the wake of a
management reshuffling, named two successors to Joseph G.
Fogg III, who recently was named head of investment banking.
   The big securities firm said Robert A. Jeffe and W. Carter
McClelland will be co-directors of its world-wide corporate
finance department, which Fogg had led since 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Jeffe, 40 years old, joined Morgan Stanley in 1974,
and most recently was a managing director, heading energy
coverage for the firm's investment banking division. Mr.
McClelland, 44, joined the firm in 1973 and recently headed
its high-technology and defense investment-banking
activities.
   Mr. Fogg's new position helped fill the gap created when
Robert Greenhill, vice chairman and head of investment
banking, was recently recommended by Morgan Stanley
management to be named president.
   Separately, Morgan Stanley named Robert Lessin to run a
newly created strategic development department. This group
will coordinate the business development and marketing plans
for the firm's investment banking division.
   The 35-year-old Mr. Lessin, who joined the firm in 1977,
has run a similar strategic group for Morgan Stanley's
mergers and acquisition department since 1983. Now that group
will be folded into the new development department for all of
investment banking, Morgan Stanley said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Stock Prices
   Slip, Bonds
   Edge Higher
   ---
   Investors Take Profits,
   Shift to Other Issues;
   Dollar Rises Slightly
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors, taking profits in some stocks and
shifting into others, pushed stock prices slowly but steadily
lower for the second day running.
   Bond prices moved slightly higher in extremely light
activity after opening lower in the morning on news reports
that the Federal Reserve Board isn't likely to ease interest
rates in the near future. The dollar, meanwhile, rose
slightly against the West German mark and Japanese yen, with
traders generally focusing their attention on non-dollar
currency trades.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 13.35 points to
close at 2911.65 in moderately active trading. Long-term U.S.
Treasury bond prices rose 1/8 point, or $1.25 for each $1,000
of face amount.
   As an example of the shift in emphasis in the stock
market, Argus Research said it is dropping such quality
growth stocks as PepsiCo Inc. and Johnson &amp; Johnson from its
list of "sacred cows" -- or candidates for inclusion in new
portfolios -- and replacing them with interest-rate sensitive
issues such as utilities and financial institutions.
   "Many of the financial-services companies should benefit
from both lower interest rates and an underlying resilience
in the economy," said A.C. Moore, research director at Argus.
The economy is sluggish, he said, but it isn't facing a
recession. "We're looking for a decline in interest rates
based on slowing economic growth and falling food and oil
prices."
   Jon Groveman, president of Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co.,
attributed yesterday's sell-off partly to queasiness about
indications that many bears have already been converted to
bulls, suggesting ebbing buying pressure.
   "We've been able to take some profits," said Ben Capaldi,
partner at Brandywine Asset Management, Wilmington, Del.
"People have been tending to throw money at the market," he
said, referring to institutions and index funds scrambling to
get into the market as it rallied through Monday.
   In the bond market, activity was minimal, said Roger
Craig, director of fixed-income investing at Banc One Asset
Management, Columbus, Ohio. He said there wasn't much fallout
from news reports about the Fed's inclination not to ease
rates. "If investors were alarmed, we'd be at an 8.75% yield"
on the Treasury's 30-year bond, he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell as 164 million shares changing hands on
the New York Stock Exchange, where declining issues
outnumbered advancers, 872 to 656.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices edged higher. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond eased to 8.44%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6885 marks and 152.65 yen, compared with
1.6850 marks and 152.45 yen Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Federal Express Has
   Credit Rating Lowered
   By Moody's Investors
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   FDX
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federal Express Corp., the air-express carrier, was stung
yesterday with lower ratings on about $1 billion of long-term
debt.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc., which made the downgrades,
cited the more difficult than expected merger with Tiger
International Corp., and Moody's belief that cash flow
measurements, among other things, will remained constrained
"over the intermediate term."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said they weren't surprised by the downgrades,
which largely reflect the company's well-publicized problems.
Late last month, Federal reported a sharp and unexpected drop
in April shipment growth, an announcement that sparked a 10%
tumble in the company's stock price.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Federal's common closed at $48.25, down 25 cents.
   The rating cut isn't "market moving" news, said Kevin
Murphy, an airline analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "Federal
is in the black and paying the bills, but there's no
visibility to earnings momentum," he said. He called the
rating analysis "rational and well done."
   Moody's said it cut the ratings on Federal's senior notes
and industrial revenue bonds to Baa-2 from Baa-1. It also
lowered the rating on Tiger's convertible subordinated
debentures to Baa-3 from Baa-2. The ratings for Flying Tiger
Line Inc.'s industrial revenue bonds ratings were downgraded
to Baa-1 from A3.
   In Memphis, Tenn., Federal declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Producer Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's producer price index in April was
unchanged from March, but climbed 2.2% from a year earlier,
the Statistics Institute said.
   The April index registered a 0.6% drop in energy prices
from March. Wholesale energy prices, however, jumped 4.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The April index of wholesale prices showed a 0.3% increase
in capital goods costs from March; capital goods prices
surged 4.7%.
   Consumer goods prices in April rose 0.1% from March and
3.2% from a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Gaming Inc. Stock Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UGAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- United Gaming Inc. said it completed
the sale of 1.2 million new shares to its chairman, Alfred
Wilms, for $10 million, bringing his stake in the company to
about 54%.
   The operator of gambling machine routes and seller of
gambling equipment said it received an opinion from an
independent investment banking firm as to the fairness of the
$8.32-a-share price, which was 90% of the average trading
price over a 20-day period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, United Gaming
closed at $9.25, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Mixed as Transportation Stocks
   Gain on Speculation of Lower Fuel Costs
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors favored over-the-counter stocks yesterday as the
OTC market outperformed exchange-listed shares.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 0.35 to 464.96, a
0.08% gain, compared with the 13.35-point drop in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. But declining shares edged out
advancers, 990 to 920, as volume eased to 156.5 million
shares from 173.5 million Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transportation issues were strong amid speculation that
the recent drop in oil prices could lead to lower fuel costs.
The Nasdaq Transportation Index rose 3.80 to 497.19.
Financial, insurance and utility issues also gained.
Technology shares, which lost ground Tuesday, rebounded
slightly.
   Traders said they continue to see evidence that portfolio
managers are favoring smaller stocks that haven't followed
the sharp gains among larger issues. "Institutions want to
make sure their cash is in the right place at the end of the
quarter," said William Rothe, director of OTC trading at
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Baltimore.
   Business was brisk at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. in Memphis,
Tenn. according to Hedi Reynolds, senior OTC trader there.
Both institutional and smaller investors showed interest in
stocks that had recently weakened, such as oil service
issues, and continued to selectively buy regional financial
issues, she said.
   History may be repeating itself in favor of smaller
stocks, according to Binkley Shorts, portfolio manager of the
Over-The-Counter Securities Fund, Fort Washington, Pa. In an
interview, Mr. Shorts pointed out that in 1976 larger stocks
peaked before entering a three-year decline. However, during
the same period the Nasdaq index rose 75% as smaller stocks,
which had lagged behind larger issues, caught up.
   "A lot of smart money in 1976 was smart enough to make
that transition {to smaller stocks}," he said. "They had
great years in 1977, 1978 and 1979 in a very dead market"
among larger issues, he added.
   Mr. Shorts said he remains convinced that smaller stocks
are entering a similar cycle, because they are relatively
cheap now compared with the valuations of larger issues. Mr.
Shorts said he prefers investing in the shares of companies
in service sectors, such as restaurant, retail and
environmental clean-up concerns, and with annual revenue
growth of 20% or higher.
   McCaw Cellular Communications Class A shares, the day's
most-active issue, rose 3/4 to 31 1/4 on 2 million shares.
Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said that Oppenheimer
&amp; Co. analyst Lior Bregman speculated that Motorola Inc.
might make an announcement within the month that could
involve teaming up with some cellular communications
providers to offer a nationwide cellular network. A Motorola
spokesman declined to comment on the speculation, but
confirmed the company will make an announcement within about
30 days regarding Motorola's involvement in satellite
communications.
   Shares of U S West NewVector Group, a Bellevue, Wash.,
cellular telephone company rose 3/4 to 38 1/8.
   Tyco Toys, among the day's most-active stocks, tumbled 4
3/4 to 22 3/4 after the Mount Laurel, N.J., toy maker said
that it ended acquisition talks with an undisclosed company.
As reported, analysts had speculated that the suitor was
Hasbro Inc.
   Suburu of America traded more than 1.5 million shares.
Tuesday, the Federal Trade Commission cleared Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd.'s plan to buy the 50.4% of Suburu of
America's outstanding common shares that it doesn't already
own. The agreement provides Suburu stockholders other than
Fuji with a minimum cash payment of $8.50 a share.
   Adobe Systems and Sun Microsystems both rebounded
following favorable news from the two Mountain View, Calif.,
technology companies. Software maker Adobe said it signed an
agreement with Xerox giving the huge office equipment company
licensing rights to Adobe's PostScript software. Financial
details of the pact weren't disclosed. Adobe rose 1 1/2 to 33
3/4 on 1.3 million shares.
   Sun Microsystems said Tuesday that it will supply hundreds
of UNIX workstations and related products to United
Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney division for use by
Pratt's design, drafting, analytical and manufacturing
functions. Sun rose 5/8 to 31.
   Among other active technology issues, Oracle Systems rose
7/8 to 21 1/8; Intel climbed 5/8 to 47 3/4; Autodesk rose 3/4
to 49 1/2; Apple Computer was unchanged at 39 1/2, and
Microsoft eased 3/8 to 73.
   Hologic advanced 2 1/4 to 23 1/2 after the Waltham, Mass.,
maker of X-ray systems said it filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for an additional 700,000 common shares
to be sold in a secondary offering. Hologic went public
earlier this year.
   Jay Jacobs added 1 to 8 5/8. Tuesday, the Seattle retailer
said May sales rose about 35% and sales for the same stores
open at least one year rose 21% for the month.
   Shares of Society Corp., a Cleveland banking concern,
surged 1 1/2 to 33 1/4 on heavy volume after officials told a
New York meeting of analysts that cost savings from Society's
January acquisition of Trustcorp Inc. are greater than
expected, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report. The company said it expects 1990 earnings will
increase and agrees with a Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods estimate
that it will earn $5.30 a share in 1991, compared with net
income of $4.63 a share in 1989, DJPIR said.
   Conmed gained 3/4 to 7 1/2. Robert Shallish, chief
financial officer of the Utica, N.Y., maker of disposable
medical and surgical products told DJPIR that he spoke
yesterday morning with an Ohio Co. analyst about the
company's financial picture. Mr. Shallish told DJPIR that the
company expects its earnings for the second-quarter ending in
June to match the 20 cents a share net income for the first
quarter. In the 1989 second quarter, Conmed had net income of
nine cents a share.
   Pharmacy Management slid 1 1/8 to 16 1/8 after the medical
cost-containment company reported net income for the third
quarter ended April 30 of seven cents a share, up from four
cents a year earlier. The company went public in April at $12
a share in an offering co-managed by Robertson Stephens and
Alex. Brown &amp; Sons. DJPIR reported that Robertson Stephens
analyst Vivian Wohl lowered her 1991 estimate for the company
to a range of 75 to 85 cents a share from an earlier estimate
of 84 cents, but continues to rate the stock a "buy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Beats Out
   Rivals to Capitalize
   On Eastern Europe
   ---
   Securities Firm Will Advise
   U.S. Investment Agency
   On Unusual New Fund
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SB EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A big Wall Street firm found a way to profit
from the upheaval in Eastern Europe.
   Salomon Brothers Inc. was picked by the U.S. Overseas
Private Investment Corp. to be financial adviser to OPIC's
fledgling Eastern European Growth Fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The securities firm, a Salomon Inc. unit, beat out nine
other investment banks to get the job.
   The fund expects to raise $200 million from investors in a
private placement. Its launch represents an unusual step by
OPIC, a U.S. government agency that insures companies
investing overseas against political risk.
   The fund can invest only in three countries where OPIC has
a mandate: Hungary, Poland and Yugoslavia. The agency is
holding negotiations with Czechoslovakia.
   The fund is seeking to attract large investors, such as
pension funds and insurance companies, in the next few
months; $50 million of its assets will be backed by OPIC
guarantees.
   Under the Bush administration, OPIC has become more of a
U.S. foreign policy tool. The agency provides investment
data, financing and risk assurances -- usually for big
institutional investors -- in 116 countries in Latin America,
Europe, Asia and Africa.
   Because the new fund will be structured as a limited
partnership, it won't be actively traded. The investment will
have a 15-year life, and investors can't get their money out
until at least four years have passed, Salomon said.
   The fund is likely to invest in serviceoriented companies,
such as communications and environmental concerns, said
Michael Holland, chairman of the fund and head of Salomon
Asset Management Inc. Mr. Holland said he expects the fund to
be able to invest in many more countries during its life.
   Salomon isn't saying what its fee will be for advising the
project, except to say that its financial reward will be
based on how well the fund performs.
   The Eastern European Growth Fund isn't the first fund
venture for OPIC. The agency has launched an African Growth
Fund for development in Sub-Sahara West Africa, run by
Equator Bank, Hartford, Conn. The African fund, which seeks
to raise $20 million, hasn't raised all the money, OPIC said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Californians Appear Ready to End Tax Revolt;
   Democrats Pick Feinstein in Gubernatorial Race
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Shribman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   It was a good day for the Democrats and for advocates of
targeted tax increases to meet urgent needs.
   In California, the Democrats nominated their most
competitive candidate for governor, Dianne Feinstein, and
wrecked a heavily financed Republican campaign to change the
rules on redistricting congressional seats in the nation's
biggest state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, California voters showed that the day of
"no new taxes" for any purpose is over. They demonstrated how
taxes can be increased at a time when the public is deeply
divided on the question of general tax increases by voting
narrowly to double their own state gasoline tax to 18 cents a
gallon from nine cents. The money is targeted for highway
repairs and mass transit.
   "There is still no willingness on the part of most people
to pay for what we need," says Alan Post, veteran legislative
analyst. The exception, he adds, is transportation, where a
slim majority of California voters now "are beginning to
realize something has to be done." The ballot initiative, No.
111, was passed by a margin of 52% to 48%.
   In Iowa, Democrats nominated an abortion-rights candidate
for governor who will force a showdown with an incumbent GOP
governor opposed to abortion. And in North Carolina,
Democrats chose former Charlotte Mayor Harvey Gantt, who is
black, to oppose Republican Sen. Jesse Helms in a dramatic
matchup in the fall.
   "We had one foot on a banana peel and one foot in the
grave," says Democratic pollster Harrison Hickman, "and
somehow we ended up Wednesday morning standing up and in
perfect political health."
   California, where so many political movements begin (and
sometimes end), launched the nation's tax rebellion 12 years
ago by voting for Proposition 13, putting brakes on
property-tax increases. On Tuesday, voters approved a
proposal that was backed by the Republican governor,
Democratic lawmakers and almost every professional
association in the state, and opposed by a small group of
conservatives who were unable to mount a significant media
campaign to make their case.
   "There was something in this for just about every interest
group in the state," says Austin Ranney, a political
scientist at the University of California at Berkeley. "There
wasn't any big group against it and it still only won by a
little."
   The initiative was broadly supported in the large urban
centers, where traffic congestion is so bad that Californians
fear their quality of life -- the reason that many moved to
the state in the first place -- is at risk. TV ads were
targeted to those markets, showing in detail which roads
would be improved and where new mass-transit lines would be
built. Voters in rural parts of the state voted against the
proposal.
   Although anti-tax economist Arthur Laffer says the vote
"really does end the tax revolt in California and sends a
message to Washington which I dislike intensely," another
Californian, House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta,
says the vote shows that new taxes win popular support only
if they are directed to specific purposes. "Deficit
reduction," the Democratic congressman said, "might not
qualify as such a tangible specific purpose."
   For Washington politicians grappling with their own budget
problems, California provided evidence that tax increases
also need bipartisan backing and broad grassroots support.
The California vote, says Senate Budget Committee Chairman
James Sasser (D., Tenn.), indicates voters will approve tax
increases when they are "absolutely necessary."
   The California vote to sharply raise the state's gasoline
tax hardly leads the way for a big federal gas-tax increase,
for example. Bush Administration officials have argued over
the last several weeks that increases in state gasoline taxes
could make it tougher to raise federal gas levies.
   The other significant political development in California
was the selection of Mrs. Feinstein, the former mayor of San
Francisco, as the Democratic gubernatorial nominee. Mrs.
Feinstein defeated state Attorney General John Van de Kamp,
52% to 41%, and will oppose Republican U.S. Sen. Pete Wilson
in the fall.
   Aides to the colorless Mr. Wilson admit that the stylish
Mrs. Feinstein is a more formidable rival than Mr. Van de
Kamp. Republicans count on a huge campaign war chest to
defeat Mrs. Feinstein, who exhausted most of her cash in the
primary.
   Mrs. Feinstein surged into the lead with her opening TV
commercial, in which she underlined her support of the death
penalty. She ended the campaign with another blockbuster
criticizing Mr. Van de Kamp for his refusal, when he was
district attorney in Los Angeles, to prosecute the killer
known as the Hillside Strangler for murder. Mr. Van de Kamp
privately opposes both abortion and the death penalty, but
said he would enforce existing laws in both instances.
   Republicans had counted on California voters to approve
one or another of two ballot initiatives that would have
removed redistricting powers from the Democratic-controlled
state legislature, which in the past has been amazingly adept
at drawing boundary lines virtually guaranteeing Democratic
hegemony. But, despite a lavishly financed media campaign
featuring actor Charlton Heston, both propositions fell. If
Mrs. Feinstein is elected governor, replacing retiring
Republican Gov. George Deukmejian, the GOP's situation will
be desperate. California is expected to pick up as many as
seven new congressional seats in the wake of the 1990 census.
   Mr. Heston, appearing in TV ads, urged California voters
not to allow Democratic Assembly Speaker Willie Brown to
"con" them again in painting the GOP-backed initiatives as
bad for California. Television ads opposing the initiatives
starred actor Jack Lemmon, who had appeared in ads opposing
an earlier GOP effort to change the redistricting rules.
   In another ballot proposal, California voters approved a
sweeping ethics package that bans legislators and state
officials from taking fees for making speeches or writing
articles and from earning outside income by representing
clients before government boards or agencies. It also creates
a citizens' salary commission to review and adjust the
salaries and benefits of legislators and state officials
annually without a vote being required by the legislature.
   Voters in the city of Los Angeles passed a similar ethics
package for their officials and also provided public
financing for campaigns for mayor and city council.
   Californians also supported a ballot initiative that would
stop sport hunting of mountain lions and set a floor of $30
million a year that the state must spend on wildlife-habitat
protection.
   Iowa House Speaker Don Avenson's victory in the
gubernatorial primary transforms the general election into a
heated contest over abortion. Mr. Avenson, who handily
defeated Attorney General Tom Miller and businessman John
Chrystal, will face popular two-term GOP Gov. Terry Branstad
in November. The abortion fires set during the primary are
sure to be stoked in the state during the general election by
a parallel Senate race, where Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin, who
favors abortion rights, faces a challenge from GOP Rep. Tom
Tauke, who opposes them.
   The Avenson win, moreover, was a victory for the National
Abortion Rights Action League, which faced substantial local
opposition for its decision to get involved in a heavily
contested primary and to endorse one abortion-rights
candidate, Mr. Avenson, over another, John Chrystal.
   "This may have been a risky strategy, but it was
necessary," says Kate Michelman, executive director of the
group. "We couldn't say that one guy was anti-choice and not
suggest which person would be the best to win the nomination.
Our goal was to insure that the voters in Iowa have a choice
in November, and we accomplished that."
   Meanwhile, the victory of former Charlotte Mayor Gantt in
the North Carolina senatorial runoff sets up a high-profile
November battle between the black Democrat and GOP Sen.
Helms. Mr. Gantt took 57% of the vote in a bruising primary
against District Attorney Mike Easley.
   Experts in North Carolina politics believe Mr. Gantt will
need about 40% of the white vote plus almost all of the black
vote to defeat Mr. Helms, whose financial advantage and
ability to appeal to blue-collar whites make him the
favorite. "This will be a classic confrontation," says Earl
Black, a specialist on southern politics at the University of
South Carolina. "This will be a great test of ideological and
racial differences in a major state."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midwest Energy Says
   FTC Seeks More Data
   On Proposed Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IOR MWE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Midwest Energy Co. said the Federal
Trade Commission has requested additional information about
the company's proposed merger with Iowa Resources Inc. of Des
Moines.
   The company said the request was made under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1975. Midwest
said the FTC's action extends the waiting period, which would
have expired last Sunday, to 20 days from the date the FTC
receives the new information.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shareholders of both companies have approved the proposed
merger, which is termed a "merger of equals" by the two
utilities. The merger would create a new holding company
called Midwest Resources Inc., which would have an indicated
market value of about $923 million.
   Midwest said it will respond as promptly as possible to
the request.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Stocks Fall 13.35 Points
   As Profit-Taking Hits Blue Chips
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Profit-taking in some high-flying blue chips
and growth stocks knocked the stock market down for the
second consecutive day.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 13.35 to 2911.65.
Among broader averages, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index
fell 1.68 to 364.96, and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
dropped 1.32 to 339.98. Declining issues topped advancers by
872 to 656 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume
totaled 164,020,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, some small stocks gained. The Nasdaq composite
index rose 0.35 to 464.96.
   Though large institutions are still looking for cheap
stocks to buy, yesterday they sold many of the key stocks
that have led the rally for the past few weeks. Home Depot,
which is trading at nearly 40 times expected 1990 earnings,
lost 1 1/2 to 58 1/2. Among other growth stocks with prices
at about 20 times expected 1990 earnings: Merck fell 1 to 82
3/4; PepsiCo dropped 7/8 to 74 7/8 and Limited fell 1 to 49
1/4.
   Oil shares also fell prey to profit-taking, despite a
rebound in crude oil prices, which came amid unsubstantiated
rumors of a nuclear accident in the Soviet Union. July
futures on West Texas Intermediate crude rose 24 cents a
barrel, to $16.92, in New York trading.
   Eugene L. Nowak, an oil analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds,
said Saudi Arabia's discounts on crude oil purchase contracts
for July should hold down oil prices, causing "downward
trading pressure" on energy stocks.
   "Right now, it's looking like (the price of oil) might get
a little bit weaker than we've thought," said Mr. Nowak,
although he added that he is maintaining his estimate of $19
to $19.50 a barrel as an average price this year for West
Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. crude.
   Oil stocks ranking among the most active Big Board issues
included Occidental Petroleum, which dropped 5/8 to 26 1/2 on
composite volume of 1.6 million shares; Exxon, which fell 3/8
to 47 7/8, and Texaco, which lost 1 1/2 to 57 7/8.
   Among other oil issues, Chevron fell 7/8 to 69 1/2, Mobil
lost 1 to 62 1/8, Amoco slid 3/4 to 52, Royal Dutch Petroleum
fell 1 to 75 1/4 and Atlantic Richfiel lost 2 to 116 1/4.
   Amerada Hess dropped 3/4 to 44 3/4; Dean Witter lowered
its estimate of second-quarter earnings from 45 cents a share
to a range of zero to 25 cents.
   Oil field-services stocks were active for the second
consecutive session, but prices in the sector stabilized
after dropping sharply Tuesday. Schlumberger gained 1/2 to 56
1/4, Halliburton lost 1/4 to 46, Baker Hughes dropped 1/4 to
27 3/8 and Smith International slid 3/8 to 14 3/8.
   Meanwhile, shares of oil refining and marketing companies
bucked the group's decline. This newspaper reported in its
"Heard on the Street" column that Alan Gaines, a money
manager specializing in energy issues, is making a long-term
case for buying the stocks based on the potential for the
companies' properties to increase in value.
   Diamond Shamrock, one of several issues Mr. Gaines favors,
gained 1/2 to 25 1/2. Others include Ashland Oil, which
slipped 1/4 to 36; Horsham, which closed unchanged at 8 1/2,
and Crown Central Petroleum, whose Class B shares jumped 1
3/8 to 33 5/8 on the American Stock Exchange.
   Eastman Kodak climbed 1 7/8 to 41 7/8 on two million
shares in trading fueled by speculation that Hoffmann-La
Roche may be interested in the company's Sterling Drug unit
and that the judge in Polaroid's patent-infringement case
against the company, won in 1985, would delay awarding
damages until next year. Kodak declined comment on the
activity in its stock; Hoffmann, the U.S. unit of
Switzerland's Roche Holding, denied the Sterling rumor.
   Upjohn dropped 1 1/4 to 42 on 1.8 million shares as merger
speculation cooled. The stock had advanced 4 5/8 points over
the three previous sessions after Business Week reported that
the company may become the next pharmaceutical maker to seek
a merger partner.
   Lowe's fell 1 1/8 to 46 3/4. The company reported that
sales at stores open at least one year rose just 1% from the
year-earlier level.
   Construction stocks rallied following the passage of a
California referendum that would double the state's gasoline
tax, to 18 cents a gallon, to provide funds for an $18.5
billion freeway-building program. Beazer rose 5/8 to 10 1/2,
CalMat rose 1 1/4 to 34 3/4 and Perini jumped 3 to 25 1/2.
   Several bank issues, which recently rebounded as interest
rates moved lower, fell on profit-taking yesterday. Bankers
Trust fell 1 1/8 to 45; BankAmerica slipped 1/8 to 33 and
Citicorp fell 5/8 to 24 3/8.
   Union Carbide, a target of restructuring speculation in
the past, topped the Big Board's list of most active issues.
The stock went up 1 to 21 as nearly 2.1 million shares
changed hands.
   Norfolk Southern gained 1 3/8 to 43 5/8. Merrill Lynch
recommended the stock and said it believes the company's
earnings will grow at a significantly faster pace than those
of other railroads.
   NCH plummeted 4 1/2 to 58 3/4, reflecting disappointment
with its earnings report for the fiscal quarter ended April
30. Net income for the period fell 3.7% from a year earlier.
   TransTechnology skidded 1 7/8 to 7 7/8 after saying
results for the fiscal year ended March 31 were worse than it
had expected. The company said it expects to report losses
for both the fiscal fourth quarter and the year.
   General Host gained 5/8 to 7 1/4. The company reported
that net for its fiscal first quarter, a 16-week period ended
May 20, jumped 261% from the comparable year-ago period.
   Armco added 3/8 to 9 3/8. The company said a Texas judge
set aside $26 million of the $48.8 million in damages
assessed against the company in a breach-of-contract dispute
over an office lease.
   Eagle-Picher Industries rose 1/2 to 4 3/8. The company
said it is putting three units up for sale as part of a plan
to raise cash for payment of asbestos-litigation climbs.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.36
to 364.19. Volume totaled 14,490,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PN U TEX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ground Crew Sometimes
   Grounds a Flight
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MODERN jetliners fly through thunderstorms, blizzards and
hail, but often it's the most mundane problems that ground
flights.
   Mishaps on the runway are often the most troublesome. They
range from a driver ramming a baggage cart into the side of a
plane to a handler thrusting baggage containers so hard that
they dent the cargo bin. Because planes aren't supposed to
fly with even the smallest damage, they must be repaired
immediately.
   "The catering truck might slam into the catering door. The
wing tip can catch on the gate area. Anything that can happen
will happen," says William Reed, acting assistant manager of
the Federal Aviation Administration's aircraft maintenance
division. "It could be a delay from several minutes to a
cancellation."
   The problem had become such a big one at Pan American
World Airways that the carrier started giving its operations
employees bonuses if damage incidents decrease on a monthly
basis.
   In an internal memo in December, Robert L. Gould, senior
vice president of operations at the Pan Am Corp. unit, said:
"Ground damage is killing us."
   Systemwide incidents ballooned 2 1/2 times to 295 in 1989
from 120 in 1986, according to the memo. Repair bills were
"unbelievable," it said. Another repercussion: loss of
customer good will. Fleet-service employees were warned to
slow down and to stop driving underneath planes.
   From Jan. 1 to May 31, Pan Am says, ground-damage
incidents have dropped 30% from a year earlier.
   Fliers are mostly kept in the dark about such incidents;
the Transportation Department's monthly reports on
cancellations and delays don't include schedule glitches due
to "mechanical problems." In fact, a carrier with such delays
could still appear among the top carriers on the department's
on-time list.

   Hints on Tipping
   Doormen at Curbs
                                                                                                       

   AT THE FOUR Seasons Hotel in Chicago, Horand M. Vogel
whisked by a doorman holding open a cab door. Did the
well-heeled consultant misstep by not tipping the doorman?
   "Absolutely not," says Mr. Vogel. "Going in and out of
taxis isn't a tip-worthy affair." Or is it?
   There are etiquette rules that dictate how to tip waiters,
cabbies, bartenders and bellmen but none for the men -- and a
few women -- working at curbside. (They aren't the ones
carrying luggage to rooms.) Most depend on tips. In one
union, their salary is just $29 a day.
   Here are suggestions from Elizabeth L. Post,
granddaughter-in-law of Emily Post and author of etiquette
books.
   Her tips: If doormen hail a waiting cab in good weather,
no tip; in bad weather and they get wet, $1. If they have to
scare up a cab in good weather, $1. If they carry a couple of
bags to the lobby, $1; to the curb, no tip. In big cities
such as New York or Chicago, $1 is the norm; in smaller
cities, 50 cents will do.
   Never tip more than $1 for anything from keeping an eye on
a bag to holding an umbrella for you in rainy weather. The
exception is a $2 tip at the end of a visit in which you've
tipped zilch. "Is it confusing?" says Mrs. Post. "Yes, oh,
certainly."
   As for Mr. Vogel, he didn't err, says Mrs. Post.
                                                                                                       

   Kids-Fly-Free Gimmick
   Is Unlikely This Summer
                                                                                                       

   DON'T EXPECT an encore of last year's kids-fly-free
promotion.
   Last summer, a kid could fly free or for a nominal $1 when
traveling with an adult. Families saved hundreds of dollars
on vacation costs. The gimmick was so hot that airlines
blamed it for trashing third-quarter revenue.
   It's probably too late now for similar hoopla to start
this year.
   Texas Air Corp.'s Continental Airlines unit was the first
to make the pitch last year, announcing its promotion in
April. Most of the industry had matched it begrudgingly by
the first of May.
   Continental says it's not going to give away seats this
year. "We don't feel the need to do the kids-fly-free," says
John Nelson, executive vice president of marketing at
Continental. The big reasons, he says: Continental's market
share nationally has improved "dramatically" since a year
ago, and vacation fares are cheaper than last year. "New York
to Florida fares were $129 last year. This year, they're $89.
When you look at $129 vs. $89, the $89" oneway fare generates
enough traffic, he says.
   One of the few deals for kids this summer is the
restricted $29 and $39 one-way fares being offered by some
airlines on flights from the Northeast to Florida.
   But airlines cringe at the idea of introducing a
children's freebie. Says Randall Mailen, USAir Group Inc.'s
executive vice president of marketing: "We will not initiate
the program."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   CONSIDER the query Northwest Airlines Chairman Alfred
Checchi faced: Would he fire an employee who posed nude in
Playboy? In a letter to a flight attendant considering such a
move, Mr. Checchi said the woman wouldn't be fired so long as
Northwest wasn't named and she kept "company standards" on
the job. He added: "A company should stand for something --
have values. . . . You owe it to all of us to consider the
possible effect on our efforts if one of our people poses in
Playboy." The flight attendant isn't posing, for now. . . .
People registering travel agents at the International Travel
Industry Expo earlier this spring got a memo from organizers
warning that "although 99% of these people are educated
adults, they will probably act like three-year-olds."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Big Board Is Seen Electing
   Chalsty Vice Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange is expected to
name the head of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Inc. as Big
Board vice chairman, people familiar with the appointment
said.
   John S. Chalsty, president and chief executive officer of
Donaldson Lufkin, will be installed as one of two Big Board
vice chairmen at the board meeting today, say people close to
the board. He will succeed William A. Schreyer, chairman and
chief executive officer of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., as the
highest-ranking outsider at the exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Chalsty couldn't be reached for comment, and the Big
Board declined to comment.
   As with all vice chairmen, Mr. Chalsty would retain his
position at his firm while he serves at the Big Board. Mr.
Chalsty was elected to the exchange's board two years ago and
is also a member of the Big Board's "blue ribbon" panel on
program trading and market volatility, which is expected to
issue a report soon.
   Donaldson Lufkin is a unit of Equitable Life Assurance
Society of the U.S.
   The other of the two Big Board vice chairmen is Donald
Stone, senior partner at exchange specialist firm Lasker,
Stone &amp; Stern.
   The Big Board is also hunting for a new chairman to
succeed John J. Phelan Jr., who plans to retire at year end
after six years in the post. But a new chairman isn't
expected to be named at today's meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM, Ford Operations
   Top List of Holders
   Of Certain U.S. Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM CCI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co.
financial service operations topped all commercial banks in
1989 as the nation's largest holders of U.S. commercial and
industrial loans, according to a study by SMR Research Corp.
   The study showed that GM ended the year with $23.2 billion
in commercial and industrial loans, a drop of 0.4%. That
decline compared with a 60% rise in loans by Ford to $16.8
billion. Most of GM's commercial and industrial loans
financed car dealer inventories and other property. Ford's
big increase came from the acquisition last year of the
Associates Corp. finance company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp, the nation's largest commercial bank holding
company, came in third, according to the study with $16.3
billion of the loans. That figure represents a 4.4% decline
in the U.S., although Citicorp dominated world-wide business
lending because of the company's sizable portfolio of loans
to foreign corporations. At year end, Citicorp had $37.6
billion in commercial and industrial loans outstanding.
   Stuart A. Feldstein, SMR president, said many banks have
been large originators of business loans, but resell the
loans to other lenders.
   The SMR study found that the total domestic commercial and
industrial loan market reached $815.2 billion last year -- up
5.5% from a year earlier. Growth of the loans at banks, which
still hold about three-quarters of the market, was 4.3%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Valley National Corp.
   Hires First Boston
   To Sell 2 Bank Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VNCP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Valley National Corp. said it has hired
CS First Boston Corp. to solicit offers for its Utah and
California bank subsidiaries.
   Valley National Corp.'s main bank is Valley National Bank
of Arizona with assets of $9.2 billion. Units to be sold are
Valley Bank &amp; Trust Co. of Utah, with assets of $944 million,
and California Valley Bank, with assets of $111 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that it decided to concentrate its assets
in Arizona and that the sale of the units will strengthen its
financial structure. The units will be sold at a price in
excess of book value.
   Valley National Corp., the holding company for Arizona's
largest bank, has been undergoing difficult times because of
the depressed Arizona real-estate market and nonperforming
real-estate loans. In the first quarter, profit was $607,000,
or three cents a share, compared with $18.9 million, or 96
cents a share, a year earlier. In 1989, Valley National had a
loss of $149.2 million, or $7.55 a share, compared with
profit of $67.3 million, or $3.41 a share, in 1988.
   A large number of investors are evidently betting that the
price of the company's shares will decline in the future. A
spokesman said that 25% of the company's shares are held as
shorts. In a short sale, an investor sells stock he doesn't
yet own by borrowing it from a broker to deliver it to the
purchaser. The investor hopes to make a profit by buying an
equal number of shares later at a lower price to replace the
borrowed stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Oil Prices Continue to Recover Despite Worry
   Over OPEC Output, Bearish Inventory Figures
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   World oil prices continued to recover from the week's
earlier losses despite uncertainties over OPEC output and
bearish figures on U.S. petroleum inventories.
   Although Brent blend crudes traded on the International
Petroleum Exchange in London were down as much as 15 cents a
barrel, prices of fuels and crude oil were generally stronger
in both spot and futures markets in Europe and the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In U.S. futures trading, prices were higher across the
energy complex. The July crude contract on the New York
Mercantile Exchange rose 24 cents a barrel to settle at
$16.92, near the $17 level that many traders consider to be
technically important. The August crude contract settled 18
cents higher at $17.57.
   These gains were hardly enough to offset the sharp drops
of Monday and Tuesday or the erosion of nearly $7 a barrel
that has taken place since the year's prices peaked in
January. But to a few traders they suggested a possible
turnaround in oil markets.
   "They probably signaled that the market has bottomed out,"
said Neil Chandi, president of Crescent International
Petroleum Ltd.
   But oil prices still are subject to the course of
production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. "All really depends on what happens between now
and mid-June," said Bahman Karbassioun, a Vienna-based
consultant on OPEC affairs.
   Mr. Karbassioun estimated that OPEC output dropped 300,000
to 400,000 barrels a day in May from the April level. He
looks for a similar decline this month based on preliminary
estimates.
   That would suggest OPEC output for June of around 23
million to 23.2 million barrels a day. That would be down
nearly one million barrels a day from the peak production of
24 million barrels a day earlier this year. Although OPEC
agreed in early May to curb quota cheating and reduce
production by nearly 1.5 million barrels a day, several oil
ministers conceded they expected cuts totaling one million
but that amount should be sufficient to satisfy jittery oil
markets.
   But will it be enough to satisfy Saudi Arabia? The kingdom
has insisted it will continue to adhere to its quota of 5.4
million barrels a day. But Saudis are known to be impatient
with Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, chronic
overproducers. Unless these two reduce output, the Saudis
aren't likely to continue producing within their quota much
beyond the late-July date of the next OPEC meeting.
   At the opening of futures trading yesterday, oil prices
appeared to be continuing to plunge because of large
increases in crude oil and fuel inventories reported late
Tuesday by the American Petroleum Institute. The July crude
contract hit a low of $16.33 a barrel before turning up.
   A late Tuesday statement by the Saudi oil minister, Hisham
Nazer, that the kingdom would continue respecting its quota
as promised was a contributing factor in yesterday's rally.
Also helping firm prices were rumors that a large cloud in
the Soviet Union was radioactive, but the reports have been
discounted.
   Also, there were rumors that an emergency meeting of OPEC
would be called to deal with the price and production
problems. But a senior OPEC official said: "I've heard the
rumors, but I'm not aware of any such meeting."
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: The price of soybean futures
contracts rose on an early buying flurry because of rumors
that a potentially radioactive cloud was passing over the
Soviet Union, but declined late in the trading day as news
reports played down the reports. The price of the July
soybean contract rose 1.25 cents overall to settle at $5.94 a
bushel. Though weather became warm and dry throughout the
Midwest, it wasn't enough to offset the unusually wet spring;
so favorable planting and growing conditions yesterday had
little impact on grain futures prices, analysts said.
However, any radiation problem likely to damage Soviet food
production capability and force the Soviets to buy U.S.
grain, as in the nuclear accident at Chernobyl, would drive
grain futures prices up, said Steve Freed, senior grain
analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. The mysterious Soviet
cloud continued to drift toward northern Finland last night
and was to be tested for radiation by Finnish authorities.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices fell back from Tuesday's
gains. August delivery gold was off $2.60 an ounce to
$361.00. July silver declined 3.3 cents an ounce to $5.0630.
July platinum eased $2.90 an ounce to $489.40. A stronger
dollar triggered selling of precious metals futures, an
analyst said. Also a factor, he said, were news reports of a
large cloud over the Soviet Union, which was first thought to
be caused by a nuclear explosion. The possibility of a
nuclear problem caused selling of precious metals futures on
the belief that if the Soviet Union has more difficulties to
contend with it might have to sell more gold, the analyst
said, although he conceded that scenario was stretching
things a bit. "Actually, what it shows is the susceptibility
of the market to even the thought that producer selling might
take place," he said.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Most futures contracts rose to new
life-of-contract highs and retained a part of their gains.
But the July 1990 contract, which represents the current
1989-90 crop, hit a new high and then declined to end with a
net loss of 0.24 cent a pound at 81.10 cents. Demand for
contracts early in the day was stimulated by a
smaller-than-expected crop report on cotton plantings in
China, the world's top cotton producer, Thomas Mueller,
analyst for Merrill Lynch, said. He noted that Chinese
plantings were placed at around 13.2 million acres, about
650,000 acres below industry expectations. However, Mr.
Mueller said: "I don't think the reported figure includes
cotton planted during the summer, which would add another
450,000 acres to the total. I think the actual planted
acreage will be closer to 13.7 million acres."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Imported Vehicle Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sales of imported cars, trucks and buses in Japan
increased 21.4% in May from a year earlier to 16,325 units, a
record for the month, the Japan Automobile Importers'
Association said.
   May marked the 77th consecutive month of year-to-year
sales growth. The latest rise was led by sales of midsized
cars from West Germany and the U.S. Sales of imported
passenger cars totaled 16,152 units in May, up 21.3% from a
year earlier, and accounting for 99% of overall import sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first five months of this year, sales of imported
vehicles grew 43.9% to 91,369 units from a year earlier.
Sales of passenger cars totaled 90,485 units, also up 43.9%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hooker Corp.:
   L.J. Hooker to Liquidate
   5 of Its 6 Sakowitz Stores
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.HKR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   L.J. Hooker Corp. said it will liquidate five of the six
stores that comprise Sakowitz Inc., a Houston-based specialty
chain.
   A sixth store, in a Hooker-owned mall outside Cincinnati
will remain open indefinitely to preserve the value of the
mall, according to a Hooker spokesman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sakowitz filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this
May. Atlanta-based L.J. Hooker, which is a unit of
Australia-based Hooker Corp., filed for Chapter 11 in August
1989. L.J. Hooker has since liquidated its B. Altman &amp; Co.
chain, as well as most of Bonwit Teller.
   Robert Sakowitz, former president and chief executive
officer of the retail chain, said in a statement that he
"deeply regrets" the end of a Houston institution and noted
that he had spent many months trying to raise capital to buy
the chain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ishikawajima-Harima:
   Tokyo Company to Develop
   New Boeing Jetliner Engine
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.ISH U.RR J.KWH BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. said that it
agreed with Rolls-Royce PLC of Britain to develop an engine
for Boeing Co.'s new 300-seat jetliner.
   Ishikawajima-Harima of Tokyo said the company will
shoulder 5% of the cost for developing the Trent 800 engine
for the Boeing 777 jet, estimated at about #400 million
($674.6 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rolls-Royce is reported urging another Japanese company,
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd., to join the development
project, which will begin this summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atlantic Richfield Co.:
   Company Sells Main Interest
   In California Oil, Gas Field
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC HPET
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atlantic Richfield Co. said it sold its 88% interest in
the South Cuyama oil and gas field to Santa Barbara Partners
of Oklahoma City. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Santa Barbara Partners includes Cuyama Oil and Gas Co.,
controlled by Stream Energy Inc, Oklahoma City; Trio
Petroleum Inc., Bakersfield, Calif.; and Hallador Production
Co., Denver. Stream Energy said it will be the field
operator.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The South Cuyama field produces about 1,000 barrels a day
of crude oil and 2.5 million cubic feet a day of natural gas
from 93 wells. The sale also included a gas treatment plant
in New Cuyama, Calif.
   Discovered in 1949 by Richfield Oil Co., a predecessor
company of Atlantic Richfield of Los Angeles, the field
reached peak production in 1951 and continued to be
significant through the early 1960s. Atlantic Richfield said
its California oil production is currently about 50,000
barrels a day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   New Mirror, Old Image: the 1920s Again?
   ---
   In 15-Year Pattern,
   '90 Aligns With '29
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Michael Belkin, a Salomon Brothers analyst,
looks at the historical record of the stock market and finds
it disconcerting.
   Only twice in this century has the Dow Jones Industrial
Average risen in five consecutive years. The first was in the
Roaring Twenties, 1924-1928; the other was the past five
years, 1985-1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comparing the 1920s with the past decade isn't new, but
Mr. Belkin's study adds a twist. "Most people who have
thought about this have wondered whether 1987 -- the year of
the modern stock market crash -- corresponded to 1929," he
says. The market's surge since 1987 has largely dispelled the
fear that a latter-day version of the 1930s Depression lurks
around the corner.
   "But looking at history, a different kind of pattern
emerges," Mr. Belkin says. Specifically, in every single year
since 1976, the stock market has moved the same direction --
rising or falling -- as it did 61 years earlier.
   Coincidence? Perhaps. But Mr. Belkin is in part a
technical analyst, and technical analysts pay a lot of
attention to past market patterns. And he says that 1929 --
the year of the Great Crash -- bears more resemblance to the
current year, 1990, than to 1987. Stock prices also were
rising for a while in 1929, but they ended the year down 17%.
They fell further in 1930 and dropped more sharply still in
1931.
   Mr. Belkin doesn't expect another Depression. His
conclusion may be stated simply: "It's late in the market
cycle and not the time for wild-eyed speculation."
   Fundamental investors may view as wild-eyed any attempt to
predict stock prices on the basis of what happened 61 years
earlier. But Mr. Belkin's study is noteworthy not so much
because markets repeat themselves in lockstep, but because
the behavior of people who participate in markets does tend
to recur.
   The real point of Mr. Belkin's exercise, he says, is that
he "very much believes in economic cycles and in market
cycles." Bull markets don't last forever; at least, the bull
markets in gold, oil, real estate, technology stocks, junk
bonds, Japanese equities and Donald Trump didn't last
forever.
   Why is that relevant? It is relevant because in the latest
leg of the stock market rally, it can be argued that people
have been buying because the market has been rising.
   "People are buying because the market is going up. That's
exactly what's going on," says Joseph McAlinden, head of
research at Dillon Read. "All the sophisticated money
managers will tell you that's true of the small investor but
that they're buying for different reasons. But the truth is,
it's the same. They don't want to miss the rise."
   This is worth pondering. If markets fell in 1929 (and for
three years thereafter) after a five-year bull market in the
'20s, why does the five-year bull market of the late 1980s
guarantee that markets will rise in 1990?
   It doesn't. Yet investors small and large are pouring
money into stocks, largely because they have been watching
the market rise.
   James Solloway, chief economist of Argus Research,
disputes this view. He says there is "something fundamental"
spurring the rise. "It's more than the herd instinct," he
says. "The fact is, we have had a sharp decline in interest
rates and a shift in perceptions" regarding the economy.
   Nonetheless, he concedes that the herd instinct "does help
to build a momentum." And, noting that cash levels of mutual
fund managers have reached a record, he says: "There is a
certain amount of pressure on money managers. Like the
lottery, you gotta be in it to win it."
   In Mr. McAlinden's view, the various reasons offered for
the market's rise are just rationalizations. "They have to
have a rationalization," he says. "Look at the flow of money
into mutual funds. Why are they buying now when they thought
it was a mistake to buy at 2500? They're buying because
they've seen the Dow go to 2900 and they want to get in.
Obviously, the values were better at 2500."
   The rationalizations, he says, obscure a point about the
behavior of people in markets. Generally, he says, people
extrapolate recent experience into the future. If the market
has been going up, people assume it will continue, just as it
did for most of the 1920s.
   "People think they're looking out the front-view mirror,"
Mr. McAlinden says. "Actually, markets drive through the
rear-view mirror."
   Note, for instance, a piece of research from
Robinson-Humphrey dated May 31. "Expect DJIA 3000 by Summer's
End," it says. Among the reasons for the "improvement" in the
"short-term outlook," Robinson-Humphrey states: "Stock market
moving averages rose above their 200-day moving averages
while volume expanded." In other words: the market rose,
therefore it will rise.
   A close cousin of rear-view thinking is the belief by
investors that they will recognize a change in the trend
before others do. Alas, Mr. McAlinden is not immune. His June
1990 report, "Frothy Finale," says:
   "Investors may logically question the wisdom of
participating now. But the forces . . . which could bring the
stock rise to an unpleasant ending are months or more down
the road. . . . For these reasons we continue to adivse a
fully invested posture toward equities, with emphasis on
GNP-sensitive groups" and smaller stocks.
   The premise of rear-view thinking was tested with Charles
Clough, chief strategist at Merrill Lynch. Mr. Clough,
frequently a contrarian (one might call him a front-view
driver), says: "Investors may be doing the wrong thing by
buying the S&amp;P 500. It has outperformed everything this year.
In fact, it's risen 18% a year in the '80s. The investor sees
that and thinks it's normal. It isn't."
   Mr. Clough is recommending smaller and "secondary" stocks
instead. Yet not even he seems unmoved by the Dow's rise.
   "We've got a valuation problem in a hard-nose fundamental
sense," he says. "The market isn't underpriced. But this
year, it's been smarter to follow the sentiment indicators
than the fundamental indicators."
   Does it matter, then, that the S&amp;P 500 is priced at 17
times earnings, which may be a bit on the high side
historically and compares with a recent overall market
multiple of around 16? "The market has been able to ignore
that," Mr. Clough says. "It makes it very hard to suggest
when it's going to stop."
   Is he, then, bearish?
   "The market's telling you not to be," he says.
   Of course, the market said the same thing in 1929.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Judge Chides Lawyers Facing Suit
   For Thousands of Asbestos Claims
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   RAY FLFE SM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge excoriated two lawyers who filed thousands
of asbestos-related claims, saying greed motivated them to
solicit and pursue many cases that apparently were
groundless.
   The two California lawyers, Gordon A. Stemple and Richard
F. Gerry, represented 6,000 asbestos claimants against
Raymark Industries Inc., an asbestos maker that paid $16
million to tire workers nationwide for injuries claimed by
Messrs. Stemple and Gerry. The company then sued the two
lawyers in 1987 challenging the validity of the claims and
alleging fraud and racketeering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In response to a pretrial motion seeking dismissal of the
suit, Judge Patrick F. Kelly, of Wichita, Kan., answered with
a scalding 63-page opinion. He accused the two lawyers -- and
three doctors they employed to evaluate the claims -- of
fraud, deceptive solicitation and "reckless disregard of the
truth."
   "It appears that this unusual, distasteful and
disappointing case emanates from the attorneys' greed, which
has clouded their professional judgment; i.e., their
indifference as to whether any of the 6,000 claims meet
professional standards or not," Judge Kelly wrote.
   Messrs. Stemple and Gerry formed the National Tire Workers
Litigation Project in 1986, equipped vans with X-ray machines
and traveled to Raymark tire plants across the country in the
"examobiles" to conduct massive employee examinations. In his
order, the judge called the technique an "unethical
nationwide solicitation process" and charged that the three
doctors involved compromised their professional
responsibility by using flawed screening procedures to churn
groundless claims.
   "There is evidence in this case which indicates that
{Messrs.} Stemple and Gerry violated ethical obligations by
conducting a contrived and deceptive solicitation program,"
the judge wrote.
   Reached at his office in Century City, Calif., Mr. Stemple
said he disagreed with the opinion and predicted that he, Mr.
Gerry and the three doctors will prevail when the case goes
before a jury. Mr. Gerry, of San Diego, was out of town and
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Raymark was a unit of Raytech Corp., a Bridgeport, Conn.,
maker of fastners and brake and clutch materials, that
stripped the company of its non-asbestos-related assets and
spun it off in 1988 to distance itself from asbestos
litigation. Raymark has been forced into bankruptcy-court
proceedings under the weight of more than 68,000
asbestos-related claims. Last year, Raytech sought
bankruptcy-court protection.
   The company has been known for particularly aggressive
litigation tactics, said Mr. Stemple, pointing to the suit
against him as the most recent example. But Raymark lawyer
William L. Myers Jr., of the Philadelphia firm of Ballard,
Spahr, Andrews &amp; Ingersoll, said Judge Kelly's opinion was a
"timely expression of judicial disapproval of mass-produced
lawsuits."
   ---
   STUDENT-LOAN INQUIRY leads to indictment of ex-official at
Florida thrift.
   A federal grand jury in Tampa, Fla., returned a 25-count
indictment against Jeffrey A. Flatten, charging that he
conspired to defraud the U.S. Department of Education in
connection with its Guaranteed Student Loan Program. The
program makes low-interest loans available to students for
college expenses.
   Mr. Flatten, who headed Florida Federal Savings Bank's
student-loan division, was also charged with committing mail
fraud and stealing government funds.
   The indictment follows Florida Federal's conviction by the
federal jury for falsifying statements related to
government-backed student loans. Last month, in what is
believed to be the largest student-loan case ever prosecuted,
the federal jury found the company guilty of 43 counts of
falsifying statements between November 1986 and July 1987.
Two former officers were convicted of falsifying statements.
   In 1988, Florida Federal came under scrutiny for allegedly
filing as many as 17,000 fraudulent insurance claims on $35
million in student loans. The investigation helped spark a
management shake-up that resulted in the resignation of the
thrift's chairman.
   The indictment against Mr. Flatten alleges that from
November 1986 to September 1987 he conspired with other
officers and employees of Florida Federal to submit the
17,000 fraudulent claims. Those claims, the indictment says,
were supported by documents falsely reflecting that Florida
Federal performed required collection activity on the loans.
   In St. Petersburg, Fla., Florida Federal officials hadn't
any comment. Mr. Flatten couldn't be reached.
   ---
   METROMEDIA WINS damages of $46 million in fraud suit.
   Metromedia Co. sued William D. Fugazy in 1987 for
allegedly fraudulently overstating the value of Fugazy
Express Inc., a limousine service that Metromedia acquired in
1985. Fugazy Express, which Metromedia owned for two years,
is in bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   In the civil-racketeering suit, Metromedia claimed Mr.
Fugazy overstated the value of the company by $7 million,
said Martin Shelton, an attorney for the Secaucus, N.J.,
communications company. Mr. Shelton said Metromedia,
controlled by billionaire John Kluge, had to invest an
additional $30 million in the company because of the alleged
misrepresentations.
   The jury hearing the case in federal court in Manhattan,
N.Y., awarded damages of $15 million, which Judge Robert
Carter trebled under racketeering law.
   Anthony Princi, an attorney for Mr. Fugazy, plans to
appeal the decision.
   ---
   FEES MOUNT in Southmark Corp. bankruptcy proceedings.
   Lawyers alone are seeking more than $8.7 million in fees
in the reorganization of the real-estate and thrift concern.
Investment bankers and accountants aren't far behind with fee
requests totaling $7.7 million, bringing the total
professional fees to $16.5 million up to March 31.
   "That is a big chunk of assets out of this estate that
would otherwise be available to pay creditors," U.S. Trustee
George McElreath said during a hearing on the fees before
Dallas Bankruptcy Judge Steven Felsenthal.
   Southmark has proposed paying its creditors about $300
million in cash, notes and stock to settle debts of $2
billion. The company's counsel alone are seeking almost $6.5
million in fees, with the largest single amount, $3.4
million, to go to the New York law firm of Shearman &amp;
Sterling. Judge Felsenthal took the fee applications under
consideration.
   In his comments to Judge Felsenthal, Mr. McElreath cited
another Dallas bankruptcy judge who frequently criticizes
lawyers' high fees by saying they're "buying a Cadillac when
they could buy a Ford."
   "In this case," Mr. McElreath said, "we're paying for an
Indy race car."
   ---
   ARNOLD &amp; PORTER will market services with defense
consultant.
   The Washington, D.C., law firm entered a "teaming
agreement" with Interpar, a new defense-consulting firm that
will specialize in accords between foreign governments and
companies to market arms to more than one country. The
venture is aimed at helping the defense and aerospace
industries adjust to the decline in defense budgets here and
abroad as the Cold War winds down.
   In recent years, Arnold &amp; Porter has launched several
subsidiaries that perform non-legal work, including the
consulting firm Apco Associates. But according to Arnold &amp;
Porter partner Jeffrey H. Smith, a former general counsel to
the Senate Armed Services Committee, Interpar isn't an Arnold
&amp; Porter subsidiary, and has no financial links to the law
firm. Interpar Chairman Milton Lohr and President Vitalij
Garber are former high-ranking defense officials in the
Reagan and Carter administrations.
   Under the "teaming agreement," lawyers for Arnold &amp; Porter
will make joint presentations with Interpar to potential
clients. The two firms will also notify their own clients
that the firms are available to work together, although
clients will be required to hire the concerns separately.
According to Mr. Smith, the company determined that separate
transactions are required by the legal canons of ethics.
   Separately, a top Arnold &amp; Porter trade litigator, Patrick
Macrory, will leave the firm for the Washington office of
Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &amp; Feld.
   According to Akin Gump Managing Partner Bruce McLean, Mr.
Macrory will be working on trade matters in the firm's
Washington office and also in a new 25-lawyer Brussels office
that the firm opened last year.
   ---
   FDIC SUES LAWYERS: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is
seeking $30 million in damages from three Texas lawyers who
advised the defunct Western Savings Association of Dallas to
make a series of loans that allegedly violated federal
regulations. Named in the suit, filed in Dallas federal
court, are Waco lawyers Michael J. Vaughn and Donald B. Lynn
and Austin lawyer A. Rick Hightower. Mr. Lynn said, "It's our
position that the whole case is without merit, and we are
going to litigate it."
   ---
   Timothy Noah and Christi Harlan contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Toro Co.:
   Firm Puts Fiscal '90 Profit
   Below Analysts' Projections
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   TTC
</CO>
<LP>
   Toro Co. said it anticipates that net income for its
fiscal year ending July 31 will be about $1.60 a share, or 20
to 30 cents less than some analysts' forecasts.
   Last year, the Bloomington, Minn., maker of outdoor
maintenance and irrigation equipment earned $22.1 million, or
$2.10 a share, on sales of $643.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement released after the close of New York Stock
Exchange trading yesterday, Toro blamed its decline on
continuing wet and cool weather in many of its major markets.
It also cited costs from consolidating operations of Lawn-Boy
Inc., the lawn-mower manufacturer it acquired last year from
Outboard Marine Corp.
   Toro said its problems will cause it to post a loss of
about 15 cents a share for the fiscal fourth quarter. In the
year-earlier quarter, Toro earned $2.3 million, or 21 cents a
share, on sales of $137.5 million.
   The company added that its woes probably will delay
product shipments and hurt earnings in the first fiscal
quarter of 1991.
   Toro closed yesterday at $28.25, up 37.5 cents, in Big
Board composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   3Com Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS COMS
</CO>
<LP>
   3COM Corp. (SANTA CLARA, Calif.) -- Eric Benhamou,
president and chief operating officer of this network-systems
company, was appointed a director. Mr. Benhamou, 34 years
old, succeeds Robert Metcalfe, who retired Tuesday from the
board and his position as marketing vice president. Mr.
Metcalfe is now a private consultant to 3Com.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           4.98%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.73%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.88%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.89%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.95%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Texas Air Corp.:
   Company Changes Name,
   Shareholders Elect Directors
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Texas Air Corp. said it would change its name to
Continental Air Holdings Inc.
   The move reflects the company's consolidation of its
holdings chiefly to its Continental Airlines unit. Texas Air,
Houston, owned Eastern Airlines until a bankruptcy judge in
April appointed a trustee to run the unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The name change, announced at the company's annual
meeting, will take effect Monday.
   Shareholders also approved the addition of three new
directors to the Texas Air board to represent preferred
shareholders. Texas Air was forced to add the new board
members because its loan covenants called for them if the
company failed to pay dividends on its preferred stock for
six consecutive quarters. Texas Air stopped paying dividends
in the fourth quarter of 1988.
   The new members are Gerald Tsai Jr., former chairman of
Primerica; James A. Lawrence, chairman of LEK Partnership;
and Lindsay Fox, a former Eastern Airlines board member.
Texas Air boardmember Robert Garrett also was appointed to
represent preferred holders.
   Shareholders also re-elected the current board members.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   TEXAS AIR Corp. will change its name to Continental
Airlines Holdings Inc. effective Monday, and its stock will
then trade on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol
CTA. The new name was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ June 8, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Niagara Mohawk,
   4 Other Utilities Settle
   New York Litigation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   NMK LIL NGE RGS CNH GE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. and four other
utilities agreed to absorb a total of $263 million of cost
overruns on their Nine Mile Point 2 nuclear power plant as
part of a final settlement of litigation with New York state.
   In Albany, Paul L. Gioia, analyst at First Albany Corp.,
said the settlement should have only a "minor impact" on
Niagara Mohawk, the largest plant owner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nine Mile Point 2 went into commercial operation in April
1988, some eight years behind schedule and billions of
dollars over its estimated cost. Since going into service, it
has been hit with equipment and other operating problems that
have led to numerous lawsuits involving defendants that
include the plant's contractors.
   Yesterday, the New York state Attorney General's office
said that customers of the five utilities will receive $28
million in refunds. That sum represents money previously
collected from customers to cover the cost of buying
replacement power from other utilities when Nine Mile Point 2
was forced out of service in October 1988.
   Niagara Mohawk said its customers will receive the largest
refund, about $18 million, reflecting the utility's 41% stake
in the generating facility. Other plant owners are Long
Island Lighting Co., 18%; New York State Electric &amp; Gas
Corp., 18%; Rochester Gas &amp; Electric Corp., 14%; and Central
Hudson Gas &amp; Electric Corp., 9%.
   The five utilities also will absorb $203 million in
construction costs that they had wanted to pass on to their
customers. Niagara Mohawk said its share of this disallowance
will total $66 million, but it added that its books already
reflect the writedown.
   In addition, the utilities gave up their fight to increase
the cap on how much of Nine Mile Point 2's total $6.59
billion cost they could collect in rate increases from
customers. The now-permanent $4.16 billion cap was set in
1986.
   A separate part of the agreement calls for General
Electric Co. to provide $32 million of maintenance and
equipment on the plant to settle litigation with the
utilities arising from the plant's problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Reed International PLC:
   Annual Pretax Profit Rose
   11%, Lifted by U.S. Results
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   U.REE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Reed International PLC, a British publishing company, said
pretax profit for the year ended March 31 rose 11% to #302
million ($509.3 million) from #271 million a year earlier, at
the top of market expectations and boosted by strong results
in the enlarged U.S. business publishing unit.
   Sales edged up 1.5% to #1.58 billion from #1.55 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Increases of 11% also were posted in profit after taxes
and minority interests to #211.3 million from #189.7 million,
and earnings per share to 38.2 pence from 34.5 pence. Net
profit attributable to shareholders fell 55% to #211 million
from #498 million; the year-earlier figure was boosted by an
extraordinary gain of #308.4 million largely from the sale of
a business.
   In the U.S., where, among other acquisitions last year,
Reed in November paid $303.7 million to buy the legal
publisher Martindale-Hubbell Inc., operating profit on
business publishing soared 76% to #80.2 million, and sales
increased 45% to #464 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- GPA Group Ltd.:
   Irish Plane Lessor's Profit
   Jumped 59% in Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GPA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   GPA Group Ltd., an aircraft lessor based in Shannon,
Ireland, said net income for the year ended March 31 rose 59%
to $242 million from $152 million a year earlier.
   Revenue surged 88% to $1.96 billion from $1.04 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fiscal fourth-quarter net jumped 49% to $62.6 million from
a year earlier, on revenue that soared 125% to $714.5
million.
   GPA said it gained 20 new aircraft lease customers in
fiscal 1990. At fiscal year end, its portfolio stood at 240
airplanes on lease, with 68 airlines in 41 countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Cuts
   New York State
   Debt Rating
   ---
   Agency Expresses Concern
   On Financial Condition,
   Economic Uncertainties
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its
rating on New York state general obligation debt, expressing
concern about the state's financial condition, its heavy debt
load, and economic uncertainties in the region.
   The ratings agency lowered to single-A from single-A-1 its
rating on $4.27 billion of general obligation and fully
guaranteed bonds. Only two states, Louisiana and
Massachusetts, have a lower rating.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York has seen its short and long-term credit ratings
shrink this year amid efforts to balance the budget against
spending pressures, regional economic slowdown, and
resistance to higher taxes. State legislators in late May
agreed on a $49.8 billion budget and tax package.
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. jolted the bond market in March
when it cut its New York state rating two notches, to
single-A from double-A-minus. At that time, Moody's rated the
state's long-term debt single-A-1, a medium-grade ranking it
had granted in 1986. During the previous decade, Moody's had
rated New York state single-A.
   Like S&amp;P, Moody's in March had lowered its rating on
short-term notes, but held up issuing a new long-term rating
while awaiting results of the budget negotiations. The latest
announcement by Moody's puts the two major ratings agencies
in agreement for long-term debt ratings as well.
   In response to the latest ratings, Dall W. Forsythe, state
budget director, said the decision by Moody's "was not
unexpected, particularly after a six-week delay in enacting a
budget." He said the state's new budget includes a number of
fiscal reforms, including eliminating spring borrowing and
retiring an accumulated deficit, as well as imposing a
spending cap. Thus, he added, "we are confident that as the
fiscal reforms achieve their intended effects, the rating
agencies will re-evaluate and restore the state's credit
rating."
   Moody's assigned a MIG-2 rating to a $4.1 billion issue of
tax anticipation notes expected to be sold June 8. It
affirmed at single-A its rating on limited-liability lease
and contractual obligation issues. The state's gross debt
totals about $26.2 billion.
   In assigning an SP-1 rating to the new notes issue, S&amp;P
affirmed its single-A general obligation debt rating and
other ratings on about $17.4 billion of New York state
obligations.
   Both ratings agencies expressed reservations about the
state's ability to make good on its promised intentions of
improving its budget situation. "Unfortunately, the state's
track record in deviating from prudent fiscal paramaters"
isn't so great, said Hyman Grossman, a managing director at
S&amp;P.
   The lower rating presumably will make it more costly for
the state to borrow in the future. "The lower rating would
indicate a higher degree of risk," said George Leung, vice
president and managing director of state ratings at Moody's.
   To boost its credit ratings, he said, the state would have
to show "improvement in its financial condition," including
avoidance of one-time measures that contribute to problems in
future years.
   Moody's noted that the state's budget balance "remains
narrow, measures intended to add revenues are reliant on
taxes that have proven difficult to predict, and internal
sources of liquidity have eroded."
   And, it added, "spending pressures pose a risk,
particularly in the areas of Medicaid, social services and
corrections. With the election of all major state
office-holders in November, the recent budget process did not
resort to spending cuts in a substantial way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Motorola Inc. Says Japan
   Picks Its Voice Technology
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MOT
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Motorola Inc. said the Japanese government had,
as expected, officially chosen its digital voice technology
for part of Japan's emerging digital mobile-phone standard.
   As reported, Motorola's coding technology last month
performed best in tests conducted by a division of the
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. Seven other
companies, including Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Co.,
participated in the contest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Motorola and government officials emphasized that the
company's technology would be used to draft part of the
standard, and that other aspects of the total standard would
be drafted by other companies as well.
   An official news conference announcing the decision is
scheduled for today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Schering AG:
   Company Won't Withdraw
   Or Change Contraceptive
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SCH
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Schering AG said it won't withdraw from the market or
change an oral contraceptive it has been selling for three
years, despite negative publicity about side effects of the
drug.
   The big West German pharmaceuticals and chemicals group's
shares took a battering in trading on the Frankfurt exchange
yesterday on investor concerns after a German television
report late Tuesday about cases of side effects from
Schering's Femovan oral contraceptive in West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman reached at Schering's West Berlin headquarters
said the company "sees no reason to make a change in the
risk/benefit analysis {for the product} now from at the time
of introduction in 1987." The drug first appeared in West
Germany in 1987 and by 1989 had been marketed under various
names throughout Europe.
   Schering expects to win approval from the Food and Drug
Administration to market the contraceptive in the U.S. in
1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Court Ruling Gives Industry New Hope
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA CPC OMCM EUROP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Alcohol and tobacco advertising foes lobbying for a
legislative crackdown may find the going rough in the wake of
a new Supreme Court ruling.
   Many in the ad community breathed a sigh of relief earlier
this week as the high court, in a decision centered on
advertising by a lawyer, made it harder to restrict any kind
of truthful advertising. The decision may well throw a wrench
in the efforts of several legislators to severely restrict or
even ban tobacco and alcohol advertising altogether.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The bottom line is, the ruling means people shouldn't be
quick to conclude that the court is going to permit excessive
regulation or banning of truthful advertising," says Richard
Kurnit, a lawyer specializing in advertising at New York firm
Frankfurt, Garvis, Klein &amp; Selz. "There still is life in the
First Amendment protection of advertising."
   The case at issue, Gary E. Peel vs. Attorney Registration
and Disciplinary Commission of Illinois, concerns a lawyer
who on his stationery listed his certification by a trial
lawyers' group. The state's review board censured the lawyer,
Mr. Peel, for violating its rules forbidding lawyers to
advertise themselves as "certified" or "specialists." The
Illinois Supreme Court agreed.
   The U.S. Supreme Court, though, narrowly held in favor of
Mr. Peel in a 5-4 decision. In its ruling, it held that
"truthful advertising related to lawful activities is
entitled to First Amendment protections." It said that while
a state may prohibit misleading advertising, the letterhead
wasn't "inherently misleading."
   The ruling comes at a time when the industry is facing
more, and better supported, attempts to restrict advertising
of legal products than at perhaps any time in the last few
decades. Especially hard-hit have been tobacco and alcohol
ads.
   At least half a dozen pending bills alone on Capitol Hill
would restrict tobacco ads. Bills sponsored by congressmen
Tom Luken (D., Ohio) and Mike Synar (D., Okla.) would ban the
use of colors or pictures in tobacco ads, basically
permitting only all-text ads. Those bills, along with one
proposed by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), would also allow
state and local governments to come up with their own ad
restrictions. Rep. Henry Waxman (D., Calif.) plans to
introduce a bill of his own restricting tobacco advertising
late next week.
   Tobacco and alcohol foes have bolstered their arguments
with previous Supreme Court cases that appeared to allow
greater restrictions on truthful advertising. The most
important of those came in 1986, with Posadas de Puerto Rico
Association vs. Tourism Co. In that case, the court upheld
Puerto Rico's ban on advertising gambling to Puerto Ricans --
even though gambling is legal and the advertising wasn't
false or misleading.
   The Supreme Court appeared to favor ad restrictions again
last year in a case involving State University of New York
students who attempted to sell Tupperware on campus. Both
decisions prompted widespread fears in the ad industry that
alcohol and tobacco foes would make headway in their attempts
to crack down on advertising.
   With this week's ruling on the Peel case, though, some ad
lawyers say the Supreme Court appears to be offering stronger
protection to advertising, in a blow to proposed legislation.
"The Peel case clearly presages a death sentence for this
type of overly broad governmental regulation," asserts Daniel
Jaffe, executive vice president of the Association of
National Advertisers, a trade group.
   Since the Posadas decision, "people who wanted to restrict
commercial speech read it as giving them the green light,"
adds David S. Versfelt, an attorney with the New York firm
Donovan, Leisure, Newton &amp; Irvine. "This opinion, I would
argue, suggests that there isn't a green light to restrict
truthful commercial speech."
   But Douglas Wood, an advertising lawyer at the New York
firm Hall, Dickler, Lawler, Kent, and Friedman, criticizes
the ad industry for putting what he sees as an
over-optimistic spin on the decision. He points out that the
ruling basically split the court, and that there was
disagreement even among the slim majority. The decision also
barely mentioned the Posadas and SUNY decisions so important
to advertisers, relying instead on much narrower precedent
cases pertaining only to lawyer advertising.
   "The industry is desperate to find a case that
re-establishes all the rights to commercial free speech that
Posadas and SUNY undermined," he says. "I would welcome such
a case. But I don't see how anyone can see this case to be
the answer we've been looking for."
   ---
   Backer Wins Mazola
                                                                                                       

   Best Foods awarded its $10 million to $15 million Mazola
account to Backer Spielvogel Bates. Backer will take ad
responsibility for Mazola margarine and corn oil, as well as
Mazola no-stick cooking spray and Karo syrup.
   The account had previously been handled by Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi Advertising. Both New York agencies are units of
Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co. Best Foods is a unit of CPC
International.
   Best Foods, which is based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., also
named Backer to handle its grocery products unit's spot TV
buying assignment. It named BBDO, an Omnicom agency, to
handle its network TV buying job. BBDO was also awarded
several new product assignments.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI CONSULTING: Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Co.'s consulting
operations will fetch a total of just #80 million (US$134.9
million) to #100 million (US$168.7 million), Robert
Louis-Dreyfus, the beleaguered ad company's new chairman,
told analysts. When Saatchi first put its consulting units up
for sale a year ago, analysts had expected them to bring in
#250 million to #350 million. Saatchi earlier this week
announced plans to sell its largest consulting unit, Hay
Group, for a total of about $81 million.
                                                                                                       

   FRENCH AD BAN: France's Cabinet voted to ban all tobacco
advertising in the country effective Jan. 1, 1993, the
Associated Press reported. The bill, which was proposed in
March and is expected to win easy approval in France's
National Assembly, would be among the world's toughest
anti-smoking laws, banning all tobacco advertising, including
tobacco companies' sponsorship of sports and cultural events.
                                                                                                       

   KETCHUM: Hank Seiden, chairman of Ketchum Advertising, New
York, was named to the additional post of executive vice
president of Ketchum Communications, the agency's parent
company.
                                                                                                       

   ADWEEK: David W. Bentley was named director of corporate
advertising sales at Hearst Magazines. Mr. Bentley had been
senior vice president and publishing director of Adweek
magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Life-Insurance Breaks: Being Methuselah Isn't Enough
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TA
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Life insurance companies are increasingly drawing a
distinction between people who are basically healthy and
those they consider "preferred" risks.
   The idea is that people whose health and life style make
them likely to live longer than others of the same age and
sex deserve to get a break on their insurance premiums.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The difference can be significant. On a term policy, where
the savings is most visible, preferred status can cut annual
premiums by as much as 35%, compared with the same company's
premiums for a "standard" buyer.
   But while some life insurance buyers are getting
especially low rates, some others are apparently getting
taken in by misleading claims.
   "There are agents who quote preferred rates and don't
disclose that, first of all, they are preferred rates, and,
second, what it takes to get those rates," says Jeffrey
Arnett, general manager of InsuranceQuote Services Inc., a
Chandler, Ariz., agency that sells term insurance by
telephone and mail.
   William N. Scott, a vice president in Transamerica Corp.'s
life insurance operation, agrees that preferred rates are
sometimes "misused" by agents who don't tell clients the
whole story. "It can leave an impression of almost a
bait-and-switch thing" when such a buyer is denied preferred
status, he says.
   The qualifications for preferred treatment differ from
insurer to insurer, and a person may qualify at one company
and not another. In general, people can't get preferred rates
if they are overweight, have medical problems such as high
blood pressure or engage in such hazardous activities as
flying their own planes.
   The special rates are also usually limited to people who
don't smoke. But some companies offer preferred smoker rates
that are lower than their usual smoker rates and higher than
rates for nonsmokers.
   Some of the factors that can disqualify an applicant from
preferred status may come as a surprise. For instance, some
insurers exclude people who have gotten more than a couple of
speeding tickets in recent years. Others rule out people who
are healthy but who have had an immediate relative die before
age 60 of a heart problem or other specified ailment.
   Insurance buyers may also be denied preferred status
because of conditions they aren't aware of, such as a high
cholesterol level uncovered through a blood test.
   Just how many people actually make the preferred grade?
That depends on whom you ask.
   Issuers such as San Francisco-based Transamerica and
Midland Mutual Life Insurance Co., a big term insurer based
in Columbus, Ohio, say more than 80% of their nonsmoking
business is being written preferred. But Ted Bernstein, a
Chicago life-insurance consultant, says only 20% to 30% of
the clients he directs to those firms and others qualify for
preferred rates. Mr. Arnett's estimation is a similar 15% to
25%.
   While being accepted as a preferred risk clearly makes an
insurance buyer feel good, some people can be misled by the
designation, says Lawrence E. Worthey, chief underwriter for
Midland Mutual. Some companies' preferred rates are no lower
than some other insurers' standard charges, he says. Yet
buyers usually opt for the policies labeled preferred.
   "What's the difference?" he asks. "The buyer does not want
to be considered not preferred."
   There are other ways as well that distinctions between
preferred and standard status can trip up unsuspecting
insurance buyers.
   For instance, Peter C. Katt, a West Bloomfield, Mich.,
insurance adviser, encountered an unusual situation in which
an insurance agent had a financial incentive not to propose
preferred coverage to people who might qualify. The insurance
involved: the Preferred Ultimate One and regular Ultimate One
whole-life policies from Jackson National Life Insurance Co.
of Lansing, Mich.
   Unlike most companies, Jackson National has some policies
that are only for "preferred" risks and other, similar
products that are written on a standard basis. In the case of
the Ultimate One contracts, an agent gets twice as high a
commission for selling the standard product.
   Mr. Katt suspects that's why a law-firm client of his was
not offered the preferred contract by a previous agent. The
two policies "exist side by side so the agents can choose the
level of commission they want to earn on a particular case,"
he charges. Mr. Katt's client couldn't be reached.
   William A. Gray, a Jackson National vice president, says
he can't comment on the specific case. But the Jackson
National official also explains that the commission
"necessarily had to come down" from the level in the standard
product in order to offer very competitive rates to preferred
risks.
   "Clearly a person who can qualify for a preferred-risk
product ought to buy it when it's available," Mr. Gray says.
He says he believes agents rarely propose the standard policy
to someone who might qualify as preferred -- but also says
that there is no mechanism for Jackson National to intervene
if they do. "We can only issue a policy based on what is
applied for," he says.
   For people who don't qualify for preferred status at a
given company, the best advice may be to check the rates at
companies that don't make a preferred-standard distinction.
Their standard rates may be lower because they are based on a
diversified population, not just applicants who have failed
the preferred test.
   Mr. Bernstein, president of Assured Enterprises Ltd.,
recently worked with a 37-year-old smoker who was seeking a
$1 million term policy with a level premium for the first
five years. The man applied for one company's preferred
coverage at $1,720 a year; he was rejected and offered
standard coverage at $2,320. He ended up paying $2,060 to a
company that doesn't segment its smoker class.
   Mr. Bernstein often recommends that clients apply to two
or more insurers at once or sequentially -- something they
can usually do without multiple physical exams or blood
tests, he notes.
   ---
    Qualifying for `Preferred' Rates Can Mean Big Savings
                                                                                                       

   IT'S BETTER TO BE PREFERRED         SOME REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                       

   First-year premiums on a $250,000   -- No tobacco use in
   term life-insurance policy that's      any form in past
   renewable annually for a 45-year-      12 months
   old man or a 49-year-old woman,
   depending on whether the person     -- No hazardous
   buying the policy is classified        sports (such as
   as preferred, a regular non-smoker     sky diving,
   or a smoker.                           racing)
                                                                                                       

   Preferred               $307.50     -- Not a private
                                          pilot
   Non-Smoker              $427.50
                                       -- Not a diabetic
   Smoker                  $605.00
                                       -- No history of drug
                                          or alcohol abuse
                                                                                                       

                                       -- Blood pressure
                                          doesn't exceed
                                          140/90
                                                                                                       

                                       -- Cholesterol count
                                          doesn't exceed 250
                                          (220 in some
                                          cases)
                                                                                                       

   (Rates and requirements are those of North American Co.
for Life &amp; Health Insurance; rates and requirements of other
companies will vary.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   California's Royalty
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Tuesday's defeat of two initiatives on the California
ballot that would have limited gerrymandering is a big
political coup for Willie Brown, the powerful Democratic
Assembly Speaker. For now anyway, his political castle is
secure.
   In 1984, Mr. Brown defeated a similar reform effort,
backed by the liberal group Common Cause, with demagogic TV
commercials featuring actors Jack Lemmon and Jack Klugman.
Afterward, the Fresno Bee reported he called a news
conference and boasted that the ads represented "the most
extensive collection of con jobs I've ever seen."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This year, Speaker Brown pulled out all the stops to kill
two new redistricting initiatives. One backed by the League
of Women Voters would have set up a bipartisan commission to
draw more compact and competitive districts. Another would
have required a two-thirds, rather than a majority, vote of
the Legislature to pass a redistricting plan. The Democratic
majority in the Legislature is based largely on the spoils of
a 1982 gerrymander, which more or less ended competitive
elections in California. In the 400 races for the state
Legislature since then, only seven incumbents have lost.
   This time, Speaker Brown took no chances that the drawing
of the post-1990 Census lines would threaten his power base.
He once again sent forth a series of emotion-drenched ads
that tied redistricting reform to corporate greed and
polluters.
   The most widely used featured actor James Garner of "The
Rockford Files," and deserves its own niche in a Museum of
Propaganda. It began with the sounds of a ship crashing,
followed by images of the Exxon Valdez on the rocks and a
dead, oil-covered otter being pulled out of the muck. Mr.
Garner said the two initiatives "could let big business
exploit our oceans, trees and few remaining wilderness
areas."
   When pressed to explain the logic of tying dead otters in
Alaska with redistricting reform in California, Karin Caves,
a spokeswoman for the anti-initiative campaign, said the
Garner ad was based on the fact that backers of the
initiatives are among "the worst polluters in California."
She said the initiatives would further threaten the
environment because they could result in more Republicans
being elected.
   Carole Wagner Vallianos, president of the California
League of Women Voters, called the ads "an attempt to confuse
the voters." They worked. Anti-gerrymander sentiment in the
state was strong: Last year a Field Poll found 82% of
Californians opposed the concept of gerrymandering, and both
initiatives led in the polls only two weeks ago.
   But to fight the threat to their duchies, incumbents
raised more than $5 million. Democratic Members of Congress
also pressured several corporations not to support
redistricting reform. One executive told Sacramento Bee
columnist Dan Walters that he was given "a pretty stern
lecture" by one Congressman. "We were told that anyone who
gave wouldn't get any help," he said.
   The gerrymandering issue isn't going away.
   This week, a group of Hispanic and liberal activists
convinced a federal court that Los Angeles County supervisors
had unconstitutionally gerrymandered their districts so that
no Hispanic has been elected to any of the five seats.
Federal Judge David Kenyon will further rule today on whether
to throw out the results of two supervisor races that were
held Tuesday under the current lines. The gerrymandering was
clearly designed to protect the Democratic and Republican
incumbents who drew the lines, and only had the incidental
effect of reducing the chances of a Hispanic victory.
   The courts are not likely to let liberals have it both
ways. Gerrymandering for partisan purposes of limiting voter
choice and competition is just as wrong as gerrymandering
that denies minorities a fair chance at representation. In
1987, the Supreme Court indicated that drawing district lines
to deny a political minority its rights can also be
unconstitutional. Speaker Brown may yet lose what he and his
merry fellows now regard as a divine right.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Former Communist Chiefs
   Detained by Czech Police
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -- The government rounded up
at least seven former Communist Party leaders yesterday in a
move likely to hurt the chances of Communist candidates two
days before the nation's first free election since 1946.
   The party is running a distant third in opinion polls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Detained was Vasil Bilak, the former party official
thought to have invited in the Soviet troops who crushed the
"Prague Spring" reform movement of Alexander Dubcek in 1968.
At least six other former senior Communists were questioned.
   In another political development, Josef Bartoncik, a major
Christian Democratic politician accused of having been a
secret police informer, was denounced by the minister charged
with investigating past secret police operations and urged to
quit politics.
   Yesterday's developments seemed likely to benefit the
Civic Forum movement of President Vaclav Havel, already
favored to win tomorrow's elections. The Christian Democrats
are running second in the surveys.
   The state news agency CTK said Mr. Bilak was held "on
suspicion of committing serious criminal activity."
   Prominent Communists questioned yesterday included former
president and party chief Gustav Husak; Milos Jakes, the
party chief ousted in last winter's pro-democracy revolution;
and former Premier Jozef Lenart, state TV news said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Thames Water PLC:
   Utility, Recently Privatized,
   Says Profit Topped Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TWT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thames Water PLC, one of Britain's recently privatized
utilities, reported a pretax profit of #179 million ($106.1
million) for the year ending March 31, topping the forecast
it made last November.
   The pretax profit compares with the #170 million forecast
in the privatization prospectus published a month ahead of
the December share sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results aren't directly comparable with a year
earlier, when pretax profit totaled #207 million, due to
changes in the firm's capital structure and the exclusion of
the government-owned National Rivers Authority from the
latest year.
   Sales rose 9.5% to #611 million from the #588 million
Thames gathered under government ownership a year earlier.
   Profit after taxes totaled #166.3 million, while per-share
earnings were 43.6 pence.
   Extraordinary charges of #18.7 million, compared with #3.2
million a year earlier, were comprised of #11.3 million in
costs related to the share sale and #7.4 million relating to
unfunded pension liabilities.
   Net profit attributable to shareholders after the
extraordinary items stood at #147.6 million in the latest
year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Consumers Still Escaping Credit Squeeze
   ---
   But Fed Data Expected
   To Show Borrowing Slows
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ASO SNC LNBC NCB
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The credit squeeze that is making it hard
for some businesses to get loans hasn't pinched consumers so
far.
   Consumer borrowing has slowed noticeably since Jan. 1.
Many economists expect the Federal Reserve's latest set of
consumer credit numbers, due out today, to show an increase
for April at an annual rate of about 3%, far slimmer than the
gains of the past year and well below the double-digit growth
earlier in the 1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that slowdown seems to reflect a new caution among
consumers rather than a tightening of bank-lending practices.
Indeed some banks, in their effort to steer clear of risky
real-estate loans, seem anxious to put even more of their
money into higher-profit consumer loans. Many say there are
fewer credit-worthy consumers to go around.
   "Financial institutions are actually going after consumer
loans," says Sung Won Sohn, chief economist of Norwest Corp.,
whose banks are becoming increasingly cautious in lending to
businesses. "Consumer loans are enormously profitable. For
credit cards, depending on the region you can charge 22% or
23%. Those are huge margins. You build in significant
losses."
   William Seidman, one of the nation's top banking
regulators as chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., agrees. Despite more frequent defaults, consumer loans
still provide "higher-than-average margins," he says, adding:
"Right now, it's a reasonably profitable area."
   To be sure, scattered banks, jittery about rising
delinquencies and record personal bankruptcies, are beginning
to tighten their consumer credit spigot a bit. "We're seeing
a little bit of that," says Fritz Elmendorf, vice president,
communications, for the Consumer Bankers Association. "It's
not necessarily a lot but on the margins there are
adjustments that are being made. It is an effort to improve
the quality of some of the loans."
   To buy a $15,000 car with help from Connecticut National
Bank, a customer has to put down $3,000. Last year, the bank
wanted $1,500 down.
   In addition to doubling the required down payment on auto
loans to 20%, the Hartford-based bank has also lowered its
ceiling for a home equity line of credit to 75% of the home's
value from 80%.
   "We felt that the real estate market in the Northeast was
softening and despite the fact that our home equity portfolio
didn't mirror the rest of the region in foreclosures or
losses we felt it was good prudent business practice to heed
the warnings," says Donald Grigley, head of consumer lending
at the bank.
   But Treasury officials watching the credit situation
closely see no threat of a widespread effort to curb consumer
lending. Indeed, the Fed's most recent survey of senior bank
loan officers found banks generally more willing to make
consumer installment loans.
   Conversations with bankers generally confirm the
observations of federal officials. NCNB Corp., the large
Southern bank holding company, is soliciting credit card
customers as aggressively as ever, and an official says there
aren't any plans to change. In the face of a slumping auto
industry, Liberty National Bancorp. of Louisville, Ky., has
even expanded the kinds of auto loans it offers.
   "We haven't changed our policy on direct lending at all,"
says Thomas Kaplan, senior vice president and chief lending
officer at First Pennsylvania Bank.
   Most likely, analysts believe, the slowdown in consumer
borrowing stems from the softening economy. "Generally,
consumer credit is growing at about the same pace as consumer
spending in general," said Charles Luckett, a Federal Reserve
economist who specializes in consumer credit. "It's more
sluggish than during most of this economic upswing."
   At Shawmut National Bank in Boston, where the local
economy has deteriorated sharply from its 1980s boom, an
average of 75 to 80 consumer-loan applications are coming in
daily, compared with between 100 and 150 daily earlier this
year. "It's slowed down in all areas, really," says Dexter
Gasper, a senior loan analyst, adding: "Home equity, personal
loans, auto loans. Everything."
   But even with the worsening economic conditions, Shawmut
hasn't tightened its standards or terms for dispensing
consumer credit. "Not a bit," Mr. Gasper stresses. "Why
should we?"
   After a long economic expansion, fueled in a large part by
consumer borrowing and spending, a number of banks are also
finding that fewer loan applicants meet their standards.
   George Williams, the AmSouth Bancorp executive in charge
of auto loans, used to accept about half the loan
applications that came across his desk. Now, he says, only
between 25% and 35% of applicants for car loans meet the
Birmingham, Ala., bank's criteria for approval.
   "We're seeing basically the same number of applications,
but the quality has deteriorated, which is basically the
result of people being over-indebted and having bad credit,"
Mr. Williams says.
   "There has been a slow erosion in consumer credit
quality," Mr. Seidman says. "It's something that has to be
watched."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machine Tool Exports
   Rose 26% in 1st Period
   From a Year Earlier
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP LATAM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Exports of machine tools in the first quarter jumped 26%
from a year earlier, and producers say foreign demand
continues strong.
   The nation's machine tool builders exported $289.5 million
of machines in the first quarter, up from $230.6 million a
year earlier, according to the NMTBA -- The Association for
Manufacturing Technology, a McLean, Va., trade group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manufacturing companies in Canada, Western Europe, Mexico
and the Pacific Rim all have been buying equipment at a
lively pace in recent months, U.S. machine tool producers
say. Shipments to Canada more than doubled in the first
quarter, while exports to West Germany jumped 55% and sales
to Mexico rose 18%.
   Machine tools are complex, often computer-controlled,
machines, ranging from lathes to metal-forming presses, that
shape most metal parts. Rising foreign demand indicates
aggressive efforts by overseas durable goods producers to
increase their productivity, machine tool producers say. That
could spell trouble for U.S. auto makers and other U.S.
companies competing in world-wide markets.
   U.S. machine tool imports declined 8.2% during the first
quarter, NMTBA said. But the $538.5 million of imports still
were nearly twice U.S. exports. Imports have accounted for
about half the new machine tools installed in U.S. factories
in recent years.
   However, U.S. producers are faring better in world machine
tool trade so far in 1990 than they have during any year
since 1981. Imports last year were 2.5 times exports, and
back in 1986, U.S. machine tool imports were 3.8 times larger
than exports.
   Machine tool imports from Japan dropped 23% in the first
quarter, the major factor in the import decline. Japanese
producers, nonetheless, supplied nearly half the machine
tools imported into the U.S. during the latest quarter,
according to NMTBA figures. Imports from West Germany, the
second largest supplier with 14% of the first-quarter total,
were up a slight 1.6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Junk Bonds Continue to Rally, Despite Move
   By RTC to Sell Off $50 Million of Securities
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   DD GP EUROP FNM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Junk bonds continued to rally yesterday, even
as the Resolution Trust Corp. put more than $50 million of
junk bonds up for sale.
   The RTC is one of the nation's largest holders of junk
bonds, which the federal agency inherited when it seized a
number of failing savings and loan associations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders on Wall Street said the agency sent a so-called
"bid list" to brokers and institutional investors and
successfully sold the bonds at what were termed "attractive"
prices. Securities analysts estimate that the RTC holds
between $4 billion and $6 billion of junk bonds, which it
plans to liquidate slowly over time.
   Officials at RTC said it sells junk bonds frequently in
the open market, however they wouldn't elaborate about
yesterday's transaction.
   But traders said the bid list, which represented bonds
held by just one savings and loan under RTC conservatorship,
included names such as Kroger Co. and Coltec Industries.
These are some of the so-called "good junk" bonds that trade
at prices that are close to par, or full face value. Also on
the lists were some mid-quality bonds, including certain
securities issued by RJR Nabisco Inc.
   Analysts said RTC's ability to sell junk bonds without
disrupting the entire market is a sign that the market is
beginning to recover -- although modestly -- after a long
depression. Junk-bond sentiment is more positive now than it
has been in several months and prices of upper-tier and
middle-tier issues have been rising.
   Meanwhile, the number of new issues has dropped sharply,
leading to complaints of supply shortages.
   Thomas Madden, a high-yield portfolio manager at Federated
Investors Corp., said RTC tapped the market at just the right
time.
   "In the last several days, you've almost had a buying
panic in some names. Now you have one of the largest holders
of junk bonds putting some bonds up for sale." He said the
timing nearly ensured that RTC would get good prices for its
bonds.
   Peter Karches, head of the high-yield sales and trading at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., termed the RTC sale a "non-event" for
the junk bond market. He said traders and investors took the
news in stride and "prices trended higher," anyway.
   However, prices of the individual issues sold by RTC did
come under modest pressure yesterday and ended between 1/8
and 1/2 point lower.
   Most junk bond prices rose between 1/4 and 1/2 point
higher yesterday. That was a respectable advance considering
Treasury bonds ended unchanged to just 1/8 point higher.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury securities ended unchanged to modestly higher in
sluggish trading.
   "The bond market is hungry for some new data, but
unfortunately it's not going to get anything until next
week," said Robert Chandross, a vice president and economist
at Lloyds Bank PLC.
   Bond dealers said there was a brief flurry of selling in
early trading as investors reacted to a story in this
newspaper. The article, which cited several Federal Reserve
officials, said the policy makers appear to have no intention
of cutting short-term interest rates at this time.
   Bond prices firmed later as investors looked beyond the
present and began to speculate about possible Fed easing in
the future.
   "Market sentiment is still bullish," said Michael T.
Moran, manager of government trading at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp. "The Fed is deemed to be on hold,
but if next week's data show inflation is behaving, then a
Fed easing would come under consideration once again," he
said. Key next week will be statistics on last month's
producer prices, consumer prices and retail sales.
   In trading, the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose 1/8
point, or about $1.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from
its price, eased to 8.44%.
   The benchmark bond was quoted late yesterday at a price of
103 9/32, up from 103 5/32 on Tuesday. Shorter-term
securities were little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Prices of investment-grade bonds ended unchanged to 1/8
point higher.
   Among the corporate borrowers that tapped the credit
markets Wednesday was Du Pont Co., which offered $1.85
billion (redemption amount) of zero-coupon convertible
subordinated notes.
   The notes, which mature in 20 years, were priced at
$218.55 per $1,000 note for a yield to maturity of 7.75%.
   Strong investor demand prompted underwriters at First
Boston Corp. to boost the size of the issue from an
originally planned $1.1 billion. The offering will result in
proceeds to the company of $404,317,500.
   Georgia-Pacific Corp. offered $600 million of
credit-sensitive notes through underwriters led by Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. The issue consisted of $300 million of
seven-year notes priced at par to yield 10% and $300 million
of 12-year notes priced to yield 10.109%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended unchanged to 1/8 point lower after
listless trading.
   "We're just sort of status quo; the market's just pausing
here," one municipal trader said.
   In municipal market activity, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. has
assigned a SP-1 rating to an issue of $4.1 billion of New
York State tax and revenue anticipation notes.
   The notes, which constitute the state's spring borrowing,
are expected to be priced today by a Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc. group.
   The SP-1 rating on the tax and revenue anticipation notes
is below the SP-1-Plus rating that S&amp;P assigned to last
year's $3.9 billion spring borrowing. The rating equals that
given to the state's sale of $775 million tax and revenue
anticipation deficit notes in March.
   Late yesterday, Moody's Investors Service Inc. assigned a
MIG-2 rating to New York State's tax and revenue anticipation
notes. In addition, Moody's downgraded the rating on New York
State's general obligation debt to single-A from single A-1.
   Market participants had expected the rating changes, due
to the state's financial condition, its heavy debt load and
lengthy delay in adopting a budget.
   In secondary market dealings, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were unchanged, at 98
5/8 to yield 7.32%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds, called gilts, ended sharply
lower yesterday on speculation that several economic reports
due out soon will provide unfavorable news for the bond
market.
   Britain's benchmark 11.75% bond due 2003/2007 fell 3/4
point to 100 6/32 to yield 11.72% while the 12% issue due in
1995 was off 1/2 point at 98 27/32 to yield 12.34%.
   Prices began to fall during early trading as overseas
investors began selling gilts. British bonds also were hurt
by declines in other major bond markets and weakness in
long-term bond futures.
   Analysts said that investors anxiously await Monday's
report on May retail sales volume.
   Bond prices were lower in Japan and West Germany.

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities prices ended with slight
advances in sympathy with U.S. Treasurys.
   Prices in both markets were stagnant all session in the
absence of any new major economic reports.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9.5% securities
for June delivery were up 3/32 at 99 10/32.
   In the new-issue arena, two Federal National Mortgage
Association issues were offered. Both were Remics, or real
estate mortgage investment conduits, each totaling $300.1
million.
   One was backed by Fannie Mae 9.5% securities and priced in
13 classes by Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   The other issue was priced in 11 classes by Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co. and backed by new stripped mortgage securities formed
from Fannie Mae 10.5% securities. A stripped mortgage
security is formed by separating the principal portion
interest portion of a security and selling them separately.
   With these offerings, a Fannie Mae spokeswoman said there
have been $27.402 billion of Fannie Mae Remics priced so far
in 1990. Since the inception of the securities in August
1987, Fannie Mae has issued $80.99 billion of Remics, she
said.
   As for Fannie Mae strips, the spokeswoman said $2.97
billion have been issued so far in 1990 and $22.03 billion
have been issued since their inception in February 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Aetna Takes Off Gloves on Car Insurance
   ---
   Firm Leads Industry in
   Battling Strict State Laws
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AET
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Few people would blame Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., the
nation's fifth-largest automobile insurer, if it withdrew
quietly from several states where it persistently loses
money.
   Instead, the company has adopted the most aggressive
stance in the industry by fighting recently toughened state
laws rather than running the risk of forfeiting other
lucrative markets in those states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Massachusetts, the company is challenging two state
laws that control its exit from the auto-insurance market. As
part of that effort, Aetna has hired a top constitutional
scholar from Harvard University for its legal team.
   In Pennsylvania, the company has temporarily halted its
withdrawal from the market until state regulators rule on its
rate filing later this week. In New Jersey, the big insurer
is protesting a new law that would force insurers to pay
nearly half of the $3 billion in the state's insurance pool
for high-risk drivers.
   Moreover, Aetna has stopped writing new policies in Rhode
Island, and the company's plan for withdrawal from the South
Carolina auto-insurance market has been approved by
regulators there. In late 1988, Aetna was the only company to
stop writing business in California temporarily until it
could assess the impact of Proposition 103.
   Several other insurers, such as Cigna Corp., Travelers
Corp., and Xerox Corp.'s Crum &amp; Forster unit, have decided to
cut back on their auto-insurance businesses nationwide, or
drop out entirely, and stem their losses. But Aetna's
approach is deliberately more combative.
   Aetna "is trying to make a political statement," says
Robert Hunter, head of the National Insurance Consumers
Organization. By opposing strengthened insurance regulation
in states such as New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the company
"wants to send a message to other states."
   John J. Martin, who heads Aetna's personal insurance
division, doesn't dispute that assessment. "We aren't running
around kicking sand in people's faces just for chuckles," he
says. While Aetna isn't out to teach anyone a lesson, he
adds, "we're more aggressive about asserting our right to
manage our business."
   The National Association of Insurance Commissioners,
comprising 50 top regulators in the country, will be looking
within the next month at the recent round of insurer threats
to pull out of the auto and other personal-insurance markets
in various states.
   Aetna, based in Hartford, Conn., writes about $1.8 billion
in auto insurance premiums annually. In 1989, that segment of
the company's business generated a loss of about $53 million.
By taking a stand in several states and waging legal battles,
the company believes it's defending its constitutional
rights.
   In Massachusetts, Aetna's lawsuit challenges a state law
that requires insurers to pay an eight-year assessment to the
state's pool for high-risk drivers, who are shunned by
conventional insurers. Payment of this fee would allow Aetna
to withdraw from the Massachusetts auto insurance market but
retain its licenses to sell other kinds of insurance. The
company estimates that paying this fee for eight years would
amount to more than $200 million. Such a fee is "close to
extortion," Mr. Martin contends.
   "No one should have the right to compel a business person
to continue to invest capital in something that loses money.
This isn't like selling kids milk at student prices," says
Mr. Martin.
   The other law contested in the suit gives the state
insurance commissioner the power to revoke all of an
insurer's licenses if the company pulls out of the
car-insurance market.
   "We're unwilling to let politicians allocate our capital,"
says Mr. Martin.
   But Aetna's strategy carries some big risks. In
Massachusetts, for example, if Aetna loses its case, it could
be forced to pay the high exit fee in order to keep its other
insurance licenses or it could lose its profitable commercial
property/casualty, health and life insurance businesses in
that state.
   Laurence Tribe, the Harvard constitutional law professor
who is working with Aetna's attorneys, believes if the
Massachusetts laws are upheld by the courts, other states
might adopt similar regulation. Indeed, Pennsylvania
lawmakers will soon be debating proposed legislation that
would bar insurers who quit the auto-insurance market from
selling new policies in all other lines.
   So far, Aetna has taken its most drastic action in
Pennsylvania, where it wanted to beat a hasty retreat from
the auto-insurance market. It had losses of $15 million in
this state last year, where it writes about 10% of its total
auto business.
   Last month, the company began sending nonrenewal notices
to its 200,000 auto policyholders. Pennsylvania officials
tried to stop the company, but Aetna ignored their orders.
   Then the lawsuits started to fly. The state sued Aetna and
six other insurers who were trying to withdraw from the auto
market. Aetna countersued, trying to block the state.
   Last week, Pennsylvania and Aetna reached a temporary
truce. Aetna agreed to halt its withdrawal and rescind the
9,000 nonrenewal notices it had already sent out. It also
agreed to submit the rate filings required by a new
auto-insurance law, enacted last February, which demands rate
rollbacks.
   Meanwhile, the state agreed to review the filings quickly,
promising an answer that is due in the next few days.
However, Aetna and the state didn't drop their respective
lawsuits against each other.
   The new insurance law requires that insurers reduce
premium rates 10% for all drivers and 22% for those who limit
their right to sue in all but the most severe accidents.
   Under these provisions, Aetna's Mr. Martin claims his
company could have auto-insurance losses of some $20 million
this year in Pennsylvania alone.
   There's no guarantee that Pennsylvania will grant Aetna
the exemption from the rate rollbacks that it seeks.
Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co. also agreed to stop its
withdrawal from the state, pending a review of its rate
application. However, Pennsylvania's insurance department
rejected its filing last week. The state has approved only
two exemptions from the rollbacks, disallowing eight
requests.
   Aetna's tough stance is doing more than just disrupting
life for its policyholders in several states. Unlike the four
largest auto insurance companies in the country, Aetna
doesn't have its own sales force. It works through 4,000
independent agents.
   For instance, if the company gets its way and pulls out of
the auto-insurance market in Pennsylvania, some 380 agents
stand to lose a sizable chunk of their income. Auto
insurance, often the first sale agents make to a new
customer, opens the door for future sales.
   "A number of agents feel these companies are leaving them
high and dry," says Jeff Yates, general counsel for the
Independent Insurance Agents of America, a trade group.
   Aetna's withdrawal will "severely affect us financially,"
says Barry Mohlar, whose agency near Reading, Pa., could lose
about 38% of its income if he couldn't place auto policies
with Aetna.
   For the time being, however, Mr. Mohlar and other agents
support Aetna's action because they view the laws as unfair.
"States, such as Massachusetts, have held these companies
captives," says Rick Davis, an independent agent in Needham,
Mass.
   Aetna itself recognizes the potential for harm to the
independent agents. "I don't get my kicks from disrupting
these relationships," says the company's Mr. Martin. "But we
have to draw the line some place. We can't knowingly sit
around and lose money."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TransTechnology Corp.:
   Company Expects to Report
   4th-Quarter, Year-End Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TT
</CO>
<LP>
   TransTechnology Corp.'s chairman, Arch Scurlock, said that
fourth-quarter and year-end results for this maker of
aerospace-defense and industrial products would be worse than
expected, and that the company would report a net loss in
both periods.
   TransTechnology also said it would report a loss from
continuing and discontinued operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Los Angeles-based company didn't specify the size of
the anticipated operating loss, which won't be reported for
two weeks. Lee M. Parker, vice president, investor relations,
characterized it as "significant" for both periods. He said
that larger-than-anticipated inventory write-downs had
produced the losses.
   In addition, Mr. Parker said the company expects revenue
for the year to drop 15.74%, to $198 million. He noted,
however, that in 1989, the company sold two units which had
contributed about $21 million to revenue. The remaining drop
in revenue was due to the closing of a factory, among other
things, he said.
   For the year ended March 31, 1989, the company reported
net income of $9.2 million, or $1.80 a share. The net income
included a loss from discontinued operations of $1.2 million.
Revenue for the year was $235.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Genentech Inc.:
   FDA Clears Use of Activase
   To Treat Lung Obstruction
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Genentech Inc. said federal regulators will allow the
company to sell its Activase drug as a treatment for
obstruction of the lungs' arteries, providing a new use for
the company's biggest drug.
   The Food and Drug Administration granted the license this
week, allowing the use of Activase in a condition called
acute massive pulmonary embolism in which blood clots block
blood vessels in the lungs. Clinical trials of patients
suffering from pulmonary embolism showed Activase, a
clot-dissolving agent, to be safe and effective, according to
Genentech, which is based in South San Francisco, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDA previously approved Activase for treating heart
attacks. This week's approval broadens the drug's use to
another life-threatening condition and could shore up the
market for the drug, which has been smaller than originally
expected.
   About 130,000 patients have been diagnosed with pulmonary
embolism, of which about 10,000 are eligible for the kind of
therapy where Activase would be used, Genentech said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Genentech closed at $27.25, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITC Plans to Reject
   Kodak Plea to Drop
   Import Investigation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EK FREST LATAM KYC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Eastman Kodak Co. apparently has failed in
its efforts to persuade the government to drop an
investigation that could lead to higher tariffs or import
quotas on fixed-focus 35mm and 110-type cameras from Asia,
Latin America and other parts of the world.
   The investigation was launched in response to a complaint
by Keystone Camera Products Corp., Clifton, N.J., calling for
import restrictions "on behalf of the U.S. industry." Despite
objections from Kodak, the U.S. International Trade
Commission was readying a letter notifying the Rochester,
N.Y.-based company that it would continue the inquiry, U.S.
officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The officials said the ITC will decide in late July
whether to recommend to President Bush that he order
restrictions on the imports.
   The Keystone petition was filed under a provision of the
1974 Trade Act which allows the government temporarily to
block imports that are harming a domestic industry, even if
the harm doesn't result from any trade violation.
   Keystone argued that without such protection, it will be
forced to shift its production to other countries. It charged
that Kodak "has, for all intents and purposes, abandoned U.S.
production {of the fixed-focus cameras} in favor of importing
from facilities in low-cost countries."
   Kodak attorneys replied that the company is producing and
assembling 35mm cameras in U.S. factories, although they said
it has been assembling some U.S.-manufactured parts for 35mm
and 110-type cameras in factories in Mexico and Brazil for
eventual sale in the U.S. market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Adopts
   New Rules to Guide
   Cellular Industry
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The California Public Utilities Commission adopted a set
of rules for the mushrooming cellular-telephone business
designed to encourage price cuts and discourage rate
increases.
   The new regulations in California, the country's largest
cellular market, also protect resellers against
anti-competitive behavior by cellular companies. Resellers,
which are non-utility companies that buy cellular service at
wholesale prices and resell them to retail customers, have
expressed concerns that cellular companies undercut their
prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission decided that applications for rate
reductions -- as much as 10% at a time -- would be effective
as soon as they are filed. Increases, however, require formal
applications and a 30-day comment period before they go into
effect.
   "The cellular-telephone market is an exciting and dynamic
new industry, but if we are to realize its full potential,
prices have to come down," said PUC President G. Mitchell
Wilk. The commission, however, defined cellular service as
"discretionary," and declined against a more rigid approach.
   A spokeswoman for Pacific Telesis Group, the San
Francisco-based regional Bell company that provides cellular
service in much of California, said the company is "generally
satisfied with the PUC's decision." However, the company
would have liked more flexibility to raise prices, especially
since cellular systems will need to upgrade in the future to
meet growing capacity and convert to digital transmission,
she said.
   Like California, many states have been adopting rules
designed to encourage competition in the cellular industry
and hold prices in check.
   Separately, in a decision that could serve as a model for
other states, the commission adopted safeguards for consumers
using pay phones in most of the state. The rules were sparked
by numerous consumer complaints about difficulties using pay
phones or exorbitant costs of making long-distance and local
calls.
   Within 60 days, the commission said, pay phones must allow
customers without a coin to dial emergency assistance,
directory assistance and repair service, as well as
long-distance access codes, operator assistance, and 800
numbers.
   In addition, the commission ruled that the phones must
allow customers to make local or long-distance calls with
coins or calling cards. And the phones must have signs that
give information on long-distance charges, dialing
instructions and the name and number of the pay-phone
provider.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Placer Dome Inc.:
   Gold Producer Considering
   Withdrawing Bid for Stikine
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDG T.SKZ ICRA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Placer Dome Inc. said it is considering withdrawing its
229.5 million Canadian dollar (US$196.2 million) offer to
acquire Stikine Resources Ltd., after a group that owns 42%
of Stikine agreed Monday to tender its stock to a rival bid.
   Placer Dome, a big, cash-rich gold producer in Vancouver,
British Columbia, said it won't decide whether to pull its
C$67.50-a-share offer until it obtains further details of the
pact between the Stikine shareholder group and Toronto-based
Corona Corp. Stikine plans to issue an information circular
today that is expected to include details of the "lock-up"
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Monday, Corona announced a sweetened offer to acquire
Stikine and Prime Resources Group Inc., joint owners of a big
gold deposit in northwestern British Columbia. As part of
Corona's offer, holders of Stikine's 3.4 million shares would
receive 6.5 Corona shares and two shares of Corona Gold, a
new unit, for each Stikine share. Stikine holders would also
be eligible to subsequently receive a special stock dividend.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SHEARSON SPLIT itself into two divisions in the brokerage
firm's latest attempt to revive its sagging fortunes. One
unit, responsible for investment banking and trading, will
resurrect the Lehman Brothers name. The other half will
handle individual investors and money management. The
regrouping in effect recognizes that Shearson's two big
takeovers in the 1980s never really worked.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credit squeeze facing some businesses isn't affecting
consumers so far. Any slowdown in borrowing by consumers
seems to reflect their caution more than tighter bank lending
policies. Some banks are even soliciting new consumer-loan
business.
   ---
   The federal fund that insures single-family home mortgages
with low down payments will be broke by the end of the
decade, Housing Secretary Kemp said. He called for higher
fees on such mortgages, a prospect bankers said would make it
harder for low-income people to buy homes.
   ---
   Deficit-reduction talks between Congress and the White
House resumed, with both sides jockeying over how to proceed
with fiscal 1991 appropriations in the absence of a final
budget agreement for the year.
   ---
   The Bell companies received a potential setback in their
efforts to combine unregulated operations with their basic
phone businesses. A federal appeals panel overturned an FCC
decision allowing such combinations.
   ---
   Real estate woes could hurt banks in certain areas outside
New England, but the newly identified problems aren't as
great as those in that part of the country, the U.S.
comptroller of the currency said. He refused to disclose the
additional regions.
   ---
   Stock prices declined in a second day of profit-taking.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 2911.65, down
13.35 points, in moderately active trading. The dollar rose
slightly against the mark and the yen.
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds rallied, even as the Resolution Trust Corp. put
up for sale more than $50 million of bonds held by failed
S&amp;Ls. The price stability may indicate the market is firming.
   ---
   Oil prices rose despite uncertainties about OPEC output
and bearish figures on U.S. petroleum inventories. Some
traders saw a turnaround in the making for the world oil
markets.
   ---
   Moody's lowered its rating on New York state's general
obligation debt, citing the state's financial condition and
the region's economic uncertainty.
   ---
   Salomon beat out nine other investment banks to be adviser
to the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corp.'s Eastern
European Growth Fund.
   ---
   Small-business earnings rose 6.2% last year, less than the
6.7% and 9.2% increases in the two preceding years.
   ---
   Lands' End's top merchandiser resigned amid criticism of
the catalog firm's product selection. He hinted at
differences with senior executives over product
introductions.
   ---
   Life insurers are increasingly drawing a distinction
between people who are basically healthy and those they
consider "preferred" risks.
   ---
   West Germany's economy grew an inflation-adjusted 2.5% in
the first quarter from the preceding period, and economists
predict the pace will continue through 1990 as firms expand
to rebuild East German industry.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 164,020,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2911.65, off 13.35; transportation 1212.77, up 0.18;
utilities 214.54, off 0.56.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3420.48, up
0.99.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.41, off 0.30;
spot index 133.15, up 0.16.
   Dollar: 152.65 yen, up 0.20; 1.6885 marks, up 0.0035.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tambrands Inc.:
   Relocation of Headquarters
   Set in Plan to Cut Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tambrands Inc., a women's care products maker based in
Lake Success, N.Y., plans to move its headquarters to
Westchester County, north of New York City, to cut costs by
choosing a smaller site.
   The company said it will sell its Long Island offices and
expects to complete the move by the end of 1991. The new head
office site, which hasn't been determined, will be closer to
Tambrands' Technical Center in Palmer, Mass., and to its U.S.
plants, all in New York state or New England, which have a
total of 1,300 employees. Of the 200 employees in Lake
Success, 50 will be offered posts at the Technical Center,
which has 210 employees, and 150 will move to Westchester.
Tambrands has 4,100 employees world-wide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the past year, the company has determined to focus on
feminine care, with its Tampax tampons and Maxithins sanitary
pads. Tambrands has been praised by analysts for its strong
restructuring moves, including payroll cuts and stock
buy-backs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hewlett-Packard Co.:
   Pact to Supply Equipment
   To Mentor Graphics Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWP MENT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hewlett-Packard Co. said it agreed to supply Mentor
Graphics Corp. with computer equipment valued at up to $400
million.
   The three-year contract, under which Mentor will buy
workstations, software and service, replaces an 18-month,
$100 million contract that expired this month. Under the new
contract, Mentor will also buy new workstations that
Hewlett-Packard is developing, including machines that use as
their central controller Motorola Inc.'s new 68040
microprocessor. Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, Calif.,
plans to unveil its 68040 machines on June 18.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mentor designs and sells computer systems that are used to
design electonic components and software as well as in
computer-aided publishing. Mentor, based in Beaverton, Ore.,
buys machines from Hewlett-Packard, loads them with Mentor
software, and resells them under the Mentor nameplate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BASF AG:
   U.S. Unit Plans to Close
   New Jersey Plant This Year
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAS
</CO>
<LP>
   BASF Corp. will close the Kearny, N.J., plant at which it
produces phthalic anhydride, a raw material used in making
plastic resins, and dismiss most of the 140 employees there.
   The U.S. unit of West Germany's BASF AG will close the
facility by year end, it said in Parsippany, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Phthalic anhydride is used to make plasticizers, in turn
used to make plastic products soft and flexible. A spokesman
said that plastics containing plasticizers are used in such
diverse items as vinyl raincoats and phone-cable insulation.
   The spokesman declined to provide revenue for the
operations being closed but said the plant hasn't been
profitable for several years. Costs of closing won't affect
earnings, he said.
   BASF will manufacture the products only in West Germany
and Spain. BASF will continue to market the phthalic
anhydride and plasticizers produced by Sterling Chemicals
Inc. of Houston at Sterling's Texas City, Texas, facilities.
   BASF Corp. makes chemicals, pharmaceuticals, plastics,
coatings, printing inks and other products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Host Corp.:
   First-Quarter Net Surged
   On Reduction in Expenses
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Host Corp., New York, buoyed by reduced operating
expenses and by tax benefits, posted a sharp increase in
fiscal first-quarter net income on a 5% rise in sales.
   Net income at the lawn and garden supplies retailer almost
quadrupled to $5.5 million, or 29 cents a share, compared
with $1.5 million, or eight cents a share, a year ago. Sales
in the quarter, which ended May 20, were $166 million vs.
$158.6 million a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As expected, the company, which operates 272 Frank's
Nursery &amp; Crafts stores, took a charge of $2.8 million, or 15
cents a share, against earnings on an equity investment.
Walter B. Rogers, director of planning, said this was more
than offset by the elimination of a $3.3 million, or 17
cents-a-share income tax reserve, which netted the company
about two cents a share in earnings.
   While overall expenses increased about $400,000, General
Host cut operating expenses by almost $8 million in the
quarter. It also lowered its interest expenses by repaying
$35 million of 12.5% senior debt and it bought back more than
$5 million of mortgage notes at a discount.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel's Creditors
   Are Given Preview
   Of Reorganization
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. gave its
creditors a preview of how the company believes it should be
reorganized under Chapter 11.
   At a crowded meeting in the offices of Drexel's bankruptcy
attorneys, about 100 lawyers for creditors and shareholders
were presented with a broad outline of the proposal. The
"conceptual plan," as one attorney described it, is a far cry
from the detailed reorganization plan that will eventually be
presented to the federal bankruptcy court. And some creditors
said the plan was too vague to be of much help in
negotiations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the proposal, the bulk of creditors would receive
promissory notes backed by most of Drexel's $2 billion in
assets. The Securities and Exchange Commission, however --
whose $150 million claim makes it one of Drexel's biggest
creditors -- would be paid in cash. Richard Kirby, SEC senior
litigation counsel, said Drexel proposed using the money to
set up a fund to pay certain customer claims against the
company.
   Drexel's proposal also provides for the parent company to
emerge from bankruptcy proceedings as a narrowly focused
financial-services concern; its main business would be
managing the debtor's assets. The surviving Drexel company
also would be able to provide consulting services to
companies that have issued junk bonds, an attorney familiar
with the proposal said.
   Drexel's chief bankruptcy attorney, Alan Miller of Weil,
Gotshal &amp; Manges, said: "We had a very good meeting. . . .
While not everyone was prepared to sign on to what we
proposed, we opened the dialogue."
   The face value of the promissory notes to be issued by
Drexel would be equal to the amount owed to the creditors.
The promissory notes would be paid off as Drexel's assets are
liquidated, though no detailed time frame for the liquidation
was given.
   Some creditors are likely to object, however, to Drexel's
proposal that the securities not be tradable until after 30
months. A procedure would also be set up so that some
creditors would be able to redeem their notes early.
Creditors would be able to inform Drexel of the minimum
amount they will accept for the notes, and Drexel would then
redeem the notes from creditors whose redemption offers are
the lowest.
   Mr. Miller said that under the proposal, the small
creditors of some of the subsidiaries, which joined the
parent company in bankruptcy proceedings a few weeks ago,
would be paid in cash. Subsidiaries that are owed large
amounts by other Drexel companies, such as Drexel Burnham
Lambert Trading Corp., wouldn't fall under this provision,
however, Mr. Miller added. Also, any claims involving
litigation wouldn't be included.
   Creditors said yesterday's meeting with Drexel wasn't
hostile, but most apparently weren't won over by the
proposal. Drexel's creditors' committee, which will play a
major role in negotiating the company's eventual
reorganization plan, will meet today. Although Drexel
presented its plan as the groundwork for reaching a
consensus, the creditors committee is expected to continue
developing its own proposal.
   For creditors, one of the most grating aspects of Drexel's
plan is that current management will be left in charge of the
surviving company. "I think we differ on who should be
managing those assets," said Barry Dichter, a bankruptcy
partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft, lawyer for the
central bank of Portugal, a Drexel creditors.
   Separately, in Madrid, a prosecutor charged three former
executives of the former Spanish subsidiary of Drexel Burnham
Lambert with falsification of commercial documents in
connection with last year's flotation of shares in the oil
company Repsol S.A.
   Drexel closed its Spanish unit last July, after confirming
that it had used the names of private individuals to buy
shares in Repsol which it resold to institutional clients. In
doing so, it circumvented restrictions designed to make a
maximum number of shares available to private investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Seagram Co.:
   Distiller Reports 4.6% Drop
   In Net for Fiscal 1st Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VO DD
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seagram Co.'s net income fell 4.6% in the first quarter
ended April 30, reflecting lower unremitted equity earnings
at Du Pont Co., the Wilmington, Del., chemical and energy
concern in which the Montreal-based distiller holds a 24.3%
interest.
   Unremitted equity earnings are reported in Seagram's
results, although the company doesn't get any payments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net dropped to $187 million, or $1.97 a share, from $196
million, or $2 a share, a year earlier when more shares were
outstanding. The unremitted earnings, representing Seagram's
share of Du Pont's profit, fell 27% to $79 million from $108
million. Dividend income from Du Pont rose 14% to $66 million
from $58 million.
   Operating earnings rose 26% to $157 million from $125
million, while sales advanced 5.4% to $1.29 billion from
$1.23 billion. The rises reflect strength in international
wine and spirits operations, particularly at the Brazilian
affiliate, which was strong, prior to economic controls
imposed by the country's new government.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Seagram's shares fell 62.5 cents to $86.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Jury Convicts
   Former Consultant
   Of Pentagon Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) -- A former defense consultant was
convicted of conspiring to funnel sensitive
military-procurement data to a corporation bidding on a $100
million project.
   A federal district court jury found Mark Saunders guilty
of conspiracy, conversion of government property and six
counts of wire fraud.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He was the fourth person convicted by trial in the
Operation Ill Wind investigation into Pentagon fraud,
although 34 individuals and corporations have pleaded guilty
as a result of the inquiry, which began nearly two years ago.
   The jury found that Mr. Saunders was a middleman in a
scheme to pass confidential government information from
George Stone, a Navy procurement director, to Thomas Muldoon,
a defense consultant for Norden Systems Inc., a division of
United Technologies Corp.
   Witnesses said Mr. Muldoon then sold the information to
Norden, one of 10 companies competing for a contract to
design sophisticated radar and communications systems for the
Marine Corps. Norden dropped out of the competition when the
investigation began.
   Mr. Stone has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and other
charges in the case, as have three former Norden executives.
Mr. Muldoon has been convicted of participating in an
unrelated scheme to bribe Pentagon procurement officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Armstrong Sets Pact
   With Belzberg Firms
   To Resolve Disputes
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACK T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LANCASTER, Pa. -- Armstrong World Industries Inc. said it
agreed to resolve all "outstanding issues" between the
company and affiliates of Canada's Belzberg family by paying
the Belzbergs a net sum of about $4.4 million.
   On May 30, the Belzbergs' various holding companies sold
their 11.7% stake in the flooring and building-products
concern at an estimated $18 million loss, ending a yearlong
effort to effect a takeover of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, the Belzbergs dropped all litigation
against the company, including a challenge to Pennsylvania's
recently enacted takeover law and a lawsuit seeking a binding
vote on five corporate-governance amendments. Armstrong
withdrew all countersuits.
   The Belzbergs also agreed to limit their holdings of
Armstrong stock to no more than 50,000 shares for 10 years.
Any stock owned can be held only for investment purposes, and
the Belzberg companies are specifically prohibited from
engaging in a business combination with Armstrong.
   As part of the formal settlement, Armstrong will pay the
Belzbergs $5 million, and the Belzbergs will pay Armstrong
$605,000.
   Armstrong said it agreed to settle the issues to end the
disruption and expense caused by the suits. "The settlement
is a natural consequence of the sale of the Belzberg shares,"
a spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eagle-Picher Industries Inc.:
   Units to Be Sold to Fund
   Asbestos Liability Reserve
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EPI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eagle-Picher Industries Inc. said it intends to sell three
businesses as part of a previously announced plan to fund
asbestos litigation liability.
   The businesses to be divested -- its Trim, Orcomatic and
Injection Molding divisions -- make a variety of molded
rubber and trim parts for the automotive industry. They
accounted for less than 5% of Eagle-Picher's $729.9 million
in sales for the year ended Nov. 30, 1989, a company
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eagle-Picher, Cincinnati, is a defendant in about 60,000
separate lawsuits stemming from its manufacture, from 1934
until 1971, of an asbestos-containing insulating cement used
principally in shipbuilding and refinery construction. The
company said it has already paid nearly $500 million in
asbestos claims, and expects to pay at least that amount to
resolve current and future litigation.
   At the end of its fiscal first quarter, ended Feb. 28,
Eagle-Picher had an underfunded reserve of $462 million for
such litigation. Proceeds from the sale of the three
designated divisions will be used to fund that reserve.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Measure to Speed the Transfer
   Of Western Technology to Soviet Union
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House passed a bill that would speed up
the transfer of Western technology to the Soviet Union and
the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe.
   The measure, approved last night by a 312-86 vote, was
timed to prod the Bush administration into expanding its
offer to relax export restrictions on computers,
telecommunications equipment and machine tools that the West
can sell to these countries. The U.S. and 16 of its European
and Asian allies are currently meeting in Paris to discuss
how they can safely meet the demands of the Soviet Union and
its former satellites for Western products and know-how.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House bill would allow the U.S. to freely sell the
Soviet Union and East European countries computers with a
capacity of 550 megabits of information per second. Current
rules set a limit of 78 mps. The administration has offered
to raise it to 275 mps, but would allow shipments of more
powerful computers if the purchasing governments promise to
guard against unauthorized military use. The legislation
would require the administration to seek the 550 mps level in
negotiations with its allies, who would have to ratify any
change.
   The higher standard would permit East European nations --
and the Soviet Union under some conditions -- to buy some
U.S. mainframes as well as practically all personal computers
available in the West.
   While the Bush administration offer stops short of giving
East Europe access to telecommunications systems powered by
digital switching, the House bill would give the West the
discretion of selling even the top-of-the-line systems.
   The Bush administration has expressed opposition to the
bill, saying that it pre-empts the administration's
authority. In the Senate, the Banking Committee plans to
begin work soon on its version of the bill.
   Before passing the bill last night, the House attached
amendments to withhold certain trade benefits from the Soviet
Union and China because of continuing concerns over human
rights in those countries.
   Reacting strongly to Soviet attempts to squash Lithuania's
moves towards independence, the House approved an amendment
to deny the Soviets the higher levels of technology until
President Bush certifies to Congress that the Soviets have
entered into "serious negotiations" with Lithuania's
duly-elected government and are conducting these talks
without coercion. The amendment, introduced by Rep. Richard
Durbin (D., Ill.) and passed on a 390-24 vote, would
effectively freeze current restrictions on the Soviet Union.
   Mr. Durbin vowed that the U.S. won't "abandon Lithuania in
its efforts for self-determination."
   Signaling its distaste for China's human-rights record,
the House approved an amendment that would strip Mr. Bush of
his discretionary power to allow U.S. owners of
communications satellites to buy launch services from China.
Rep. Gerald Solomon (R., N.Y.), the amendment's sponsor, took
Beijing to task for failing to make amends for the massacre
of democracy marchers in Tiananmen Square a year ago.
   Last December, Mr. Bush, invoking a national-security
waiver from existing sanctions, authorized the shipment of
three U.S. satellites to be put in orbit by China. However,
he would lose such leeway if this provision becomes law. The
Solomon amendment was approved 395-15.
   The House bill, a bipartisan effort steered by Rep. Sam
Gejdenson (D., Conn.) and Rep. Toby Roth (R., Wis.), would
also create a "license-free zone" for exports among the U.S.
and 16 of its cooperating allies. Such a step eliminate
licensing requirements for exports of all but the most
sophisticated equipment, and would rid the U.S. licensing
bureaucracy and exporters of one-third of their normal
paperwork.
   The bill's "sunset" provisions would automatically
eliminate export controls on whole categories of commodities
after a prescribed period, unless the authorities can justify
reinstating controls on individual items.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   ETHNIC VIOLENCE SPREAD in a Soviet republic in Central
Asia.
   With authorities in the republic of Kirghizia reportedly
helpless against rioters and gangs of marauding youths, the
official Tass news agency said at least 35 people have been
killed and about 300 injured in clashes between ethnic Uzbeks
and Kirghiz. The unrest, triggered Monday by a land dispute,
was the latest in a series of violent outbreaks challenging
Gorbachev. In Scotland, a U.S. official said Moscow had
assured Secretary of State Baker that it won't impede the
emigration of Soviet Jews despite a threat made by Gorbachev
last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baker presented a Soviet proposal to NATO on Germany's
military future. The plan was viewed as having the potential
to break an East-West impasse.
   ---
   Liberia's President Doe has asked the U.S. to help him
flee his country, a Bush administration official said as
Washington reportedly was arranging an airlift to evacuate
Americans from the West African nation. Near Monrovia,
loyalist troops killed the U.S.-trained commander of rebels
who have been advancing on the capital.
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk sought cabinet approval to lift
four years of emergency rule, according to government sources
in Cape Town. An end to the country's state of emergency,
which expires tomorrow, is one of the main conditions set by
Mandela and the African National Congress for formal talks on
a black-white political settlement.
   ---
   China freed 97 people jailed for their part in last year's
pro-democracy demonstrations, bringing to 881 the number of
protesters freed in the past six months. Officials announced
the amnesty after this week's anniversary of the government's
crackdown in Tiananmen Square.
   ---
   Czechoslovakia detained former Communist Party leader
Milos Jakes, ex-official Vasil Bilak and at least five others
to "clarify their activities" during the 1968 Warsaw Pact
invasion of the nation. The action came ahead of tomorrow's
first free elections since 1946.
   ---
   A court in West Germany sentenced a retired U.S. Army
sergeant to life in prison for selling classified military
information to Hungary and Czechoslovakia. Clyde Lee Conrad,
43, who settled in Kaiserslautern as a civilian, also was
fined $1.2 million. His 24-day trial was considered the most
serious treason case in West German history.
   ---
   A Texas scientist found that at least some palladium rods
used in "cold fusion" experiments might have been
contaminated with tritium. But some scientists said the
discovery doesn't undermine other evidence that a certain
kind of strange phenomenon is occurring in various "cold
fusion" experiments.
   ---
   Medical researchers said a common treatment for chronic
back pain, called transcutaneous electrical nerve
stimulation, isn't any more effective in relieving symptoms
than no treatment at all. About 31 million Americans suffer
from lower back pain, which accounts for about $16 billion in
medical costs each year.
   ---
   The House passed a bill that would accelerate the transfer
of Western technology to the Soviet Union and the emerging
democracies of Eastern Europe. But the measure, approved
312-86, includes amendments to withhold certain trade
benefits from the Soviets and from China because of
human-rights concerns.
   ---
   NASA announced that the space shuttle Columbia will have
to be returned to a hangar at Cape Canaveral, Fla., to repair
a fuel leak, indefinitely delaying the spacecraft's astronomy
mission. The space agency statement came after a liquid
hydrogen leak reappeared during a launch-pad test.
   ---
   Bush met in Washington with South Korea's President Roh,
who reported that during his talks Monday with Gorbachev, the
Soviet leader had agreed to help "melt down the ice" from the
Cold War on the Korean peninsula. Roh also said the San
Francisco meeting would "help greatly the process of
reunification" of North and South Korea.
   ---
   Quayle was struck with a sheaf of papers by a man who had
called out to the vice president to get his attention on
Capitol Hill. Quayle was unhurt, and a 42-year-old resident
of the Virgin Islands was arrested and charged with assault
under federal law.
   ---
   The Senate Agriculture Committee voted to ban the export
of unsafe pesticides. The move was an effort to protect U.S.
consumers who eat imported food. A loophole in current law
allows U.S. companies to export pesticides even if they
aren't registered for farm use or tolerated on foods in this
country.
   ---
   Cambodia's Premier Hun Sen expressed doubts over whether a
guerrilla coalition headed by Prince Sihanouk would honor a
cease-fire accord reached by the two rival leaders Tuesday in
Tokyo. The Khmer Rouge didn't take part in the talks, aimed
at ending the 11-year-old conflict.
   ---
   Ethiopia will allow the U.N. to act as an observer to
peace negotiations with the Eritrean rebels, signaling what
is considered a major change in policy. The Addis Ababa
government's statement came amid continued fighting between
the army and the insurgents, and followed two days of
intensive meetings among the military leadership.
   ---
   Most pregnant women don't need multivitamin supplements
because proper diets can provide most of the nutrients they
require, the Institute of Medicine concluded. The study also
said that a weight gain in pregnancy of 25 pounds to 35
pounds is appropriate for women of normal prepregnancy
weight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Power Spectra Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PWSP
</CO>
<LP>
   POWER SPECTRA Inc. (Fremont, Calif.) -- John W. Pauly, 67
years old, was appointed a director of this electronics
company, increasing board membership to eight. Mr. Pauly, a
retired U.S. Air Force general, is chairman and chief
executive officer of Systems Control Technology Inc., Palo
Alto, Calif., and is a member of the Army Science Board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Funds Had
   Decline in Yields
   For Latest Week
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yields on money-market mutual funds slipped in the latest
week, reflecting the recent decline in short-term interest
rates, but stayed within the range of the past four months.
   The average seven-day compound yield eased to 7.96% from
7.98% in the week ended Tuesday, according to IBC/Donoghue's
Money Fund Report. Compound yields assume reinvestment of
dividends.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Assets of the 427 taxable funds tracked by the newsletter,
which is based in Holliston, Mass., rose by $404 million to
$376 billion. It was only the second increase in the past 10
weeks.
   Average yields have been at or just below 8% since late
January, and there are no indications of any significant
change soon. The average maturity of the funds' investments
-- such instruments as commercial paper (short-term corporate
IOUs), Treasury bills and certificates of deposit --
lengthened by a day to 44 days.
   Longer maturities typically are thought to indicate that
portfolio managers think interest rates are falling, because
the funds can retain relatively higher yields for a longer
period. Conversely, short maturities are considered a sign
that managers think rates are rising. A change of a single
day usually isn't considered significant, however, and 44
days is within the range of the past few months.
   Yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction fell
and, separately, Banxquote Money Markets, a New York
information service, reported that yields on certificates of
deposit at major banks declined across the board in the
latest week.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
slipped to 7.67% from 7.68%. The average 30-day simple yield
inched up to 7.69% from 7.68%, reflecting a slight upturn in
yields in mid-May. The average 30-day compound yield moved to
7.99% from 7.98%.
   Yields on tax-free money funds fell in the latest week.
The average seven-day compound yield, for instance, fell to
5.49% from 5.54%. That's equivalent to 7.63% for an investor
in the 28% tax bracket and 8.19% for someone paying 33%.
   Assets of the 220 tax-exempt funds rose by $609 million to
$76 billion. The average maturity remained at 39 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   James McCann Taps `Flower Power'
   To Help Mentally Retarded Adults
   ----
   By John A. Conway
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT 38, FLORIST JAMES McCANN has come full circle in the
world of social service. Armed with a psychology degree from
New York's City College, he began as a full-time counselor in
a home for boys, switched into the flower business ("to feed
the family") and now has taken on the additional job of
raising funds for a home for retarded adults.
   A native of New York's Queens County, Mr. McCann's public
service started at St. John's Home for Boys in Rockaway
Beach. In 1976, with a new family to support (he now has
three children), he looked for a business he could handle. "I
come from an entrepreneurial family," he says. He hit upon
flowers because he could start out part time and with a
minimum of capital. "There were no majors in the flower
business," he says, "like McDonald's in hamburgers."
   Starting with one shop in Manhattan, he built what is now
the 12-store Flora Plenty chain, with annual volume of $10
million. In 1986, he bought control of a then-money-losing
flowers-by-phone company whose major asset was an 800
telephone number that spelled f-l-o-w-e-r-s. Grafting that
onto his Northeastern retail chain, he added $20 million a
year in volume.
   Mr. McCann, however, had never lost his interest in social
service. He still sits on the board of two homes for
children, his original St. John's, and St. Joseph's, a home
for girls run by the Josephite Sisters, as well as on the
board of the Brooklyn Catholic Child Care Society. In 1987,
he took on still another pro bono chore, helping the New Hope
Community, a center for retarded adults located in the
Catskills. Here he had a personal motive; his retarded
brother was in New Hope.
   This nonprofit, nonsectarian Catskill community for the
retarded sits in the heart of the borsch circuit. When Mr.
McCann became interested in it, he brought not only his
entrepreneurial and fund-raising skills but ideas he had
acquired while working with the Marianist Brothers in
Rockaway. Like most such institutions, St. John's at first
had housed its boys in dormitories. Most of its residents,
however, had grown up in apartments; the communal dorm life
became an extra psychological problem. To overcome that, the
Marianists decided to create a campus atmosphere, with a
dozen apartments, with each bedroom housing two boys. That
way, nursing, schooling and other services could be provided
in separate quarters. New Hope is organized along similar
lines, with 10 group homes.
   The campus milieu, Mr. McCann says, works as well for the
adults in New Hope as it did for the boys in Rockaway. All
the guests are mentally retarded, but Mr. McCann notes that
this is not their only handicap. Some are blind, some in
wheelchairs. The separate homes can offer facilities and aid
tailored to the needs of each group.
   Since he joined the New Hope operation, which takes a day
or more out of each working week, Mr. McCann's fund-raising
committee has raised $400,000 toward its $750,000 goal. His
target for 1990 is $100,000, and he has about $40,000 of that
in hand. Additional funds to complete the Catskill "campus"
will come from bonds issued by New York state's Office of
Mental Retardation, money that Mr. McCann says will
eventually be repaid out of New Hope's operating income.
   Mr. McCann sees nothing remarkable in all this. "I think
that your life, like diet or exercise, should be kept in
balance. My balance is my family, my business, and this
work." His interest in New Hope, understandably, was sparked
by his brother, who he says was the catalyst for his original
choice of social service as a career. "It's simple," he says,
"I want to be involved."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bass PLC:
   Firm to Add 50,000 Rooms
   To Its Holiday Inn Chain
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   BAS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bass PLC said it plans to add more than 50,000 rooms to
its Holiday Inn hotel chain over the next three to five
years, boosting total capacity by 16%.
   The British food, drinks and leisure concern's 1,576
hotels world-wide will have about 365,000 rooms, up from
around 315,000 currently. About 30,000 of the rooms will be
added in North America.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bass also said cost-saving plans at its Holiday Inn
business in North America are expected to save $17 million a
year. The company said the move will result in a $20 million
charge against earnings.
   The U.K. group purchased the North American assets of
Holiday Corp. in August for $1.98 billion after paying $475
million for the company's international hotels businesses in
1988.
   Bass also said it plans to sell four of its Crest hotels
to Buckingham International PLC, a Holiday Inn franchisee.
Terms weren't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Scientist Says `Cold Fusion' Tests
   May Have Had Some Impure Rods
   ---
   Discovery Is Likely to Add
   Fuel to the Controversy
   On Experiments' Claims
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Texas scientist found that at least some of the
palladium rods used in "cold fusion" experiments might have
been contaminated with tritium.
   The surprising discovery is likely to add new confusion
and controversy to the "cold fusion" story, although
scientists said it doesn't undermine other evidence that some
kind of strange phenomenon is occurring in various "cold
fusion" experiments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tritium is a form of hydrogen that is created during
certain nuclear reactions. In the past year, as many as two
dozen laboratories have reported finding tritium in their
"cold fusion" experiments that wasn't present at the
beginning of the experiments. The tritium findings have been
cited as one of three types of evidence that hint nuclear
fusion reactions might be occurring in the experiments.
   The new discovery raises questions as to whether some of
the experiments might have been inadvertently contaminated
with tritium.
   Kevin Wolf, a physicist in the Cyclotron Laboratory at
Texas A&amp;M University in College Station, said that his
finding of contaminated palladium was made during attempts to
discover why his "cold fusion" experiments were failing to
duplicate the results of separate "cold fusion" experiments
two blocks away in the chemistry department at Texas A&amp;M.
   The "cold fusion" experiments in both Texas laboratories,
as well as in most other laboratories, involve taking a rod
of palladium metal, encircling it with a platinum wire,
inserting it in a flask of "heavy" water and applying an
electric current. The heavy water is rich in doubly-heavy
hydrogen atoms known as deuterium atoms. The "cold fusion"
controversy centers on whether such experiments are producing
excess energy as a result of the nuclei of deuterium atoms
fusing together. The formation of tritium, a triply-heavy
form of hydrogen, would be one indication of nuclear fusions.
   Mr. Wolf said that since the "cold fusion" uproar broke
out in late March 1989, his lab has run dozens of experiments
and currently has 100 "cells" operating. But, he explained,
only two of the cells have ever produced any tritium. This
contrasts sharply with the results in the chemistry
department, where chemist John Bockris and his colleagues
have reported production of large amounts of tritium by "cold
fusion" cells.
   Mr. Wolf said he recently analyzed several pieces of
palladium used in his experiments and found that four of them
contained tritium. Some of these pieces were used in "blank"
experiments that used ordinary "light" water instead of heavy
water. The light water experiments hadn't produced any
tritium and presumably no fusion reactions had occurred.
   The physicist said the only conclusion was that the
palladium had tritium in it before the experiments began. All
the tritium-contaminated pieces, he said, came originally
from Hoover &amp; Strong Inc., a metals processor in Richmond,
Va.
   Mr. Wolf said the contamination might explain the tritium
he found in his two experiments, but he declined to say that
the finding accounts for the tritium found by Mr. Bockris and
other experimenters. "I'm not trying to explain the world's
results, just our results," he said.
   Over at the chemistry department, Mr. Bockris said he was
startled by Mr. Wolf's findings. "I've been thinking about it
for two days," he said. But, he added, "I haven't changed my
mind" that the tritium in his experiments is coming from some
kind of nuclear reaction. He explained that he and others had
pondered some "worst case" scenarios involving
tritium-contaminated palladium and none of the scenarios
produced as much tritium as he has found in his experiments.
   The chemist also noted that it is highly unlikely that
positively charged tritium atoms could escape from the
negatively charged palladium. Therefore, even if the
palladium was contaminated, the tritium couldn't leak out
into the surrounding heavy water, he argued.
   Mr. Bockris, however, noted that "about two-thirds of our
work" used palladium from Hoover &amp; Strong, although not from
the same batch of metal that Mr. Wolf analyzed.
   Hoover &amp; Strong vice president Dan Pharr said he was
unfamiliar with "cold fusion" research and "I wouldn't know
how to comment one way or the other." The company, he said,
refines and reprocesses palladium primarily for the jewelry
trade and thus isn't as concerned about purity as scientists
might be.
   Mr. Wolf's finding is likely to give new ammunition to
critics who charge that "cold fusion" is an illusion and that
most of the reported positive results can be explained by
errors in measurements or by contamination. However, Mr. Wolf
himself said evidence that many of the experiments have
produced low levels of neutrons is still "pretty solid." He
said he soon will move some of his experiments into a
subterranean salt dome to see if he can detect neutrons while
shielded from extraneous radiation.
   "Right now, the implications {of contaminated palladium}
aren't very important" in the overall "cold fusion" picture,
said David Worledge, a scientist at the Electric Power
Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif. The
industry-supported institute is funding several "cold fusion"
efforts, including those of both Messrs. Wolf and Bockris.
   Mr. Worledge explained that attempts to produce tritium in
"cold fusion" experiments had run their course and didn't
hold much further promise in trying to resolve the
controversy over whether fusion was actually occurring. The
question is more likely to be resolved by new experiments to
detect neutrons and to explain the production of excess heat,
he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jockeying Rises
   In Negotiations
   On the Deficit
   ---
   White House, Congress Seek
   Appropriations Methods
   Without a Final Budget
   ----
   By David Rogers and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The White House and Congress resumed
deficit-reduction negotiations amid increased jockeying over
how to proceed with fiscal 1991 appropriations in the absence
of a final budget agreement for the year beginning Oct. 1.
   Spending bills for the Energy, State, Justice and Commerce
departments are slated to come before House Appropriations
subcommittees this afternoon. But the Democratic leadership
backed away from a high-profile fight over a resolution to
first formalize discretionary spending levels for the new
fiscal year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Republicans had opposed any action now on the
resolution, and John Sununu, the White House chief of staff,
weighed into the fray in a private phone conversation with
Speaker Thomas Foley. Mr. Sununu, according to several
sources, raised the prospect of President Bush's going on
television to accuse the Democrats of scuttling the budget
talks. The high-pressure tactics underscore the political
concern on all sides to avoid being blamed if the
negotiations collapse.
   In stepping back, House Democrats gave up none of their
ability to proceed at a later date, but there is concern that
the administration itself is looking for an opportunity to
step away from the talks. "If these guys are this upset about
a procedural issue that was announced," said House Budget
Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.), "It raises
concern that they are looking for an excuse to leave the
room."
   Republicans had proposed an alternative measure
emphasizing the need for a speedy completion of the budget
summit this month. And the administration would prefer to
delay any commitment to new domestic spending until an
agreement is reached on a larger deficit package encompassing
the administration's own priorities, such as defense and
foreign aid.
   The proposed spending levels in the Democratic resolution
are equivalent to those in the House-passed budget this
spring. Once the appropriations bills begin to move, Budget
Director Richard Darman will find it hard to reallocate funds
as the president wants. The dispute is less over total
spending than the distribution between defense and domestic
accounts. And for all of the reputed emphasis on deficit
reduction, the Democratic plan anticipates slightly lower
total appropriations than the administration.
   For example, the Democratic resolution allocates more than
$209.1 billion to domestic discretionary accounts, or almost
9% more than the $191.9 billion proposed by the
administration. This increase is more than offset by a $24
billion reduction from the president's military budget, and
the total appropriations provided for all accounts would be
about $5 billion less than what Mr. Darman himself proposed.
   The budget director said later that it was "prudent" for
the Democrats to delay action. But as a practical matter, the
House Appropriations Committee can procede with or without
the resolution under the current budget law. The committee
leadership has set a schedule for itself of completing four
major bills, including the fiscal 1991 foreign-aid budget, by
the July 4 recess. And unless the fragile talks show more
progress, the fight is sure to be joined before the end of
this month.
   Democrats fear that failure to pass 13 separate
appropriation bills will leave the party open to criticism
later this year from the president. The most recent time that
Congress passed one omnibus spending bill, President Reagan
embarrassed Democrats by dumping a copy of the huge bill on
the podium during his State of the Union address and vowing
never to sign another.
   The skirmishing in the House parallels that in the Senate.
The Senate hasn't adopted any budget resolution, and that
threatens to hold up consideration of appropriations bills.
Sen. James Sasser (D., Tenn.), chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee and a member of the appropriations panel, said he
is leaning toward quickly adopting the House-passed
resolution to avoid the need for a House-Senate conference.
The process is being driven foremost by pressure from Senate
Appropriations Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.), the former
majority leader. Sen. Byrd is believed to have a commitment
from Majority Leader George Mitchell to move ahead with the
appropriations bills while the summit continues.
   Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, senior Republican on the
budget committee, said he objects to embracing the House
resolution, but he isn't eager to adopt the Senate Budget
Committee alternative, either. "If this (summit) negotiation
is to be meaningful, it ought not to be prejudiced by any
(appropriations) bills," he said.
   The House can proceed with appropriations bills based on
its own budget resolution. Senate rules differ. Without a
resolution that both houses pass, it would take 60 votes in
the Senate to pass any appropriations bill instead of the
usual majority.
   At yesterday's meeting of the budget summit, Defense
Secretary Richard Cheney agreed to work with congressional
defense specialists on a new analysis of the budgetary
consequences of cutting military forces by 25% over the next
five years. The study is to be presented to the summit
negotiators in about a week, he said.
   "Twenty-five percent looks like a reasonable number to
look at given the changed threat," Mr. Cheney said, echoing
earlier statements. "Nobody has made any decisions or signed
off on any numbers," he added. The House-passed budget would
require even deeper cuts in military forces, he said.
   The prime significance of the joint study, according to
Sen. Sasser, is "that it is the only thing we've agreed on in
the past few days." He said that he asked Mr. Cheney to also
prepare analyses of 15% and 35% cuts in forces. Sen. Domenici
termed the study "constructive" because it could eventually
lead to an agreement on a five-year defense budget.
   The summit resumes today with a review of Social Security,
Medicare and farm subsidies. Sen. Daniel Moynihan (D., N.Y.),
author of a bill to cut Social Security payroll taxes, will
participate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton:
   Arnault Consolidates Power,
   Sees Slower Growth for '90
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LVMHY U.GUI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Chairman Bernard Arnault
further consolidated his power at the French luxury group,
but also warned that the weakened yen and dollar are likely
to hold net profit growth to just 15% this year, down from
46% in 1989.
   At Moet Vuitton's annual meeting, Mr. Arnault and his
allies voted to remove four representatives of the Vuitton
family from the group's supervisory board, replacing them
with members of the Moet and Hennessy families, who are
allied with Mr. Arnault. At the end of April, Mr. Arnault won
a nearly two-year-long struggle with the Vuittons for control
of the group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moet Vuitton is susceptible to yen weakness because Japan
is the group's leading market. It represents 21% of sales,
compared to France's 18% and 17% in the U.S.
   Mr. Arnault also said at the meeting that he doesn't have
any intention of further increasing Moet Vuitton's 24% stake
in British distiller Guinness PLC. Mr. Arnault just finished
boosting Moet Vuitton's Guinness stake to bring it in line
with Guinness's Moet Vuitton stake.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mexico to Privatize Its Telephone System
   ---
   Sale of 54% Stake Could
   Bring As Much as $6 Billion
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM TFONY USW GTE CWP AIT BEL BLS NYN PAC SBC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- The Mexican government is almost set to
begin the largest privatization in Latin American history:
the sale of its 54% stake in the telephone monopoly,
Telefonos de Mexico S.A., which analysts say could fetch from
$4 billion to $6 billion.
   The privatization will occur in two stages, beginning in a
few weeks with a call for bids from prospective operating
groups, according to Jacques Rogozinski, the Mexican finance
ministry official overseeing the sale. Analysts say Mexico is
looking for a consortium that includes Mexican investors and
at least one foreign telephone operating company, with
Mexicans required by law to have majority control. Mexico has
retained Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. to aid in the selection of the
operating group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After selling a stake directly to the operating
consortium, the government will unload the remainder of its
Telmex shares later this year, either through a public
offering on Mexican and foreign stock markets or through a
debt-for-equity swap. "We're hearing different proposals,"
says Mr. Rogozinski.
   Mexican officials and U.S. analysts see a potential
problem for some prospective American buyers: The consent
decree that broke up the Bell System restricts the seven
independent Bell holding companies from offering long
distance service within the U.S. outside each company's
particular region. Thus, some telecommunications lawyers say,
a Bell company that bought into Telmex would violate the
decree, because Telmex carries long-distance traffic between
Mexico and all regions of the U.S.
   A spokesman for Denver-based U S West Inc. said its
lawyers concluded that a Bell company and its partners "would
have to structure a deal so that any revenue for calls to and
from the U.S. wouldn't be a part of any interest the Bell
company had." Or, analysts say, a Bell company interested in
Telmex could seek a waiver from the court administering the
Bell breakup. Lawyers say the consent decree wouldn't
prohibit a Bell company from participating in long-distance
service within Mexico or between Mexico and any country other
than the U.S.
   In any case, the decree is definitely weighing on the mind
of Mr. Rogozinski: "Supposedly, it limits and creates lots of
problems for the Bells," he says.
   Other analysts are more concerned about the fact that a
slew of governments, from Puerto Rico to New Zealand, have
either privatized telephone companies or are talking about
it. "Mexico has a lot of competition," for investment
dollars, says Frank Governali, a telecommunications analyst
at First Boston Corp.
   Mr. Rogozinski argues that Telmex presents unmatched
opportunities. Mexico has fewer than 10 telephones for every
100 inhabitants, one of the lowest ratios in the world. The
probability of a free-trade agreement between Mexico and the
U.S., he says, portends a boom in demand. "It's a very good
investment and the markets are showing that," he adds.
Telmex's American depositary receipts are trading at $1.25,
up from this year's low of 87 cents. And recently Telmex has
accounted for a huge 20% of the volume of the booming Mexican
stock market.
   The government has spent recent months sprucing up the
company's operations and balance sheet. It has revamped the
tariff structure to reduce subsidies, overhauled inefficient
subcontracting procedures, eliminated some union perquisites,
and reduced the company's debt. Analysts had projected that
Telemex might have net income of $1 billion in 1990. "It
seems like we're going to go over that a little bit," says
Mr. Rogozinski.
   The list of rumored buyers is lengthy. Mexican officials
note that GTE Corp. of Stamford, Conn., doesn't face the same
restrictions that the regional Bells do. A GTE spokesman said
that it "views with interest all privatization activity
occurring in the world." Cable &amp; Wireless PLC of London,
another rumored Telmex buyer, said "it's a natural that we
should look at" Telmex.
   Within Mexico, potential buyers include the investment
houses Acciones y Valores de Mexico S.A. and Casa de Bolsa
Inverlat S.A., and the Monterrey-based conglomerate Grupo
Alfa S.A. The investment houses wouldn't comment. A spokesman
for Alfa said it was making a preliminary analysis of how
Telmex might fit into the company's operations.
   To make the sale a smaller bite for the operating group,
the government is contemplating a change in the capital
structure of Telmex. Mr. Rogozinski said the company might
issue a new class of shares with limited voting rights. The
operating group then would be required to acquire 51% of only
the full-voting shares to obtain control. Foreigners would be
allowed to buy as much as one-quarter of the 51% full-voting
shares.
   Mr. Rogozinski said the government has almost completed
drafting the operating concession, which would run for 30
years and could be extended for 20 years. Major features
include:
   -- Domestic and international long-distance, currently the
most lucrative part of the company, would be opened to
competition in 1994. That would give the new operator time to
phase out the subsidy in local service.
   --The operating group would be able to create regional
affiliates, similar to the regional Bells. "If they want to
subsidiarize, to make it regional, they'll be able to do lots
of different things," says Mr. Rogozinski. For instance,
"they can create a regional in Monterrey and get a partner
there, but they cannot sell to {the partner} because all the
shares are going to be frozen" for five years after the
privatization.
   -- The operating consortium must undertake an expansion
program ensuring annual growth in lines of 12%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unnoticed Facelift:
   Penney Moves Upscale
   In Merchandise but Still
   Has to Convince Public
   ---
   Problem Is in Luring Women,
   As Well as the Designers,
   To Clothing Department
   ---
   In Any Case, Profit Is Rising
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JCP
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Huddled around a rack of silk ties at the
NorthPark Mall here, Deanna Woolley and Janet Weidenbach
express the divided loyalties of the J.C. Penney shopper.
   Ms. Weidenbach buys her hosiery at Penney. Last Christmas,
Ms. Woolley bought a sweater for her mother here, and she
often buys shirts and ties for her father at the store. Both
women admire the tonier merchandise and the snazzy
chrome-and-glass fixtures that have come with Penney's
attempt to upgrade its image. "I didn't used to like to come
to J.C. Penney at all," Ms. Woolley confesses as she selects
a $16 yellow tie for her father. "It was old-looking, kind of
like going to Sears."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Score one for the new Penney's. But ask the 21-year-olds
where they buy their own clothes and almost in unison they
answer, "The Limited" -- the trendy specialty retailer. For
Penney, a formerly frumpy mass merchant and the nation's
fourth-largest retailer -- with $16.4 billion in 1989 sales
-- the combination of praise and snub is all too common.
   While other big retailers tangled with corporate raiders
during the 1980s -- often with disastrous results -- Penney
was undergoing face lifts and tummy tucks in an effort to
remake itself into a department-store beauty queen. In some
ways the effort has worked, and earnings have rebounded
sharply.
   But Penney still lags behind many of its rivals in sales
per square foot of floor space. It has yet to persuade many
makers of chic women's wear to supply it with the clothing
and accessories it needs to help shake its reputation as a
low-price purveyor of linens, children's clothing and hard
goods. "Over the past decade, no major retailer in America
has changed as much as J.C. Penney," company Chairman William
R. Howell told investors in March. But, he added later, "you
don't change 90 years of consumer perceptions in less than a
decade."
   Penney's experience is a sobering lesson for other
old-line retailers, such as Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. and
Montgomery Ward &amp; Co. They also need to change the way
shoppers and suppliers view them to survive in a crowded
industry. In its mass-merchandising heyday, Penney joined
Sears and Ward in selling cookie-cutter basics to
middle-income Americans whose choices were determined by
price and reliability. But discounters stole away many of the
price-conscious, while regional malls gave the
quality-conscious more -- and more fashionable --
alternatives.
   Penney recognized the shift in the mid-1970s, when Mr.
Howell, then director of domestic development, headed a task
force charged with putting Penney's stores back in touch with
middle America. Armed with "a blank sheet of paper and four
offices," the task force interviewed dozens of consultants
and hundreds of employees and customers, and scouted more
than 70 competitors. The conclusion: The company was trying
to do too many things in the wrong places.
   While it had grown up as the all-purpose store in small
towns, Penney had spent the 1950s and 1960s snapping up
choice locations in the new regional shopping malls. But the
shoppers flocking to those malls went to buy clothes and
accessories, not car batteries, refrigerators or lawn mowers.
They also wanted brand names, which Penney had booted out
years before in favor of higher-margin private labels.
Penney, it was decided, needed to become a fashionable
national department store for middle-income and
upper-middle-income customers.
   The transition has hardly been painless. Penney closed
down its appliance, lawn and garden, paint, hardware and
automotive lines in 1983 and its home electronics and
sporting goods lines in 1988, surrendering more than $1.5
billion in annual sales. The company says it also cut $60
million from its annual budget and reinvigorated its
management ranks by moving its headquarters to Dallas from
New York two years ago. The move cost some 1,250 New Yorkers
their jobs.
   The company has slowly changed. Tile floors in stores have
given way to parquet and carpet. Penney has installed a
state-of-the art video satellite network to display new
merchandise to its buyers and also to potential customers.
The system permits Penney to test-market new styles and has
made store buying and inventory control more efficient. In
expanded men's and women's fashion departments, $7.99
polyester ties and $29.99 women's shifts have given way to
$22 silk neckwear and $80 career dresses.
   The result: From a garden-variety mass merchant, Penney
has blossomed into something glossier.
   Over the past five years, while the number of Penney
stores shrank by 10%, annual revenue has grown 16% and net
income has more than doubled to $802 million. Though its
stock price languishes at 10 times earnings, compared with 20
times earnings for hot retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, The
Limited and The Gap, Wall Street is generally upbeat about
Penney's future. "I would sign a blood oath that says Penney
is improving its business and will have up earnings for three
years," says Oppenheimer analyst Bruce Missett. "I wouldn't
do that for K mart, even in pencil."
   For all its efforts, however, Penney's yearly sales per
square foot, a measure of retailing productivity, are a
disappointing $128 at metropolitan stores, and even less if
other stores are included. By contrast, Dayton's and Hudson's
department stores and Mervyn's both sell about $202 of
merchandise a square foot; May department stores do $159.
   To get to a more respectable $150 to $175 a square foot,
securities analysts say, Penney buyers must continue to
improve the merchandise mix and exploit fashion trends. Some
analysts also suggest that Penney needs to close more stores,
though it has shut 270 smaller ones, mostly outside malls, in
the past five years.
   Penney hasn't discovered the marketing elixir that would
win over women who now buy towels, men's shirts and
children's clothes at Penney and then scurry off to The
Limited or a rival department store to shop for themselves.
Part of the problem remains the lack of coveted brand names.
The biggest brand in Penney's most fashionable women's area
is its own house label, Jacqueline Ferrar; the biggest name
at the cosmetics counter is little-known French maker Fernand
Aubry. "It's difficult to categorize yourself as a department
store when you don't have Clinique makeup," says Margo
McGlade of PaineWebber.
   Though Penney has more than 1,300 stores and an unusual
reputation for paying bills on time, its executives still
must travel the country begging big-name suppliers to treat
them like May and Dayton Hudson, not Sears and Montgomery
Ward. That has been a tough sell, mainly because many apparel
and cosmetics makers fear that the chain will discount their
goods or otherwise cheapen their images.
   Mr. Howell recalls his first approach to Levi Strauss &amp;
Co. in 1979 about selling its jeans through Penney. Saying
"I'm here to plead with you," he promised that Penney stores
were going to "change dramatically in the 1980s." Mr. Howell
says the room went "very quiet, and that was about the end of
the meeting."
   Levi, aware that it might be missing a huge group of
customers, finally agreed to sell to Penney -- three years
later. Penney now claims to be Levi's largest customer,
selling about $100 million a year of the Dockers brand alone.
But the move cost Levi some business. R.H. Macy &amp; Co. stores
dropped Levi's jeans, reasoning that the brand had lost its
exclusiveness by appearing at a mass marketer, and still
doesn't sell the line today.
   Other manufacturers have been even harder to persuade. Top
women's brands such as Elizabeth Arden, Estee Lauder, Liz
Claiborne and Evan-Picone still shun Penney. Officials of
those companies won't say why. Bernard Chaus, chairman of an
upper-moderate women's apparel maker bearing his name,
applauds Penney's improving image, but says that the prices
of his clothing still are too high for Penney stores.
"Perhaps someday we'll do business with them," he says.
   Penney officials say that cosmetics and women's apparel
makers seem concerned that other customers might suddenly
consider them declasse. The attitude frustrates and puzzles
those at Penney who have worked to upgrade its merchandise.
While a few men's suits still sell for $149.99, most cost
$175 to $350. Bridal departments at many stores have been
converted to career boutiques selling women's suits at prices
between $250 and $340. A hot-selling $12 leather purse was
dropped because its look clashed with more expensive
pocketbooks.
   The company's efforts, combined with competitors'
travails, have yielded some gains. After years of lobbying
with manufacturers, the company this year is adding Haggar
and Van Heusen brands to its men's department, Oshkosh B'Gosh
to children's and Maidenform and Warner's to lingerie lines.
Some manufacturers concede their decision to sell to Penney
was accelerated by the bankruptcy filing of Campeau Corp.
chains and by other financial problems in the retailing
business.
   Even some of those who have committed to a Penney
connection remain skittish about the relationship, however. A
designer whose line will move into Penney stores this summer
calls the company "a force in the 1990s." Then he asks not to
be cited by name for fear of being too closely identified
with Penney. "That wouldn't be good for our name or our
business," he says, evoking the memory of the late designer
Halston. Designers say he lost some cachet after marketing
clothing exclusively through Penney in the mid-1980s. Penney
says the relationship improved its image, and blames
financial and ownership problems for Halston's fate.
   For years, Maidenform Inc. has made Penney's private-label
lingerie. Beginning in July, it will sell its own brand at
Penney, too. But this took Penney six years of wooing. "The
argument that won the day until recently was that we had a
brand to protect," says Robert A. Brawer, Maidenform
president. "We asked ourselves, are we prepared to suffer the
consequences, to lose a couple of million dollars in
department store business?"
   There were several heated Maidenform management meetings.
Then, Mr. Brawer says, a visit from top Penney executives,
and the remodeling of Penney stores to better highlight
name-brand merchandise, finally convinced Maidenform that
Penney would display its products well. Other department
stores haven't reacted strongly to the decision, he says, and
"I don't think we're going to get hurt."
   As the courting of manufacturers continues, so do the
physical makeovers of stores. Large-size and petite women's
departments have grown. Penney is replacing novelty goods of
the airport-gift-shop type with $35 picture frames, desk sets
and $280-and-up glass collectibles.
   Last year, it tried to improve its cosmetics lines by
dumping so-called drugstore lines like Max Factor, L'Oreal
and English Leather that had accounted for $21 million a year
in sales. Still, the cosmetics department remains a sore
spot, producing only about 2 1/2% of a Penney store's sales,
compared with the 10% or so that cosmetics produce for
competitors.
   So Penney has added to its cosmetics training staff and
increased its sales promotion with direct mail and scented
fliers in its charge-card bills. At new and remodeled stores,
Penny is moving the cosmetics counter to the main mall
entrance. At the NorthPark store in Dallas, the move has
lifted the sales 36% this year.
   Penney women's departments of the past seemed "a sea of
racks that didn't have a clear definition," says Marshall
Beere, divisional vice president for women's sportswear. Two
years ago, displays were rearranged to separate goods that
appeal to the more fashion-conscious from those aimed at
shoppers more concerned with quality or price. Buyers' jobs
were redefined; instead of buying all women's tops or junior
bottoms, for instance, a buyer now picks products only for
customers in a specific target group. Women's sales are up,
and the junior department recorded sales gains last year in
the high-teens category.
   Yet women shoppers, who buy more window coverings and
towels at Penney than from any other retailer in the U.S.,
remain reluctant to buy their dressy clothes there. Laquilla
Cheek, a Dallas homemaker shopping for graduation gifts, says
she hasn't looked at Penney's women's clothes in 10 years.
"My mother wore plaid Penney shirtwaist dresses for years,"
she says, and she still envisions Penney's clothes as
designed for "dowdy old women." She does buy children's and
men's clothes at Penney.
   Susan Seiter, a corporate investor-relations specialist,
says she buys lingerie and linens at Penney. She recently
stocked up on pantyhose at a Hurst, Texas, store, but then
spent $400 on Jones of New York and other brands on sale at
another department store. "The few times I've looked {at
Penney}, there might be an attractive blouse," she says, "but
it will be polyester and look hot, like it would smell like
New Jersey if you wore it in the summer."
   Penney believes that such women and the manufacturers who
cater to them eventually will see the light. "We'd like to
have Clinique at J.C. Penney" along with other brands, says
Penney Chairman Howell. He believes the years of changes will
eventually produce a breakthrough. "I'm confident that there
will be a day when all of those options will be at our
disposal," he says. "Just as the Berlin Wall came down very
quickly, I'm very optimistic."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Illinois Power
   Gets $75 Million
   Rate Increase
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   IPC
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   State regulators granted Illinois Power Co. a $75 million,
or 7.7%, rate increase, and found the utility's Clinton
nuclear power plant to be 61% "used and useful."
   The Decatur, Ill., utility had asked for a $215.8 million,
or 23%, rate increase, to cover the costs of the $4.2 billion
plant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the increase was about a third of what Illinois
Power had sought, yesterday's order also suggested the
company may be able to avoid at least a portion of big
potential write-downs.
   A determination of whether financially strapped Illinois
Power will be able to continue paying dividends on its
preferred shares still rests on the outcome of a state court
appeal of an earlier Illinois Commerce Commission ruling.
   While the company found the commission's ruling yesterday
the "most favorable yet," it added that the issue of the
plant's funding remains unresolved, and the rate increase
granted is "not enough to set us on a stable financial
course."
   State regulations restrict utilities to billing customers
for only as much of a plant's cost as is necessary to meet
the overall demand for power. The percentage of the plant
found to be "used and useful" has thus been seen as the
pivotal matter in the latest request because it might hold
implications for possible further rate requests, as well as
the company's ability to pay its preferred dividend.
   The commission said its latest order "sends a message"
that its members "are continuing to recognize the increased
usage of the Clinton nuclear power plant" and that "future
growth also will be subject to regulatory recognition." The
commission's order also "anticipates that all of Clinton's
capacity will be recognized in the foreseeable future."
   In November, the commission's staff recommended that the
Clinton plant be declared 100% used and useful and that
Illinois Power be granted $147 million of the rate request.
But the agency's hearing examiner subsequently recommended
that Clinton be declared 42% used and proposed a rate
increase of $27 million.
   Yesterday's ruling was the commission's latest say on the
utility's effort to recover Clinton's costs. In March 1989,
the commission deeply wounded the utility's financial
position by ruling that only 27% of the plant was needed and
by raising its calculations on how much Illinois Power had
imprudently overspent on the project to $666 million. In the
wake of that ruling, Illinois Power took a $346 million
write-off, eliminated its dividend on common stock and
trimmed its work force by about 500. Illinois Power has
appealed the March ruling, and the court is expected to rule
on the matter this autumn.
   The company has said it is "vital" to get the Clinton
plant declared 100% used and useful because the utility might
face additional charges to write off that portion of the
plant ruled unnecessary.
   Illinois Power said the commission's order yesterday
emphasizes "the importance of a favorable decision" in its
pending challenge of the March order. If the company is
unsuccessful in getting the court to overturn the March
ruling, it faces additional write-offs totaling about $408
million.
   Should the court's ruling go against Illinois Power this
autumn, the resulting possible write-offs might put the
company in the position of having a negative retained income,
which could block them from paying preferred dividends for a
time. A spokesman said continuation of the preferred payout
will also rest on whether the commission's order, after a
company review, is found to offer a "reasonable level of
confidence" that the plant will be found 100% useful in time.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Illinois
Power shares rose 75 cents to $16.25 yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Anheuser-Busch Files
   Complaint With FTC
   Against Adolph Coors
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BUD ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Anheuser-Busch Cos. said it filed a complaint with the
Federal Trade Commission charging rival brewer Adolph Coors
Co. with "false and deceptive" advertising practices for
touting its Rocky Mountain roots.
   The flap began after Coors started testing an advertising
campaign that brags about the "Clean, fresh, pure Rocky
Mountain Spring water" used to brew its beer. The 30- and
60-second television advertisements cut back and forth
between quiet scenes of Colorado mountains and pictures of
the crowded highways of big cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anheuser took its gripe public after Coors announced on
Tuesday its plans to buy a Memphis, Tenn., brewery from Stroh
Brewery Co. "We wonder how that company can maintain its
`Rocky Mountain identity' while brewing in Memphis," said
Michael J. Roarty, executive vice president of corporate
marketing at Anheuser-Busch.
   Mr. Roarty said that the Coors campaign implies that its
beers are brewed using only Colorado water. But Coors
actually makes some beer in a packaging facility in Virginia
by mixing local water with beer concentrate, according to Mr.
Roarty. The water is fine, but "the advertising is deceptive,
and we think they should stop it," he said.
   In Golden, a spokeswoman for Coors said all Coors beer is
currently brewed in Golden with Rocky Mountain spring water,
and "we've made no decision to brew anywhere else." The
spokeswoman also said that all beer starts as "high-gravity
beer," including beers made by Anheuser-Busch, which are
later blended with water and carbon dioxide to meet
government alcohol-content requirements. Coors does ship
about 15% of its high-gravity beer to Virginia, where it is
blended with water and packaged, the spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kinder-Care Names
   Samper as President
   And Chief Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   KIND WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MONTGOMERY, Ala. -- Kinder-Care Learning Centers Inc. said
it named J. Phillip Samper, the former vice chairman of
Eastman Kodak Co., as president and chief executive officer
of the big child-care company.
   Mr. Samper, 55 years old, is a 28-year Kodak veteran. He
had overseen Kodak's photographic products business, but
decided to retire at the end of last year following Kodak's
appointment of Kay R. Whitmore as chairman and chief
executive officer. Mr. Samper, who had spent much of his
career building Kodak's international business, was Mr.
Whitmore's chief rival for the top jobs at Kodak.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Samper succeeds Tull Gearreald, who has served as
interim president and chief executive officer of Kinder-Care
Learning Centers since February. Mr. Gearreald will remain a
director of the company and a partner in Lodestar Group, a
New York investment banking company that holds about 63% of
Kinder-Care Learning Centers.
   In addition to Mr. Samper, the company added six other
directors to its board, as Lodestar continues to strengthen
its control over the company. The new directors are: Herbert
Baum, president of Campbell North America; Jack Greenberg,
senior executive vice president and chief financial officer,
McDonald's Corp.; Malcom Hopkins, former vice chairman and
chief financial officer, St. Regis Corp.; Geraldine
Laybourne, president of Nickelodeon; Dr. Sandra Scarr, a
University of Virginia psychology professor; and Wayne
Thornbrough, chief investment officer of Lodestar.
   The appointments, six of which were to fill vacancies,
expand the board to 12 members.
   Late last year, Lodestar sought to acquire the 37% of
Kinder-Care that it didn't already own, but the company
rejected the Lodestar proposal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900607-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900607-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Whittaker Posts Rise
   Of 49% in Net Income
   For Its Second Period
</HL>
<DATE>
06/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WKR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Whittaker Corp. posted a 49% increase in
fiscal second-quarter net income to $75.1 million, or $9.06
cents a share, swollen by a $80.5 million nonrecurring gain
that more than offset a loss from continuing operations.
   The one-time gain, equal to $9.71 a share, was related to
discontinued operations. In the year-ago quarter, Whittaker
had restated net income of $12.6 million, or $1.75 a share,
including a gain from discontinued operations of $5.1
million, or 72 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss from continuing operations was $3.3 million, or
40 cents a share, compared with year-ago restated income from
continuing operations of $3.2 million, or 43 cents a share.
   Sales climbed 12%, to $51.2 million, from $45.5 million.
Whittaker said that its year-ago figures were restated to
reflect the sale in March of the company's special chemicals
segment, and the reinstatement to continuing operations of
two businesses in its aerospace segment. Whittaker's
continuing operations are now in aerospace and biotechnology.
   The company blamed the sharp declines in income mainly on
increased expense related to its recapitalization last June.
The quarter also was negatively impacted by a $4.3 million
net charge, equal to 52 cents a share, for the write-off of
certain unamortized loan costs related to financing of the
recapitalization plan.
   Whittaker borrowed $360 million from a $432.5 million
credit facility for the recapitalization after rejecting a
takeover bid from a closely held investment concern in
December 1988. Earlier this week, Whittaker replaced the
facility with a new $140 million facility from a group led by
Security Pacific National Bank. Of the $140 million,
Whittaker said it has borrowed $47 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
