<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Temco National Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Temco National Corp. said it expects to
report a $1 million gain in its second quarter from the sale
of a wholesale medical supply unit to Foster Medical Supply
Inc.
   Terms of the sale weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foster, a closely held company based in Dedham, Mass.,
said the medical supply unit, owned by Temco's Wendt-Bristol
Co. subsidiary, will be combined with its current operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TJX Sets Reserve
   Due to Ames Stake,
   Posts Restated Loss
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TJX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- TJX Cos. established a $185 million
reserve covering its entire stake in troubled Ames Department
Stores Inc., leading to a restated loss for the fiscal year
ended Jan. 27.
   TJX holds Ames 6% cumulative convertible senior preferred
stock which it received when Ames acquired the Zayre discount
department store chain from a predecessor company. Problems
at Zayre have resulted in unexpectedly large losses and a
credit crunch for Ames.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TJX, an off-price specialty retailer, said the reserve is
an effort to "put the Ames situation behind us" and won't
affect its cash situation.
   Meanwhile, TJX's board raised the company's quarterly cash
dividend to 11.5 cents a share from 10 cents a share, payable
May 31 to stock of record May 10. A spokesman said "our cash
generating capabilities are unaffected, which is why the
board saw fit to go forward with the planned increase in the
dividend."
   David Williamson, an analyst with Advest Inc. in Hartford,
Conn., said "now that they've decided to bite the bullet, I
view it as a positive." He added that since the reserve is
set against previously reported earnings, "it won't affect
their current fiscal year at all."
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, TJX closed at $13.875,
up 37.5 cents. Last week, the shares tumbled as the scope of
Ames's troubles became clear.
   TJX said that as a result of the restatement, it will
report a net loss for fiscal 1990 ended Jan. 27 of $78.3
million, or $1.10 a share. In fiscal 1989, the company had a
net loss of $167.8 million, or $2.97 a share. Before taking
the reserve for its Ames holding, TJX had reported fiscal
1990 net income of $93.8 million, or $1.43 a share.
   For the latest fiscal year, TJX said its restated income
from continuing operations was $75.7 million, or $1.16 a
share, including an $11.1 million charge to offset previously
recognized dividend income. In fiscal 1989, TJX reported
income from continuing operations of $55.1 million, or 98
cents a share.
   As a result of the reserve, TJX will show a loss on the
disposal of discontinued operations of $161 million. In
fiscal 1989, it had a loss from discontinued operations of
$223 million. TJX said the restatement won't affect
previously reported sales of $2.15 billion compared to $1.92
billion.
   TJX said its Ames holdings remain on its books, but a
spokesman said the reserve reflects an effort "to be as
prudent and conservative as we possibly can be."
   In addition to setting the reserve against the Ames
preferred stock, TJX took a $30 million reserve against any
other possible contingent liabilities. Those include a
contingent obligation for store leases, but TJX said most of
the leases are below market rates indicating they won't
result in losses. In addition, TJX established a reserve
against dividends paid by Ames, which had been of the
non-cash, payment-in-kind type.
   A TJX spokesman said that as a result of establishing the
reserve, TJX's shareholders' equity will fall to about $228
million, or $3.25 a share, from $401 million, or over $5 a
share. However, Mr. Williamson of Advest said that "retailers
don't trade on the basis of book value. Cash flow is a much
more important factor, and this {reserve} doesn't affect cash
flow."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RCM Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   RCMT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- RCM Technologies Inc. said its board
extended the expiration date of the company's Class C common
stock warrants to Aug. 31 from April 30. The warrants are
exercisable at $8.50 a share. RCM is a provider of
engineering and contract technical services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Walesa Struggles to Regain Faded Glory
   ---
   Solidarity Founder's Presidential
   Bid Irks Poland's Leaders
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- Solidarity begins its second national congress
Thursday in the same Gdansk hall where its first congress
took place in September 1981. With Solidarity running Poland
now, and the country in economic detoxification, it is bound
to be an occasion of high rhetoric and calls for renewed
sacrifice. But the agenda makes no note of the biggest issue
the delegates face: Lech Walesa's ego.
   Poland's revolution has been hard on Mr. Walesa. A year
ago he was the uncontested leader of the Polish nation.
Today, he chairs a fairly ineffectual trade union with 2.2
million members. The delegates will surely re-elect him to
that post, but Mr. Walesa wants more. He wants to be Poland's
president, and may expect the congress to endorse him. The
leaders of Solidarity's government, on the other hand, would
rather he stayed in Gdansk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is a time for diplomats and professional
politicians," a Solidarity deputy says. "He isn't a diplomat,
and he's a great politician, but not a professional."
   Mr. Walesa has stood petulantly by while Tadeusz
Mazowiecki, the quiet man he anointed as prime minister last
summer, has crept ahead of him in the popularity polls. And
he has endured the sight of Czechoslovakia's unprofessional
new president, playwright Vlaclav Havel, barnstorming the
world. The Czechoslovaks, Mr. Walesa said recently, "naively
think that if someone was at a rally and the next minute he
was president, then he can only make good moves."
   "There's a testiness to his tone," a diplomat says. "He's
not in the loop. He's a public figure, but day-to-day he
isn't involved. There's an element of frustration."
   No one could irk Mr. Walesa more than the current occupant
of Poland's presidential palace. Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski,
Solidarity's one-time persecutor, no longer seems such a
villain. He got his job before convulsions elsewhere in
Eastern Europe made compromise with Communists unnecessary,
yet he has become the kind of detached, pliant president
Solidarity's government wants. Moreover, his ties with Moscow
and the old Communist elite have helped him.
   "Mazowiecki is happy to have a weak president. At the same
time, the two have a working relationship," says commentator
Kostek Gebert. "Apart from Walesa and his men, nobody really
wants Jaruzelski out."
   Mr. Walesa chose to publicize his ambitions last week,
just before the Solidarity congress, going out of his way to
make them known while cryptically denying them at the same
time. It was also the week Mr. Jaruzelski saw Mikhail S.
Gorbachev in Moscow and came home with a Soviet admission of
guilt for the mass murder of Poland's officer corps in World
War II. Yet Mr. Walesa's timing was more than a ploy to
upstage the general. It reflects a keen politician's reading
of the public mood.
   If Mr. Walesa is frustrated now, the Poles soon will be.
As the living standard collapses and unemployment bites, he
senses, the popular thirst for revenge will rise. Last month,
Mr. Walesa demanded a "speeding up" of reform -- not of
free-market reform, apparently, but a quicker end to the
outdated deal that keeps people like Gen. Jaruzelski in
office. He demanded special tribunals and decrees to trap
Communist kingpins who escaped unpunished by the revolution
and who now, he said, profit shadily from the mess they left.
   "I am regarded as undemocratic," he said, "but I am
effectively the most democratic man in this land. First of
all, democracy must not get in the way of your work."
   Solidarity's government sympathizers expect to be beaten
with this stick in Gdansk. "There will be a vast populistic
explosion," Mr. Gebert predicted. And the union's leaders can
look forward to a whipping for their passive acceptance of
heartless austerity. The result will further sap the
government-wing's weakening influence over the drift of
Polish politics, he said.
   At the end of March, Mr. Walesa inserted his own man as
head of Solidarity's main civic committee. The committee
network, which grew out of last June's election, composes the
country's best-organized political machine. Another Walesa
loyalist and his chief promoter, Jaroslow Kaczynski, aims to
use the committees as a springboard for a center-right,
church-oriented political party.
   While the party would stay in the democratic fold, it
could also put Poland in the camp of old-style European
nationalists like the winners of the recent election in
Hungary. A Walesa presidency, it seems, would suit it nicely.
   The Solidarity newspaper that sides with the government
took a sample last week of public opinion on Mr. Walesa's
ambitions. Those in favor supported his pledge to speed
democracy and slow the government's austerity plan. Those
opposed called him authoritarian and capricious. The paper,
Gazeta Wyborcza, ran a picture of Mr. Walesa standing with a
hand in his coat, looking Napoleonic, but its jibes aren't
likely to cramp his style.
   No one expects Mr. Jaruzelski to hang on until his term
expires in 1995; the general is tired. With national
elections due in a year or sooner, the government would like
to see him stay remain in office until Poland is on its way
to capitalism. By then, Mr. Mazowiecki might be poised to
take his place.
   But in the meantime, the general might not endure an
insult -- a call at Solidarity's congress, for instance, that
he be ousted. Mr. Jaruzelski might take that as a cue to
retire, and Mr. Walesa could then ascend to the palace.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EMC Corp. to Report Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EMC
</CO>
<LP>
   HOPKINTON, Mass. -- EMC Corp. said it expects to report a
profit of about $735,000, or three cents to four cents a
share, on record revenue of about $40 million for the first
quarter.
   Last year, the maker of computer parts reported a net loss
of $7.5 million, or 32 cents a share, on revenue of $24.1
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the growth reflects improved sales of its
disk systems and its so-called solid state disks, which use
semiconductors that work in place of disk drives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Israeli Consumer Prices Up
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   JERUSALEM -- Israel's consumer price index rose 1.2% in
March, the government said.
   The price index measures price changes in a fixed
market-basket of goods and services. The state-run Central
Bureau of Statistics attributed the increase to price boosts
in all the items making up the basket, apart from clothes and
footwear.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An increase of 2.2% was measured in housing costs, and it
followed a rise of 1.3% in February. Rents and home sale
prices have been pushed up because of a housing shortage
caused by an influx of Soviet Jews to Israel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcoa Net Declined
   46% in 1st Period
   To $148.6 Million
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   AA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Aluminum Co. of America reported a 46%
decline in first-quarter earnings as the No. 1 aluminum maker
lost market share in its core beverage container business.
   Net income in the period fell to $148.6 million, or $1.69
a share, from $276 million, or $3.12 a share, a year earlier.
Sales were flat at $2.64 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings, which were consistent with analysts'
expectations, reflect generally weak demand for aluminum and
a consequent decline in metal prices. They also reflect a
$4.1 million, or five cent a share, unfavorable adjustment
for foreign currencies as well as the unfavorable impact of
government measures to control inflation on Alcoa's
operations in Brazil, which broke even in the quarter.
   The latest results were also adversely affected by a
controversial pricing strategy initiated last November. As
part of the strategy, which was directed by Alcoa Chairman
Paul O'Neill, Alcoa at first refused to match the price
discounting of its rivals in the beverage-container market.
Since then Alcoa has lost perhaps $100 million of sales and
several percentage points of can-market share.
   Alcoa took that stand, Mr. O'Neill asserts, to maintain
pricing integrity for fabricated aluminum products. He argues
that prices for can sheet shouldn't be lowered simply because
of falling prices for ingot, the raw metal from which
container sheet is made. And the executive says Alcoa has
already regained some customers and will win back even more
as the year progresses and can-sheet supplies tighten.
   The first-quarter results, though, show the penalty of
that strategy. Because of fewer orders for can sheet, Alcoa
sold 42% of its 634,000 metric tons in shipments as raw ingot
in the quarter, up from 34% a year earlier. Ingot, the
primary form of aluminum, commands less profit than
fabricated products like can sheet.
   The high ingot-to-shipment ratio "is an indication of
Alcoa having lost market share in the container business" in
the first quarter, says analyst Peter Anker of First Boston.
   Still, Mr. Anker and others believe the first quarter will
be the trough for Alcoa. He expects the company to do better
in subsequent quarters. Overall, he predicts Alcoa will earn
$7.50 a share this year, down from a record $10.67 in 1989.
   Mr. O'Neill, who dislikes forecasting earnings, suggested
as much in his statement. "Alcoa's order rates in March were
better than in recent months," the executive said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Bears' Bets May Roil Japan's Turmoil
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN BT SB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. investors in Nikkei put warrants, a relatively new
investment that reaps big profits if Japanese share prices
plunge, have been sitting pretty through the Tokyo stock
market's recent upheavals.
   They also may be part of what is causing that turmoil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is because the securities firms and banks that
devised the Nikkei puts, such as Salomon Inc. and Bankers
Trust New York Corp., often hedge them with complex trading
strategies that increase pressure on Japanese stocks when
prices are already falling.
   In effect, these institutions have revived the
computer-driven "portfolio insurance" strategies that were a
primary factor behind the U.S. stock market crash in October
1987.
   So far this year, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225
leading stocks that trade on the Tokyo Stock Exchange has
plunged nearly 27% from its record high at the end of last
year. On Monday, the index fell 750.74 points, or 2.6%, to
close at 28463.18.
   The fundamental reasons for the drop in Japanese stock
prices are well known: rising Japanese interest rates,
accelerating monetary growth, fears of higher inflation and a
general belief that asset prices in Japan -- both stocks and
real estate -- were overvalued. Waning confidence in Japan's
monetary authorities has merely added to the investors'
anxieties.
   Now a growing number of people believe that portfolio
insurance also played a part. While the Nikkei put warrants
weren't the cause of the Tokyo stock market's drop, they say,
the computerized hedging programs backing them exacerbated
the decline once it started and added to the market's
volatility.
   "These puts aren't taken lightly by the Ministry of
Finance or any of the groups in Japan," says a Canadian
investment banker who worked on some of Bankers Trust's
warrants. "There were a lot of negotiations with the
ministry. We got calls at two in morning. It was very
sensitive."
   In Tokyo, a Finance Ministry official says: "We can
imagine {the puts have} some effect, but no one can measure
them. We cannot trace how these products have affected the
market. We intend to study it further."
   Just how much the Nikkei puts have affected the Tokyo
market is probably impossible to quantify. Some of the effect
is muted by rules that require futures trading to close down
once prices move 10%.
   Nonetheless, "The psychological effect is greater than the
actual transactions," a senior trader at one of Japan's big
securities firms says. "The problem is that {the big Japanese
brokers} can't do it and can't explain it to their clients."
   Japanese securities firms, which lack the technology and
the expertise to do much computerized program trading, have
criticized U.S. firms in recent months for disrupting the
market by using such techniques. While the Americans don't
deny they use computerized trading strategies, they
vehemently deny that their practices contribute to the Tokyo
market's violent fluctuations.
   Four Nikkei put warrants have been listed on the American
Stock Exchange since early January. The first was offered by
Denmark and underwritten by Goldman, Sachs & Co.; the others,
by Bankers Trust with one and Salomon with two, quickly
followed.
   The Amex-listed warrants entitle investors to a payment in
U.S. dollars, if the Nikkei stock average falls below the
exercise or "strike" price specified in the warrants'
prospectuses. Trading in the Amex puts has been active, at
times accounting for as much as 40% of the Amex's daily
volume.
   Other Nikkei puts have been trading in Canada and London
for more than a year, while private placements of Nikkei put
options have been available to U.S. and other institutional
investors since 1988.
   Combined, the publicly listed U.S. and Canadian put
warrants represent a roughly $3 billion bearish bet against
the Nikkei index, figures William Ziemba, a professor of
management science at the University of British Columbia.
Nobody knows for sure the value of the privately placed puts,
but investment bankers involved in some private deals say the
total could be about 10 times the listed warrants.
   To hedge the exposure on the Nikkei puts, the securities
firms and banks use a few different strategies, including
portfolio insurance, or "dynamic hedging," as it is called
now. This isn't really insurance; rather, it is a trading
strategy that sells progressively more stocks as the market
declines and buys them back as prices rally. The goal is to
limit losses in a falling market, but not leave the investor
too far behind when prices are gaining. Without these and
other strategies to hedge the puts, issuers would have risked
losing hundreds of millions of dollars in the recent plunge
in Japanese stock prices.
   The put issuers execute the portfolio-insurance strategy
primarily by purchasing and selling Nikkei futures contracts
on the Osaka and Singapore stock exchanges. The futures
provide a less expensive and quicker way to trade the Nikkei
index than buying and selling huge baskets of stocks.
   Traders say that even though dynamic hedging isn't the
only method used to back the puts, it could account for 10%
to 15% of total futures trading on volatile days. This is
modest, compared with the effect that portfolio insurance had
in the U.S. markets in 1987. But as these trades all go in
one direction, selling the market, at a time when the market
is skittish and volume is relatively thin, it is enough to
move the market, they say.
   Of course, because the same sequence also can occur when
prices rebound, these strategies tend to accentuate the
volatility of both stock market plunges and rallies.
   If dynamic hedging strategies continue to grow in
popularity in fledgling Japanese futures markets, the effect
on volatility could be expected to increase, traders say.
   As the U.S. market crash demonstrated, an especially big
problem arises when too many hedgers try to cram through the
market's exit by dumping futures at the same time. Sanford
Grossman, a finance professor at the University of
Pennsylvania's Wharton School and an authority on the 1987
crash, says that dynamic hedging strategies typically "ignore
the fact that if people are engaging in the same strategy at
the same time, they'll affect the underlying stock price that
they're trying to hedge against."
   ---
   Marcus W. Brauchli contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Rose 1.1% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
increased 1.1% last week to 2,019,000 tons from 1,998,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output fell 1.5% from the 2,050,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 89.8% of its capability last week,
compared with 88.9% the previous week and 92.7% a year ago.
   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                     Net tons   Capability
                                     produced   utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to April 14 ..............  2,019,000      89.8%
   Week to April 7 ...............  1,998,000      88.9%
   Year to date ..................  2,050,000      92.7%
   Year earlier to date .......... 28,559,000      85.8%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Jonathan Kandell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP LATAM J.HZO
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   AQUINO'S GUARDS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   British army counterterrorism experts are helping to train
Philippine President Corazon Aquino's palace guard to protect
her against a possible fresh coup attempt.
   Mrs. Aquino told a press conference the small team of
British military personnel has been brought in to train the
Presidential Security Group, an elite force of 3,000 men that
guards her.
   The president, who has survived six coup attempts in the
past four years, said the training was being provided free as
part of British assistance to the Philippines. She rejected
as untrue allegations that British mercenaries were involved.
   The British Embassy, while confirming the presence of a
team of army trainers, declined to specify their exact role
or how many there were. But Philippine military sources said
the team was made up of about a dozen experts in
anti-terrorism techniques, and that they arrived late last
month. Anti-Aquino army rebels threaten to attack the British
officers if they aren't withdrawn.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE ACQUISITIONS ABROAD
                                                                                                       

   Japanese firms purchased 448 foreign companies in the
fiscal year ended March 31, up from 334 in fiscal 1988,
according to a survey by Yamaichi Securities Co. Foreign
firms acquired only 14 Japanese companies in fiscal 1989,
Yamaichi reported.
                                                                                                       

   MEXICAN TRADE
                                                                                                       

   Mexico's new open door trade policy forced 50,000 small
and medium-size businesses to turn to exporting or shut down
in 1989, according to a study by Mexico City's Metropolitan
University. The industries most affected are clothing,
footwear, plastics, electronics, toys, foods and beverages,
the study says. Last year, President Carlos Salinas de
Gortari's government approved new foreign trade rules
lowering duties and lifting restrictions on imports, with the
aim of making Mexican companies more competitive at home and
abroad.
                                                                                                       

   FORTRESS EUROPE?
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. International Trade Commission says U.S. business
still worries that greater unity among West Europeans will
lead to a "Fortress Europe" designed to protect their
companies against U.S. goods and services. American interests
that could be hurt, according to the ITC, range from the sale
of insurance to the showing of U.S. television shows.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE TANKER ORDER
                                                                                                       

   Hitachi Zosen Corp., a leading Japanese shipbuilding firm,
received an order for a crude-oil tanker valued at
approximately $82.3 million. According to the Japan Ship
Exporters Association, that's the highest price paid for a
Japanese tanker since 1973, when the world shipbuilding
industry contracted because of soaring oil prices. Hitachi
said it will build the 280,000-grossmetric-ton oil carrier
for Britain-based Lykiardopuro &amp; Co., and deliver the ship in
early 1993.
                                                                                                       

   CRIME IN POLAND
                                                                                                       

   Crime is soaring in post-Communist Poland at a time when
police are short of manpower, money and public trust.
   The number of crimes jumped 80% in 1989, to more than
500,000. Nearly a third were property crimes, traceable in
part to the worsening economic situation.
   Muggings increased by 26%. The number of reported rapes
rose, while murders remained steady at about 500 a year.
   But the police force is shrinking as crime grows. Col.
Wojciech Garstka, spokesman for the Interior Ministry, says
Warsaw alone has 3,200 vacancies. Low pay and public distrust
account for the failure to attract new recruits, despite the
surge in unemployment accompanying economic reform, says Col.
Garstka.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Forget the yen, mark and franc. Buy dong. Thanks to a
tough package of economic reforms, the Vietnamese currency
has soared in the past year, strengthening by 50% against the
dollar. . . . Brazil won't build a nuclear bomb, says Jose
Luiz de Carvalho Santana, the new head of that country's
Nuclear Energy Commission. According to U.S. scientists,
Brazil's secret uranium-enrichment plant at Aramar, in Sao
Paulo state, could easily be adapted to make a bomb.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Instrument Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ GRL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Instrument Corp. was given a $233.2
million Air Force contract for aircraft radar-warning
receivers.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Grumman Corp. won a $98.6 million Navy contract for F-14D
aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Calcasieu Refining Co. got a $32.8 Defense Logistics
Agency contract for jet fuel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada to Sell Four Bond Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government said it will offer 1.5
billion Canadian dollars (US$1.28 billion) of bonds in four
issues this week.
   The sale will include 11.75% bonds due Oct. 15, 1993;
11.75% bonds due March 1, 1995; 11.50% bonds due Sept. 1,
2000; and 11.25% bonds due June 1, 2015. Offering terms are
to be announced today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bank of Canada has agreed to purchase at least C$100
million of the new bonds. The remainder will be available to
public investors.
   Proceeds will be applied toward redemption of C$2.13
billion of government bonds maturing May 1 and for general
government purposes, the Finance Department said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Woodward's Ltd. Plans
   Issue of Class A Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   WDS.A
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia Woodward's Ltd. said it plans
to raise about 40 million Canadian dollars (US$34.4 million)
through an issue of Class A shares, and an accompanying
rights offering to current holders.
   Woodward's, a century-old department store chain of which
the founding Woodward family relinquished control last fall
to a group including Cambridge Shopping Centres Ltd. of
Toronto, said funds from the offering will be used to help
finance its turnaround program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Woodward's had a previously reported net loss last year of
C$59 million, or C$3.10 a share, on revenue of C$706.9
million. The results included special charges of C$17.2
million, or 90 Canadian cents a share, reflecting costs
associated with the layoff of about 20% of the chain's
full-time staff.
   Woodward's didn't disclose terms of the planned offering.
It has about 15.3 million Class A shares outstanding.
   In Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Woodward's
Class A shares closed at C$1.80 each, down 10 Canadian cents.
   Wood Gundy Inc., a Toronto-based securities dealer, will
act as agent for the offering, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Time to Place Big Bets on Small Stocks?
   ---
   But Glamour Issues
   Still in the Lead
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Big blue-chip stocks outperformed smaller
stocks again yesterday, continuing a trend that has prevailed
for most of the 1980s.
   However, small stocks seem to be starting to catch up to
big stocks, which would be good news for a market that lately
has been led higher by relatively few stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet, a number of investors expect big stocks to outpace
smaller shares this year. They say big blue-chip shares
typically do better in a year of economic uncertainty.
Moreover, they expect foreign investors to keep buying the
biggest U.S. stocks this year because the shares are easy to
trade, and companies such as McDonald's Corp. and Coca-Cola
Co. are known world-wide. Also, most of the largest stocks
are in Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, attracting the
buying power of more than $200 billion in investment money
that attempts to duplicate the S&amp;P 500.
   Even from a fundamental standpoint, small stocks don't
appear excessively inexpensive, says David Rajala, director
of equity management at One Federal Asset Management, which
typically invests in large stocks. "We are skeptical that
small stocks are getting ready to outperform," he says.
   The engine of the stock market over the past year has been
big stocks. New York Stock Exchange stocks with a median
market capitalization of $10 billion had a total return-price
change plus dividends -- of 25.7% in the 12 months ended
March 30, according to Dalton, Greiner, Hartman, Maher &amp; Co.,
a new money management firm. The smallest stocks on the Big
Board, with a median capitalization of $53 million, lost 10%
on a total return basis for the year.
   But more recently, small stocks have started to catch the
attention of money managers. For this year, through last
Thursday when trading ended for the week, median returns on
the Big Board's smallest stocks were down 2.6% compared with
a decline of 2.4% for the largest stocks.
   Is the long cycle of small-stock underperformance over?
"It appears that the deterioration of small stocks relative
to large stocks has stopped," says James Awad, president of
BMI Capital, a money management firm. He points out that in
the first quarter the biggest stocks still led performance,
but some average-sized stocks lagged the smallest shares.
   More investors are thinking of companies in terms of
earnings potential, rather than buy-out value, Mr. Awad says.
And more investors are taking a closer look at younger,
smaller companies whose earnings are growing at rapid rates,
he says. This year, he says, "safety" may not mean owning
stocks of big companies with predictable earnings, but rather
stocks of companies, both large and small, which have strong
franchises and innovative products that assure earnings
strength in a sluggish economy.
   "If the general thinking is that small caps are the place
to be, the trend will be in place for several years until
small caps get overvalued," Mr. Awad predicts. He says the
last cycle of small stock outperformance lasted from the
fourth quarter of 1977 to the third quarter of 1983. For 1983
alone, the bottom 20% of all publicly traded companies, based
on market capitalization, gained 39.6% on a total return
basis compared with 22.51% in the S&amp;P 500.
   Timothy G. Dalton, Jr., chairman and president of Dalton,
Greiner, is banking on small stocks. Mr. Dalton says 45% of
the $2 billion the firm has under management is invested in
stocks with a capitalization of $2 billion or less. He says
many of these small and medium-sized companies are
manufacturing or technology concerns, which are two sectors
he's bullish on.
   "We see an opportunity to capture a double play -- good
fundamentals and earnings growth," says Mr. Dalton. Smaller
companies also tend to be less leveraged and therefore pay
less in interest payments and more to the bottom line.
   Kenneth J. Greiner, executive vice president of the firm,
says consumption should begin to decrease as a percentage of
gross national product, while capital expenditures -- from
research and development to refurbishing factories -- should
rise.
   ---
             Small Stocks Are Closing the Gap
                                                                                                       

   Median total returns for all NYSE-listed common stocks
grouped by market capitalization (price times outstanding
shares)
                                                                                                       

               MEDIAN      ESTIMATED        TOTAL RETURN*
               MARKET    PRICE-EARNINGS  12 MONTHS THIS YEAR
               VALUE        RATIOS       THROUGH   THROUGH
          (In millions)  1990    1991    MARCH 31  4/12/90
                                                                                                       

 Largest 10%
 of Stocks   $10,786.2   12.9    11.5     25.7      -2.4
                                                                                                       

 Second 10%    4,017.3   11.8    10.7     19.8      -5.0
                                                                                                       

 Third 10%     2,291.5   11.9    10.7     17.6      -2.5
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Fifth 10%       841.4   11.6    10.4     13.6      -2.7
                                                                                                       

 Sixth 10%       542.6   12.0    10.2     10.7      -4.9
                                                                                                       

 Seventh 10%     333.4   12.1    10.2     12.0      -3.6
                                                                                                       

 Eighth 10%      194.5   10.6     9.6      4.9      -8.8
                                                                                                       

 Ninth 10%       111.3   10.1     9.5      3.0      -6.4
                                                                                                       

 Smallest 10%     53.4    9.6     7.5    -10.0      -2.6
                                                                                                       

 NYSE Composite
 Index           674.0   11.6    10.4     12.5      -4.0
                                                                                                       

   *Includes price gains and dividends
   Source: Dalton, Greiner, Hartman Maher &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle K Discloses
   Details of Accord
   With Its Creditors
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP AFINP
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Circle K Corp. disclosed details of a
preliminary accord with senior creditors and its largest
shareholder, engineered earlier this month to stave off
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   The convenience-store operator said it plans swap offers
for $510 million face amount of its debt outstanding, issuing
new senior subordinated convertible debentures "in a
principal amount that approximates the market value of the
outstanding debt securities."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new debentures would be convertible into "at least a
majority of the company's fully diluted common equity,"
Circle K said. Debt holders also would be given the option to
receive cash for their securities.
   If holders of all $510 million of debt opted to take cash,
Circle K would need to pay out about $100 million, given that
the debentures have a current market value of between 18
cents and 20 cents on the dollar. Circle K said its largest
shareholder, American Financial Corp., has issued a
conditional standby commitment to buy as much as $100 million
market value of the debentures. American Financial,
controlled by Cincinnati financier Carl Lindner, holds a 38%
stake in Circle K and is a substantial creditor. Mr. Lindner
also is a longtime business associate of Karl Eller, Circle
K's chairman.
   Debt issues included in the swap would be Circle K's 12
3/4% senior subordinated debentures due 1997, 7 1/4%
convertible subordinated debentures due 2006, 8 1/4%
convertible subordinated debentures due 2005, 13% junior
subordinated debentures due 1997, and closely held
subordinated notes.
   The swap offer probably would be conditioned on at least
90% of the debt securities outstanding being swapped or
purchased, Circle K said. Exact terms of the proposed swap
offer haven't been fully determined, and Circle K said it
plans to file swap offer materials with the Securities and
Exchange Commission prior to May 15.
   As part of the agreement Circle K reached with senior
creditors earlier this month, the company placed a
seven-month moratorium on debt and interest payments,
narrowly averting default on part of its debt. Yesterday,
Circle K said that it didn't pay the $7.9 million interest
due on the $125 million principal amount of 12 3/4% senior
subordinated debentures.
   "While interest payments are not permitted on the
subordinated debt, the company believes it will have
sufficient cash liquidity for its trade obligations during
the course of the financial restructuring," Circle K added.
   Prior to the announcement of the proposed restructuring,
Circle K had said that it was considering filing for
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code. Circle K has found itself buckling under a
heavy load of high-yield debt resulting from rapid expansion.
Under Mr. Eller's management, the once-sleepy chain grew to
4,700 outlets at Dec. 31 from 1,300 stores in 1983.
   The restructuring plan is conditional on all sides signing
a definitive standstill agreement that would hold through the
earlier of Oct. 31 or completion of the financial
rearrangements.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Circle K shares closed at $1.625, off 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Frederick's Of Hollywood Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FHO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FREDERICK'S OF HOLLYWOOD Inc. said it declared a 3-for-2
stock split and a 5% increase in its semiannual cash dividend
to 35 cents a share. The Los Angeles specialty retailer said
the split, payable as a stock dividend June 15 to stock of
record May 15, will increase its shares outstanding to about
5.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lawyers' and Journalists' Groups
   Have No Plans for Similar Studies
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Even the most mild-mannered corporate employees may
sometimes have a few choice names for their internal
auditors.
   Now, with all the thoroughness of the profession, an
auditors' trade group has compiled a list of the 180 insults
that auditors dislike most -- names such as "auditor weenie,"
"corporate goon" and -- getting personal -- "scum of the
earth."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The study ventures that the insults, compiled from a
survey of auditors as part of a 137-page report on "Roles and
Relationships in Internal Auditing," "reveal tension between
{auditors} and others."
   The Institute of Internal Auditors commissioned the report
to assess the profession's standing -- not so hot -- and see
what can be done about it. Donna Wood, a business professor
at the University of Pittsburgh and a co-author of the study,
suggests that the group's 34,000 members -- who generally
monitor a company's internal financial controls -- might try
calling themselves internal consultants instead.
   "Auditors often get called bad names, although I hadn't
heard some of these before," Ms. Wood says. Such as "snake,"
"back stabber" and "SS troops." Or "company sneak" and
"audigator." All made the list, along with many unfit to
print.
   Some accountants call the list disclosure overkill. "This
study doesn't help the stature of auditors," says Jonathan
Schiff, an accounting professor at Fairleigh Dickinson
University, Teaneck, N.J. "A few examples would have
sufficed. People who have bad experiences with lawyers,
doctors or salesmen can be just as vicious."
   Even Herbert Miller, the institute's current chairman, is
taken aback. "These are wild terms to refer to any
professional group," says Mr. Miller, general auditor of
Williams Cos., Tulsa, Okla. "I don't recall anyone calling
auditors these names."
   But Jack McGill, general auditor of Chase Manhattan Bank
and an official with the Altamonte Springs, Fla., trade
group, concedes that people say nasty things about auditors.
"Like, `Auditors enjoy bayoneting the wounded after battle,'
" he says. As for the list, "when we engage researchers, we
don't tell them how to do their report."
   Has the list helped the institute sell the study ($15 to
members and $30 to nonmembers)? Not much. The group has sold
just 111 copies since the study appeared last year -- a
fraction of the sales for monographs on such hot topics as
"persuasion and negotiation," "presentation skills" and "the
impact of technology on auditing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ZyMOS Corp. Restates Results
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ZMOS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- ZyMOS Corp. said it restated its 1988
and 1989 financial results to reflect a change in accounting
for a gain on the sale of equipment and technology to an
affiliate. The microchip maker said proceeds from the sale,
originally booked as a gain, were reclassified as
contributions of capital.
   For the full year ended Dec. 31 1989, ZyMOS said its net
loss was restated to $2.9 million, or nine cents a share,
from $1.9 million, or six cents a share. For 1988, the
restatement resulted in a loss of $3.2 million, or 11 cents a
share, from profit of $189,000, or one cent a share. Net
before restatement included an extraordinary gain of $5.8
million from the early retirement of debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockheed Defeated
   Simmons Candidates,
   Official Tally Shows
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LK NL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALABASAS, Calif. -- Lockheed Corp.'s official tally of
voting at the March 29 annual meeting confirmed that
management soundly defeated dissident holder Harold Simmons'
board candidates. But management fell far short in its
attempt to defeat three Simmons-supported ballot measures.
   The annual meeting was briefly reconvened yesterday to
formally announce the ballot results. Afterward, Daniel
Tellep, Lockheed's chairman, and Vincent N. Marafino, vice
chairman and chief financial officer, had lunch with Mr.
Simmons and his top strategist, J. Landis Martin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Simmons presented Mr. Tellep with a five-page letter
outlining the stockholder's recommendations for the company.
The letter apparently covered most of the issues raised in
the proxy battle.
   Lockheed declined to discuss the meeting and the letter.
   The ballot results, preliminary indications of which were
given by Lockheed a week ago, mark the end of a bitter proxy
fight. Mr. Simmons, a Dallas investor who controls 18.9% of
the nation's sixth-largest defense contractor, has said his
forces spent considerably more than $6 million pushing their
slate. Lockheed spent about $8 million.
   Lockheed said that of the 52.7 million shares voted,
incumbent Lockheed directors received between 57.6% and
60.7%; nominees of Mr. Simmons' Houston-based NL Industries
Inc. got 36.9%.
   However, three measures to increase shareholder rights,
one of which was proposed by NL Industries and the other two
supported by it, were approved with favorable votes of 54% to
61%.
   A Lockheed bylaw amendment to exempt the company from
antitakeover provisions of the Delaware corporate law won on
a 61% to 37% vote, with 2% abstaining. A recommendation for
Lockheed to adopt confidential voting procedures won 60% to
38%. And NL Industries' proposal that Lockheed redeem its
shareholder-rights plan passed 54% to 41%.
   Mr. Tellep didn't comment on the approval of the three
measures management had opposed, but he said "the decided
margin of victory for the incumbent board of directors gives
us a clear mandate to go forward" with current corporate
plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   North Korea:
   Handle With Care
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your March 12 editorial "What's Up, Kim?" correctly
asserted that the discovery by South Korea of yet another
North Korean invasion tunnel under the Demilitarized Zone
symbolizes the threatening nature of the dictatorship in
Pyongyang and its "communist absolutism." However, it failed
to mention that, despite continuing high tensions on the
peninsula, some U.S. politicians and opinion makers are
calling for significant cuts or even complete withdrawal of
the 43,000-strong American troop presence in South Korea. The
U.S. should take care to prevent the euphoria over improved
East-West relations from distorting its perception of Korea.
   Pyongyang maintains a feverish military buildup and has
about a million soldiers, one of the world's largest armies.
The combined force strength of the U.S. and South Korea, on
the other hand, is about 700,000. The North deploys about 65%
of its military strength in forward areas near its border
with the South. In short, a strong first-strike capability
remains a high North Korean priority.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite new and flexible diplomatic initiatives recently
advanced by Seoul and Washington, Pyongyang has refused to
allow progress toward achieving even basic
confidence-building measures such as South-North summit
meetings and trade ties. The North remains uncommitted to
good-faith negotiations and appears to approach inter-Korean
relations with one outcome in mind: the eventual domination
of the entire peninsula under the North's rule.
   Since the end of the Korean War, the deterrence
represented by America's strong political and military
commitment to South Korea has worked. The litmus test for the
U.S. should be a simple one: When the threat from the North
has diminished sufficiently, it will be time to begin
removing American troops from Korea. This approach not only
sustains adequate deterrence but also allows South Korea to
bargain with Pyongyang from a position of strength. Recent
U.S. experience in dealing with the Soviet Union gives
credence to this course of action.
   DARYL M. PLUNK
   Visiting Fellow
   Asian Studies Center
   Heritage Foundation
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ICH Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ICH
</CO>
<LP>
   ICH Corp. (Louisville, Ky.) -- John A. Franco, chief
executive officer of this insurance holding company, and
Phillip E. Allen, executive vice president and general
counsel, were elected directors, filling two vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lancaster Colony Transactions
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LANC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Lancaster Colony Corp., a maker of
housewares and food products, said the company's employee
stock trust borrowed $10 million to buy common stock in
public and private transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Firms' Mergers Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese companies were involved in 740 mergers
and acquisitions in the fiscal year ended March 31, up from
556 a year earlier, a Yamaichi Securities Co. survey found.
   The survey included mergers and acquisitions by Japanese
corporations domestically and overseas, as well as those of
Japanese concerns by foreign companies. Officially announced
mergers and acquisitions activities in the latest fiscal
year, 400 cases of the total, had a total value of 3.672
trillion yen ($23.2 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese purchases of foreign concerns increased to 448
from 334, Yamaichi said. Foreign concerns acquired or merged
with only 14 Japanese companies in fiscal 1990. Mergers and
acquisitions between Japanese companies totaled 14.
   European companies were a focus of Japanese mergers and
acquisitions, which doubled to 114. Japanese companies are
pursuing entry to the region ahead of the creation of a
unified market in the European Community at the end of 1992.
   Of the total cases, 226 involved U.S. companies, up from
163 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Egghead to Have $500,000 Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EGGS
</CO>
<LP>
   ISSAQUAH, Wash. -- Egghead Discount Software said it will
post a gain of $500,000 from the previously announced sale of
its software training subsidiary to closely held 5750 Inc.
   The unit, known as Egghead University, was founded in 1988
and operates a network of software training centers for
businesses and individuals. Egghead is a high-volume retailer
of personal computer software with about 200 stores
nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plain Talk:
   Pennsylvania Dutch
   Act to Shield Farms
   From the Subdividers
   ---
   In Fertile Lancaster County,
   New Grass-Roots Effort
   Stresses Deed Covenants
   ---
   The Witness of Harrison Ford
   ----
   By Frank Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEOLA, Pa. -- High on a shiny pole at the crest of Snake
Hill Road, a huge American flag snaps defiantly in the wind.
   The flag and the pole look out of place here. They anchor
the corner of a 70-acre cornfield in a fertile valley that
has been farmed by Old Order Amish and Mennonite families for
more than 250 years. The field's new owner wants to rip open
the ground with explosives and create a quarry. Stone from
the quarry would be used to make asphalt for paving and
concrete block for construction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some local people think the quarry is a bad idea. To
protest, a few of them stuck a green flag in the ground
across the road from the corn field. "For all we knew, their
flag could have been a Communist flag," says Donald Brubaker,
treasurer of the quarry company. "These days, everybody is an
opponent of everything."
   In reaction, the company erected the 30-foot pole and
unfurled the big Stars and Stripes, as if to proclaim, "This
is America and we can do whatever we want."
   Mr. Brubaker vows to keep the flag flying. "All we want to
do is stay in business," he says. "Besides, we're only
talking about a very minute parcel of land."
   Size notwithstanding, the parcel has become strategic and
symbolic in an escalating battle. Throughout Lancaster
County, the conflict pits developers determined to expand the
economy against Pennsylvania Dutch farm families and
preservationists anxious to slow the pace of growth and
protect crop land.
   It is easy to understand why people get so worked up over
the future of this valley. In early spring, the landscape is
a broad, gently undulating quilt of hazels, dark browns and
pale yellows, dotted with white barns and silver silos. Soon
it will bloom with alfalfa, corn, wheat and peaches.
   The soil itself is fluffy and porous. It requires no
irrigation. Geologists and soil scientists describe it as a
rare blend of silt loam on limestone, accumulated over
hundreds of millions of years and managed devoutly in small
plots for nearly three centuries. Acre for acre, it is the
most productive farm land east of the Mississippi and among
the richest in the nation.
   "The soil here is too good to hide under a basement," says
Gene Garber, who raises corn and wheat near Elizabethtown.
Adds his father, Henry: "We think good farm land is worth
more than dollars."
   To families like the Garbers, these farms aren't just
nutrition factories. They are also what author Wendell Berry
calls "human organisms," part of a pattern of hopes and
values built up over many lifespans. Possession of the land
isn't the point; stewardship is.
   For centuries, the people born on these farms have
sustained the land's fertility. Their neatly plowed fields
have a look of balance and proportion. They are the right
size. They are correct.
   To the preservationists, they are also worth protecting.
Youngest and spunkiest of the preservation groups is the
Lancaster Farmland Trust, a not-for-profit organization with
a tiny staff and a shoestring budget. Since January 1989, the
trust has shielded 10 farms comprising some 1,288 acres in
the county through the use of deed covenants. The covenants,
granted to the trust by the farms' owners, restrict the use
of the land to agriculture forever.
   Lately, the preservationists are using more sophisticated
tactics. They are challenging developers at public hearings,
recruiting donors and members systematically, lobbying for
more extensive agricultural zoning and lining up allies to
capture seats on township boards and local planning
commissions.
   Gene Garber, for example, recently won election as a
township supervisor. So did Paul Krantz, a Mennonite who
lives on what folks around Strasburg now call "the Witness
farm." Mr. Krantz challenged an incumbent who was avidly
pro-development. Although a write-in candidate, he won by a
wide margin, with significant help from Amish residents, who
usually stay away from the polls.
   "They're trying to infiltrate the political process,"
complains D. Martin Zimmerman, a prominent local developer.
"They want to stop growth wherever they can. Open space, open
space. That's all they can ever talk about."
   To help with the talking, the trust has designated a
spokesman: Harrison Ford, star of "Witness," which was filmed
on one of the county's postcard-perfect farms. Says Mr. Ford,
who developed an affection for the county's farm land while
on location here, "This is too important a part of America to
lose by default."
   But the preservationists are still losing. Developers far
outnumber them, and the county's agricultural land has been
vanishing at a sharp clip since the late 1960s.
   Twenty years ago, more than three-fourths of the county's
600,000 acres were devoted to farming. Today, the proportion
has slipped below two-thirds. Between 1978 and 1987, the U.S.
Census Bureau says, more than 200 farms and 20,000 acres of
crop land disappeared. More recently, county farm land has
gone to development at a rate of about 7,000 acres a year.
   Farmers keep selling to developers for many reasons. Some
grow too old to farm and have no able-bodied heirs. Many need
a cushion for health expenses in retirement. Others can't
resist the idea of getting $7,000 to $11,000 an acre for land
that originally cost them little or nothing.
   Glenn Wissler of Ephrata talks almost apologetically about
having converted 23 acres into a subdivision with a septic
field a few hundred yards above a creek. "The type of soil in
that field was not very good," Mr. Wissler explains. "And it
was near a small town and a pretty busy road, so we felt it
could be utilized without losing good valuable farm land."
   Robert Lefever, 64, gave up his farm near Lititz two years
ago. Now his son is using the 90-acre tract to build about
140 houses that sell for up to $250,000 each. "It was a good
farm, and it would have stayed that way if it had not been
for the other housing developments already next to it," Mr.
Lefever says. "That's the only farm I had. It was a good
life, but at my age, you don't miss it quite as much.
Besides, there is still a lot of ground here."
   Taking the place of these farms is a growing stream of
development. For the entire past decade, Lancaster County has
been the fastest-growing metropolitan area in the state. Half
of its 400,000 residents arrived since 1975. Commuters who
work for corporations in the exurbs of Philadelphia have
discovered the county's convenience and charm. Alfalfa fields
have become condominium projects; orchards now are shopping
centers; pastures now are amusement parks and car
dealerships. The county has two new golf courses. Five more
are proposed.
   Dutch Wonderland Family Fun Park is here. So are the
National Wax Museum, the Toy Train Museum and the Red Caboose
Motel (where the beds are shaped like cabooses).
   Tourism used to account for less than a fourth of the
local economy. Now it exceeds a third. About five million
visitors come annually, many to buy antiques and shoo-fly
pie, most to gawk at the Plain Sect farmers in their
horse-drawn buggies. The tourists leave behind more than $400
million a year, much of it at factory outlet stores of Van
Heusen, Izod, Reebok, Dansk, Bugle Boy and London Fog.
   Alan Musselman believes the encroachment has gone far
enough. A big, sturdy man with a deep voice and a firm
handshake, he is executive director of the farmland trust.
These days, he spends much of his time driving the county's
back roads, calling on farmers face-to-face to enlist their
support in his cause.
   Already on his side is Mary Schantz, a sprightly
75-year-old widow who raises chickens, pheasants and corn
near Ephrata. She lives alone in a grand old house on a
78-acre farm that was started in about 1750, and she is
determined to see the place permanently preserved. "I don't
mind how much I have to sacrifice," she tells Mr. Musselman,
"but I want to get this done before I die."
   During one of his visits, Mr. Musselman admires a trout
stream that meanders across the lower pasture of John and
Helen Farrington's 200-acre appaloosa farm. For some time,
the Farringtons have been thinking about Mr. Musselman's idea
of granting protective covenants.
   Mr. Farrington lets the news out casually. "We got these
papers notarized last night," he says, handing them to his
visitor. "We feel good about doing this. I'm sorry it seemed
like it drug on for an awfully long time." Mr. Musselman is
beaming. "This is wonderful," he says, staring at the
documents.
   The conversation turns to newborn colts and horse feed and
then to a neighboring developer seeking rights to build a
golf course and hundreds of condos on the hillside above the
trout stream.
   "I am against it," Mr. Farrington says. "Is there any way
to buy that land and then break it up into three or four
farms that the Amish could own?"
   "We have enough for a down payment in our fund," Mr.
Musselman says, "but we don't have enough to buy it. Maybe we
could get a loan."
   "That's just a thought," says Mr. Farrington.
   "That's a good one," says Mr. Musselman. "We'll work on
it."
   The trust's successes with properties like the Farrington
farm are beginning to supplement those of the county's
Agricultural Preserve Board, a state-subsidized agency that
already holds similar covenants on 67 farms. This year, the
state has allocated about $4 million to the board to help
purchase more covenants.
   These covenants can be worth hundreds or thousands of
dollars an acre. The price of the covenant, determined by
appraisal, is the difference between the land's current value
as a farm and its fair market value. Since the owner is
giving up the right to sell to a developer (thus forfeiting
his windfall profit), he gets this payment as compensation.
If he chooses to receive only part of the amount, the rest
can be claimed as an income-tax deduction.
   As another option, farmers may decide to take payment in
the form of "forgiveness" of several years of future property
taxes. Some farmers refuse to accept any payments or tax
advantages. They believe that donating covenants should be
done for ethical reasons, not for financial gain.
   In contrast to the resources of the county preserve board,
the private farmland trust has only about $80,000 in
operating funds, enough to keep going for about six more
months. "We're getting $15 contributions," says the trust's
Mr. Musselman, "but we need to compete in the bidding at
auctions on $300,000 farms."
   A staunch ally of the private trust is the county preserve
board's chairman, Amos H. Funk, 78, a fruit and vegetable
farmer. He has been sounding the alarm about what he calls
"real estate erosion" in the county since the late 1960s.
   Mr. Funk favors a growth-management approach that would
allow dense-development clusters, like European villages, in
many parts of the county, while preserving about 250,000
acres of prime crop land. He advocates protecting about 200
farms at pressure points along the perimeter of agricultural
"security zones." Locking up strategic parcels on the fringe,
he reasons, would insulate the land in the center.
   His stance draws heavy criticism from developers. "I have
been called a Communist," Mr. Funk says. "But as long as I am
doing what I feel in my heart is right, I don't mind."
   Elaine Holden, a new member on the county planning
commission, worries about the heightened tension in the
community. "Divided we fall," she warns. "The growth
pressures are becoming so great here that we need to work
together. I alternate between being excited and being
discouraged. There are some days when I say to myself, `Oh,
Lord, we may never be able to turn this thing around.'"
   The turnaround probably can't be accomplished without
greater cooperation from the Plain Sect farmers. They own
about 20% of the county's crop land, and much of it is smack
in the path of development. But that cooperation has been
difficult to win.
   "The Amish and the plain Mennonites won't work with my
program," acknowledges Thomas Daniels, director of the
preserve board. "They won't take my money because it's
government money."
   The trust, unlike the preserve board, is a private
operation. But so far, the trust hasn't made much headway
with the plain people, either. The only Old Order farmer in
the county who has granted a covenant to the trust offers Mr.
Musselman some insight: "For our people," the gray-bearded
farmer tells him, "it's going to be a little bit slow. We
aren't willing to take any handouts or any welfare."
   Mr. Musselman is frustrated because the man misses the
point. "To many of them, land conservation is a government
issue, so it carries negative connotations," he says. "But
I'm convinced that a hard sell is the wrong way to go. We
have to be patient, let the idea become well known. It may
take years. Their church leaders aren't quick to accept
something new, and they don't want to see this issue divide
their community."
   At the end of a long day of visiting farms, Mr. Musselman
and Mr. Krantz are invited into the home of one of Mr.
Krantz's Amish neighbors. They sit on metal folding chairs
and talk at length about the trust and how covenants work. It
is clear that the Amishman is skeptical.
   Hoping to keep the idea germinating, Mr. Musselman asks
gently if the farmer thinks it might be a good idea to have a
meeting with a few more Amish families to talk about
covenants some more.
   "I don't know," says the farmer. But he turns toward his
neighbor, the preservationist Mr. Krantz, and asks, "Paul,
what do you think?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Parcel Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- United Parcel Service of America Inc.
said it plans to build a $3.5 million cargo-handling facility
at Anchorage International Airport in Alaska.
   Anchorage is the hub for the package delivery company's
international service to Hong Kong, Seoul and the Pacific
Rim.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nintendo Launches
   Campaign to Thwart
   Video-Game Pirates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   REDMOND, Wash. -- Nintendo of America Inc. said it
launched a campaign against video-game pirates by filing
several federal copyright infringement lawsuits against some
retailers and by cooperating with federal customs agents in a
recent "sting" of alleged Nintendo game cartridge
counterfeiters.
   The U.S. unit of Nintendo Co. of Japan said the actions
were necessary to try to halt the "outrageous theft of
Nintendo's valuable intellectual property rights."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its lawsuits, filed in three states and Canada,
Nintendo said it seeks to stop retailers and video-game
rental outlets from selling or renting pirated versions of
its proprietary video-game cartridges. These versions are
so-called multiple game devices that contain as many as 40
counterfeit Nintendo licensed video games, the company said.
Nintendo itself doesn't make multiple game cartridges.
   Thus far, according to Nintendo, the counterfeit
cartridges, most of which come from Taiwan, have been found
only in video-game rental outlets or in retail stores that
aren't part of Nintendo's authorized dealer network.
   Nintendo said 700 such cartridges were seized in the
recent arrest of a Taiwanese couple and two U.S. citizens in
Wilmington, N.C. The company said the four people offered to
sell the cartridges to undercover U.S. Customs agents for
$60,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CBOT Seat Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A seat on the Chicago Board of Trade was sold
for $325,000, down $1,000 from the previous sale April 9.
   Seats currently are quoted at $320,000 bid, $325,000
asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The record price for a full membership on the exchange is
$550,000, set Aug. 31, 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Sony Said Ready
   To Build TV Sets
   In Pennsylvania
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SNE G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Sony Corp. of Japan is expected to announce
today that it will assemble television sets in a New Stanton,
Pa., factory formerly operated by Volkswagen AG.
   The expected move is a victory for Pennsylvania and its
governor, Robert P. Casey, who has lobbied hard for years to
find a new tenant for the mothballed factory. Gov. Casey is
expected to be here today to announce details of the state's
agreement with Sony. The governor's office declined to
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new Sony factory initially will employ 1,000 people to
make television sets in the 2.8 million-square-foot plant,
which Volkswagen closed in 1988. Sony employment there is
expected to climb to 2,000.
   The plant eventually could produce high-definition
television sets, people close to the negotiations said. Sony
officials declined to comment on their plans.
   Sony, which already operates five U.S. plants, makes most
of its television sets for the U.S. market in facilities in
California.
   For the expansion, Sony considered sites in Kentucky, Ohio
and other states before selecting the western Pennsylvania
factory. Those states have frequently offered hefty incentive
packages to other Japanese companies, which are eager to
establish U.S. manufacturing sites.
   In this instance, Pennsylvania appears to have agreed to
foot at least part of Sony's costs. The package calls for the
state to buy the Volkswagen plant from the West German auto
maker and then lease it to Sony's U.S. division, officials
said.
   The state also offered Sony loans for infrastructure
projects, such as sewer and water lines. The incentive
package also includes job training funds, the people familiar
with the situation said.
   Sony is expected to assemble the TV sets at the
Pennsylvania site using imported parts from a variety of
international suppliers. Some could come from Sony's own
factories in Asia, as well as other suppliers outside the
U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   State Department Still Says No to UNESCO
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   The State Department is reporting to Congress today on the
advisability of rejoining UNESCO, the United Nations cultural
organization from which the U.S. and Britain withdrew in
1984. The following is an excerpt from the report's
conclusion:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is obvious that the time is not yet ripe to reopen the
question of renewing United States membership in UNESCO.
United States strategy since our withdrawal has been clear
and consistent -- we have sought to work actively from
outside the organization with those who share our objective
of restoring UNESCO as a well-run international organization
with an effective program of work, limited to its fields of
competence. While United States non-membership has spurred
some reform activity at UNESCO, there is much more that needs
to be accomplished in order for UNESCO to be considered as
the organization intended by its founders. The recently
announced decision of the United Kingdom not to seek re-entry
demonstrates that their thinking on the subject remains
essentially the same as ours.
   A renewal of United States membership at this time would
require that we accept promises of change in lieu of real
reform. . . . The following issues are illustrative of our
continuing concerns with respect to activities at UNESCO:
                                                                                                       

   Communications. We remain deeply concerned about the
palpable similarities which exist between the current text on
communications and those which preceded it over the last
fifteen years. Despite the additional references which have
been inserted regarding freedom and independence of the
press, it is undeniable that the critical elements to which
the United States most strongly objected in the past are
still present. The program remains one in which freedom of
the press and freedom of expression are "balanced" against
the desires of governments to control the flow of information
to and from their citizens. Moreover, the so-called New World
Information and Communication Order is still perceived by
Third World UNESCO delegates as an "article of faith" with
them and as "a continuous and evolving process."
                                                                                                       

   The PLO. In UNESCO, resolutions heavily biased against
Israel, and often based on false accusations, have continued
to be adopted up to the present. Although the PLO membership
question has been deferred until 1991, the PLO observer will
be able to make direct requests for UNESCO participation
program assistance, thereby possibly gaining increased
control of aid flows to people in the occupied territories.
The Director General's recent appointment in UNESCO of a
high-level "Coordinator for Cooperation with Palestine" also
gives the PLO a special status in UNESCO's program of work
exceeding that of any member state.
                                                                                                       

   Management and personnel. Despite the recommendations
received from two independent consulting groups (the
Hammarskjold Commission and the Wilenski Panel) which urged
that "critical reforms" be instituted "as a matter of
urgency," Director General Mayor has proposed a restructuring
plan which has generated enormous controversy at UNESCO and
plunged the organization into its worst crisis since the
departure of the United States, the United Kingdom, and
Singapore. Rather than the cuts which the Director General
had led us to expect, his proposal would create, by our
count, some 33 new posts (which could cost as much as $6
million according to one Secretariat estimate). There was no
open recruitment of the persons named to fill any of the
newly-created posts, nor did Director General Mayor consult
with the Executive Board, as required by UNESCO's rules.
                                                                                                       

   Budgetary restraint. There has been no progress at UNESCO
in moving towards the formal establishment of a budgetary
decision-making process which would give adequate weight to
the views of major donors. The Director General himself has
demonstrated a reluctance to propose efficiency measures or
concentration of the program. While he has often indicated
that his hands are tied by the lack of resources at UNESCO,
he has been able to find in every budgetary period
substantial sums for travel, consultants, and a variety of
activities not specifically authorized by the General
Conference. And although the Director General has boasted of
reducing the number of pages in the Medium-Term Plan and
Program and Budget, our concern is that this simply reduces
the amount of information available to member governments.
                                                                                                       

   Decentralization and program concentration. Unesco's newly
adopted program of work retains virtually all the activities
undertaken in the past. The organization's programs remain
diffuse and unfocused. Concentration in a few key areas as
urged by the United States and major donors has eluded the
Director General. Although Director General Mayor has pledged
to increase the portion of his budget spent in the field
instead of at headquarters, it is unclear how he will do
this. His proposal for an across-the-board "decentralization"
of the budget at a fixed percentage without reference to the
content of specific programs represents an abdication of
responsible management rather than a redress for a
long-standing problem at UNESCO.
   Finally, the United States must assess what it stands to
gain through renewed membership in UNESCO and what it stands
to lose. Our withdrawal did not alter our policy of strong
support for international cooperation in educational,
scientific and cultural and communication activities. Our
ability to protect important political interests within
UNESCO remains substantial, as evidenced by the deferral of
consideration of the PLO request for membership in UNESCO.
The leverage we retain as a sought-after non-member in some
instances is greater than we would wield simply by being one
vote among 161 others.
   Membership in UNESCO would cost the United States about
$50 million annually. Before being able to advocate re-entry,
the President would have to able to assure the United States
Congress and the American taxpayers that this would be money
spent on programs within UNESCO's mandate which bring direct
benefit to mankind. Regrettably, UNESCO at this stage does
not possess the characteristics of a well-managed and focused
organization that would enable the President to give such
assurances.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Gets Breakthrough
   In Chapter 11; Profit Fell in 1st Quarter
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   WHX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHEELING, W.Va. -- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.'s
shareholder group, headed by Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., has agreed
to back a rival reorganization plan, marking a breakthrough
in the steelmaker's five-year bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   Separately, Wheeling-Pittsburgh said first-quarter profit
fell 22% to $35.6 million, or $6.48 a share, from $45.8
million, or $8.49 a share, the year earlier.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh filed for protection against creditors
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in April
1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Goldman Sachs, which owns 34% of Wheeling-Pittsburgh's common
stock, said it agreed to drop its own proposal and accept a
plan filed by the company and its unsecured creditors'
committee. Now, the plan must be approved by official
committees of unsecured creditors and stockholders.
   One current stumbling block to the plan's success,
however, is the lack of an accord with the United
Steelworkers of America. The reorganization plan requires
negotiation of a new labor pact that is acceptable to the
board and the official committee of unsecured creditors.
   Yesterday, steelworkers frustrated with lack of progress
in Wheeling-Pittsburgh negotiations, picketed company
headquarters in Wheeling. The union is seeking a contract
similar to one approved by LTV Steel Co., whose parent LTV
Corp. also is operating under Chapter 11 protection. However,
Wheeling-Pittsburgh and creditors deem the LTV labor accord
to be too rich.
   The plan, which Goldman Sachs has agreed to recommend to
other stockholders, calls for 1.5 million common shares of
the reorganized company to be distributed between the two 6%
and $5 preferred classes. It also calls for 1,740,000 shares
of common stock of the reorganized company to be distributed
to common shareholders, along with two million warrants for
common stock, exercisable within five years of the plan's
effective date. The reorganized company would have 20 million
shares of common stock.
   Goldman Sachs may also be required not to fund or propose
another competing plan unless the current plan isn't
consummated by Dec. 31.
   Goldman Sachs, as chairman of the company's equity
committee, submitted a rival plan on March 30. That plan
called for Goldman Sachs to raise $300 million of new debt
and equity capital for the new company, which would remain
independent with no majority shareholders. At the time,
Goldman said it was in the process of securing commitments
for $100 million of Wheeling-Pittsburgh new common stock and
$200 million of new senior debt.
   The two rival plans were submitted following a February
bankruptcy court order, directing each group to file a
separate reorganization plan.
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh attributed the fall in first-quarter
net income to a 12.5% drop in shipments and a less-profitable
product mix. The latest quarter includes gains from tax-loss
carry-forwards of $6.9 million, or $1.35 a share. The
year-ago period included tax-loss carry-forwards of $14.3
million, or $2.80 a share.
   Sales dropped almost 11% to $256.8 million from $287.5
million.
   The company said incoming orders and backlog, while lower
than the year-ago period, increased during the first quarter
from Dec. 31. Wheeling-Pittsburgh said it expects similar
production levels and some improvements in shipping levels in
the second quarter. However, pricing, which softened from
1989's fourth quarter, is expected to continue softening in
the current quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Germans Discover
   The Road to Unity
   Is East and Bumpy
   ---
   Cross-Border Contacts Bring
   Less Joy, More Gripes;
   Gold Panners vs. Beggars
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   WEISSENBORN, West Germany -- As a cross-border road opened
in March through the rolling hills of Lower Saxony, Adolf
Luthin posted a sign by his farmhouse that read: "East
Germans eat and drink here for free."
   "They ate all day," says Mr. Luthin, whose land adjoins
the border. "Bratwurst. Yogurt. My wife's cakes."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This once-sleepy village is snarled now with East German
cars. Weissenborn and a village across the border are
squabbling over who owns frontier beet fields. And one night
recently, a trailer crashed into Mr. Luthin's garden. He
awoke to find three men chasing after a calf they were
smuggling for sale in West Germany. "I am happy we are one
country now," says Mr. Luthin, leaning on a pitchfork. "But
it will take more than a shared glass of schnapps to become
good neighbors again."
   While politicians debate terms and timetables for German
unity, this border region midway between Bonn and Berlin is
getting on with business. Joint ventures are being signed,
bricks bartered for sausage, border fences cut up and sold.
And the thrill of first contact between East and West is
giving way to land-title fights, traffic jams and tension.
Viewed from here, the road to unification looks very bumpy.
   "We are a microcosm of Germany," says Werner Henning, a
Christian Democratic parliamentarian from the East German
border town of Heiligenstadt. "Rich Germans on one side
acting like gold panners, poor Germans on the other acting
like beggars."
   Heiligenstadt lies in a Catholic enclave of farms and
small industrial towns known as Eichsfeld, which was divided
by the postwar partition of Germany. For 40 years, a "death
strip" of mines and guard dogs cut off neighbors who had long
lived only a wheat field apart.
   Now that the border is open, Eichsfeld's old ties make for
odd reunions. Henrik Muller, 60 years old, hiked from
Weissenborn to the East German village where he courted a
woman 40 years ago. "She still looks pretty good," says the
bald, stocky farmer. "But she said I didn't look at all like
the man she remembered."
   Mr. Muller now drinks at an East German pub, where beer
costs 80% less than at home. East Germans often use his
telephone, a scarce and erratic appliance across the border.
An East German teenager comes across to help milk her new
boyfriend's cows.
   But the long divorce has created an awkward gulf.
Villagers on the Western border have trim, half-timbered
houses and tidy gardens, with Mercedes-Benzes parked beside.
A mile away in East Germany, rutted streets are lined with
rubble, and the houses are dilapidated. "The East still looks
like West Germany did right after the war," Mr. Muller says.
   Easterners crave Western tools and advice, yet can offer
little in exchange. And they resent what they see as Western
greed. Western farmers have hired lawyers to win back border
fields seized by the Communists. And Westerners flood across
the border each weekend to fill their cars with cheap gas and
food.
   Gerd Gasdorf, an East German, recently watched a West
German woman buy a butcher's entire stock, despite the
protests of other shoppers. On her way out, an old man
grumbled, "I hope you have a nice party." The West German
woman responded, "What party? This meat is for my dog."
   On a Friday night in Heiligenstadt, disk jockey Thomas
Fleischauer watches warily as East meets West on the dance
floor of a Communist youth club. By flashing Marlboros and
Deutschmarks, he says, male newcomers create the same
resentment that U.S. soldiers did after World War II. "They
come over here to play big guy and start fights over girls,"
he says.
   Easterners in the West are causing offense, too. In six
months, 800,000 people have streamed across to the West
German border town of Duderstadt, population 23,000, which
now has periodic smog problems. Commerce is up 30% at local
stores, but shoplifting also has soared.
   Easterners who stay in the West are straining scarce
housing and jobs. In Gottingen, a city of 140,000 about 10
miles west of the border, unemployment has leapt almost 20%
since fall, and a school gym and army barracks are being used
to shelter hundreds of homeless people.
   "We must help needy East Germans, but not by hurting the
needy here," says Gottingen's mayor, Artur Levi. As a Jew who
fled Germany during the war, Mr. Levi is sensitive to the
dangers of dislocation. If the burden of unification isn't
shared equitably, he says, "you could see violence on both
sides of the border."
   Many East Germans agree, adding that quick economic
integration between the two countries is needed to stabilize
relations. But uncertainty about property laws and currency
exchange has created a chaotic situation in which the old
system is dead in East Germany but the new system has not yet
been born.
   At a street fair on Karl Marx Street in Heiligenstadt,
Siegfried Rothenfeels is trying to teach his new neighbors
about capitalism. The West German beer salesman has hired a
local brewery to distribute his product in East Germany. But
he can't convince restaurants that stocking new brands might
mean profits as the economy turns private. "They just don't
have any initiative yet," he complains.
   A few booths away, a West German stand offering fancy
meats and french fries sits beside a plain, state-owned
trailer labeled "Consumption." The latter offers one type of
sausage and pre-filled cups of a hot wine called "grog."
   "The Westerners are trying to overrun us with their
machines," gripes manager Gunther Gerling, glancing enviously
at his neighbor's microwave oven and deep-fry pan. "But our
prices are lower, so we can still compete." Mr. Gerling
concedes that he doesn't have much reason to hustle; his pay
is based on a sales quota, and when the quota is filled, he
closes down an hour before the competition.
   Such attitudes carry over to work in West Germany.
Employers' initial euphoria at the influx of workers from the
East is waning fast.
   Angelika Gruber-Ruther, a Gottingen medical technician,
recently advertised for a maid, and many East Germans
applied. Most demanded extra money for a car, housing and
clothes. When she refused, "they tried to `guilt' me by
saying, `You've had everything for 40 years, now it's our
turn.'" She hired an immigrant Pole instead. "We've been
living apart for years, and suddenly we're supposed to
embrace these people," says Ms. Gruber-Ruther. "But they look
strange to me, they act strange -- they may as well be
Chinese]"
   The prospect of Western firms taking over inefficient
industries in the East worries many East Germans, who fear
they will lose both jobs and control if existing factories
are torn down. A visit to one takeover target, the Solidor
metallurgical plant in Heiligenstadt shows why their fears
aren't misplaced. The century-old operation is dimly lit and
cluttered with Kaiser-era equipment, such as wooden barrels
that rotate to wash and polish screws.
   "Every few months, the barrels break and spill all over
the place," says Klaus Anschlutz, who loads the barrels
manually. He and two other workers readily concede that the
factory is overmanned. "We just hope that any new owner will
fire the managers before they fire us," he says.
   Elderly East Germans also are worried, wondering if their
pensions will be undercut by unity and inflation. Yet it is
old people who seem most willing to overlook the blips in
reunification.
   In the East German border village of Kirchgandern, Clemens
Kloppner dragged a bench from his front yard to a perch
beside "Reunion Street," a newly paved road to a West German
village 300 yards away. Under Communist rule, Mr. Kloppner, a
78-year-old retired road builder, was only allowed to stand
beneath a nearby birch tree, and not for long because the
border was too sensitive. An adjoining cemetery holds graves
of those who broke for the West and didn't make it.
   Mr. Kloppner's son did make it, 28 years ago, settling in
a house within sight of his father's. He often watched his
father through binoculars. But if Mr. Kloppner so much as
waved back, East German guards stepped in. "Just looking at
the West was a crime," he says.
   Now, Mr. Kloppner walks across to see his son almost
daily. The rest of the time he spends on his bench, watching
prampushing parents, Westerners with cameras, and others who
enjoy the new freedom to stroll across the border.
   "We have been hiding behind our fences for 40 years, and
can't pretend that nothing has changed between us," he says.
"But maybe that will make our new marriage more interesting.
What we need is patience."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rockwell Posts Drop
   In Quarterly Net, Rise
   In Operating Income
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Rockwell International Corp. posted
a 36% drop in net income for its second quarter ended March
31 to $173.4 million, or 70 cents a share, from $270.7
million, or $1.05 a share, a year earlier, after a big
one-time gain.
   But operating income rose 4%. The aerospace, electronics,
automotive and graphics company's fiscal 1989 second-quarter
results included the gain of $104 million, or 40 cents a
share, from the sale of the Measurement &amp; Flow Control
division. Excluding the gain, operating income for the
year-earlier quarter was $166.7 million, or 65 cents a share,
Rockwell said. The latest period didn't have any special
items.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales fell less than 1% to $3.15 billion from $3.16
billion.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Rockwell shares closed at $23.625, up 25 cents.
   Donald R. Beall, Rockwell's chairman and chief executive
officer, said the company anticipates "modest" improvement in
earnings per share in the current fiscal year, compared with
earnings for fiscal 1989 before the one-time gain. Rockwell
had fiscal 1989 profit of $734.9 million, or $2.87 a share,
after the gain.
   "Our results for the {fiscal} first six months were better
than we anticipated when the fiscal year began," Mr. Beall
said in making the projection for the full year.
   Fiscal first-half profit fell 26% to $319.2 million, or
$1.29 a share, from the year-earlier $430.7 million, or $1.67
a share, including the big gain. Excluding the gain,
year-earlier operating income was $326.7 million, or $1.27 a
share. The difference in per-share amounts reflects results
of the company's stock buy-back program. On an operating
basis, the latest earnings performance amounts to a decline
of 2.3%.
   Sales rose less than 1% to $6.04 billion from $6.03
billion.
   Mr. Beall said the latest fiscal second-quarter results
reflect increased earnings in the company's electronics and
graphics businesses, offset by drops in aerospace and
automotive earnings.
   Rockwell's backlog on March 31 was $15.6 billion, a 24%
increase from the fiscal 1989 year-end backlog of $12.6
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Plunge in Trading
   That's the Thinnest Since Year Began
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo share prices plunged in extremely thin trading
yesterday as a small amount of selling pushed down a broad
range of issues. Buying activity was low because the yen's
weakness kept most investors out of the market.
   Most European markets and some Asian and Pacific markets
were still closed for a long Easter weekend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues dropped more than
400 points during the first 30 minutes of the morning session
largely because of arbitrage selling, traders said. The index
continued to fall for the rest of the day on selling by
individuals and investment trust funds.
   The Nikkei finished at 28463.18, down 750.74 points from
Friday's closing level, after falling 637 points in the
morning session. The index lost 409.28 points Friday.
   In early trading Tuesday, the Nikkei index rose 187.17
points to 28650.35.
   Monday's volume on the first section was estimated at 230
million shares, the lowest level since the beginning of this
year. It compared with 330 million shares traded on Friday.
   A total of 871 issues declined, while 110 issues advanced
and 98 issues remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which lost 17.45 points Friday, was down 36.12
points, or 1.67%, at 2129.77.
   The second section index, which gained 9.40 points Friday,
was down 34.42 points, or 0.97%, to close at 3518.83.
   Volume in the second section was estimated at eight
million shares, down from 11 million shares Friday.
   Also, individuals who purchased stocks on margin last
November and December, when stock prices were rising at a
very fast pace, are approaching the end of the six-month
period in which they are required to settle their accounts.
   Approaching deadlines for settlement of margin buying have
begun to add to selling pressure in the market, observers
said.
   Haruo Ueno, manager of stock trading at Wako Securities,
said such pressure is expected to grow stronger over the next
two weeks as stocks that are required to be sold by early May
will be sold in April because of the holiday week that starts
at the end of April.
   Institutional investors remained on the sidelines
yesterday ahead of a series of U.S. economic indicators
scheduled for release later this week and Thursday's board
meeting of the Deutsche Bundesbank, as the results are likely
to affect the foreign exchange market, traders said.
   The dollar finished higher in quiet Tokyo trading, with
participants attributing the lack of activity to the holiday
around much of the world.
   Among yesterday's largest losers were pharmaceutical
stocks, which had advanced sharply last week. These shares
rose in anticipation of new products being brought to market.
But the companies failed to sustain gains as investors took
profits.
   Yamanouchi was down 90 yen to 2,940 yen ($18.38). Sankyo
fell 80 yen to 2,510 yen. Fujisawa gained 90 yen to 2,000.
   Also lower were high-technology shares such as Sony, which
declined 200 yen to 8,350 yen, and Fanuc, which lost 110 yen
to 7,080.
   Share prices also closed lower in Seoul and Taipei, and
were higher in Singapore and Manila. Markets were closed in
Sydney, Hong Kong and Wellington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chemical Fabrics Corp.:
   Jury Finds Against Concern
   In Suit Over Stadium Roof
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMFB
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chemical Fabrics Corp., Merrimack, N.H., said a
Minneapolis jury found it liable for $2.2 million in damages
related to the construction of the roof of the Metrodome
stadium in Minneapolis.
   Chemical Fabrics said the jury upheld a claim that certain
panels in the roof weren't designed to contract
specifications. It said interest on the claim could amount to
an added $1.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, Duane C. Montopoli, president and chief
executive officer, said "we believe strongly that neither the
finding of liability nor the damages awarded are supported by
the facts or the evidence presented in this case." He said
the maker of coated fiberglass materials plans to appeal and
is "optimistic that we will ultimately prevail in this
matter."
   The lawsuit, filed about five years ago by the Minneapolis
Sports Facilities Commission against Chemical Fabrics and
others involved in the design and construction of the roof,
centered on the performance of a snow-melting system, Mr.
Montopoli said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Action Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ACX
</CO>
<LP>
   ACTION INDUSTRIES Inc. (Pittsburgh) -- R. Craig Kirsch,
president and chief operating officer of this maker and
importer of household and hardware items, will assume the
additional post of chief executive officer, effective July
31, succeeding Ernest S. Berez, 64 years old, who will remain
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Neolens Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEOL
</CO>
<LP>
   NEOLENS Inc. (Miami) -- Malcolm Walker, 52 years old,
previously vice president, operations, at the Cole Vision
Corp. optical department of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., was named
president of this polycarbonate ophthalmic lenses concern,
succeeding Henry Clayman, who remains a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management:
   Mazda-UAW's Michigan Honeymoon Is Over
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MZD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FLAT ROCK, Mich. -- Mazda Motor Corp's. sprawling assembly
plant here was supposed to show the world that Japanese
management and experienced U.S. auto workers from the heart
of union country could be a profitable mix.
   But 2 1/2 years after Mazda began building cars just 15
miles south of Detroit, the mix is turning sour.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Four top U.S. managers have quit the company since 1988,
and now Japanese executives have taken the senior posts that
Americans once held. The company is on its fourth director of
labor relations since hiring began in 1986. Unionized workers
are boycotting Mazda's suggestion box, a cornerstone of
Japanese-style management.
   What's more, union leaders here curry favor among
rank-and-file workers by taking pot-shots at Japanese
managers. Mazda executives, in turn, grouse about the
Americans' poor work attendance. Overall, industry experts
say, Mazda's relations with its American workers, both blue-
and white-collar, are worse than at any of the seven other
Japanese-owned or operated U.S. auto plants.
   As more Japanese companies set up shop in the U.S.,
relations between Japanese bosses and American workers are
shaping up to be a work place issue of the 1990s. Most
Japanese companies are loath to acknowledge any problems. But
experts say Mazda isn't the only one having trouble.
   "What's happening in Flat Rock isn't unique, it's just
that the union situation makes problems there public," says
Robert Cole, a University of Michigan professor who studies
Japanese companies in the U.S. "Americans feel as if they're
left out of the information network" in many Japanese-run
operations, he adds, and American managers "feel that the top
spots are blocked." Increasingly, as at Mazda, the results
are high turnover among American executives, and resentment
among bluecollar workers.
   This isn't how Mazda officials envisioned it would be in
1984. That's when they bowed to pressure from Ford Motor Co.,
which owns 25% of Mazda, and declared they would become the
first -- and so far only -- Japanese auto maker to build cars
in Michigan.
   UAW leaders wanted smooth labor relations at Mazda. That,
they reasoned, would give them "a chance to be more
successful in organizing the other Japanese plants" in the
U.S., says William Judson, the top UAW official at the Flat
Rock plant before he was ousted in an election last year.
   But UAW higher-ups lost control of events at Flat Rock.
They got blind-sided when hard-line activists unseated local
leaders, such as Mr. Judson, who espoused a more cooperative
line. Now, the trouble at Mazda is bolstering the resolve of
other Japanese auto makers to fight the union.
   "In my opinion, the work ethic is stronger down here"
without a union, says Jerry Benefield, plant manager of
Nissan Motor Co.'s assembly plant in Smyrna, Tenn. In a
bitter campaign, Nissan rebuffed a UAW organizing drive at
Smyrna last year. So far, the UAW has organized only those
Japanese plants where the company agreed to the idea before
operations began.
   Mazda did just that, but tried to weed out any
rabble-rousers when it screened 100,000 candidates for plant
jobs. The company got a work force more educated and nearly a
generation younger than the oldline UAW workers at most Big
Three plants. But it didn't keep out people like Mildred
Willis, a dedicated labor activist whose father founded a
chapter of the plumbers union.
   Ms. Willis, an outspoken 32-year-old, shares with older
UAW members a distaste for things Japanese. She drives a
Chevrolet, not a Mazda. And as a representative for Mazda's
night-shift workers, she's quick to criticize the Japanese
managers.
   "I think they need to listen a little bit more," she says.
"I like to see that an employee's word is being taken." Ms.
Willis is now a thorn in Mazda's side, distributing
anti-management leaflets at the plant gate and fighting to
allow workers to get treatment for sore elbows and other
minor injuries on company time.
   It hasn't helped that U.S. consumers aren't exactly
clamoring for the cars the Flat Rock plant builds. Slow sales
have forced Mazda to cut Flat Rock's production by 11% this
year.
   As production slowed, Mazda kept a promise not to lay off
any of its 2,900 fulltime UAW workers -- in contrast to
normal practice at Big Three plants. But Mazda has laid off
some UAW members who it hired as "temporary" workers. Mazda
has the right to hire temporary workers, who earn less than
full-timers, under an unusual arrangement with the UAW, which
traditionally has opposed schemes that create two classes of
workers in the same factory.
   Masahiro Uchida, who runs Mazda's U.S. manufacturing
operations, says UAW members should be grateful that the
temporary workers act as a buffer protecting their paychecks.
But UAW leaders want to curtail the practice, particularly in
light of hints from Ford officials that they'd like to use
temporary workers, too, and may raise the issue during
contract talks this summer.
   Underlying the tension over specific issues are deeper
cultural divides. Even before Flat Rock opened, Mazda
executives wondered aloud if U.S. workers could hustle the
way Japanese workers do. Then came Osamu Nobuto, former chief
of Mazda's U.S. operations. Unusually blunt for a Japanese
executive, Mr. Nobuto publicly lambasted U.S. workers for
lacking dedication.
   "Mr. Nobuto didn't understand us and we didn't understand
him," says Greg Drudi, the top UAW official in the plant.
   Mr. Uchida, who recently succeeded Mr. Nobuto, says he
won't be so outspoken. He's quick to say that Mazda cars
built at Flat Rock are just as good as those built in Japan.
(Independant experts also give Flat Rock high marks for
quality.)
   But Mr. Uchida's arrival hasn't changed the kaizen, or
continuous improvement, management philosophy that Mr. Nobuto
put in place. In practice, kaizen translates into a
never-ending push to cut the number of worker-hours spent
building each car, reduce assembly defects, and simplify
factory processes. Mazda swears by kaizen. Mazda's U.S.
workers swear at it. To some union members, kaizen is only a
Japanese word for the old Detroit practice of speeding up the
assembly line.
   Mazda and its union also are scuffling over charges that
the company is being unreasonable about absenteeism, sick
leave, and worker compensation requests.
   "If you get injured at work, you better have a witness and
you better have gotten hit by a car," says Penelope Dawkins,
who coordinates benefits for union workers at the plant.
   The company admits to toughening its policy for sick pay,
but it denies stiffening its worker's compensation policy.
The union counters that Mazda has denied nine of 10 filings
for injury compensation since Jan. 1.
   Mazda's efforts to cut absenteeism have caused even more
trouble. On an average day, about 3% of Mazda workers simply
don't show up for work, and an additional 7% are out on sick
days, vacations and the like. That 10% absentee rate is lower
than General Motors Corp.'s, but higher than other Japanese
plants in the U.S.
   Last fall, Mazda's top ranking U.S. executives tried
applying their own ideas to fix the absenteeism problem.
Their plan: boost the annual bonus for perfect attendance to
$1,500 from $500. In return, the company got a union
concession making it easier to fire workers who were absent
more than 15 days.
   But the day after the union approved the agreement, the
two senior U.S.managers who negotiated the deal abruptly
resigned. A Mazda spokesman said the Americans quit because
their Japanese superiors weren't happy with the negotiations.
   The incident illustrates how little latitude Mazda's U.S.
managers have to make their own decisions, says Robert
Fucini, who has co-written a book on the plant. Each morning,
for instance, U.S. managers at Mazda get a "grocery list"
from their Japanese "adviser" that tells them just what they
are supposed to do that day.
   Mr. Uchida concedes that Mazda's practice of making
decisions by consensus often gives the appearance of keeping
authority away from its U.S. executives. But despite such
problems, he insists that Flat Rock will be a success. "I
don't think there's anything that has hurt the future of our
company," he says.
   Does that mean Mazda would build cars in Michigan if it
could start all over again? Mr. Uchida just breaks into a
broad grin and laughs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vestron Posts Loss
   For Fourth Quarter
   On 29% Revenue Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   VV LIVE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Vestron Inc., struggling in a crowded
home-video market, posted a large fourth-quarter loss,
compared with a year-earlier profit, with revenue plunging
29%.
   Vestron also said it is continuing negotiations for its
sale to Live Entertainment Inc. of Los Angeles. In February,
Live Entertainment said it was discussing a possible
acquisition of Vestron in exchange for new Live equity
securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vestron's fourth-quarter net loss totaled $47.2 million,
or $1.26 a share, compared with year-earlier net income of
$1.7 million, or five cents a share. Revenue fell to $66.7
million from $94.4 million.
   Vestron blamed the loss on problems related to the move by
Security Pacific Bank Corp. in 1988 to back out of a $100
million loan agreement. Vestron said the company was faced
with a "constricted cash situation" resulting from the
termination of the loan. Vestron, betting on the loan, poured
money into an unprofitable video-store chain. When the bank
withdrew, the company defaulted on debt agreements.
   Live, with estimated 1989 revenue of $450 million,
produces and distributes videocassettes and distributes music
and personal software.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Vestron stock closed at 75 cents a share, down 6.25 cents.
   For 1989, Vestron reported a loss of $135.1 million, or
$3.60 a share, compared with net income of $20.6 million, or
55 cents a share, in 1988. Revenue fell 26% to $236.2 million
from $321 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FRX ROR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>

   For Auto Engines
                                                                                                       

   BREAKTHROUGHS in new materials for super-efficient auto
engines are emerging from a scientific race between the U.S.
and Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The keys to an auto engine that would boost gas mileage by
several-fold are exotic ceramics that could operate at
temperatures far higher than metals can stand. But molding,
pressing or punching ceramics into the variety of shapes
needed for engine parts is a major obstacle.
   So materials scientists are searching for ceramics that
are soft enough to be shaped when they are created at
super-hot temperatures. Once shaped, the ceramics would cool
to hard, wear-resistant parts that can undergo extreme
changes in temperature without cracking.
   Last year, scientists in both Japan and the U.S. developed
crystals of zirconium and yttrium oxides that are moldable at
1,150 degrees Celsius and might be used in 500-degree
applications. More recently, materials scientist I-Wei Chen
at the University of Michigan made a disk of silicon nitride
crystal; at 1,500 degrees, he punched the disk into a small
hat shape.
   Now Japanese scientists report in the journal Nature that
they've got a composite of silicon nitride and silicon carbon
crystals; at 1,600 degrees, a tiny piece was pulled to 150%
of its original length without any deformations.
   American scientists call the Japanese advance
"significant" but note the ceramic was elongated in only one
direction. To be shaped into useful parts, a ceramic would
have to be uniformly elongated in two directions at once.
Another problem: Shaping parts at 1,500 degrees or 1,600
degrees would require new materials for the punches and
presses. Ceramics that can be shaped at 1,100 degrees to
1,200 degrees may be the most practical, according to Prof.
Chen.
                                                                                                       

   `Cold Fusion' May Keep
   Earth's Core Molten
                                                                                                       

   AN OLD old geologic riddle may be solved by "cold fusion"
researchers.
   For decades, geologists have wondered why the Earth has a
molten iron core. The combination of heat from the formation
of the planet 4.6 billion years ago and heat from the natural
splitting of uranium, thorium and other radioactive atoms
probably helped melt iron, causing it to sink to the center.
However, scientists' calculations of the extent of this
primordial and radioactive heating indicate that it's not
enough to explain why the Earth still has a molten iron core.
   Physicist Stephen E. Jones and geologist Paul Palmer at
Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, believe the missing
heat might be coming from the spontaneous fusion of hydrogen
atoms in the interior of the Earth. The two Brigham Young
scientists announced a year ago that they had discovered such
"cold fusion" in a laboratory experiment. The scientists'
version of "cold fusion" occurred at such a minuscule rate
that it held no promise as an energy source, and their report
was overshadowed by the more flamboyant "cold fusion" claims
made simultaneously at the University of Utah.
   To validate a theory that their type of "cold fusion"
could occur beneath the crust of the Earth, the Brigham Young
scientists are analyzing samples of gases from several active
volcanoes for byproducts of hydrogen fusion that might be
venting up from the Earth's interior.
                                                                                                       

   Drugs Hold Out Hope
   For the Incontinent
                                                                                                       

   URINARY incontinence, or "weak bladder," may be treatable
by new drugs.
   The chronic condition, caused by the involuntary
contraction of the bladder, afflicts 12 million to 24 million
Americans, says urologist Jerry Blaivis at Columbia
University's College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York.
But few seek treatment, either because they are too
embarrassed or because they believe there isn't any
treatment.
   Some drugs that block the involuntary emptying of the
bladder are helpful in about half of the patients, but they
have side effects, and few patients can remember to take them
precisely on schedule three or four times a day.
   A new drug, terodiline, which needs to be taken only once
a day, is now beginning large-scale trials in the U.S., Dr.
Blaivis told reporters at a recent seminar by the National
Kidney Foundation. The drug, which is being developed by
Forest Laboratories Inc., New York, blocks the flow of
calcium into cells of the sphincter muscle. The calcium is
necessary to trigger bladder contraction.
   Another drug, DDAVP, which was recently introduced to
prevent nocturnal bedwetting, may be useful for urinary
incontinence occurring at any time of day, Dr. Blaivis says.
The drug, an antidiuretic sold by Rorer Group Inc., based in
Fort Washington, Pa., reduces the amount of urine that a
person produces, and thus should diminish the chances of
incontinent episodes.
   Meanwhile, surgeons are experimenting with injecting such
substances as collagen or Teflon to compress and support the
sphincter muscle, which controls the opening of the bladder
to the urethra. Preliminary results hint this procedure might
help patients who suffer severe incontinence as a result of
damage to the sphincter muscle.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   FOXES gnawing insulation off cables in the Arctic were
thwarted when explorers coated the cables with a sealant
spiked with Tabasco sauce, a geographer reports in the
journal Nature. . . . English nurses on geriatric wards are
working in street clothes instead of uniforms, confusing
patients and doctors as to who's a nurse and who's a visitor,
complains the medical journal Lancet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Due to an editing error, Shot Gun Scott was misidentified
in yesterday's On Sports piece. He was another horse in the
Blue Grass Stakes and not Unbridled's sire.
   (See: "LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports: Derby Candidates Shake
a Leg" -- WSJ April 16, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bolar Reports Deficit
   For 4th Quarter, Sees
   Losses in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BLR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   COPIAGUE, N.Y. -- Bolar Pharmaceutical Co. reported a net
loss for the fourth quarter; the company said it expects
losses, which it couldn't estimate, for both the first and
second quarters.
   The generic-drug concern, which has closed most of its
manufacturing operations while an audit is conducted, posted
a fourth-quarter net loss of $9.3 million, or 43 cents a
share. A year earlier, Bolar earned $9.4 million, or 45 cents
a share. The latest results include effects of recalled
products returned in 1989, a $26.4 million reserve against
expected returns of recalled products in 1990, and an $8.8
million reserve for inventory not currently available for
sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales plunged 89% to $4 million from $37.3 million. Over
the past few months, Bolar had recalled products that
accounted for most of its sales amid concerns about the
company's approval process and record-keeping. Last month,
the Food and Drug Administration withdrew approval of Bolar's
generic version of Dyazide, a blood pressure medicine. Bolar
recalled that drug in February, as evidence mounted that the
company had passed off brand-name drugs as its own to the
FDA.
   Bolar also is being accused by a House subcommittee of
using deceitful practices to win FDA approval for its drugs,
and the company is the subject of a grand jury investigation
in Baltimore.
   For the year, Bolar posted a 45% decline in net income, to
$16.8 million, or 78 cents a share, from $30.7 million, or
$1.51 a share a year earlier. Sales fell 12% to $112.9
million from $128 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baldwin Technology
   Is Planning to Acquire
   Dyson-Kissner Units
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BLD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROWAYTON, Conn. -- Baldwin Technology Corp. plans to
expand its printing-equipment manufacturing operations by
acquiring two subsidiaries of Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corp. for
$44 million.
   The two subsidiaries, Misomex AB of Stockholm and Misomex
of North America Inc., Chicago, manufacture so-called
prepress equipment -- machines that, among other things,
impose images onto printing plates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition would expand Baldwin's lines of equipment
for the pressroom -- including presses -- and for post-press
processes, including machines for labeling, inserting,
stacking and bundling, said Kenneth W. Reynolds, Baldwin's
chief financial officer.
   For the year ended Dec. 31, 1989, for Misomex AB and Jan.
31, 1990, for Misomex of North America, the companies had
combined net income of more than $4 million on $40 million of
sales. For the six months ended Dec. 31, Baldwin earned $5.3
million, or 32 cents a share, on $83.4 million of sales.
   Dyson-Kissner-Moran, a closely held New York investment
firm, recently sold its printing-press business to a
subsidiary of an East German company, said John H.
FitzSimons, DKM's secretary and general counsel. "Misomex is
more valuable to a company like Baldwin, which is in related
businesses," he said. DKM has a number of remaining
interests, including real estate, oil and gas, and insurance.
   The transaction is subject to clearance by the Swedish
government and by U.S. regulators.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Baldwin's shares rose 12.5 cents to close at $8.625.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BALDWIN TECHNOLOGY Co. produces accessories and controls
for printing equipment. In Tuesday's edition it was
incorrectly indicated that the company was considering
expanding into manufacturing printing presses.
   (WSJ April 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   USW F CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Capital B.V., a unit of Ford Motor Co., shelf
offering of up to $500 million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Image Data Corp., initial offering of 1.4 million common
shares, of which one million are being sold by the company
and 400,000 by holders, via a Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co. led
group.
                                                                                                       

   MARCOR Environmental Inc., initial offering of 1.5 million
common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. and Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Province of New Brunswick, Canada, shelf offering of up to
$350 million of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   U S West Inc., proposed offering of 14 million common
shares, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets, Salomon Brothers Inc., and Yamaichi Securities Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM PFCP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. capital markets, with terms and syndicate
manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                      MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   King County, Wash. -- the bulk of $130 million of
unlimited tax general obligation bonds, 1990 Series A, and
limited tax general obligation bonds, 1990 Series B, due Dec.
1, 1992-2009, apparently was won by a First Boston Corp.
group with a bid setting the true interest cost at 7.05%. The
First Boston group apparently won the $117.6 million of
unlimited tax general obligation bonds, 1990 Series A. The
Series A bonds, rated double-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and double-A-plus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., were
priced for reoffering to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.15% in
2008 and 2009. There are no term bonds. Details on the winner
of the remainder of the issue, the Series B limited tax
general obligation bonds, weren't readily available.
   Connecticut -- $75 million of general obligation capital
appreciation bonds, College Savings Plan, 1990 Series A, due
May 15, 1995-2010, were tentatively priced by a Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. group to yield to maturity from 6.40% in
1995 to 7.15% in 2009 and 2010. There are no term bonds. The
bonds are rated double-A by Moody's and S&amp;P and will be sold
to retail investors only.
                                                                                                       

                       MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Perpetual Savings Bank -- about $200 million of mortgage
pass-through certificates was underwritten by Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. and Salomon Brothers Inc. The certificates
represent undivided interests in a pool of one-year,
Treasury-indexed, adjustable-rate residential mortgages
originated or purchased by Perpetual. The issue was rated
double-A-2 by Moody's, Perpetual said. Credit enhancement
consists primarily of a pool insurance policy issued by
General Electric Mortgage Insurance Co. The pool of mortgage
loans has an initial aggregate principal balance of about
$200 million and a remaining term to maturity of about 345
months. Interest will be passed through to the certificate
holders monthly at a rate equal to the weighted average
mortgage note rate less servicing and administrative fees.
The initial pass-through rate is about 8.46%. Perpetual will
be master servicer.
                                                                                                       

                        OTHER
                                                                                                       

   Federal Farm Credit Banks -- $250 million of notes, due
May 1, 1992, were priced at par for variable price reoffer.
The non-callable notes were priced at a spread of 0.34
percentage point above the Treasury's three-month bill
through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $250 million of
notes, due April 24, 1991, was priced at par for variable
price reoffer. The non-callable notes were priced at a spread
of 0.225 percentage point above the Treasury's three-month
bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   AVON PRODUCTS Inc. hasn't declared common and preferred
dividends for the second quarter. The regular board meeting
for the declaration of Avon's next dividends is May 3. In the
April 6 edition, Avon erroneously reported that the dividends
were declared.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Time's Entertainment Weekly Falters,
   Hitting Market Glutted With Magazines
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   How badly does Time Warner Inc. want readers for
Entertainment Weekly? This badly:
   Time Warner has released a blizzard of direct mail to
solicit readers. Those who don't respond to the initial
mailing quickly get a follow-up offering a shorter
subscription option. To those who still don't want to commit
themselves, Time Warner will send four free copies. Bite on
any of that, and you could receive a "welcome" gift: a box of
goodies including coupons for movies and records, a
refrigerator magnet (with the Entertainment Weekly logo) and
microwave popcorn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time Warner executives had always planned a hard sell for
Entertainment Weekly, the company's first major magazine
launch since the ill-fated TV-Cable Week in 1983, which left
Time with a $54 million write-off. With expensive hype
surrounding the magazine's debut, Entertainment Weekly's
advertising sales and subscription numbers so far show
promise. But the publication, not quite three months old,
already is in need of fixing: It is being redesigned after
complaints from advertisers and readers that it is simply too
hard to read.
   Time Warner executives admit some mistakes but say they
aren't retreating from their commitment to the magazine.
"After the excitement of the launch, every magazine runs into
the first-inning blues," says Reginald Brack, president of
Time Inc. Magazines. "The concept of the magazine is simple,
and we are committed to it. Now we are just working on the
execution." He says Time is spending "under $50 million" to
launch the magazine and expects it to be profitable by about
1994.
   Before its merger with Warner Communications Inc. last
year, Time showed plenty of patience with new publications:
It stuck with Sports Illustrated for eight years before it
turned a profit, and People had lean years after its launch
in 1974. But Time Warner, saddled with $10.6 billion in debt,
is a different company today. It needs new publications that
look like guaranteed successes and that can make major
contributions to cash flow.
   Moreover, Entertainment Weekly is being launched in a far
more perilous era for the magazine industry in general.
"Entertainment Weekly is dealing with a very soft magazine
market," says Bob Zach, vice president, media director,
Chiat/Day/Mojo Inc. ad agency. "There are more magazines out
there chasing ad pages than there are ad pages available. The
supply and demand is absolutely in favor of the advertiser."
   Time knows that only too well. In the first quarter, the
company's flagship weekly publications, Time, People and
Sports Illustrated, saw ad pages drop 12.4%, 18.4% and 17.8%,
respectively, from a year earlier. Other publishers' weeklies
also are hurting, including Washington Post Co.'s Newsweek,
U.S. News &amp; World Report and News Corp.'s TV Guide.
   Publishers blame the slump largely on major cuts in
spending by tobacco companies and domestic auto makers. The
tobacco companies face growing legislative pressure from
Washington. Detroit's auto sales have stalled, as have the
number of new-car introductions. In this year's first three
months, revenue from auto ads in U.S. consumer magazines
dropped 7.5%; that from cigarette and tobacco products fell
25%.
   Even Time's vaunted Max-Plan, which offers big advertisers
discounts on future purchases, hasn't provided much help.
"Max-Plan will help us this year, but it won't change things
around," says Donald M. Elliman Jr., executive vice president
at Time. "All I can say now is the first quarter does not the
year make." Entertainment Weekly has been added to Max-Plan,
joining such titles such as Life, People, and Time.
   Entertainment Weekly was supposed to hit the ground
running. A guide to what's hot in television, movies, video,
recorded music, and books, the magazine was conceived as a
buying guide for well-paid, well-educated yuppies. After an
aggressive subscription campaign before its launch in early
February, Entertainment Weekly had about 800,000
subscriptions or requests for sample issues. About 160
advertisers agreed to run multiple ads in the first two
years, many enticed by a charter discount plan.
   Since its debut, however, Entertainment Weekly has been
greeted with noticeable disappointment. The magazine's "au
courant" type style and design make it crowded, busy and hard
to read, critics say. They also say the reviews, the
magazine's backbone, come off as too cute and smart-alecky.
And all this costs $51.48 a year by subscription -- less than
the $1.95 cover price, but still a hefty price at a time when
most publishers offer deep discounts on subscriptions.
   "I didn't expect what I first saw. There was too much of
it, and it was a real eye strain to read," says Paul
DuCharme, media director for Grey Advertising. "Our
expectations were very high at the launch. There was a
letdown, but the editors are responding to it quickly and
making changes. They are responding to the advertising
community."
   Though Entertainment Weekly was in the planning stages for
five years and Time conducted extensive direct-mail tests to
gauge the potential audience, Publisher Michael Klingensmith
says the company anticipated that it would have to make
changes in design and story choices, even so soon after
launch. "We always expected the magazine to evolve and to
make changes as we went," he says. "No magazine is perfect
from the start."
   Some improvements are simply coming with time. Editor Jeff
Jarvis says the magazine is now getting "better" photographs
from movie studios for coming films, and is landing
celebrities such as directors Spike Lee and David Lynch and
comedian Jay Leno to pose for covers. Spurred by responses
from readers, Mr. Jarvis says he will increase the number of
movie capsule reviews and reorganize the TV capsule reviews.
He has already elevated the "Kids" section on entertainment
products to the status of a major department.
   After a redesign within the next eight weeks,
Entertainment Weekly "will get a noticeably different look,"
says Mr. Klingensmith. "The pages will be cleaner, less
packed with things, and organization will be tighter."
   Through eight issues, Entertainment Weekly has pulled in
175 ad pages, or about 22 pages an issue, regarded as a
moderate success. "That's well above what we projected," says
Mr. Klingensmith. In contrast to Time's other magazines
recently, Entertainment Weekly has been able to attract a
fair share of tobacco and auto advertising. Tobacco ads
account for 10% of the magazine's ad revenues. But ad rates
in the magazine are a mere $19,000 for a full page, while a
page in Time magazine costs about $100,000.
   The biggest challenge appears to be building circulation.
During the first five weeks of publication, Entertainment
Weekly's circulation ballooned as high as 1.1 million. That
included paid subscribers and those who had taken Time Warner
up on its offer of four free issues. After the large number
of initial giveaways, Entertainment Weekly's circulation has
settled at about 600,000, including paid subscribers and
copies sold on newsstands.
   But some media specialists say Time Warner's target
audience will be hard to convert into paying customers,
regardless of how many "welcome" baskets go out. "We think
Entertainment Weekly will have the toughest time finding
readers in the largest, metropolitan markets where there are
already good local magazines and newspaper sections with
reviews on entertainment," says Chiat's Mr. Zach. "We still
aren't sure who the reader will turn out to be and whether
that will be a strong audience for advertisers."
   ---
           Other Major Magazines Also Hurting:
                                                                                                       

                               1990           % CHGE.
                             AD PAGES        FROM 1989
                                                                                                       

   Newsweek                     473            -13.5
   U.S. News &amp; World Report     396            -10.2
   Business Week                756            -15.2

                                                                                                       

   Source: Publishers Information Bureau
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Citicorp
   Deals AT&amp;T
   A Wild Card
   ----
   By John J. Keller and Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   T CCI MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s entry
into the credit-card business has cost it a hefty chunk of
Citicorp's telecommunications business.
   Citicorp transferred $30 million in telecommunications
services now provided to its Citibank Card Products Group by
AT&amp;T to MCI Communications Corp., the nation's No. 2
long-distance communications carrier. The pact, which calls
for MCI to provide inbound and outbound voice services,
directory assistance, private data line services and MCI
calling cards for Citibank employees, expands an $80 million
MCI contract announced in November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citibank's decision is a clear sign that the nation's
biggest bank issuer of credit cards feels threatened by
AT&amp;T's entry into one of its most profitable businesses.
   Landing more Citicorp business is a coup for MCI, which
has won some lucrative deals with financial services
companies in the last year, including Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.,
where it provides all of Merrill's voice and data
communications services. That account is worth roughly $40
million annually. Other recent MCI additions include Aetna
and Bear Stearns.
   James Bailey, Citibank group executive for U.S. credit
cards, said: "We've been studying communications carriers for
some time. We've been trying to balance our business between
AT&amp;T and MCI. The fact that AT&amp;T has decided to become a
competitor of ours maybe accelerated that decision a little
bit."
   Victor Pelson, AT&amp;T's president of communications
services, said that although some of AT&amp;T's big financial
services customers are "concerned about the competitive
threat" posed by AT&amp;T's new bank card, "the general reaction
among our big customers has been one of understanding. We
recognize that in some areas we will be customers, suppliers
and sometimes maybe even competitors."
   Said Nathan Kantor, president of MCI's Northeast Division:
"MCI, which doesn't own its own bank card, is starting to be
seen as much more of a strategic partner for these banks."
   Mr. Bailey said Citicorp has no intention of eliminating
all its business with AT&amp;T. "AT&amp;T will continue to be a
supplier to us in the card business." He added that AT&amp;T and
MCI will have "roughly equal" amounts of the credit card
group's communications business.
   Nevertheless, other Citicorp executives said that in
moving some of its business the bank wanted to make a point
of its displeasure with the "ungentlemanly" way AT&amp;T has
recruited some high level executives away from its main
credit-card unit, Citibank (South Dakota).
   "We wanted a particular group of managers who are expert
in this {credit card} business, and they didn't exist at
AT&amp;T," said Mr. Pelson. "But our hiring practices have been
aboveboard. We didn't do anything that wasn't of the highest
ethical standards."
   Citicorp's decision to switch vendors parallels its
dealings with other competitor credit card companies. For
instance, Citicorp units don't sell the travelers checks of
American Express Co., nor do Citicorp executives use that
company's green card for business expenses.
   AT&amp;T introduced its AT&amp;T Universal bank card last month.
Units of Synovus Financial Corp., a Columbus, Ga., bank
holding company, will issue the card and handle processing
and billing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudis Warn OPEC to Reduce Output
   In Order to Stop Decline in Oil Prices
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saudi Arabia warned the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to cut excess production to stop the fall
in oil prices.
   In a strongly worded official statement, Hisham Nazer, the
Saudi oil minister, called OPEC's need to discipline output
through "adherence to production ceiling and quotas. . . an
extremely crucial matter."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Nazer said the current situation, in which oil prices
have fallen by $2 to $3 a barrel from the start of the month,
not only hurts producers but also weakens chances of a price
recovery in the year's second half. He said Saudi Arabia's
government "is making necessary contacts with other members
of OPEC to bring production back to the determined ceiling"
of 22 million barrels a day.
   The kingdom announced separately that Mr. Nazer will meet
today in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, with the oil ministers of
Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Kuwait and the UAE are
blamed for much of the two million barrels a day in
overproduction that has pushed OPEC output to an eight-year
high of 24 million barrels a day.
   It was known that Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil
exporter, has been worried by the April price slide. But, in
contrast to other times when over-quota output eroded prices,
the kingdom had remained uncharacteristically quiet until
yesterday.
   Whether the Saudi moves will curb OPEC's overproduction or
not, they already have had an impact on world oil markets.
Many markets were closed yesterday in an extended Easter
weekend. But prices rose, if only temporarily, in U.S.
futures and spot markets after the Saudi announcements.
   On the New York Mercantile Exchange, West Texas
Intermediate crude for May delivery briefly broke above the
psychologically-important level of $18 a barrel. It then fell
back to settle at $17.85 a barrel, still up seven cents for
the day. June WTI rose 16 cents to $18.67 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and other petroleum futures were
higher for the day.
   Not everyone gave the Saudis credit for the rally. "This
was purely a technical bounce; the market clearly was
oversold," said Shahrokh Nikkhah, senior vice president,
futures investments, at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
   Still, the Saudi announcements contributed further to a
theory held by a number of industry officials that
$15-a-barrel oil is the trigger for OPEC action when oil
prices are falling. Once certain prices threaten to drop
through that level, leading producers begin taking steps to
stop the slide, the theory holds.
   A premium crude such as West Texas Intermediate still is
well above $15. But the average of the OPEC basket of seven
crudes fell to around $15.30 late last week. This is the
basket that OPEC uses to measure against its targeted minimum
reference price of $18 a barrel. Significantly, too, spot
prices of Dubai, an important Middle East crude produced in
the United Arab Emirates, have neared $14 a barrel in recent
days.
   More people than the Saudi oil minister are alarmed by the
declines, of course. Several other ministers -- including
Sadek Boussena of Algeria, acting president of OPEC -- have
suggested that an emergency ministerial meeting might be
necessary if prices continued to fall.
   But such a special meeting is doubtful because the
ministers already are scheduled to hold their regular midyear
conference May 25. It's understood Middle East producers
don't want to see a special meeting of all the ministers held
before then.
   Meantime, most of the oil ministers are stepping up their
contacts with each other, in informal face-to-face meetings
such as the one that will take place in Saudi Arabia today,
and over the telephone. The "telephone dialogues" are needed
to reverse "the present downward trend of prices in the world
market," said Ginandjar Kartasasmita, Indonesia's oil
minister.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pacific Rim:
   Wave of Future
   Hits Some Rocks
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Whatever happened to the Pacific Rim?
Geographically it's where it always was, of course, but the
Pacific wave of the future seems to have hit political and
economic breakwaters.
   China is frozen in repression, casting an icy pall over
the jewel of Hong Kong. All of the five Tigers seem to be
suffering various kinds of molt. Ghastly tales seep out of
the usual hell-holes. And even mighty Japan finds itself with
a collapsing stock market, sinking yen and political crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Perhaps not too much should be made of the momentary
reflections of a visiting editor, even if buttressed by chats
with the real experts at The Asian Wall Street Journal.
Still, particularly given the recent euphoria over the trend
of the world, the picture on this continent is a disturbing
one. If 1989 was a miracle year in Eastern Europe, it was the
year that the Asian miracle at least momentarily lost its
glow.
   ---
   This is felt most acutely -- laying aside China itself --
in Hong Kong. Its still-bustling streets befit the world's
largest and most impressive shopping mall. But almost any
conversation echoes a "fin de siecle" mood. China has just
announced the so-called "basic law" under which is will
govern the colony after 1997, proclaiming many high-sounding
freedoms. The Asian Journal compared these promises with
China's present constitution, for example, "Citizens of the
People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the
press, of assembly, of association, or procession and of
demonstration." These words did not stop the People's
Liberation Army from beating monks to death in Tibet or
shooting students in Tiananmen Square.
   The Thatcher government also has just proposed its
"nationalities law," to distribute passports to 50,000 heads
of household among an expected 750,000 applicants. The
governor will pick 500 favored "entrepreneurs," and 6,300
slots go to people in "sensitive jobs." With individuals
judged by an 800-point formula, there will be 323 lawyers,
1,615 accountants and auditors, 2,907 school teachers and so
on. Some less jaded century might be appalled by this traffic
in human lives.
   Singapore, another basically Chinese city-state, would
seem the most logical destination for Hong Kong's refugees.
And indeed, in a national day speech in August, Prime
Minister Lee Kuan Yew explained that Singapore must seek
immigrants to offset its own brain drain. He said that some
4,700 families "from our top 25%" had left the previous year.
Adjusted for population, one report calculated, this
approaches the pre-Tiananmen flight from Hong Kong. Premier
Lee's best and brightest are voting with their feet against
his thinly veiled autocracy, also the root of his arguments
with the Asian Journal.
   At the same time, there is another problem of people
fleeing into Hong Kong. Boat people, arriving in leaky
vessels over pirate-ridden seas, are being confined in
desolate camps and even sent back to the Vietnam that once
vanquished the United States. If you ask why the Hong Kong
Chinese cheer repatriation of the boat people, they ask, why
not? Their own relatives escaping from China are every day
summarily put back across the border.
   There is also new fighting as the Vietnamese profess to
withdraw from Cambodia and Laos. In Cambodia statesmen
debate, whither the successors of Pol Pot? Taiwan has made
remarkable progress, but its future remains clouded by the
one-China problem. South Korea has stumbled with labor
strife, and in Thailand military influence in government
seems to be growing. The Philippine "model" has turned into a
joke as observers lose count of the coup attempts, President
Corazon Aquino refuses to see the secretary of defense whose
planes kept her in office and some forgettable minister
accuses our distinguished correspondent, among others, of
being "on the take."
   From Burma, whose latest government now asks us to call it
Myanmar (or was it Manmyar or Marmyan?), come reports of what
sounds like a new killing fields. A "resettlement policy" has
moved 200,000 people, or more probably 500,000 people, from
restive cities to barely existent rural settlements. Few in
the West have even heard of this horror. Gen. Saw Mung, like
Lee Kuan Yew, complains that Western media are interfering in
his country's internal affairs.
   The lingering and even growing miseries of Asia somehow
escape attention or even notice. As Eastern Europeans break
for freedom, those who can testify that evil still lurks in
the world are yellow and brown. Or black; in sub-Saharan
Africa freedom means the right to be ruled by a tyrant of
your own skin color.
   ---
   Japan, pre-eminently a member of the first world, is
understandably confused. The Japanese are proud, they guess,
to have concluded a new trade agreement with the inscrutable
Americans. But what, they wonder, will come next?
   The same Americans who browbeat us into changing our
retail trade laws, the Japanese are too polite to say, say we
have become too powerful. The Americans complain if we sell
them cheap products, and they complain if we send them our
investment money. And they claim that we are not true
capitalists.
   Japan, some Americans even say, is now number one. Well,
we can leave bicycles unchained on the Ginza, but what do we
get out of this moral superiority? How come we measure
apartments by mat-squares and have to commute through Tokyo,
with the distances of Los Angeles and the densities of
Manhattan?
   After the miracle year of 1989, a short visit to the
vaunted Pacific Rim is a sobering experience. The lesson is
that there remains a great deal of work to do in the world,
and a great vacuum of leadership. And the visitor returns to
the canyons of Wall Street thinking that if there is blame to
levy, no little of it should rest on the Pacific Rim's
eastern edge. There a nervous giant feigns weakness to avoid
shouldering the responsibility of the strong.
   ---
   Mr. Bartley is editor of the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Easy Come, Easy Go
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judging by all the high rollers
   Whose wealth toppled under duress,
   The lesson of the eighties is:
   "Nothing recedes like excess."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Future Shock
                                                                                                       

   Folks are living longer. Soon old age will be a midlife
crisis.
   -- Gil Stern.
   ---
                                                                                                       

   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Bird watcher's expertise: tweet smarts.
   -- Rodney Stevens.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Doroff May Get Bonwit Post
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Frank Doroff is expected to be named president
of the two-store Bonwit Teller chain owned by Pyramid Cos.,
according to people familiar with the situation.
   Mr. Doroff is currently chairman of Federated Allied
Merchandising Services, the importing and manufacturing
division of Federated Stores Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marriott Sells Roy Rogers Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS T.IMS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Marriott Corp. said it completed the sale of
its Roy Rogers restaurant business to Hardee's Food Systems
Inc. for $365 million in cash, plus the assumption by
Hardee's of certain liabilities. Hardees is a unit of Imasco
Ltd.
   The Roy Rogers chain consists of more than 600
restaurants, of which more than 350 are company owned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Marriott said the sale would have no impact on 1990
earnings because proceeds are being invested in its remaining
family restaurant business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harnischfeger Unit Strike Ends
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   HPH LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- Harnischfeger Industries Inc. said employees
at its Beloit Corp. unit ended a strike that had idled about
1,000 workers since it began April 9.
   The equipment maker said the machinists union at the
Beloit, Wis., operation had voted to approve a new three-year
contract, and return to work this morning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An official said the company doesn't anticipate that the
brief strike will significantly hurt earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beazer's U.S. Units Renamed
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   BZR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Beazer PLC of Bath, England, said it changed
the names of its two principal U.S. operating companies.
Beazer Materials &amp; Services Inc., serving the eastern half of
the U.S., has been renamed Beazer East Inc. Gifford-Hill &amp;
Co., serving the western part of the country, has been
renamed Beazer West Inc.
   Both are units of Beazer U.S.A., the holding company for
the two building materials and services companies. Beazer PLC
generates 47% of its revenue in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Science Parks Fall Victim to Overly High Expectations
   ---
   Project in Connecticut Attracts Start-Ups
   But Doesn't Create Enough Jobs
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   OLN
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW HAVEN, Conn. -- The gloss is off New Haven's Science
Park, which promised to help revive this aging city.
   Since the park opened in 1983, it has welcomed more than
170 start-ups. About 100 of those businesses survive,
providing about 1,200 jobs. The park also has created a core
of new technology businesses in a city long ravaged by
economic decline and corporate flight. Nevertheless, the $50
million project is losing more than $1 million a year, and
it's losing support.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The park's four sponsors -- the state of Connecticut, the
city of New Haven, Yale University and Olin Corp., a chemical
maker based in nearby Stamford -- provided the capital and
land for the park. Most of the sponsors say they don't want
to invest much more, because the park hasn't revitalized its
inner-city neighborhood or provided jobs for large numbers of
unemployed workers.
   "The results the sponsors expected haven't materialized,"
says Benno Schmidt Jr., president of Yale. With the
university hard pressed to finance its own needs, "we don't
want to be seen as the only supporters of the park," he says.
   William Ginsberg, chief executive officer of Science Park
Development Corp., the not-for-profit developer of the park,
says: "Achieving our ambitious, original goals is still very
much within our reach." But he concedes that the existing
commitments aren't enough. "We need more time from our
lenders, more capital from the state and more scientific
interaction with Yale to reach the goals we set out to
achieve," he says.
   The experience of New Haven's park exemplifies the
predicament that many of the nation's 110 or so science and
technology parks face today. Once touted as quick fixes for
economically troubled communities, the parks have been slow
in delivering the promised cures. Now, many of their backers
-- state and local governments, universities and corporations
-- are themselves in financial trouble.
   The disillusionment threatens the growth -- and even
existence -- of projects such as New Haven's Science Park.
"The disillusionment is spreading," says Bruce Merrifield, a
professor of management at the University of Pennsylvania's
Wharton School.
   Under pressure to reduce budgets, every level of
government is cutting back support for these centers, which
have been a vital source of small-business development by
providing low-cost space and a plethora of inexpensive
services. Disenchanted sponsors "are selectively starving the
very centers of innovation we need to be competitive
globally," according to Mr. Merrifield.
   The Science Park here was aggressively promoted as the
solution to local joblessness, says Douglas Rae, chief
administrative officer for this city of 126,000. But most of
the 1,200 new jobs have been filled by professionals and
skilled high-technology workers, instead of by local workers,
many of whom are minorities and unskilled. The park, formerly
home to an Olin manufacturing complex with more than 10,000
industrial and research employees, "hasn't solved" the area's
unemployment problem, Mr. Rae says.
   Officials in Connecticut, which suffered a deficit of more
than $220 million last year on a $7 billion budget, say the
park can't play as large a role in its economic-development
strategy as in the past. "It's worked well on the incubator
side, but no one is entirely satisfied with its impact on New
Haven's economy," says Stephen Heintz, Connecticut's
commissioner of economic development. "We have to begin
exploring a variety of development strategies for faster
solutions."
   If the major sponsors back away, "the ability of the park
to deliver the services entrepreneurs need is sure to be
affected," says George Leka, president of Jule Inc., a maker
of biomedical products and a tenant of Science Park.
   Development experts say that New Haven's Science Park is a
victim of planners' inability to understand the nature of
technology-based development. "Technology parks are a
long-term building process," contends Tripp Peake, a managing
partner of Science Park Associates, a business development
consultant.
   "Too many planners expected the parks to be instant
cure-alls for economic ills," says Ian MacMillan, executive
director of the University of Pennsylvania's Sol C. Snyder
Entrepreneurial Center. "They got disillusioned when the
parks didn't provide quick fixes."
   Initially, New Haven's Science Park received extensive
support. Olin contributed existing buildings and the park's
40-acre location. The state and the city provided over $7
million in grants and loans. Yale chipped in another $2.5
million.
   From the very beginning, the park proved extremely
successful in attracting and supporting small businesses and
small units of big companies, including Eastman Kodak Co.'s
International Biotechnologies unit. and supercomputer maker
Visionary Systems Inc., a spinoff of ITT Corp.'s Advanced
Technologies Center.
   But the park has failed to attract big-business tenants
that can employ large numbers of local workers and provide
the fledgling space with some stability. It also has failed
to persuade big Connecticut venture capital firms to finance
the growth and expansion of the park's fast-growing tenants.
Complains Mr. Leka of Jule: "We haven't gotten the support of
local venture capitalists."
   Mr. Ginsberg contends that the park has succeeded as an
incubator. "We've been more successful than most other
projects like this," he says. But to achieve its broader
goals, it needs more capital and more support from its
sponsors, he says.
   The capital is needed to improve the infrastructure so the
park can attract major companies. "We also need to work more
closely with Yale to sell the park to the big technology
concerns," he adds.
   ---
                 Where the Money Came From
                                                                                                       

   Funding for New Haven's Science Park, in millions of
                          dollars
                                                                                                       

   Miscellaneous .............................. $ 0.3
   Federal agencies ........................... $ 1.5
   Yale University ............................ $ 2.5
   New Haven City agencies .................... $ 2.8
   Connecticut State agencies ................. $ 5.7
   Banks ...................................... $ 9.7
   Olin Corp.* ................................ $10.0
   Private developers ......................... $17.5
                                                                                                       

   TOTAL ...................................... $50.0
                                                                                                       

   *Estimated: most of Olin's contribution consists of land
and buildings
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Bancshares
   Gets a Court Order
   That Restrains Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NBCTC EQK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- National Bancshares Corp. of Texas
said a state judge here granted it a temporary restraining
order, preventing another Texas bank from interfering with
its recapitalization by trying to collect on a $4,950,000
loan.
   National Bancshares is trying to complete a
recapitalization with help from Equimark Corp. and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. But, it said, a special asset
bank managed by Team Bank on behalf of the FDIC has indicated
it might try to foreclose on three of National Bancshares'
most profitable banks, which were used as collateral to
secure the loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a news release, National Bancshares said the Federal
Asset Management Co., a Team Bank unit that is liquidating
assets for the FDIC, had notified National Bancshares that it
was in default of the loan as of Dec. 31. National Bancshares
said it had been negotiating an agreement with Federal Asset
that called for National Bancshares to repay the debt shortly
after its recapitalization is completed. But National
Bancshares said Team Bank and Federal Asset have acted "in a
manner contrary" to agreements and understandings of the
parties.
   A National Bancshares spokesman refused to elaborate on
the dispute, saying the matter is in litigation. A Team Bank
spokesman also declined to comment.
   National Bancshares said the loan is secured by its NBC
Bank-Laredo, NBC Bank-Eagle Pass and NBC Bank-Rio Grande
Valley. At March 31, 1989, those three banks accounted for
about 80% of the remaining positive shareholders' equity of
all the company's subsidiary banks.
   National Bancshares said the temporary restraining order
expires April 27, and it intends to seek a temporary
injunction on that date.
   Team Bank recently acquired the former subsidiary banks of
Texas American Bancshares Inc. of Fort Worth, Texas, with
help from the FDIC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Saving Pompeii's Rich Entombed History
   ----
   By Brigid Grauman
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Naples, Italy -- They call it the Villa of the Chaste
Lovers because, in Pompeii, couples depicted in wall
paintings usually are engaged in more compromising activities
than the exchange of a kiss. Behind a corrugated-iron
partition, locked to keep out the curious, lies the villa,
the only building currently under excavation.
   The rooms of the large three-floor Roman house still are
filled halfway up with crumbling gray ash. On the ground lies
a rusty nail at least 1,900 years old. In what was once a
bedroom, tiny rabbits and birds are delicately painted on the
black and red backgrounds. In the center of each wall, in a
one-square-yard space, the lovers are reclining on their
beds, kissing. Their privacy has not been violated since
these frescoes were buried in 79 A.D. by lava and ash spewing
from Mount Vesuvius all over the towns and villages around
Naples.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On that blazingly hot dawn in August, what sounded like a
clap of thunder filled the air and the sky seemed to shake.
Mount Vesuvius appeared to split open, and a hail of burning
stones pelted down, followed by ash that filled the eyes,
mouths and lungs of the terrified inhabitants. Within three
hours, the small trading town was completely buried under hot
ash. Very few people escaped, out of a population estimated
at 20,000. Still today, one quarter of the 27-acre site is
buried and may remain so for many years. This is not so much
a pity as a saving grace. As long as the houses stay
blanketed in ash, they are safe from the combined damage
caused by weather, weeds, wanderers and vandals.
   "Pompeii is dying," says Baldassare Conticello, the
Palermo-born archaeologist who has directed operations at the
site for the past five years. "I'm engaged in a battle of
wits against time and the various Italian ministries."
   Time is the more insidious foe. When the tougher surface
of the wall paintings starts to thin out, the brick-based
pigment blows away like dust.
   As for the state, Mr. Conticello says between cigar puffs,
he spends his days trying to extract money from it: "The
Ministry of Cultural Heritage only gets 0.19% of the
country's total annual budget and, out of those two billion
lira a year {$1.6 million}, Pompeii gets only a fraction."
Mr. Conticello estimates that, ideally, Pompeii would need at
least 500 billion lira {$406 million} to save it from
disaster. He may be far from that goal, but he hasn't lost
the fight, he says. "I wouldn't be here if I thought that.
I'm 57 years old and I'm not going to call myself a loser
yet."
   Mr. Conticello lives with his wife and small daughter in
an apartment on the edge of the site, working a 12-hour day
to keep the city alive. He doesn't like Naples, and would
rather live in Rome, but he plans to stay. He recently
managed to get a 35 billion lira {$28.4 million} sum out of
the government, and with it, he intends to restore the
buildings, pavements and streets from the Amphitheatre at the
east of the town to the Forum at the west.
   As the most recent in a dynasty of archaeologists
inaugurated in 1748 by an abbot from Naples who began digging
near the Temple of Fortune, Mr. Conticello wants to use the
latest scientific methods to restore the site and present the
clearest possible picture of the thriving port city as it
stood. "Most of my colleagues dream of the past in terms of
romantic ruins. I'm much more pragmatic. I like jet planes
and modern architecture. I want to rebuild the houses just
enough to save them, but no more than that. Every time you
work on an ancient site you damage it, and the gamble is to
work out how much you can damage in order to restore."
   With assistance from IBM and Fiat, and a subsidy from the
Ministry of Labor, Mr. Conticello has been making a
computerized graphic database of Pompeii over the past two
years. First 160,000 square feet of paintings were digitized.
Then, the 105 archaeologists working on the project, and
various computer experts, cartographers and architects,
turned their attention to the 8,800 papyrus scrolls
discovered in Pompeii, now in the Natural History Library of
Naples. After photography, the gray-on-black lettering was
tinted purple and magnified to make it easier to read.
   Such computer models enable restorers to experiment
without fear of damaging the real work. On the site, however,
the workers as often as possible use stone and mortar, wood
and terra-cotta tiles, just as the ancient Romans did.
Earlier restoration techniques using reinforced concrete to
bolster walls and cement to restore paintings were "far too
brutal." The most urgent task, Mr. Conticello believes, is
roofing. "You can't understand architecture if the roofs
aren't there." In the areas near the Amphitheatre and in
Porta Marina near the Forum the roofs are painstakingly being
rebuilt with wooden beams and, whenever possible, the
original tiles.
   The sidewalks and streets have been worn down by the feet
of the two million tourists who tramp through Pompeii every
year. Using another ancient method, Mr. Conticello and his
team are rebuilding the sidewalks with "ciccio pisto", a
mixture of crushed terra cotta, mortar and volcanic stone.
"It acts as a sealant, protecting the houses from the
humidity that seeps up from the ground."
   Pompeii, as Mr. Conticello sees it, is not to be a
melancholy vision of ruins by Piranesi. He wants the Roman
houses to give visitors some impression of the community that
once lived here and to re-create the former border lines
between houses and gardens. With a botanist who is studying
the pollen and seeds as they were when trapped under the ash
on the day of the eruption, he can re-create the gardens
exactly as they were 19 centuries ago. They already have
replanted several gardens with vineyards and beds of violets
and roses.
   Mr. Conticello, who thinks of himself as an
archaeologist-cum-manager, has sworn that all the money gets
from the Italian state will go into restoration. But he would
love to start new digs in Pompeii or Herculaneum, the other
site nearby that was buried under lava, not ash. It covered
most of the ancient town under what is now many feet of hard
rock.
   Mr. Conticello is eager to create an international
foundation of businesspeople that would raise the money to
carry out the digs. "A single villa could yield more than 100
statues," he says. "Just imagine the prestige. We could build
a museum, something like the Peggy Guggenheim Foundation in
Venice."
   Nowadays, when the night starts to fall, a wailing siren
warns visitors that it's time to leave Pompeii. They don't
need to be urged, says one of the 200 guards who patrols the
grounds. "For those who don't know it, Pompeii is scary at
night. They're afraid of ghosts."
   But the living still are very much the masters of Pompeii.
Two men from the small modern village of Pompeii just beyond
the walls amble in and out of the ruins, cutting tender,
edible dandelion leaves with their pen knives, stuffing them
into plastic bags, and singing a Neapolitan love song at the
top of their lungs.
   ---
   Ms. Grauman is a free-lance writer based in Brussels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser under Jimmy
Carter, in the March 26 issue of Fortune.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. has been the global policeman, but I think
increasingly we will be the global air traffic controller.
You obey the cop because he will put you in jail. You obey
the traffic controller because you don't want to crash. The
world system still needs an arbitrator, and the U.S. will
play that role.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Private Painter of Paris's Human Comedy
   ----
   By Roger Kimball
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Washington, D.C. -- Few modern artists are as immediately
seductive and yet as persistently elusive as the French
painter Edouard Vuillard (1868-1940). In his hands, a swatch
of patterned wallpaper, a kitchen sideboard, or a brocaded
skirt under lamplight achieves an almost unbearable
sumptuousness. But who can explain the appeal? Why are his
homely scenes so much more than the sum of their parts?
   Both the rich sensuousness and the quiet mysteries of
Vuillard's art are everywhere evident in a splendid new
exhibition of small oil paintings that originated at the
Museum of Fine Arts in Houston and is now on view at the
Phillips Collection here. "The Intimate Interiors of Edouard
Vuillard" contains some 70 paintings from the 1890s, the
decade in which the young artist blossomed into maturity and
painted many of his greatest works. More than half the works
included are from private collections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Born in Cuiseaux, some three hundred miles from Paris,
Vuillard was the son of a soldier who turned to tax
collecting when invalided out of the army. The Vuillards
moved to Paris in 1877, and young Edouard, strictly educated
by the Marist fathers, was planning on a military career. "I
could think of nothing else," he recalled in later life, "in
which I could possibly distinguish myself." But by the time
his father died, in 1884, he had begun to dabble in art, and
within a few years had devoted himself to painting with
results that were distinguished indeed.
   In the early 1890s, Vuillard became a founding member of
the Nabis, a loose-knit band of artists influenced by Gauguin
and the French symbolists. Other members of the group
included Ker-Xavier Roussel, Maurice Denis, Felix Vallotton
and Pierre Bonnard. Artistically, the Nabis were opposed to
the impressionists' efforts to provide an objective depiction
of the visual world. They aimed instead at an art of
evocation, attempting, as the poet Stephane Mallarme famously
put it, to paint not the object but the effect that it
produces.
   The word Nabi is Hebrew for prophet. Some of the Nabis
displayed a marked fondness for quasi-mystical esoterica,
affecting outlandish dress, occult theories, and pretentious
jargon. Vuillard was conspicuously not of their number. As
the critic John Russell noted in his excellent 1971 catalog
essay on the artist, he was "one of the least cranky men who
ever lived." "There was nothing wayward or bohemian about
Vuillard, then or later," Mr. Russell wrote; "he had a great
gift for steadfast application," and his real subject "was
the human comedy as it is lived out in Paris."
   Vuillard's professional acquaintance with the human comedy
began with the Parisian theater, for which he designed
programs and painted set decorations. It was while working
for the theater that Vuillard developed his technique of
"peinture a la colle," painting with heated glue into which
pigment had been mixed. Often he painted on unfinished
cardboard. The process helped him achieve the lush surface
and warm colors he loved, but it also proved to be a great
danger for collectors. Attempting to brighten up his
paintings, they not infrequently had them varnished. If the
cardboard had been completely covered with paint, the varnish
did no harm; but if there were any areas exposed, the varnish
would soak into the cardboard, leaving dark brown spots that
disfigured the painting forever.
   The current exhibition, as its title suggests, deals with
the private side of Vuillard's art. It begins with a half
dozen early self-portraits, which range from curious trials
in which we sense Vuillard searching for an artistic identity
to the marvelously penetrating oil sketch of 1891.
   It is in his domestic scenes, however, that Vuillard
really comes into his own. Portraits of his mother and
sister, depictions of seamstresses at work in his mother's
shop (she had embarked on a career as a corset maker in the
late 1870s), and scenes of luncheons and conversations at the
houses of friends are among his most familiar and deeply felt
works. As this exhibition reminds us, Vuillard was primarily
a painter of silences and atmospheres. Even when painting
people in conversation, he seems to concentrate on the
moments between words, the pauses in which emotions flicker
and shift, in which new thoughts are born.
   The "intimate interiors" on view here also mirror an
intimacy and unbridgeable reserve in the artist. For though
Vuillard was by all accounts affable and even gregarious, he
was an intensely private man. The recent publication of his
journals does little to diminish his remoteness. He never
married, and lived with his mother -- whom he referred to as
his "muse" and who is the subject of some of his best
paintings -- until her death in 1928.
   Vuillard also served other muses. Misia Natanson, at that
time the wife of Thadee Natanson, the founding editor of the
influential literary and arts journal the Revue Blanche,
doubtless was Madame Vuillard's chief rival. One section of
the exhibition, titled "Homage to Misia," contains several
paintings of Misia, Thadee, and their circle, including two
of the exhibition's most beautiful paintings: "Woman in a
Striped Dress" (1895) and "Interior with Three Lamps" (1898).
   Vuillard, if not in love with Misia, certainly was
enchanted. But then the capacity to enchant men seems to have
been prominent among that extraordinary woman's gifts. An
accomplished pianist, she had been a student of Gabriel Faure
and had won high praise from Liszt, who predicted a brilliant
career for her. She was mistress of a brilliant salon.
Mallarme wrote a poem about her. Renoir, Toulouse-Lautrec,
Bonnard and Vuillard all painted her portrait. In Vuillard's
pictures, she emerges as a strong but somewhat melancholy
character, distracted and self-absorbed.
   It is difficult to imagine a more hospitable place to see
Vuillard's portraits of her or his other works than the
Phillips Collection. The paintings are thoughtfully
installed, and their intimacy and small scale is perfectly
served by the domestic setting of Duncan Phillips's old
townhouse. The Brooklyn Museum, to which the show travels in
May, will compensate for its more institutional galleries by
offering an expanded version of the exhibition, including two
additional paintings and many works on paper.
   ---
   "The Intimate Interiors of Edouard Vuillard" will be on
view at the Phillips Collection until April 29. It opens at
the The Brooklyn Museum on May 17 and will be on view there
until July 30. The exhibition is accompanied by a
disappointing catalog of the same title written by Elizabeth
Easton (The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, 144 pages, $24.95).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions April 17-30
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dallas Museum of Art: "Gold of Three Continents" -- Nearly
600 gold objects, including jewelry, ornamental and ritual
objects from Africa (Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Mali and
Senegal), Greece (from the Benaki Museum in Athens) and the
"Ancient Americas" (pre-Columbian objects from the museum's
collection). 1717 North Harwood, through June 10.
                                                                                                       

   Buell Hall, Columbia University, New York: "The Filter of
Reason: Work of Paul Nelson" opens this new 4,100-square-foot
gallery devoted solely to exhibitions about architecture.
Nelson (1895-1979) taught and practiced architecture in the
U.S. and France for more than 50 years and was a central
figure in the development of functionalist architecture in
the 1930s and '40s. The show includes more than 240 objects
such as architectural drawings, models, fine-arts drawings,
paintings and photographs. Of special interest are letters
representing more than 40 years of correspondence between
Nelson and Le Corbusier, Joan Miro, Fernand Leger,
Buckminster Fuller and others. Main campus, just east of Low
Library; use entrances at 116th Street and Broadway or 118th
Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Through May 11.
                                                                                                       

   SPECTACLE
                                                                                                       

   "The Music of David Arkenstone: A Multi-Media Laser
Odyssey": All the folks who've made this
composer/instrumentalist one of the most popular names in New
Age music have a new trip to look forward to. The hourlong
show combines selections from all three Arkenstone albums --
including the just-released "Citizen of Time" (on Narada) --
with dramatic visuals from Laser Images Inc., best known for
its work with Pink Floyd. Gates Planetarium (City Park,
Colorado Boulevard and 22nd Avenue), Denver, Thursdays
through September (303-370-6374); Morrison Planetarium
(Golden Gate Park), San Francisco, Thursdays beginning May 24
(415-750-7138); shows in additional cities are expected.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE
                                                                                                       

   Paul Taylor Dance Company: The puckish romantic celebrates
his troupe's 35th anniversary with a monthlong season at New
York's City Center -- and two major premieres. As usual, the
pieces reflect the choreographer's yin and yang: "Of Bright &amp;
Blue Birds &amp; The Gala Sun" is a meditative spiritual odyssey,
while "The Sorcerer's Sofa" is a rollicking spoof (of
Freudian psychology, set to "The Sorcerer's Apprentice"). The
engagement also features new works by company members Cathy
McCann and Christopher Gillis -- hers "Split Whiskers," a
witty trio, his a whirlwind for 12, "Curbs and Corridors" --
and the last local performances by the lithe and light Kate
Johnson -- 131 West 55th St., tonight through May 13. (212)
581-7907.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Opera Company of Philadelphia offers a rare performance of
Rossini's "The Thieving Magpie" ("La Gazza Ladra"), with
Theodore Bikel in his operatic debut. Also featured: flutist
Jeanne Galway, bass Paul Plishka as the mayor, and Italian
soprano Anna Caterina Antonacci as Ninetta. Steven Mercurio
conducts. Academy of Music, Broad and Locust streets, April
20. For information, (215) 557-2205; for tickets, (215)
893-1999.
                                                                                                       

   Violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter gives her only New York
recital this season at Carnegie Hall, accompanied by Lambert
Orkis on piano. The program includes: Beethoven's Sonata No.
7 in C minor, Op. 30, No. 2; Debussy's Sonata for Violin and
Piano (1916-17); and Lutoslawski's Partita (1984). April 29,
181 Seventh Ave. at 57th Street, (212) 247-7800. Other venues
on her North American tour are: Boston's Symphony Hall, April
27; Washington's Kennedy Center, April 28; Toronto's Roy
Thompson Hall, May 1; Chicago's Orchestra Hall, May 2;
Columbus's Ohio Theatre, May 3; Clearwater, Fla.'s Ruth
Eckerd Hall, May 7; and Sarasota, Fla.'s Van Wezel Performing
Arts Hall, May 9.
                                                                                                       

   Le Mystere Des Voix Bulgares: Sofia's choicest, the
26-voice Bulgarian State Radio and Television Female Vocal
Choir, shows off the mesmerizing harmonies that have won over
music fans around the world. For the New York show only (May
4, Avery Fisher Hall) the choir will be joined by the Kronos
Quartet-Austin, Texas (Bass Concert Hall, University of
Texas), April 17; Dallas (McFarlin Auditorium, Southern
Methodist University), April 19; Houston (Jones Hall), April
20; Atlanta (Roxy Theater), April 21; Columbus (Ohio
Theater), April 24; Ann Arbor, Mich. (Michigan Theater),
April 25; Oberlin, Ohio (Finney Chapel, Oberlin College),
April 27; Northampton, Mass. (John M. Green Hall, Smith
College), April 28; Burlington, Vt. (Flynn Theater), April
30; Princeton, N.J. (McCarter Theatre, Princeton University),
May 1; Washington (Kennedy Center), April 2; New York
(Lincoln Center), May 4; Boston (Symphony Hall), May 5.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR EUROP WNEWS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   HOLD ON to company shares, many firms suggest to
executives. Few insist.
   Chrysler Corp. raised some eyebrows a few weeks back by
asking 100 top officers to own their "fair share" of the auto
maker by holding stock equal to a certain percentage of their
pay. Details haven't been disclosed, but Mark Edwards of
consultant Sibson &amp; Co. says Chrysler is probably the first
company to detail its expectations. Most companies award
stock or options to executives as part of long-term incentive
programs, but executives generally sell the shares soon after
any restrictions expire, he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   T. Boone Pickens belittles chief executives who don't
invest at least half their net worth in their company's
stock. He says 90% of his assets are sunk in his Mesa L.P.
Bruce Karatz, CEO of Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp., asserts
"there's no better way {than stock ownership} to align the
interests of management and shareholders." But though Dow
Chemical Co. would like executives to retain shares "until
their golden years," the company says it's "not inclined to
impose such rules on our people."
   At Upjohn Co., "once the stock has been awarded, the
executive can do whatever he or she wants."
                                                                                                       

   CHILD-CARE BILL sleeper clauses would cut benefits for
some parents.
   Little-noticed provisions of the House-backed measure
would phase out two tax benefits for families with adjusted
gross incomes of $70,000 or more, notes Henry Saveth of
consultant Foster Higgins. At present, families may set aside
up to $5,000 in pretax dollars with employers to pay for baby
sitters and other dependent care. The House bill would cut
the set-aside $250 for each $1,000 of earnings above $70,000.
   The bill, similarly, would curb the dependent-care tax
credit. That credit now is at least 20% of up to $2,400 spent
for one dependent and $4,800 for two or more, reduced by any
money paid under an employer set-aside program. The bill
would reduce the credit one percentage point for each $1,000
of income over $70,000. The changes, Congress figures, could
cost the families $1.5 billion over the next five years. The
outlook, though, is unclear: The Senate would retain the
benefits and the White House threatens a veto over other
provisions.
                                                                                                       

   EASTERN EUROPE: A looming market but where's the talent to
tap it?
   General Electric Co. looks to expand by strengthening
businesses already operating there, such as a lighting
venture in Hungary. Borg-Warner Corp. relies on its own staff
and West European corporate "friends who have walked the path
already." ArcherDaniels-Midland Co. gets help from a
50%-owned affiliate in Hamburg.
   Few companies seem to be doing much U.S. hiring.
Anheuser-Busch Cos. won't expand East until it reaches a
trademark pact with a Czech brewer. Ball Corp. wants to first
develop a greater presence in West Europe. PepsiCo Inc.,
which recently concluded a major barter deal with the Soviet
Union, says it prefers local executives "who speak the
language and understand the local marketing environment."
   Yet U.S. recruiters aggressively promote their services
and compile lists of multilingual talent.
                                                                                                       

   SENIOR EXECUTIVE HIRING eased 3% in the first quarter from
a year before, Korn/Ferry International says. Demand rose for
general managers but declined for marketing and finance
officials.
                                                                                                       

   BUT SOMEBODY is hiring. Executive Recruiter News figures
global revenue of U.S. search firms will top $3 billion this
year, split between recruiters on retainers and those paid
when a placement is made.
                                                                                                       

   A NEW YORK appeals court rules a financial analyst can
bring a discrimination suit against an investment banking
firm that denied him a job because, he alleges, a urine
sample erroneously tested positive for drugs. The
unidentified plaintiff contends another test would have shown
the reading resulted from eating poppy seeds.
                                                                                                       

   SLAM DUNK] John Griffin quits PaineWebber, where he was a
vice president in municipal bond underwriting, to become head
basketball coach at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia,
where he had played 12 years ago.
                                                                                                       

   UNION MEMBERSHIP could drop to one in 20 workers by
decade's end.
   The 15-year plunge in union ranks -- to 12% of
private-sector workers in 1988 from 25% in 1973 -- will
continue its free fall, predict Stephen Bronars of the
University of California at Santa Barbara and Donald Deere of
Texas A&amp;M. "Extrapolating recent trends implies that the
private sector unionization rate could well fall below 5% by
the year 2000," they say.
   The economists figure that 5% of the decline in the 1980s
can be laid to a drop in successful union organizing
campaigns. They attribute 65% of the loss to reduced
employment in unionized industries and 30% to increased
employment in nonunionized fields. But this shift, too, may
be laid, at least in small part, at union's door.
   It came as a unionized worker's wage premium over a
nonunionized neighbor was widening to 20.4% from 14.6%.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: How's that? A lump-sum pension-plan pay out
that can't be rolled over into an IRA as a "qualified total
distribution" may be rolled over in full as a "partial
distribution," the Research Institute of America explains. .
. . Mixed scents: People work more efficiently in rooms with
air fresheners but also take more risks, which may not be so
good, Rensselaer Polytechnic psychologist Robert Baron says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NII Board Expansion
   Is Supported by 54%
   Of Company's Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   NII
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Centaur Partners Group said holders of 54%
of National Intergroup Inc.'s shares backed the group's
proposal to expand the company's board to 15 from 12.
   However, company bylaws require 80% support to change the
current board number. Centaur, which holds a 16.5% stake in
National Intergroup, has asked the Delaware Supreme Court to
rule that only a simple majority be required to change the
bylaws. Should Centaur prevail, stockholders would elect
eight directors at this year's annual meeting in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Centaur said the vote indicated that a majority of
stockholders have issued an "overwhelming mandate regarding
the future of NII." Furthermore, the investor group said it
believes the company should be swayed by the majority to
reduce to 45 days the advance notice of director nominees. As
a result, Centaur said it would forward a written notice
containing its eight nominees for election at the 1990 annual
meeting.
   However, National Intergroup, a steel, drug-distribution
and retail concern, said Centaur failed to receive the
necessary support to "pack the NII board." Moreover, the
company noted that only 29% of the company's 21.8 million
shares outstanding, excluding the 25% owned by the Centaur
Group and another dissident group, Walker Street Associates,
backed the move.
   "These numbers indicate that the dissidents received the
support of substantially less than a majority of the
independent shareholders," the company noted. The current
board structure was approved by National Intergroup
shareholders in 1984.
   The company last week filed suit asking that Centaur and
Walker Street Associates be forced to divest themselves of
their holdings. The lawsuit alleges that the two groups have
made materially false and misleading statements in their
solicitation of proxies and are acting together as a group.
Centaur denied the allegations and Walker didn't comment on
them.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
National Intergroup closed at $16, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bull Agrees to Pay Zenith
   $15 Million to End Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   F.GRB ZE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Cie. des Machines Bull will pay $15 million to
Zenith Electronics Corp. to end a two-year dispute and
complete its acquisition of Zenith's personal-computer
business.
   In Glenview, Ill., Zenith said it will take a charge of
about $11 million in the first quarter because the negotiated
final payment was less than the net receivable for the sold
business that it had recorded on its books at year end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bull agreed to the purchase for $635 million last October.
The sale was subject to approval by Zenith stockholders. By
the time the stockholders approved the deal in December, Bull
officials asserted that the assets of Zenith's once
fast-growing personal computer division had deteriorated, and
they paid Zenith $496.4 million.
   Bull remained dissatisfied even at that lower price and
demanded a refund of $49 million after a review of Zenith's
books. In March Zenith not only rejected that claim but
declared it was entitled to an additional $49 million.
   To resolve the matter, both companies have agreed that
Bull should pay Zenith $15 million, bringing the price to
$511.4 million.
   With the Zenith acquisition, Bull hopes to enter the
personal-computer big leagues. It more than doubles the size
of the French computer maker's personal-computer business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Ordinary People's Story
   ----
   By Jonathan Kandell
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Few cities have transformed themselves as dramatically as
Tokyo in the past century. It was only in 1867 under the
Meiji emperor that the city abandoned feudalism and opened
itself to an overwhelmingly stronger Western world. What
happened next has been told in numerous tomes that usually
focus on leading politicians, military officers and
industrialists.
   The merit of Edward Seidensticker's approach is that he
rummages through the basement of history, attempting to
decipher how ordinary residents of Tokyo lived through
momentous changes. An earlier book, "Low City, High City,"
covered the period until 1923. In this sequel, "Tokyo Rising"
(Knopf, 362 pages, $24.95), the author, one of our foremost
translators of Japanese literature, updates the story to
current times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Seidensticker has a talent for pithy observation. For
those in search of unchanging Japan, he advises a poorer
Tokyo neighborhood rather than a rich one: "Shabbiness does
not change, while the world of the rich and powerful seems to
change by the minute." One often hears that as a city grows
in wealth and importance, it becomes a more alienating place.
Mr. Seidensticker lifts the notion above cliche when he
remarks: "Almost all writers live in Tokyo today, and none
write of it as if it were home."
   But for the most part, his technique might be called
lunging for the capillaries. It can be effective when, for
example, he explains how the great earthquake of 1923 brought
about a Westernization of dress codes in Tokyo. Before the
disaster, department stores required shoppers to follow the
traditional practice of removing their shoes and donning
slippers. Customers good-naturedly accepted the inevitable
mixups when they tried to retrieve their footwear after
making their purchases.
   The specter of another earthquake causing people to flee
barefoot from the premises, or, still worse, to clog up the
exits while searching for their shoes, led to a typically
Japanese solution that balanced old and new ways: People
continued to remove their shoes before entering homes, but
kept them on while shopping.
   This sort of microcosmic approach works less well when Mr.
Seidensticker deals with the years leading to World War II.
He conveys little of the trauma, intolerance and xenophobia
of that era. We are told that popular singers who had taken
Western nicknames reverted to their Japanese names. Baseball,
we learn, was forced to pretend it was invented in Japan, and
American terms such as "play ball," "strike" and "pitcher,"
were replaced by Japanese words.
   More fundamentally, the reader is left to wonder what was
going through the minds of Tokyo residents when their
government vaunted the racial supremacy of the Japanese,
arrested anybody remotely considered a dissident, and sent
millions of citizens to kill and die overseas for the Greater
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
   "There were many ways, chief among them, perhaps,
geographic isolation, to account for the fact that Japan had
no organized resistance and no selfless underground martyrs,"
notes Mr. Seidensticker. "In any event, it had none." Subject
closed. It's difficult to imagine accounts of Germany and
Italy giving such short shrift to the 1930s.
   With the horrific U.S. firebombing of Tokyo during World
War II, the book takes on the immediacy of journalism. Whole
neighborhoods are incinerated and parks are converted into
cemeteries. Four million people flee Tokyo. Among the three
million who stay behind, as many as 300,000 are homeless. At
the zoo, the carnivores and larger animals are put to death
because the government fears the bombings might free them
from their cages to roam wild in the streets.
   This account of wartime devastation gives the book a new
momentum that continues through the remaining pages.
Insightful anecdotes and elegant prose enhance rather than
replace narrative.
   Evoking the food shortages of the early postwar era, Mr.
Seidensticker writes: "In those days when the almost
universal way of transporting babies was by strapping them to
adult backs, a woman would seek to disguise her black-market
rice by strapping it. . . . and making soothing noises to it,
quite as if it were a baby. This woman's sack had sprung a
leak and rice was trickling out." A policeman, reluctant to
arrest the poor offender, taps her on the shoulder and says,
"Your baby is wetting its pants."
   Barely two decades later, Japan had emerged as an economic
superpower. People had become affluent so quickly that in a
1967 poll, 90% of Tokyo housewives listed themselves as
middle class -- up from 50% only three years before. Their
husbands' expense accounts have grown large enough to turn
Tokyo into the entertainment capital of the world. In some
districts, bars and restaurants outnumber residents.
   The Japanese, so fearful of Western superiority only a
century before, now wonder whether they have anything at all
to learn from the rest of the world. Mr. Seidensticker
suggests they might start by endowing their overbuilt,
unaesthetic capital with qualities befitting its new global
status. Citing the grandeur of New York when the U.S. was the
moneyed country of the world, and the harmony of Amsterdam,
Paris and London during their nations' periods of splendor,
he doubts whether Tokyo is headed for either grandeur or
harmony.
   ---
   Mr. Kandell, a former resident of Tokyo, is an assistant
foreign editor of the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dataproducts Agrees to Be Acquired
   By Hitachi Venture for $160 Million
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   DPC J.HTK J.NIE HIT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOODLAND HILLS, Calif. -- Dataproducts Corp. said it
signed a definitive agreement to be acquired for $160 million
by a joint venture formed by two affiliates of Hitachi Ltd.,
the Tokyo electronic equipment maker.
   The affiliates, Hitachi Koki Co. and Nissei Sangyo Co.,
said they will launch a $10-a-share tender offer within five
days for all of Dataproducts' stock outstanding. The offer
will be followed by a merger in which any remaining shares
will be acquired at the same price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Dataproducts jumped $3.25 to $9.625 on volume of more than
1.5 million shares.
   The agreement appears to end two years of turmoil during
which time Dataproducts fended off a hostile suitor, sought
"strategic" bidders to buy the company, sold its headquarters
building and Southern California manufacturing operations,
and used those proceeds to repurchase 20% of its stock.
   The proposed merger gives Dataproducts the "strategic
partner" it has been searching for. Jack C. Davis, chairman
and chief executive officer, said he expects to remain in
those posts and that no immediate changes in company programs
are expected. Mr. Davis said he anticipates that he will be
joined on the board by representatives of Hitachi Koki and
Nissei Sangyo.
   "There's good chemistry here; we have similar kinds of
motivations for long-term investments and a belief in
focusing on quality products," Mr. Davis said. "As time goes
along, we'll be looking for ways to gain" from the new
ownership.
   Mr. Davis said that Dataproducts, a computer printer maker
with 1989 sales of $353 million, is strong in the U.S. and
Canada. Nissei Sangyo, Hitachi's 56.9%-owned trading arm, had
world-wide sales of 482 billion ($3.05 billion) yen last
year. "They have strengths in many, many countries we don't
have a presence in," Mr. Davis said.
   Hitachi Koki, 22.5% owned by Hitachi, had sales of 109
billion yen last year and makes power tools, printers and
scientific instruments. In the printer business, "we compete
with Hitachi Koki at the top of our line and bottom of their
line," Mr. Davis said.
   DPC Acquisition Corp., which was forced to terminate a
$10-a-share tender offer for Dataproducts in January because
it couldn't obtain financing, expressed disappointment in the
merger agreement. The New York investment group, which holds
about one million Dataproducts shares, is controlled by
Crescott Investment Associates, Wilson Investment Group,
Kernel Corp. and Catalyst Partners.
   "Management should have been able to obtain a better
price. A strategic buyer can pay more for a company's assets
than a financial buyer," said Micki Hidayatallah, Crescott's
chief executive officer. He said it wasn't clear whether DPC
would or could take any action, in light of a standstill
agreement with Dataproducts.
   Dataproducts's board believes that the merger agreement
"is in the best interests of shareholders, as well as our
employees, customers and suppliers," Mr. Davis said. The bid
is fully financed, whereas "DPC was never able to raise any
financing or a `highly confident' letter," he added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manufacturers
   Hanover, Chase
   Post Lower Net
   ---
   Operations at J.P. Morgan
   Anemic in 1st Quarter;
   New Unit Aids Banc One
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC CMB JPM ONE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Four major banks reported generally weak earnings,
reflecting varying factors, including lower borrowing levels
for corporate takeovers, mounting bad loans and the absence
of interest payments from Brazil.
   Chase Manhattan Corp., the parent of the nation's
second-largest bank, posted the biggest earnings drop
yesterday -- a decline of 67% -- chiefly because of a $75
million increase in the provision for possible credit losses
on commercial real estate loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An accounting change at J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. more than
doubled quarterly profit, masking continued anemic operating
earnings. Without the change, profit would have been off 6%.
   At Manufacturers Hanover Corp., a big drop in loan
syndication fees depressed earnings 7% from the year-earlier
level.
   And Banc One Corp.'s 17% rise resulted partly from its
acquisitions of two Texas banks. Excluding the Texas
acquisitions and certain one-time items, after-tax profit was
up 4.7%.
   All common stock prices except Banc One's sagged yesterday
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on the earnings
news. Chase fell $1.625 a share to close at $27.75; Morgan
declined 75 cents to close at $34.75; and Manufacturers'
stock fell 62.5 cents to close at $33.875. Banc One stock
edged up 12.5 cents to close at $29.125 a share.
                                                                                                       

   Chase Manhattan
                                                                                                       

   Today's tougher regulatory environment for banks was
reflected in Chase's decision to increase its provision for
possible loan losses to $225 million, compared with $130
million in last year's fourth quarter.
   James J. McDermott, research director at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;
Woods Inc., said: "Here we see the handiwork of the
regulatory examination process. Banks are anticipating
rigorous examinations and are adding to their provisions."
   In a statement, Chase said that future provisions will
continue at high levels if the domestic commercial real
estate market deteriorates further.
   Despite the higher provision, Chase's nonperforming assets
remained below the levels of a year earlier on both a
relative and absolute basis. Total nonaccruing loans stood at
$4.19 billion, or 3.82% of total assets, compared with $4.2
billion, or 4.08%, a year earlier.
   Net charge-offs of bad loans for the quarter totaled $325
million, more than double the $159 million charged in the
same period a year earlier. Commercial real estate
charge-offs were $15 million, up from only $1 million a year
earlier. Charge-offs of domestic consumer loans rose by $23
million, to $83 million, largely because of portfolio growth.
   Net interest income totaled $814 million for the quarter,
down 1.8% from $829 million a year earlier. The 1989 interest
figure includes $61 million in Brazilian payments, compared
with none in the latest quarter. Non-interest income for the
period rose 11.4% to $468 million, as consumer banking fees,
trust fees and securities trading posted gains from last
year's period.
                                                                                                       

   J.P. Morgan
                                                                                                       

   While Morgan showed none of the loan-quality problems
bedeviling other banks, it is feeling the slowing pace of the
general economy and corporate finance activity.
   Excluding the effect of an accounting change for contracts
hedging interest-rate, currency and commodity risks, Morgan's
first-quarter results showed a drop in earnings to $169
million from $180 million a year earlier. Part of that
decline reflects last year's receipt of $27 million in
Brazilian interest payments; the latest quarter included no
Brazilian payments.
   Morgan's "asset quality remains impeccable," said Mr.
McDermott of Keefe Bruyette. "For them, revenue generation is
a key issue, and expenses continue to be high."
   Net interest income fell 11% to $266 million from $299
million, as Brazil's de facto debt moratorium and tighter
margins squeezed Morgan's net yield on interestearning assets
to 1.43% from 1.63% a year earlier.
   More than making up for that reduction were strong
foreign-exchange and securities-trading results, which both
more than doubled to $73 million and $140 million
respectively. The strong gains in part reflected the U.S.
dollar's rise during the first quarter.
   But one of Morgan's mainstays -- fees from advising
corporations on financial matters -- was hurt during the
period by ebbing takeover activity. Those fees fell 30% to
$62 million in the latest period.
   Operating expenses climbed 11% from a year earlier, but
dropped 9% from the fourth quarter, when costs related to its
move to new headquarters were especially high.
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers Hanover
                                                                                                       

   Two factors -- sharply lower fees from arranging loans for
leveraged buy-outs of corporations and the lack of interest
payments by Brazil and Argentina -- detracted from an
otherwise improving picture at Manufacturers.
   Chairman John F. McGillicuddy said, "Although earnings
were down, they were nevertheless achieved in a difficult
environment, including a slowdown in corporate finance
activities."
   Manufacturers is one the leading arrangers of senior bank
debt for leveraged buy-outs, and the slowdown in that
activity has hurt the bank's results. The latest quarter
included only $11 million in loan syndication fees, down 70%
from $37 million a year ago.
   Similarly, the absence of interest payments by certain
Latin American borrowers reduced interest income by $18
million.
   Despite those factors, Manufacturers was able to post
gains in both the interest and non-interest categories of
income. Net interest income was $378 million, up slightly
from $373 million a year earlier. And non-interest revenue
also rose a bit, to $326 million from $319 million.
   Reflecting improved credit quality, Manufacturers' total
nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, excluding those of
loans to developing countries, dropped during the period.
                                                                                                       

   Banc One
                                                                                                       

   The Columbus, Ohio, bank holding company attributed its
record results to the inclusion of $10.7 million in its net
income by the newly created Bank One unit of Texas. That unit
is made up of the former Deposit Insurance Bridge Bank of
Dallas, whose results were included for the full quarter, as
well as Bright Bank Savings Association of Dallas, whose
results were included from Feb. 2.
   As of March 31, Banc One said its nonperforming assets
were 1.5% of total loans, or $277 million, an increase of 7%
over its year-end total of $259 million.
   Banc One noted that its assets excluding Bank One of Texas
were $27.2 billion at the quarter's end. The Texas unit had
assets of $14 billion, including $2.4 billion attributable to
certain provisions stemming from its purchase of the once
troubled Texas lenders.
   ---
   Thomas F. O'Boyle contributed to this article.
   ---
                                                                                                       

                         1990             1989
                     in      per         in      per     %
                  millions  share     millions  share   chg.
                                                                                                       

                  FIRST QUARTER NET INCOME
                                                                                                       


 Manhattan .....   $44.0     $0.20    $132.0   $1.27  -66.7
 J.P. Morgan ...   399.0      2.09     180.0    0.96  121.7
 Manufacturers..    96.0      1.21     103.0    1.84  - 6.8
 Banc One ......   101.8      0.70      87.2    0.60   16.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sliding Market:
   Big Board Is Losing
   Some of Its Influence
   Over Stock Trading
   ---
   As Institutions Go Elsewhere,
   Exchange Sees a Threat
   To Liquidity, Fair Pricing
   ---
   Getting Swamped on Big Sales
   ----
   By Craig Torres and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSU MS SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For the 2,000 tourists who line up each day
outside its classic-revival marble facade, the New York Stock
Exchange is the U.S. stock market.
   But that's not necessarily the way it looks to Wall
Street. Power in the American market is shifting away from
small investors to giant institutions. As it shifts, the New
York Stock Exchange is under challenge as the central place
to buy and sell shares in America's big companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, the Big Board handled only 69.23% of the trades
in its listed stocks, a historic low. More and more stocks
are being traded on regional exchanges, such as the Midwest
Stock Exchange; in "dark markets" in London, where disclosure
and trading rules are looser; and in the U.S. "third market"
of private dealers and electronic systems.
   In addition, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock-index futures
pit in Chicago is the true most efficient stock market for
many institutions. Some days, the total value of stock traded
in the form of futures tops the dollar volume on the Big
Board.
   Big Board officials have known all this for years, of
course, but last Jan. 4 they got a real shock: A staggering
20 million shares of a Big Board stock, Hanson PLC, were
traded on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Officials of the
Big Board, which handled just 440,000 of Hanson's
29-million-share volume that day, "went bananas," one member
says. "They were screaming at subordinates, `Why can't some
of that business be done here?'"
   Another upsetting portent: In February, the
over-the-counter market grabbed 10.7% of the trades in Du
Pont Co. stock, a big jump from 2.8% a year earlier.
   The New York exchange "faces a serious and substantial
competitive challenge," says Curtis R. Welling, the managing
director in charge of First Boston Corp.'s equity division.
   John J. Phelan Jr., the Big Board's 59-year-old chairman,
concedes the exchange can't assume it will never lose its
franchise. "There are plenty of companies that have gone down
the chute who said, `I've got a product, come and get it,' "
he says. The Big Board "came very close in the '60s and early
'70s" to suffering from "that kind of attitude," and "we're
trying not to make that mistake again."
   This week, Mr. Phelan is expected to announce that the Big
Board's net income declined again in 1989 -- on top of a
69.4% plunge to $10.4 million in 1988. Consequently, the
exchange may have less money this year for paying top talent
and further expanding facilities.
   Since its founding in 1792, the Big Board has been the
place to trade the nation's major stocks. And despite losing
market share, it remains far and away the central
marketplace. It has long attracted more than 80% of the total
share volume in its listed stocks.
   By funneling most stock trades and information through one
central market, the theory goes, investors get the best
price. Each Big Board stock is entrusted to a single market
maker, or specialist, who constantly matches buy and sell
orders and uses his firm's own money to smooth out
imbalances. (The rival Nasdaq over-the-counter market relies
on multiple dealers, linked by computers, in each stock.)
   The Big Board's "auction market" system, its officials
contend, will save investors some $400 million this year by
getting them a price better than the bid or asked quote on
the specialist's books. And exchange officials insist that a
public market, regulated to ensure fairness, serves all
investors, from the $25 billion pension fund to the small
investor with 100 shares.
   However, managers of big pension funds, endowments, mutual
funds and insurance-company investments say the Big Board
hasn't been giving them what they want -- instant execution
on big blocks without moving prices sharply.
   "The problem with the whole market is that the
infrastructure is too small," says Bernard L. Madoff, who
heads Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, an OTC firm
that trades Big Board shares off the exchange. "There is too
much money out there moving around to be stabilized by a
specialist or a market-maker system."
   One sore point involves indexing, in which big
institutions shape their equity portfolios to match the
stocks in a market index, such as the S&amp;P 500. Indexing is
cheaper than stock picking because it minimizes trading
expenses, and it often produces higher returns. Since 1980,
the money indexed to the S&amp;P 500 has soared tenfold, to about
$200 billion. Last year, Wells Fargo Nikko Investment
Advisors alone managed $44 billion pegged to the index.
   With such huge sums involved in indexing alone, the Big
Board has become the playground of professional money
managers. Individuals still hold about 55% of all U.S.
stocks, but that is down from 80% two decades ago, and
someday, perhaps in this decade, institutions will pass
individuals as the biggest holders. Many giant funds say they
already are the stock market because their equity holdings --
totaling $1.6 trillion at the end of 1989 -- represent the
largest forces of active supply and demand.
   "The point has come where the specialists are having a
hard time standing up to the size of institutional
portfolios," says Douglas Holmes, vice president at Boston's
State Street Bank, which manages a $9 billion stock-index
fund. If computer-driven program trades, switching rapidly
between stocks and other financial instruments, beat down the
stock market, specialists' capital could be exhausted in
hours. "The expectations of liquidity are unrealistic in
1990," says Donald Stone, a Big Board vice chairman and
senior partner of the specialist firm of Lasker, Stone &amp;
Stern.
   Big money isn't the only threat to the Big Board. Wall
Street's slump, which began with the October 1987 crash and
has led to nearly 45,000 securities-industry layoffs, is
pressuring everyone to cut costs. Several big brokerage
firms, making little money trading stocks for customers, have
doubts about offering traditional trading and research
services. Instead, they prefer to trade stocks for
themselves.
   And, in a move that would have been heresy only a few
years ago, big investment banks such as Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
and First Boston are discussing whether an NYSE membership is
worth the expense, in light of the Big Board's paperwork
demands, its regulations arising from its role as a public
market, and the costly floor-brokerage fees. Some executives
at the firms contend that more money could be made by trading
directly with customers through their own trading desks.
   Morgan Stanley characterizes its discussions as simply
"what if" exercises. It watches all its costs, a spokesman
says, and "obviously a variety of exchange memberships are
among those costs, but the firm has never seriously
considered giving up its membership on the NYSE."
   First Boston's Mr. Welling says he believes in a strong
central marketplace for stocks and adds that the investment
bank will try to work with the exchange now, "though that's
not forever." Nevertheless, he comments, "every major member
firm has thought about" the value of a Big Board membership.
   Firms bypassing the New York exchange to trade on regional
exchanges or over the counter are hurting their customers,
Mr. Phelan says. He decries the rise in off-exchange trading
as a serious threat to stock markets -- and unethical.
   "People should not be allowed, for their own private
benefit, to step outside of that broad system, not just the
NYSE. They ought to be required to operate within that
national-market framework in which everybody has access to
that order flow and everybody can be competitive," Mr. Phelan
says. "The reason this country has had the broadest markets
and most liquid markets is because everybody has been brought
together and linked together."
   The Big Board asserts its system wins a better price for
investors on about one-third of transactions. Say that
McDonald's Corp., which closed at $32.875 yesterday, is
trading with a buying, or "bid," price of $32.75, and a
selling, or "asked," price of $33. Much of the time, the Big
Board says, the specialist can fill an order "within" the
quotes rather than at the bid or asked price. Thus, a buyer
won't be forced to pay the full asking price, and the seller
will get more than the bid price.
   But even securities firms that favor a central marketplace
criticize Big Board costs. Currently, an investment bank
faces an annual bill totaling $15 million to $20 million for
seats, membership fees, specialists' commissions and other
expenses. With the whole industry financially squeezed, says
Stanley Shopkorn, vice chairman and head of stock trading at
Salomon Brothers Inc., "If the NYSE wants to be the central
markeplace of the 1990s, they're going to have to address
costs."
   At Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., the over-the-counter
department is making its own market for customers in about 50
Big Board issues, mostly closed-end funds. Though
acknowledging that the Big Board has improved its service,
Peter Da Puzzo, who heads Shearson's OTC department, says:
"Right now, it seems the bottom line is money, and we . . .
have to save that money." The Shearson experiment has sent
shudders through the Big Board.
   Alarmed by the erosion of the exchange's market share, its
officials are jawboning member firms about trading through
its system. They have mounted a multimillion-dollar
advertising campaign to convince investors that it's still
the best place to trade listed stocks. Late last year, to
lure back big traders, they launched the Big Board's own
500-stock basket (it flopped, hardly trading at all). And
they are trying to increase listings.
   Joseph Hardiman, the president of the National Association
of Securities Dealers, which runs the Nasdaq OTC market, says
the Big Board "has been making very aggressive marketing
efforts to lure our companies, significantly expanding their
cold-calling." In the first quarter, the exchange added 43
companies, raising total listings to 1,742 from 1,685 a year
earlier.
   And, for the first time, the Big Board plans to give
outside traders a thrice-a-day peek at stock orders pending
in the order "book" of each of its 46 specialists. It hopes
that opening the books will defuse complaints about the
specialists' monopoly on order information.
   Yet the move, scheduled later this year, won't
significantly aid professional traders and could hurt
amateurs, specialists say. Mr. Stone, the vice chairman, says
that simply looking at the order data isn't helpful without
interpretation by the specialist. "We will be buying
`sunshine,' but I doubt that anybody will profit by it," he
says.
   The Big Board is also trying to recapture orders flowing
to London and over computerized "crossing networks," which
automatically match buy and sell orders. It has asked the
Securities and Exchange Commission to allow it to set up a
crossing system that would match orders at the closing price
after trading hours.
   However, critics say the Big Board could become irrelevant
if it doesn't move toward making active markets on a 24-hour
basis. They cite the Globex automated night-trading system
under development by a joint venture between the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange and Reuters Holdings PLC. The Big Board
is studying 24-hour active trading but says U.S. institutions
show little desire to trade all night. And Mr. Phelan insists
that however the exchange eventually handles all-night
trading, the public market must be maintained.
   Mr. Phelan during his six-year chairmanship and even
earlier pushed for what are now the exchange's essential
working tools: an electronic order-routing system, an
electronic specialists' book, an electronic link with
regional exchanges and an electronic express lane for small
investors' orders.
   As a result, the Big Board's daily trading capacity has
increased from about 50 million shares in 1980 to about 700
million. Last fall, during the market's Oct. 16 rebound after
the Oct. 13 "minicrash," the Big Board whirled through nearly
half a billion shares with hardly a hitch.
   To help beef up the trading capital on the exchange floor,
Mr. Phelan is inviting brokerage houses to buy specialist
firms; among those that already have done so are Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., PaineWebber Group Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. But
brokerage executives note that specialists' profits have
dwindled. From 1985 to 1988, specialists earned double-digit
annual returns on their capital, but in 1989, the returns
slumped to 5.9%.
   Many institutional traders, though, say they are fed up
with the way specialists handle big program-trading
transactions. A large institution is said to have recently
asked Morgan Stanley to work on a project to facilitate
electronic trading among institutions and brokers and bypass
the Big Board. (A Morgan Stanley spokesman says the firm
doesn't comment on client business.) Experts on institutions'
other electronic-trading efforts see the day not far off when
about 20 of the giant investment funds will bypass exchanges
altogether and trade with each other.
   But Mr. Phelan maintains that eventually the clients of
index funds and other institutions will rebel against trading
outside the public markets. If the customers "really
understood that nobody gave a heck about price betterment and
how it was done as long as somebody made some money out of
it," he says, "you would have a revolution across this
country that would be absolutely unbelievable."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                           Week Ended:
                                      Apr. 13,     Apr. 6,
                                        1990         1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a     8.24         8.30
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day)   8.35         8.37
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b .....    8.25         8.33
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ..........    8.38         8.40
   Treasury bills (one year)-c .....    8.29         8.29
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ...    8.61         8.62
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ....    8.60         8.59
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c .....    8.62         8.59
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ......    8.58         8.56
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, April 11, 1990
and Wednesday April 4, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England Expected to Form
   Entity for Troubled Real Estate Assets
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. will set up a new
entity to take over much of its troubled real estate assets,
according to banking industry officials.
   While details of the plan remain sketchy, the officials
said it could resemble so-called good bank/bad bank programs
set up in recent years by Mellon Bank Corp. and other banking
companies. Bank of New England's new entity is likely to take
on at least $1 billion of the roughly $3.2 billion in assets
that were classified as nonperforming or as potential
problems at Dec. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Steven Wheeler will be named to head Bank of New England's
program, the officials said. Mr. Wheeler, 43 years old, is
former co-head of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s Morgan Stanley
Realty unit. For about the past year he has run a financial
consulting firm in Boston specializing in restructuring of
real estate loans.
   A Bank of New England spokesman declined to comment on the
reported plan. But an announcement could come this week, when
Bank of New England Chairman Lawrence Fish is expected to
outline the company's strategy for recovering from the $1.1
billion loss it suffered last year and for working off its
troubled loans.
   The officials said the final shape of the new entity
remains to be determined. It could simply be an
administrative division within the existing bank, devoted to
handling bad assets. But the officials said Bank of New
England hopes to be able to raise funds from outside
investors to set up a separately capitalized unit akin to
Mellon's Grant Street National Bank.
   By setting up such a "bad bank" -- also known, within the
industry, as a "collecting bank" -- Bank of New England would
be able to remove the troubled assets from its balance sheet.
That would improve the financial health of the original bank,
and presumably enable it to attract deposits at lower rates.
   But that approach would depend on how much investor
appetite there is for the assets -- mainly in New England
commercial real estate -- that the entity would have to
offer. With hundreds of billions of dollars in real estate
assets from insolvent thrift institutions expected to be sold
by the U.S. government in the next few years, there will be
plenty of competition for investors' attention.
   To be sure, the thrift industry properties are
concentrated primarily in the Southwest. But Bank of New
England will also have to deal with investor worries about
the clouded outlook for the New England economy.
   William Bahrenburg Jr., chairman of Morgan Stanley Realty
and a former colleague of Mr. Wheeler, said Mr. Wheeler's
broad background in real estate and finance is likely to come
in useful in his new post. Mr. Wheeler has worked in Morgan
Stanley's securities and corporate finance divisions.
According to Mr. Bahrenburg, Mr. Wheeler "was very much
involved" in several "significant corporate restructurings,"
including one at May Department Stores Co. in 1988.
   Mr. Wheeler was president of First Winthrop Corp., a
Boston-based real estate syndication and investment firm,
during the mid-1980s. Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Fish, who was then
an executive with Bank of Boston Corp., became acquainted
during that period and got to be "squash buddies," Mr.
Bahrenburg said.
   Mr. Wheeler's operation at Bank of New England will work
in tandem with the bank's controlled loan division, which is
in charge of problem loans. Officials at Bank of New England
have indicated that division is being expanded, despite sharp
cutbacks in staffing elsewhere in the company. Richard
Stover, a former officer of Mellon Bank's Grant Street unit
who joined Bank of New England late last year, is expected to
head the expanded division.
   Whatever plans Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Fish develop for
separating the bad assets from the good will have to be
approved by federal regulators, who are closely monitoring
Bank of New England's operations. Thomas Cimeno, senior vice
president for bank supervision at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston, acknowledged that Bank of New England has discussed
the general concept of segregating bad assets. But he said
the agency has yet to take a formal position on any plan by
the bank.
   Bank of New England currently has about $25 billion in
total assets, down from more than $31 billion before its
massive loan problems became apparent late last year.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Bank of New England closed at $3.75, down 12.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, April 16, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/8% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/8% near
closing bid, 8 7/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.20% 30 to 44 days; 8.175% 45 to 59 days;
8.15% 60 to 89 days; 8.125% 90 to 119 days; 8.075% 120 to 149
days; 8.025% 150 to 179 days; 7.95% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.27%
30 days; 8.25% 60 days; 8.22% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.23% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.45% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.15% 30 days; 8.12% 60 days; 8.10%
90 days; 8.09% 120 days; 8.08% 150 days; 8.01% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 16, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.71%, 13 weeks; 7.75%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.27%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.20%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.95%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.81%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Landmark Land to Sell
   Real Estate to Developer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   LML
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   CARMEL, Calif. -- Landmark Land Co. said it would sell a
major portion of its real estate holdings, including its
prestigious roster of golf courses, to California developer
Barry G. Hon for $967 million.
   Landmark owns the real estate through Oak Tree Savings,
its savings and loan subsidiary based in New Orleans. The
sale was triggered by new federal regulations which raised
the amount of capital needed to stay in the real estate
business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hon, who owns Hon Development Co. of Laguna Hills,
Calif., said he wasn't concerned about the weakened real
estate market nationally. "Landmark is in the higher end of
the business so we're not as concerned as we might be," he
said.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading, Landmark
closed at $17.375, down 12.5 cents, on relatively heavy
volume of 342,500 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Primerica Net
   Advanced 62%
   In First Period
   ----
   By Johnnie L. Roberts
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Primerica Corp., reflecting good performance
in its three principal business segments, posted a 62% jump
in first-quarter profit as revenue rose about 17%.
   Primerica said its Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. unit,
despite the tough business climate on Wall Street, performed
well, particularly in retail brokerage, asset management and
investment banking. Smith Barney's results also positively
reflected the acquisition of 16 former offices of Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., the former Wall Street powerhouse that
has sought bankruptcy protection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the quarter, Primerica's net soared to $83.2 million,
or 73 cents a share, from $51.4 million, or 53 cents a share,
a year earlier. Revenue at the financial services concern
increased to $1.44 billion from a restated $1.24 billion. The
year-earlier figure was restated to reflect revenue of
Fingerhut's direct-marketing unit, which was classified as
"assets held for sale" a year ago, and thus that revenue
wasn't included in consolidated figures.
   The company also noted that the average number of shares
outstanding has been steadily increasing as holders convert
shares they owned before Primerica's acquisition by
Commercial Credit Inc. to new shares following the
transaction. The number of shares averaged 116.9 million in
the latest period, compared with 99.4 million a year ago.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Primerica closed at $30.25, up 75 cents.
   The performance of the consumer services, insurance
services and investment services segments showed "continuing
improvement in our marketing and product development as well
as cost management," said Sanford I. Weill, chairman and
chief executive officer.
   Profit and revenue of the consumer finance operations both
rose 21% to $33 million and $199.3 million, respectively.
Primerica cited the integration of the consumer lending
business acquired from Barclays American/Financial on March 1
and higher profit from the Fingerhut direct-marketing unit.
In addition, the consumer operations continue to post growth
in quarter-to-quarter receivables and to keep a tight lid on
expenses, Primerica said.
   Profit for insurance services rose 37% to $63.2 million on
a 12% increase in revenue to $570.8 million. The results
reflected Primerica's 100% ownership of the A.L. Williams
insurance company unit and the A.L. Williams general agency,
which consisted of its sales force. In November, Primerica
acquired the 30.2% stake of the insurance company unit it
didn't already own and all of the closely held agency.
   Investment services, which include Smith Barney, showed a
34% gain to $18.1 million. The results include Primerica's
share of earnings from a minority investment and $3.3 million
in good-will costs and other adjustments related to the
acquisition of Smith Barney. Revenue rose 29% to $441.7
million.
   Smith Barney itself earned $13.1 million, up about 15%.
Revenue spurted 32% to $384.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fannie Mae Plans Financing
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   FNM
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal National Mortgage Association said
it and Prudential Home Mortgage will provide financing for $2
billion of home mortgages over the next 12 months. Prudential
Home Mortgage of St. Louis, an affiliate of Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, will originate a variety of fixed-
and adjustable-rate mortgages that will be sold to Fannie Mae
for cash or exchanged for mortgage-backed securities issued
by Fannie Mae.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Government Faces Deadline
   This Week on Milken Case
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The government's latest deadline to bring new charges
against Michael Milken is Thursday of this week, according to
individuals familiar with the government's investigation.
   Last month, prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Kimba
Wood in New York that they would seek a new and expanded
indictment of Mr. Milken and others no later than this week.
The individuals familiar with the case said the government
has indicated it intends to stick to that schedule.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Plea negotiations between prosecutors and Mr. Milken's
attorneys continued last week. But as of yesterday, Mr.
Milken hadn't accepted the deal offered him by the
government, said individuals familiar with those talks. Mr.
Milken is said to have been offered the opportunity to avoid
the new indictment by pleading guilty to six felony counts,
not including racketeering, and paying more than $600 million
in fines and penalties.
   In March 1989, a federal grand jury in Manhattan issued a
98-count indictment charging Mr. Milken, the former head of
junk-bond operations at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., with
racketeering and fraud in connection with securities trades.
Lowell Milken and Bruce L. Newberg, a former Drexel trader,
were also charged in the indictment. All three pleaded
innocent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   AIDS Scientists Discuss Latest Findings
   ---
   Subjects Range From
   Vaccines to Gene Therapy
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   KEYSTONE, Colo. -- While the field of AIDS research boasts
few breakthroughs these days, scientists at a meeting here
heard a report about a provocative French vaccine test, plus
a variety of new insights into treating the epidemic.
   The reports inspired hope that researchers might be able
to avoid the use of dangerous killed-virus vaccines, to find
ways to block transmission of the virus by pregnant women and
to evade the problems of toxicity and resistance to the drug
AZT. New treatment strategies, including gene therapy and
immunotherapy, also got a hearing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The weeklong meeting earlier this month, one in a series
of annual winter symposiums held by the University of
California at Los Angeles, drew about 750 participants to
this Rocky Mountain site.
   From the Pasteur Institute in Paris came word of what may
be the first protein-based vaccine to protect a chimpanzee
against infection by the virus that causes acquired immune
deficiency syndrome. If confirmed, it will be the first time
an animal has been shielded from infection without resorting
to a killed-virus vaccine. While a success in animal tests,
killed-virus vaccines still strike many researchers as too
risky to use in uninfected humans.
   Marc Girard, a vaccine researcher at Pasteur, reported
preliminary success in a test of two chimpanzees vaccinated
with "cocktails" of synthetic protein fragments. These
cocktails, though different, included a key ingredient in
common: a synthetic protein fragment that copies a part of
the AIDS virus's outer coat that scientists think could spark
a potent immune response. It's called the "V3 loop."
   Both vaccinated animals were then exposed to live AIDS
virus. Six months later, both chimps appear to be free of
infection, according to a lymph node biopsy and PCR
gene-amplification techniques. "Whether protection against
infection was achieved, however, will not be known until the
animals have been monitored at least one year," Dr. Girard's
report cautions.
   "It's great," responded Jorg Eichberg, an animal vaccine
researcher at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research in San Antonio, Texas. "Unfortunately, (the
Pasteur's approach) is a little bit of a hodgepodge since the
animals got different things." In addition to the piece of
the V3 loop, one animal got a shot of killed virus, while the
other animal's vaccine was supplemented by other viral
proteins. Also, he noted, the control animals, which became
infected, were tested at different times.
   The next challenge will be to unravel which ingredients in
the immunizing cocktail were responsible for protecting the
animals -- a major puzzle that obscures the meaning of the
experiment for now. "But it doesn't detract from his
success," Dr. Eichberg said.
   Wade Parks of the University of Miami said 33% of the
babies born to infected mothers carry the AIDS virus. He and
others are conducting a test of AZT in pregnant women. Other
researchers noted that all pregnant women may not be equally
infectious -- an insight that could lead to a different kind
of treatment.
   Hans Wigzell of the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm said
his studies of pregnant women infected with the AIDS virus
disclose that those women with the highest levels of certain
antibodies against the "loop" portion of the virus's coat
tend not to transmit the infection to their babies.
   Dr. Wigzell said he is laying the foundation for a program
to give passive immunization -- that is, infusions of
antibodies -- to expectant mothers. Dr. Wigzell added he
planned to discuss the approach with officials of the World
Health Organization. "The problem is that you probably need
(large amounts) of immunoglobulin-G," an expensive antibody
infusion, to shield the growing fetus until delivery, he
said.
   Several studies shed new light on the uses and problems of
the drug AZT. Douglas D. Richman, who discovered
drug-resistant virus strains in chronic AZT users, said his
group and others have narrowed down the cause of this
resistance to four precise mutations of a single gene that
encodes a viral enzyme, reverse transcriptase. Dr. Richman
said his lab now can screen patients using PCR technology to
detect which ones carry the resistant mutant viruses.
   The bad news is that resistance sharply curtails the
drug's usefulness after two years of AZT treatment. The good
news is that resistance doesn't extend to all other drugs in
the AZT family. Also, the new low-dose regimens and early
treatment appear to slow the emergence of drug resistance, he
added.
   The theme "less AZT is better" resounded even more
tellingly in the studies of Lawrence Corey of Children's
Hospital of Seattle. Dr. Corey said he stumbled on a
serendipitous finding while conducting a study evaluating
combination therapy of AZT and acyclovir, a herpes drug. The
combination possessed no special synergy, he found. But in a
group of patients with AIDS-related complex, or ARC, he found
the most effective AZT dose wasn't the currently favored 600
milligrams a day, but half that amount.
   To prompt a panoply of clinical improvements, including
weight gain, rises in T4 immune cells, reduced symptoms and
lower blood levels of virus, "the most effective dose of AZT
was 300 milligrams a day," he said.
   "The minimum effective dose of AZT still isn't known," he
said, admitting that his observation is far from conclusive.
But he said the findings call for a formal study comparing
300 milligrams of AZT with the current 600 milligram regimen.
   New strategies against the AIDS-linked cancer, Kaposi's
Sarcoma, or KS, may emerge from studies by Barbara Ensoli and
Robert Gallo of the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda,
Md. Dr. Gallo said his experiments show that KS lesions grow
in response to the protein poured out by an AIDS virus gene
known as TAT. In the test tube, KS growth is inhibited by
adding antibodies to the TAT gene.
   Dr. Ensoli added that an anti-serum to certain natural
human growth factors, including interleukin-1 and basic
fibroblast growth factor, also curb growth of KS cells in the
laboratory. Dr. Gallo's team didn't indicate whether such
observations could lead to a practical therapy for the tumor.
Nor did he address his collaboration with a Japanese firm
believed to be developing an experimental treatment for KS.
Dr. Ensoli also declined to comment.
   Other groups developing experimental treatments were less
reticent at the Keystone meeting. Gene therapy for AIDS is
being investigated at the laboratory of W. French Anderson at
the National Institutes of Health. Richard Morgan, a member
of the Anderson team, said he is using animal tumor viruses,
stripped of their infectious powers and armed with new genes,
as a means of inducing human cells to produce a potential
host of therapeutic substances. The first such substance to
be spliced is synthetic CD4, a copy of the AIDS virus's
target site on human cells. Because synthetic CD4 can pose as
a decoy, sopping up the virus and sparing human cells, the
Anderson team is testing whether gene therapy could give
humans the ability to produce CD4 or other AIDS drugs.
   Robert Redfield of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center,
said he has used a synthetic-protein vaccine made by
MicroGeneSys Inc., West Haven, Conn., to alter the immune
response in five out of eight infected volunteers. Elevated
antibodies and immune cells were detected in the five
responsive volunteers, who also showed less decline in their
T-cells than the three who didn't respond to the treatment.
Dr. Redfield, who is working to assess prospects for eventual
immunotherapy, said the continuing trials show that patients'
immune response can be turned up without toxicity. In a
larger study of 30 patients, he hopes to "refine our
understanding" of immune regulation and disruption in
infected people.
   In another test, Joyce Zarling and her co-workers at the
Seattle-based Oncogen unit of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said
they are working with a highly toxic protein derived from the
poisonous pokeweed plant. The scientists experimented with
pokeweed antiviral protein, or PAP, and aimed it at human
T-cells (one of the virus's main targets) by fusing it with a
monoclonal antibody. The team reported the protein curbs
virus production by infected cells, but spares 90% of
uninfected cells. Because the toxin is derived from a common
plant, outside observers warned that activists should eschew
home experiments: Consuming pokeweed can cause a
leukemia-like condition that can be fatal.
   San Francisco physician Marcus Conant, in collaboration
with a unit of Johnson &amp; Johnson, said a controlled study of
the immune-modulator thymopentin in 90 infected volunteers
slowed the disease process. Dr. Conant said the group
receiving a placebo experienced two cases of AIDS and two
cases of ARC, while the drug group had none. However, to
confirm validity of his findings, he said, "We need a study
in at least 800 patients." Given difficulties in recruiting
study volunteers, he said, that could be hard to do.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IBM Earnings
   Increased 9.2%
   In First Quarter
   ---
   Strength Surprises Analysts
   But Some Say Company
   Is Still Facing Problems
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. reported a 9.2%
increase in first-quarter earnings, a surprisingly strong
performance that included the company's best results in years
in the U.S.
   The report sent IBM stock surging $3.75 to $110.875 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange and helped
the whole market gain.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some securities analysts cautioned that the results don't
mean IBM is out of the woods as far as the full year is
concerned. It must manage the delicate transition from its
current line of mainframes to a new one, and there have been
indications that it is hitting some snags. Still, analysts
generally said they were impressed by IBM's across-the-board
strength and said the stock, which has risen from $93 in
December, could continue to do well for at least the next
couple of months.
   "It was a good quarter. It really was," said Daniel
Mandresh, an analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   Securities analysts said IBM, which showed 11% revenue
growth world-wide, had a double-digit revenue increase in the
U.S. That was apparently the first time that had happened
since 1984 and was especially impressive given that many
computer companies have said they still find the U.S. market
sluggish. IBM wouldn't comment on this assessment but did say
results were pretty well balanced between the U.S. and
overseas.
   IBM had been expected to have good gains in mainframes and
high-end disk drives because a manufacturing problem had
limited mainframe sales a year earlier and demand for the
disk drives had been dwindling last year as they neared the
end of their product cycle. Still, IBM did even better than
expected in those areas.
   Largely as a result, earnings rose to $1.04 billion, or
$1.81 a share, from $950 million, or $1.61 a share, a year
earlier. The per-share figure rose more than the total dollar
amount because a continuing stock-repurchase program cut the
number of shares outstanding to 574 million from 588 million.
Analysts had been raising their estimates toward the end of
the quarter; still, few expected more than $1.65 to $1.70 a
share.
   Revenue increased to $14.19 billion from $12.73 billion.
   IBM said it was "encouraged" by the quarter, which
represents a much more upbeat assessment than the company has
offered in recent quarters. A spokesman in Armonk, N.Y.,
added that most of the cost savings tied to the $2.4 billion
write-off IBM took late last year won't kick in until the
second half.
   IBM could, in fact, have shown even stronger results
except that it has been leasing more machines to customers --
meaning that the revenue from a shipment is deferred over a
few years rather than appearing immediately. Rentals and
financing -- mainly leasing -- jumped 35% in the quarter to
$894 million. Jay Stevens, an analyst at Dean Witter, also
said that IBM's tax rate was at the high end of expectations
and that IBM had more shares outstanding than he had
expected.
   "So it's not only $1.81 {a share}, higher than expected"
for the quarter, said Mr. Stevens. "It's a very high-quality
$1.81."
   Besides the strong growth at the high end of the product
line, IBM also has indicated that its personal-computer
business is doing well, with percentage growth at least in
the mid-teens. Although IBM doesn't break out quarterly
results by product line, IBM told analysts that the AS/400
minicomputer was the only hardware line that didn't keep
pace. And that had been expected, because the two-year-old
machine has already gone through its biggest growth spurt.
   The only real bad news was that software grew just 6.7%,
to $2.07 billion. That is apparently because IBM is offering
deals on software to get customers to buy the hardware.
Service -- mainly maintenance -- also was at the low end of
expectations, increasing 7.5% to $2.39 billion.
   There was also one odd item in the earnings report:
Interest expense more than tripled, to $504 million from $153
million. In a conference call with analysts -- which finally
occurred in the early afternoon, after the technology failed
to work right during two attempts to have a call in the
morning -- IBM cited some borrowing to hedge against
hyperinflation, mainly in Brazil and Argentina. But some
analysts said they worried that interest expenses might stay
high.
   As the year progresses, IBM will benefit from its recent
introduction of its RS/ 6000 workstation line, a hot series
of machines that has generated considerable initial interest.
IBM should also benefit from the introduction, possibly this
quarter, of a successor to its big-selling 4381 minicomputer.
The machine, which IBM has been slow to produce, is expected
to be available in volume late in the year.
   The one outstanding question concerns mainframes, which
still account for nearly half IBM's revenue and more than
half of its earnings. Some consultants, customers and
industry executives have said that IBM apparently won't be
able to introduce its next generation, known as Summit, until
toward the end of next year and won't be able to provide any
significant performance boosts in the interim. That would
pose a problem because customers expect such boosts every
year or so, and IBM's competitors have impressive machines
that they apparently will be able to announce ahead of IBM.
   While IBM has declined to comment on the subject, other
analysts have countered that they think IBM will be able to
keep customers from defecting either by using some stopgap
marketing tactics or by bringing Summit out early. The
question probably won't be fully answered until the fall or
even next winter.
   "People might be disappointed as they start focusing on
the second half of this year and on next year," said Steve
Cohen, an analyst at SoundView Financial Group Inc. Mr. Cohen
was at the high end of first-quarter expectations, with his
prediction of $1.75 a share, but he also has been a major
proponent of the argument that IBM has mainframe problems
ahead. "IBM will be under very severe competitive pressure,"
he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Resorts Now Seeks
   Paradise Island
   Property's Sale
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   RT.A
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Resorts International Inc., struggling to emerge from
bankruptcy court, said it filed an amended plan of
reorganization that includes selling its Paradise Island
property in the Bahamas.
   Resorts Chairman Merv Griffin, who paid $365 million for
Resorts in a leveraged buy-out that quickly went bad, will
invest an additional $26 million under the new plan, as
opposed to $30 million in the plan announced last December.
As in the earlier plan, Mr. Griffin would get to retain 22%
of the company's equity under the new plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new plan also includes giving holders of the company's
$600 million in unsecured debt an additional $20 million
principal amount of new debt, plus equity in the reconfigured
company. The amount of equity would be less than under the
earlier plan.
   "The change sounds like a reflection of people's
disenchantment in owning equity in an Atlantic City asset,
which is a reasonable concern," said James Rubin, a principal
in Sass Lamle Rubin &amp; Co., an investment firm that follows
distressed securities.
   Other elements of the restructuring proposal announced
last December remain basically the same.
   A Resorts spokesman said he expects the company to emerge
from protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
by the summer. The plan must first be approved by two-thirds
of the bondholders and the bankruptcy judge in Camden, N.J.
   The latest reorganization proposal comes at a time when
the company's Atlantic city operations continue to worsen.
Revenue figures from last week indicate that the company's
Atlantic City property failed to capitalize on the spillover
from the opening of Donald Trump's Taj Mahal casino next
door. During the first week of the Taj's operations, Resorts'
revenue dropped 1.4%.
   In 1989, the company had a net loss of $303 million on
revenue of $451 million, compared with losses of $381 million
on revenue of $456 million the year before.
   Resorts' last restructuring proposal failed in part
because one major bondholder, Balfour Investors Inc. objected
to the terms. After negotiating with Salomon Brothers Inc.,
Resorts' investment adviser, the firm is said to be closer to
approving the new deal.
   "The offer has improved considerably since November, and
we expect it to improve further before consummation," said a
Balfour spokesman yesterday.
   The plan to sell Paradise Island is considered a major
concession by Mr. Griffin, who was known to covet the
property when he first sought the company. Proceeds from the
Paradise Island sale, estimated to be between $175 million
and $300 million, will likely be used to refurbish the
company's aging Atlantic City facility.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Ibuprofen Carries a Risk
   For Some Users, Study Says
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AHP BMY UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE -- New research found that large daily doses of
ibuprofen, a commonly used pain relief product, can cause
serious kidney damage for those people who already have mild
kidney problems.
   A report of the research, published in the current issue
of the Annals of Internal Medicine, suggests that
nonprescription versions of ibuprofen should contain specific
warnings about the kidney risk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But makers of the ibuprofen product brands, which include
Advil, Nuprin and Motrin IB, sharply criticized the research,
arguing that the products already contain adequate warnings.
   In the study, researchers at Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine administered the equivalent of about 12
ibuprofen pills a day for eight days to 12 women with
chronic, but mild, kidney problems. After at least eight
days, all the women showed signs of kidney failure. Their
problem was reversed when the drug's use was stopped.
   In New York, American Home Products Corp., which makes
Advil, said the study "doesn't reflect the true safety record
of nonprescription ibuprofen." The company said the product's
label already warns users to consult with doctors before
using the drug if they are under doctors' care, or if they
experience additional symptoms after taking the drug.
   Officials at Bristol-Myers Squibb Corp., which sells
Nuprin, and at Upjohn Co., which sells Motrin IB, took
similar positions. Ibuprofen was approved for
over-the-counter sale in 1983.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Remains No. 1 for Prime Time
   During Latest Season; CBS Is Third
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB GE CBS NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For the fifth consecutive year, NBC finished
as the No. 1 rated network in prime time, although its
audience was down 9% from last year and "The Cosby Show," the
cornerstone of its success, was no longer the top-ranked
program.
   In figures expected to be released today, National
Broadcasting Co., a unit of General Electric Co., was rated
No. 1 for the 30-week 1989-90 season with a 14.6 rating,
followed by Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s network with a 12.9
rating. CBS Inc.'s TV network was third for the third
consecutive year with a 12.2 rating. A rating point equals
921,000 households with televisions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, NBC finished first with a rating of 16, ABC was
second with 12.9 and CBS was last with 12.2.
   Overall, the three major networks attracted 65% of the
available audience, down 2% from last year. The networks
continue to lose viewers to alternatives such as cable
networks and News Corp.'s Fox Broadcasting Co., which has
only eight hours of prime-time programming weekly and isn't a
full-scale network.
   ABC, which enjoyed prime-time supremacy in the late
1970's, showed significant improvement against NBC in the
1989-90 season, which ended Sunday. For instance, "Roseanne"
was the top-rated show, unseating "The Cosby Show," albeit by
two-tenths of a rating point.
   ABC also posted crucial gains in two difficult time
periods: Sundays at 8 p.m., with "America's Funniest Home
Videos," which began in January and landed in fourth place,
and Thursdays at 9 p.m., with its new dramatic series "Twin
Peaks." Last week, in the first broadcast as a one-hour
series, "Twin Peaks" gave ABC its best ratings in that time
period in four years. It is up against NBC's popular "Cheers"
in the first half-hour.
   Network executives conceded yesterday that of the 23
series introduced last September, virtually none were
considered a hit, although ABC said it is pleased with
"Doogie Howser, M.D.," a half-hour show about a teen-age
doctor. Each network had its own disappointment: CBS bombed
with its highly touted "Famous Teddy Z," about a mailroom
clerk-turned-Hollywood talent agent; NBC lost with "Nutt
House," created by movie screenwriter and director Mel
Brooks, and ABC failed with comedian Jackie Mason's "Chicken
Soup."
   CBS made inroads in the critical 8 p.m. time period on
Mondays with the half-hour comedy "Major Dad" and on Tuesdays
with the one-hour reality-based series "Rescue: 911."
   As previously reported, NBC saw an erosion of 13% in every
key demographic group that advertisers want to attract,
including the highly sought-after group of women from 18 to
49 years old. In comparison, CBS's viewing groups were down
an average of 7% and ABC was flat from year to year.
   "We feel comfortable that we're poised for next year,"
said Alan Wurtzel, ABC's senior vice president of research.
In a news conference last week, ABC Entertainment President
Robert A. Iger declined to speculate on whether ABC would
overtake NBC next season. ABC hasn't been No. 1 since the
1979-80 season when it tied with CBS.
   "The lesson this year," said Bob Niles, vice president of
research at NBC, "was dare to be different."
   Such a philosophy led to success with ABC's "America's
Funniest Home Videos" and so far with "Twin Peaks" and with
Fox's "The Simpsons."
   Mr. Niles said some series introduced by NBC late in the
season, including "Carol &amp; Company" starring Carol Burnett,
show promise. In its first outing in its regular Saturday 10
p.m. time slot, the show won its time period.
   ---
                   Top Prime-Time Shows
                                                                                                       

                    For 1989-90 Season
                                                                                                       

     SHOW                             NETWORK       RATING
                                                                                                       

   1 "Roseanne" .....................  ABC           23.3
   2 "The Cosby Show" ...............  NBC           23.1
   3 "Cheers" .......................  NBC           22.9
   4 "America's Funniest Home Videos"  ABC           21.2
   5 "A Different World".............  NBC           21.1
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: A ratings point equals 921,000 homes with television
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Banks Unlikely
   To Be Big Lenders
   To Eastern Europe
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Don't expect international commercial banks
to take the lead in financing economic reconstruction in
Eastern Europe, a bank-supported research group warned.
   The Institute of International Finance said banks will be
"cautious" about making new long-term loans to governments
and government-owned enterprises in Eastern Europe because
they fear a repeat of the large loan losses they had in Latin
America and other Third World nations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a report released yesterday, the institute said banks
are likely to confine themselves for the most part to
financing trade and specific development projects in Eastern
Europe. Such loans generally are for short periods and are
better-collateralized than "sovereign risk" loans, which are
backed by borrowing governments.
   The institute acknowledged that its assessment of Eastern
Europe's prospects is partly intended to lower expectations
of the region's capacity to be rapidly integrated with the
West. "There's a grave danger that all this hype about
Eastern Europe can give an impression of economic strength
that isn't there," an institute spokesman said.
   The report urged Western governments and multilateral
financial institutions, including the newly created European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to accept most of
the burden of aiding Eastern Europe. "The banks aren't in the
business of conducting foreign economic policy," said Horst
Schulmann, the institute's managing director.
   The report noted that countries in Eastern Europe are
still poorly integrated into the world economy and have large
debt burdens. At the end of last year, seven East and Central
European countries collectively owed the West $116.8 billion;
that doesn't count those countries' debts to the Soviet Union
and its allies, which aren't convertible into other
currencies.
   The report said Hungary and Poland are moving ahead of
their neighbors in adopting market-oriented policies, while
Romania and Bulgaria are lagging far behind. It added that
East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Hungary have the best
chances of obtaining fresh financing because of their
debt-service record, close ties with the West and the
relative strength of their reform governments.
   The institute suggested that East European countries need
to attract more private investment before they can obtain
substantial new bank lending. Banks won't step up their
lending until they see a "better balance between debt and
equity" in the region's capital supply, said Mr. Schulmann.
By attracting more long-term capital, Eastern Europe can
avoid a debt crisis such as occurred in many Latin American
countries in the early 1980s, he asserted.
   The report said East European countries can best help
themselves by abandoning rigid price controls, releasing
state enterprises to the private sector, liberalizing trade
and investment rules and moving toward a system of freely
convertible currencies. At the same time, it said, these
countries can make their markets more attractive to foreign
investors by establishing property rights, improving their
judicial systems and promoting uniform accounting standards.
   Mr. Schulmann added that Western banks will have more
incentive to do business in the region if they are allowed to
open branches and provide general banking services there.
Currently, the opportunities for Western banks to provide
such services are limited.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What an Oil Spill Is Worth
   ----
   By George J. Stigler
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   If a supertanker moved as slowly as the litigation that
follows after a large oil spill, very little oil would be
spilled in the world. The Amoco Cadiz spill on the Brittany
coast occurred during a violent storm in mid-March of 1978.
The trial on damages began in 1986, the first court decision
came 10 years after the spill in 1988, and a modified
decision is now on appeal. Of course if tankers moved this
slowly, the cost of oil would triple.
   The first lesson of any catastrophe such as a major oil
spill is that one is never fully prepared for it. Early
attempts to cope with it will be characterized by confusion,
conflicts over authority, and outright blunders. That was
true of the Cadiz and the Exxon Valdez and will be at least
partially true in the next great spill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I am reminded of an odd letter I once received from the
late Tjalling Koopmans, a great Yale economist, in which he
asked me if I believed that we should use the price system to
evacuate Manhattan if it were bombed. What he was asking was
whether the transport system afforded by the normal economy
-- buses, taxis, and so on -- would be equipped to handle
such catastrophe. I replied that any method of evacuation
would be hopelessly inefficient during the first bombing. As
a true Chicago economist, I added that the price system would
do a fine job of evacuation if the bombings became routine.
   The Cadiz had the largest vessel spill in history: 11
million gallons of oil were released when the ship was blown
up by the French navy on the rocks of Brittany. That is six
times the amount of oil spilled by the Valdez in Prince
William Sound. The Cadiz spill, to which I will limit myself,
teaches some important economic lessons. (I was an economic
witness for Amoco in the Cadiz trial in Chicago, and am a
consultant to Exxon on the Valdez spill.)
   The variety and magnitude of the claims that arise from a
spill are astounding -- it was almost an oversight, I felt,
that the repainting of the Eiffel Tower was not included in
the French claims. But this cannot be news to the most
litigious nation on earth.
   To measure damages with tolerable accuracy we need much
information, and it is seldom available. To measure the loss
of tourism in Brittany in 1978 the French experts used the
amount of flour delivered to the affected areas -- exactly
the way population was estimated in England in 1780] The
early English experts, each using a different commodity to
estimate population, could not agree on whether the
population was rising or falling. Similarly, depending upon
whether one treated flour consumption in April and May of
1978 as normal or abnormal, the decline in tourism was 2.4
million -- or 12.5 million -- nights worth of tourist stays
lost.
   In fact, the amount of information needed in a major spill
is truly stupendous. Judge Frank McGarr's decision has
thousands of sentences with about the amount of hard
information present in this instance for a single commune:
   "Henvic's miscellaneous claim for the purchase of clothing
and cleanup products is contradicted by the commune's earlier
statements that they did not incur such expenses. It seems
logical to the court, however, that the cleanup actually
would have required some such expenditures."
   The judge awarded 1,000 French francs for this purpose. Of
the commune's total request for 475,161 francs, our Solomon
awarded 12,188 francs or 2.5% of the overweight baby, to
Henvic.
   Even when the damages are more easily measured, they raise
questions. A hotel, for example, has measured decline in
patronage (putting aside possible effects of bad weather).
One can calculate lost revenues, deduct any savings in costs
with fewer tourists, and thus measure the loss to the hotel.
But notice: Other tourist areas in France will gain much of
the lost business. The offsetting gain is not recognized in
the courtroom.
   In the Cadiz cleanup, the military was used extensively.
The extra cost of moving troops to Brittany was clearly a
proper charge against Amoco. Should we add their food and not
just the meager pay of French conscripts but also what they
could have earned as civilians? That was what the French
requested. I argued that these costs should be excluded: It
is a customary duty of the armed services to assist in
national catastrophes. Judge Frank McGarr disagreed and
admitted part of the French claim. I persist in my belief
that military forces have important civilian duties.
   Another interesting question arose out of the French claim
for the value of services of many French college students who
volunteered their time in the cleanup during an academic
vacation. There was no intention of paying them -- their
names were unknown -- but it was argued that their
contribution was to France, not to Amoco. Putting aside the
dispute over whether the students were really helpful, I
argued that no payment was needed to make France whole. That
seems to me a good legal argument. One could raise a question
as to whether compensation for the students would have
significantly increased the deterrence to future accidents,
but the costs of a spill to the shipper are already
stupendous.
   A more elusive claim can arise for the loss of pleasure to
tourists and residents from the closing and damaging of the
beaches. Economists call "consumer surplus" the amount you
would be willing to pay for something minus the amount you
actually paid. If you would be willing to spend a total of
$2,000 for a week at a resort and actually paid $1,200, you
would be obtaining $800 of consumer surplus.
   The French made large claims on behalf of the communes for
lost consumer surplus in 1978 for both residents and tourists
(even those from Belgium and Germany). Judge McGarr ruled
that the communes' claims were not sustainable under French
law. Such claims by tourists and residents will most probably
play a large role in spills under American law.
   Lost consumer surplus is called a "use" value because it
refers to some desired services actually lost which would
have been received if there had been no accident. Use-value
can be measured with some accuracy. The same cannot be said
of a new category of "non-use" values that has been emerging
in the economic literature on national resources.
   An example: I tell you that the Taj Mahal will soon
collapse unless $10 million is spent upon its repair -- and
this is verified by a bishop of your own choice. These
questions arise: How much would you contribute to its repair
if you were certain you would never visit it? That is called
"existence value." How much would you contribute if you might
visit it someday? That is called "option value." Finally, how
much would you contribute for it to be preserved for future
generations? That is called "bequest value."
   How can one possibly measure a thing so subjective as "use
value," let alone "non-use value"? There are in fact clever,
persuasive ways of dealing with use value. Suppose I find
that 2% of the people in town A go annually to a resort,
whereas 5% of those in town B (closer to the resort) visit
the resort because travel costs per family are lower by $200
than costs from A. That gives me a measure of willingness to
pay, and hence a measure of use value.
   For non-use value I must resort to hypothetical questions
such as those in my Taj Mahal example. Because the possible
visitor does not actually pay the value he sets on non-use
value, it costs him nothing to set a high value on his
estimate. But his liberality is not so cheap for the
defendant.
   Large sums will be paid to the lawyers in litigation over
a large oil spill, and the economists' services will come for
free. One might liken these beneficiaries of oil spills to
the extra business that goes to the glaziers who get to
replace the many windows broken after a hailstorm. We
economists do not believe that either the glaziers or the
lawyers and economists are really beneficiaries of such
surges in demand for their services. The surges (and the
sharp declines) in future demand are taken into account in
our decisions on which occupations to enter.
   In any event, lawyers and economists will be well worth
their pay if they help to reach the correct social policy in
oil spills. That policy is to deter spills up to the point
where further deterrence would cost more than the further
reduction in damage. The costs of prevention of spills and
payments for the damage they cause will be paid, not by oil
companies -- they are merely collection agencies -- but by
the consumers of oil products. We cannot eliminate all spills
without eliminating oil from our lives. I for one do not wish
to walk to work.
   ---
   Mr. Stigler, director of the Center for the Study of the
Economy and the State at the University of Chicago, won the
Nobel Prize for Economics in 1982.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Gorbachev Threat Would Cut Both Ways
   ---
   Lithuania Facing Hardships
   In Any Supply Cutoff,
   But Moscow Does Too
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Lithuania would end up the clear loser in an
economic war with the Soviet Union. But Moscow risks shooting
itself in the foot if it carries out its threat to impose a
blockade on the renegade Baltic republic. As of last night,
however, the supplies cutoff hadn't begun.
   Soviet economists say sanctions are bound to be messy,
largely because economic ties between Moscow and the union
republics are so interwoven. Lithuania depends entirely on
many Soviet raw materials, particularly oil and gas. But the
Soviets also rely heavily on Lithuania for some products in
chronically short supply, including meat, milk, television
sets and socks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An economic blockade of Lithuania, "is not a rational or
well-founded decision," warns Albert Yeremin, an economist at
the U.S.S.R. Academy of Science's prestigious Institute of
Economics. "It will do colossal damage {to Lithuania} . . .
but it will hurt us a lot, too."
   In a telegram to Mr. Gorbachev late yesterday, Lithuanian
Prime Minister Kazimiera Prunskiene appealed for a
face-to-face meeting between the Soviet leader and a
Lithuanian delegation led by President Vytautas Landsbergis
so Mr. Gorbachev could provide details of the threatened
sanctions.
   In an angry letter sent to the republic on Friday, the
Soviet president had said he would cut off raw materials that
could be sold for hard currency on world markets unless
Lithuania by Sunday rescinded prosecession laws passed since
its declaration of independence on March 11. Eager to avoid
an all-out conflict, Prime Minister Prunskiene told Soviet
television that the republic is ready to compromise, and
warned of the dangers of "a cold and tough war." Mrs.
Prunskiene said the republic's leadership has instructed
enterprises not to withhold supplies they now send to other
republics, pending clarification of the measures Mr.
Gorbachev may take.
   The prospect of economic sanctions against Lithuania has
increased international concern about Moscow's handling of
the situation and threatens to tarnish Mr. Gorbachev's image
abroad. British officials were especially taken aback by
Friday's announcement because Mr. Gorbachev indicated to a
visiting British government minister last week that a
blockade wouldn't be imposed.
   In Washington, Bush administration officials, still eager
to avoid disrupting U.S.-Soviet relations, privately
expressed relief that Mr. Gorbachev's threat apparently
wasn't carried out yesterday. If Moscow has pulled back from
its threat, "Obviously, it's something that we would
welcome," said State Department spokeswoman Margaret
Tutwiler. "We have consistently said the way to go is
dialogue, negotiations, for discussions, for talks to begin,
not to escalate tensions."
   Quite apart from the political repercussions, such
unprecedented economic action could cause havoc to the Soviet
system, with its heavy reliance on central planning and
industrial monopolies. The Baltic republic accounts for just
1.5% of the Soviet Union's total output of goods and
services, and officials in Moscow say that it would run a
$5.9 billion annual deficit with the rest of the Soviet Union
if its trade were calculated at world-market prices. But the
figures don't give a true picture of Lithuania's economic
importance.
   Just over half of the republic's national income comes
from agriculture. Last year, it consumed just 60% of its
production of meat and milk, sending the remaining thousands
of tons to Moscow for redistribution to other republics.
According to Soviet statistics, Lithuania is a significant
supplier of refined sugar, potatoes, meat and milk to the
country. It has important paper and wood-processing
industries and is famous around the U.S.S.R. for its
clothing. Among other things, it produces 5% of all Soviet
socks.
   Moscow could make up the shortfall by purchasing these
products abroad with hard currency earned from the oil and
gas it now sends to Lithuania. But Lithuania's sizeable
electronics industry, which is vital for Soviet defense needs
and produces many household items for consumers, could prove
more troublesome. According to a recent study for the
Lithuanian parliament, the republic produces 75% of the
components for Soviet televisions, 30% of some tractor parts
and 100% of all household electric meters. It also has a
factory, possibly the only one in the Soviet Union, that
produces so-called black boxes for Soviet aircraft,
Lithuanian officials say. Black boxes record information that
is useful in crash investigations.
   Mrs. Prunskiene estimates that Moscow directly controls
about 45% of Lithuanian industry, particularly the factories
producing items for defense, space and other strategic uses.
Many of them are staffed largely by Russian workers sent into
the republic over the past few decades to dilute the ethnic
Lithuanian population.
   Soviet authorities thus face two major problems if they go
ahead with a blockade. The first would be to ensure that
industrial monopolies in the republic continue to operate,
especially those producing items for defense. The second
would be to protect ethnic-Russian workers in Lithuania, many
of whom oppose the republic's independence drive.
   Both tasks could prove impossible, economists say. "It's
completely unclear what would happen," says Mr. Yeremin of
the Institute of Economics. "What will the 20% of
non-Lithuanians do? I don't understand the sense of it."
   The danger of the Soviet economy's reliance on monopolies
was driven home earlier this year when a paper-processing
plant in the Baltic republic of Latvia was shut down for
environmental reasons. Its closure immediately prompted a
newsprint shortage that even affected the Communist Party
daily Pravda.
   For its part, Lithuania would be squeezed, perhaps
fatally, by a blockade. Its most vulnerable area is energy,
the cost of which is now heavily subsidized by the Soviet
government. "At present, local sources {wood and peat}
comprise less than 3% of the total amount of fuel consumed,
while 97% must be imported," the Lithuanian parliament report
says. But if Moscow shut off natural gas, it would also cut
off the Russian district of Kaliningrad, served by the same
pipeline.
   An unidentified member of the Lithuanian Presidium
interviewed by the Associated Press said Lithuania had enough
oil to power its factories for about six weeks, but only
enough newsprint to publish newspapers for four or five days.
Households would be among the worst affected because 80%
currently use Soviet natural gas for cooking and heating. The
Lithuanian parliament report calculated Lithuania would face
a $700 million bill for oil alone if it were forced to buy it
at world market prices. The republic has little hard currency
of its own.
   "If Moscow will ask us to pay for goods in hard currency,
we will agree," the Presidium member told AP. "But we will
ask for hard currency from Moscow for our products, and in
balance, it's not so bad for us."
   Lithuania does have a nuclear power plant, which generated
29 billion kilowatt/hours of electricity last year. But much
of that goes directly into the national grid, and may not be
easily redirected. Lithuanian agriculture is also vulnerable
because it relies on Soviet fertilizer and needs more grain
than it produces for fodder, according to the study for
parliament.
   "The Lithuanian economy was developed as an integral part
of the economic complex of the Soviet Union," the report
says. "Therefore the search for alternatives now is not
easy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Occidental Petroleum
   Starts Production Test
   Of Oil Field Off China
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY A.AMX REP
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Occidental Petroleum Corp. said its
Occidental Eastern subsidiary began an extended production
test of the Lufeng field in the South China Sea.
   The Lufeng 22-1-3 well, drilled late last year, began
producing at about 10,000 barrels a day of 31 degree API
gravity oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a shortcut of the usual process, Occidental will use
the exploratory well as a production well. Oil flows from the
well to a semi-submersible floating platform and then into a
converted 45,000-deadweight-ton tanker that acts as a
floating production, storage and off-loading vessel.
Occidental said that "safety and environmental concerns have
been addressed in the design criteria."
   The Lufeng discovery well, Lufeng 22-12, was drilled early
last year and was tested for 12 days last June at 10,600
barrels of oil a day.
   Occidental said the test is being conducted to confirm
design parameters and reservoir performance prior to
full-scale development in 1991 of the field, which is located
about 120 miles off the coast of China.
   Occidental Eastern is operator of the project, with a 65%
stake. Ampol Exploration and AGL Petroleum of Australia each
have a 10% interest. Repsol Exploracion S.A. of Spain has a
15% interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   Disability Coverage? Well, I Have Some...
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   {An Occasional Look at Financial Fundamentals}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many people worry a lot about whether they've got enough
life insurance, but hardly give disability coverage a second
thought -- especially if their employer has a group
disability plan.
   But the chance of becoming disabled for more than three
months is far greater than the chance of dying before
retirement, actuaries say. Accidents, heart attacks,
complicated pregnancies, cancer and even "stress" (which can
translate into alcoholism and mental disorders) all take
their toll on people's ability to carry on with their normal
work lives.
   While most employers do provide short-term disability
coverage that pays 100% of salary, things can get tough after
it runs out in three to six months. Many employers'
longer-term group disability plans are difficult to qualify
for, pay little and limit benefit payments to only a few
years. Social Security and state disability payments don't go
very far for formerly well-paid professionals.
   The answer may be supplemental coverage. "It's a coverage
that's so much more needed than life insurance, but people
don't buy it," says Michael Murray, a professor of insurance
at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa.
   Though these disability contracts are costly and complex,
there are ways to make the process easier, and new ways to
cut costs significantly.
   The first step is to take a look at your group coverage.
Most plans pay 60% of base salary while the employee is
disabled. But since that doesn't include things like bonuses
and profit sharing, the actual benefit may be 40% or less of
an employee's total compensation. In addition, many group
policies don't provide coverage for longer than two to five
years and don't provide for cost-of-living increases.
Benefits are almost always taxable.
   Many group plans also have strict definitions of
"disability," which would reduce the chance of qualifying.
Typically, employees are considered disabled only if they
can't perform the "main functions" of their regular
occupations. Some plans are even stricter: After two years,
they consider employees disabled only if they can't perform
any occupation for which they "may be suited by education or
training." The more subjective the criteria, the more control
the employer has over payouts.
   Even if your group plan seems adequate, it may make sense
to look into individual policies anyway. In an environment of
mergers and buy-outs, "executives who change jobs, or get
smitten with the entrepreneurial bug" need individual
policies, says Andrew Reid of R&amp;D Insurance Services in Palo
Alto, Calif.
   If you decide to buy supplemental coverage, start by
looking for policies that aren't cancellable and guaranteed
renewable, which means that the insurance company can't raise
the premiums or cancel the coverage. Also, look for those
that provide coverage until age 65 or longer.
   Next, choose options that tailor the policy to your needs,
says Lawrence Mintzer, president of Mintzer Insurance
Services, an insurance consulting firm in Newton, Mass. The
two most important riders, he says, are a cost-of-living
option, which would increase benefits with inflation, and an
option to increase coverage as income rises -- without a
medical examination.
   One of Mr. Mintzer's clients is a patent attorney who
purchased an individual policy with an option to increase
benefits without taking a medical exam. Soon after that, he
had back problems that required surgery. Though he wasn't out
of work long enough to collect disability, his insurability
would have been crippled if he didn't already have the
policy. "It's unlikely that he would have been able to get an
individual policy after this," says Mr. Mintzer.
   It's also a good idea to select a policy with a "residual
benefit" option. This pays a partial benefit that would
supplement your income if you could return to work, but were
unable to earn as much as you had been making before becoming
disabled.
   How much supplemental coverage you need depends on several
factors, including the other resources you have to fall back
on -- things like retirement savings plans, investment income
and income from a working spouse. Keep in mind that benefits
from individual disability policies will go further than
those from company-paid plans because they are tax-free.
   Insurance agents will work with you to arrive at an
appropriate supplemental amount. But insurers make it
difficult to get coverage for more than 70% of one's salary,
since they feel that paying more would encourage malingerers.
   The first thing they look at is the benefit limit in an
employee's group policy. Consider an executive with a base
salary of $100,000 and a bonus of $50,000. Assuming her group
plan pays a maximum benefit equal to 60% of base pay, she
would receive $5,000 a month from it. In her case, an issuer
might write a policy that would pay $2,440 a month, which
combined with the group coverage would bring the total
monthly benefit to $7,440, or 60% of the executive's total
compensation.
   Peace of mind like that doesn't come cheap, however.
Fortunately, there are ways to lower premiums.
   Most insurers offer discounts of 10% to 15% for people who
don't smoke. Choosing a longer period before receiving
benefits also will save money. If you're coordinating
coverage with your group plan, you might choose to wait as
long as one to two years.
   Some companies now offer "adjustable-rate disability
insurance," which costs less than ordinary "level premium"
policies in the early years. With adjustable-rate policies,
the premium increases 8% to 10% a year until it reaches the
level-premium rate in seven years or more. At that time, it
can be converted to a level-premium policy.
   Another way to lower premiums is to get a policy from one
of the few mutual insurance companies that pay dividends on
disability insurance. (A mutual insurance company, unlike a
publicly traded one that distributes dividends to
stockholders, distributes its excess earnings in the form of
dividends to policy holders.)
   These dividends may reduce premiums significantly.
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., Milwaukee, for
example, reduces premiums by 10% on policies that have been
held for two years, and can make subsequent reductions of 1%
a year.
   Saving money also depends on not buying coverage you don't
need. One of the most popular options is the "own-occupation"
rider. This will pay full benefits if you can't perform your
stated occupation, but are still able to work at a related,
though lower-paying job. For example, a surgeon who cannot
perform surgery could work as a general practitioner and
still receive full benefits.
   That sounds good, but it may not be worth the extra cost
for most white-collar professionals, says Richard Kirtland,
director of marketing at General American Life Insurance Co.,
St. Louis. The residual rider would probably cover the loss
of income, he says. The own-occupation rider is "really a
marketing-driven thing."
   ---
                How Some Policies Compare:
                                                                                                       

   A sampling of annual premiums for disability insurance
policies
                                                                                                       

                     AGE 35        AGE 45       AGE 55
                                                                                                       

             MONTHLY
 INSURER     BENEFIT  (Elimination Period 1 year/90 days)*
                                                                                                       

 Adjustable Rate Disability Policies**
                                                                                                       

 General    $5,000  $803/1,008     $1,363/1,625 $2,517/3,228
 American   $2,500  $417/519       $731/869     $1,339/1,713
                                                                                                       

 North-
 western    $5,000  $939/1,123     $1,862/2,229 $3,335/4,212
 Mutual     $2,500  $491/588       $953/1,143   $1,667/2,106

 Level Premium Policies#
                                                                                                       

 Paul       $5,000  $1,4871/1,874 $2,349/2,895  $3,274/4,125
 Revere     $2,500  $784/966      $1,207/1,499  $1,652/2,077
                                                                                                       

 General    $5,000  $1,254/1,578  $1,934/2,309  $2,648/3,396
 American   $2,500   $892/1,077   $1,294/1,496  $1,536/1,898
                                                                                                       

   Note: Premiums are nonsmoker's rates for policies
guarnateed renewable and noncancelable until age 65. These
policies also include cost-of-living benefit increases, pay
benefits if insured returns to work but suffers a drop in
income, give policyholders the right to increase benefits
later without a medical exam.
   *Wait after becoming disabled for benefits to begin
   **First-year premium
   #Premium remains flat for life of policy
                                                                                                       

   Source: Individual companies
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   `Shorting Options'
   Isn't Good for S&amp;Ls
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   In his March 20 Business World column on the seizure of
Franklin Savings Association, Tim W. Ferguson reports that
the Office of Thrift Supervision district chief ". . .
maintains that Franklin's dealings aren't as arcane as
they've been made out to be." While they may not be arcane,
they are analytically sophisticated, and I doubt that many
federal regulators have the refinement to understand them or
to differentiate between risk-reducing and risk-increasing
strategies using mortgage derivatives.
   So I agree with Mr. Ferguson that this kind of
"experimentation" does not belong in institutions that
receive taxpayer guarantees and require regulatory oversight.
By the same token, the traditional practice of making 30-year
loans while issuing short-term deposits -- or as Ernest
Fleischer of Franklin aptly labels it, "shorting an option"
-- doesn't belong there either.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DAVID H. PYLE
   Booth Professor of Banking and Finance
   Haas School of Business
   University of California, Berkeley
   Berkeley, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panetta to Propose
   Cuts in Military
   Outlays, Tax Boost
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta
plans to propose cutting military spending by $11.5 billion
and raising taxes by $13.9 billion to meet the Gramm-Rudman
deficit target of $64 billion in fiscal 1991.
   According to congressional staffers, the panel is to begin
drafting its budget resolution tomorrow and will try to
complete its work on Thursday. Its starting point will be
Rep. Panetta's recommendations, which are being floated
privately on Capitol Hill but won't be officially released
until the drafting session.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The panel's task is to come up with a plan that would
reduce the projected fiscal 1991 deficit of $100.5 billion to
no more than $64 billion. Among other cuts, Mr. Panetta is
expected to suggest trimming projected entitlement programs
such as Medicare by about $4 billion, to cut nonmilitary
discretionary programs by about $1 billion and to save about
$1.4 billion in interest payments on the national debt, aides
said.
   The Panetta plan won't just cut, however. It also includes
$5 billion to $6 billion in "initiatives," meaning spending
increases, for such projects as AIDS research, education,
space exploration and ground transportation.
   The most contentious number is the reduction in projected
military spending. Aides said the California Democrat intends
to suggest trimming military outlays by $11.5 billion from
the $306.9 billion projected for the year starting Oct. 1.
These reductions are smaller than committee liberals were
hoping for, close to the moderates' wishes, but far larger
than the roughly $3 billion in cuts that President Bush
suggested.
   Mr. Panetta may try to placate the liberals on his panel
by recommending deeper cuts in military spending authority,
which is a separate fiscal category from outlays.
   Reducing outlays -- the actual cash spent in a given year
-- is aimed at avoiding across-the-board spending cuts this
fall if the Gramm-Rudman deficit target isn't met. Cuts in
spending authority, akin to the balance in the Pentagon's
checkbook, would yield lower outlays in future years.
   In the Senate, Budget Committee Democrats have had trouble
agreeing on a defense number. Committee Chairman James Sasser
(D., Tenn.) recently proposed a $15.2 billion reduction in
outlays for fiscal 1991. But some other committee Democrats
aren't willing to go that low. Some are still waiting for
cues from Sen. Sam Nunn (D., Ga.), chairman of the Armed
Services Committee.
   The $13.9 billion in tax increases is the amount that Mr.
Panetta contends President Bush has recommended in his own
budget. The president himself lists that number as closer to
$9 billion. In addition, the Panetta plan is likely to
include about $4.5 billion in fees and collections that he
doesn't classify as tax increases although Republican critics
surely will.
   In any case, the Panetta plan isn't expected to suggest
any specific ways to raise taxes and will leave that decision
to the House Ways and Means Committee.
   Congress's budget resolution is the nonbinding blueprint
for fiscal legislation. The president doesn't sign the
measure, but his position on it is often pivotal to the
success of the legislation that comes along later to carry
out its instructions. Few if any Republicans are likely to
back Mr. Panetta's budget resolution, which can serve, at
best, only as a starting point for negotiations with the
White House.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Approves
   Loan of $400 Million
   To Aid Yugoslavia
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank approved a $400 million loan
to Yugoslavia to help the country adopt market-related
reforms and expand imports, bank officials said.
   The bank said the Yugoslavian government will use the
credit to promote private-sector initiatives, seek to correct
price distortions in its economy, and "improve the allocation
and use of resources."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Referring to the country's reform efforts, it added,
"Interest rates will be set at positive levels, a market for
foreign exchange will be established and foreign-trade and
domestic pricing regimes will be liberalized."
   The bank also is expected to approve a $200 million credit
to Hungary by midyear. The International Monetary Fund
previously approved a $598 million loan to Yugoslavia and a
$206 million loan to Hungary.
   The World Bank's loan to Yugoslavia, to be repaid in 15
years, will carry a variable interest rate, currently 7.75%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giga-tronics to Post Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GIGA
</CO>
<LP>
   PLEASANT HILL, Calif. -- Giga-tronics Inc. said slumping
orders, production delays and write-downs on obsolete
inventory would result in a loss of $250,000 for its fourth
fiscal quarter, ended March 31.
   The maker of defense electronic equipment earned $2.7
million, or 90 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Giga-tronics said that as a result of the downturn in
orders, it was firing 14 employees, or about 10% of its work
force. The company, however, called the staff reductions and
write-downs "isolated events" and said it expects to "return
to quarterly profitability in the near future."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Allow Rape Victims to Choose Silence
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Michael Gartner's March 15 Viewpoint, "The Scarlet Letter
of Rape: A Courageous Victim Fights Back," stated that Iowans
deemed Nancy Ziegenmeyer (the rape victim) a "hero" for
coming forward with her story. While she is, indeed, heroic,
there are thousands of rape victims who are also heroes for
surviving a violent sexual assault, for rehabilitating
themselves and putting their lives back together without
publicly proclaiming their victimization.
   In a rape, the victim loses control and choice over her
actions. What Mr. Gartner suggests is putting the "control"
concerning the publicizing of names and addresses of rape
victims in the hands of the news media vs. where it belongs
-- with the innocent victim who was violated. Victims who
come forward with their stories choose to do so, and more
power to them. Those who choose to remain silent are no less
heroic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Often, rape victims are also the sole witnesses to the
violent sexual assault. One must consider the personal safety
of that victim -- if the news media print and broadcast rape
victims' names and addresses, the offender knows exactly
where to go to intimidate, threaten, harass, harm or even
kill that victim.
   No two rape victims are alike. To assume that all rape
victims should come forward with their tragic stories, or to
assume that all such victims should want to disclose publicly
their painful stories, is not realistic. The healing process
varies from victim to victim. Many find disclosing their
stories rehabilitating, while others choose to deal with
their tragedy privately. The wishes of both should be
respected.
   The "strong sunlight needed to wilt the sour blight of
prejudice" is not forcing humiliating public disclosure of
violent rapes on unwilling victims. The sunlight needed is
public education: that rape is a violent, senseless act
against innocent victims; that it is the offender who should
be blamed rather than the innocent victim.
   ANNE SEYMOUR
   Director of Public Affairs
   National Victim Center
   Fort Worth, Texas
   ---
   Mr. Gartner failed to address the most obvious deterrent
to rape -- a .38 revolver or similar concealed heavy-caliber
firearm. If Bobby Lee Smith had been looking down the barrel
of a .38 when he shoved Nancy Ziegenmeyer aside and took her
off to rape her, you can be sure the result would have been
entirely different.
   Women as a matter of right should be entitled to carry
concealed firearms and have an absolute right of self-defense
against rape or bodily injury or death by marauding males.
The law, enacted by men, encourages rape. By prohibiting
women from carrying concealed firearms and by not granting
them the absolute right of self-defense it in effect says to
the scum who commit rapes, "Go ahead, help yourself." Rape
flourishes because rapists get away with it, compliments of
the law.
   GORDON ROSE
   Fair Oaks, Calif.
   ---
   While Mr. Gartner raises many excellent points, I am not
sure that he can fully appreciate the position of a woman who
has been raped. To us men, this act can only seem traumatic.
We can never know the feeling of physical violation that
haunts a woman after rape.
   For him to suggest that the press, as a means of public
expression, should openly announce the names of the women who
have undergone this trauma is unreasonable. It took time for
Nancy Ziegenmeyer to confront her rape openly. Shouldn't all
women be afforded the time to do so? Why is it the place of
The Press to make such a decision?
   Mr. Gartner does make a good point in suggesting
publication of the names of the rapists. These are the people
who should suffer openly the scorn of the public.
   WILLIAM BECK
   Cross River, N.Y.
   ---
   Give me a break] It wasn't really about a poor girl
suffering from a heinous crime. Mr. Gartner is trying to
further the idea that the media has a right to print anything
about anybody.
   My view is that the media do not have a right to all
information about everyone; rather, that everyone has a right
to privacy. A person suffering from rape might not want to
share the experience with every stranger in the world. Mr.
Gartner assumes the role of psychiatrist by saying "that the
stigma attached to rape victims won't disappear until
newspapers routinely print names of victims." Perhaps he
should spend an evening watching the movie "Absence of
Malice" for a more realistic perspective about how the media
can affect someone's life.
   I not only think Mr. Gartner is wrong, but I also resent
his purported intrusion into the lives of people who want to
be left alone. The recent Supreme Court case of the
journalist who wanted access to the FBI files on every
American is a prime example of the selfishness of some
journalists. Can you imagine having your personal records
printed in the daily news?
   ALAN PERKINS
   Palm Bay, Fla.
   ---
   I would like to sharpen one of Mr. Gartner's statements:
"The sooner the public realizes that rape is vicious and
rapists are thugs, the sooner we'll be able to get these
terrors off the streets."
   I believe women have no trouble at all in realizing the
brutality of rape and how dangerous not only our streets are,
but also our homes. (Most assaults on women occur in their
homes.) Rather, it is we men who need to realize how our
violence is affecting women. Men need to find a way to
confront and hold one another more accountable for our abuse
of women along the entire continuum of violence -- from
murder and rape, to sexual harassment and verbal put-downs,
to more subtle, institutional discrimination against women.
   FRED LOGANBILL
   Newton, Kan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Where the Greens Risk Soiling Themselves
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the seven years since Portland, Ore., plumber Gary
Hansen was elected to a regional board that oversees
landfills, he has weathered occasional controversy. A
decision to haul trash 140 miles through the Columbia Gorge
upset some people. But Mr. Hansen says nothing has excited
constituents more than his diaper abatement proposal.
   Across the nation, in fact, disposable diapers make a
tempting environmental target. Though they're usually
estimated to comprise less than 2% of the load at U.S. dump
sites, they stick out as symbols of a wasteful age. In this
week of elegies to Earth, the little one's loincloth ranks
among the mainstays of modern life that we're told need
changing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in picking this fight, is the green movement risking a
break with its young-adult loyalists of baby-bearing bent?
Mr. Hansen doesn't think so. The service-district board
Thursday passed his resolution to "encourage" new parents to
choose traditional cloth diapers and producers of disposables
to draw up special collection procedures so their used goods
can be turned into compost for the local Christmas-tree crop.
   Yet the advisory nature of the Hansen measure reflects the
limits on anti-disposable action across the country.
Nebraska's gone as far as any state, including diapers on a
laundry list of products it may require to be sold in
"biodegradable" form using cornstarch (you can surmise that
ecology wasn't what was driving that legislation). But the
ban on existing items wouldn't be triggered unless the state
environmental czars report in late 1992 that alternatives are
available at comparable price and quality.
   In Vermont, Gov. Madeleine Kunin laid a stork's egg in a
bid to outlaw disposables. Even some environmentalist allies,
sensing it best to crawl before taking a big step, sang her
baby to sleep. Wisconsin greens thought they'd found a middle
ground in a penny-per-diaper tax on disposables. But
Kimberly-Clark Corp., whose Huggies is the No. 1 brand of
disposables, drummed up phone calls by young parents. Reports
vary on how the calls split, but both sides agree there were
lots and the Legislature settled for passing minor incentives
for use of cloth.
   Does the thirty-something generation insist, in this case,
on being pampered even if it means some ground raising? Three
out of five young parents in one survey for industry said
they'd have great difficulty doing without throwaway toddler
togs. Some with infants say the disposables, because they're
more absorbent, are especially helpful during the early
months or when a baby is sleeping.
   Evidently, however, a potent minority thinks the old ways
are best. One market indicator of this is a resurgence of
diaper services, especially to serve the affluent young in
urban centers. But despite considerable recent publicity,
these outfits aren't even a blip on the screen of Bonita
Austin, who analyzes the industry for the securities firm
Wertheim Schroeder &amp; Co. Disposables hold more than 85% of
the market, and Ms. Austin says their flat sales are more a
function of birth.
   Some who use disposables say they feel guilty, likely
because of the popular notion that a convenience-crazed
society is overflowing the landfills. Certainly some crowded
areas have trouble finding nearby resting places for garbage,
but a University of Arizona specialist, William Rathje,
questioned the trash-crisis consensus in a keeper article in
the December 1989 issue of Atlantic Monthly. Meanwhile,
Robert Samuelson, another independent thinker, has been
calling foes of disposables all wet in his Newsweek column.
   A market solution to garbage would insist that those who
generate it should pay the full and true cost of disposing of
it, from pickup through transport to land acquisition (and
proper containment) for burial. Gradually, we're getting
there. But that is not enough for the environmentos. Some of
them argue -- and disinterested analysts seem to dispute --
that diapers at the dump pose a special problem because of
fecal matter. Better alert the pet-owner lobby to this]
   Once beyond the usual shrapnel of scary figures (how do we
know it takes a disposable diaper 500 years to decompose?),
the basic arsenal of the green guerrillas is apparent: This
is a conspicuous and bulky consumer good -- although it's
been halved in size since introduced 25 years ago -- that
conscientious people just don't need. Low-tech can serve as
well, if we'll take the time and trouble that mama used to.
(Presumably tampons made of similar material are exempt.)
   Of course, the old ways have their costs: Power plants to
superheat the water to wash cloth diapers, for example,
though ironically, detergent advances may allow cold water to
suffice. And paper, such as in telephone directories or
newspapers, is a much bigger component of the nation's
garbage. Eric Mood, an environmental engineer at Yale's
School of Public Health and a skeptic of the diaper fuss,
says, "We may find there's more of a problem with the New
York Times, particularly the Sunday edition." He says the
London Sunday Times gives him just as much copy with half the
paper, and suggests limits on advertising.
   Jeanne Wirka of the Environmental Action Foundation
responds that newspapers and other big trash sources have
recycling possibilities that diapers don't. Yet other greens,
and the business sector that works to placate or profit by
them, are aiming at that kind of diversion for diapers
instead of a ban. Procter &amp; Gamble, the biggest producer, has
a pilot effort under way in Seattle.
   Some writers have noticed that class enters into this
issue. Portland's Mr. Hansen brings that home when, in
discussing ways to induce a shift from disposables, he notes
that the public-housing authority would be a good place to
begin a program. Almost all of its tenant mothers, he says,
use disposables; because of all their troubles, he suggests,
they "are not good at calling ahead to a diaper service."
Environmentalism is hardly limited to the rich these days,
and Mr. Hansen sounds compassionate to a fault, but anyone
attacking use patterns must consider the sociology. And while
we're on the poor, let's not forget the elderly: About 3% of
"diapers" go to incontinent adults, a growing market.
   One busy battleground is at child-care centers. Some of
them bar cloth-diapered charges, and lawmakers are aiming to
stop that. In Maine, however, it was the state that did the
barring, supposedly for health reasons. But legislators just
rescinded the restriction. Now parents will choose among
day-care policies.
   With nearly half the states having dabbled in disposable
diapers already, the political salience of the issue is
spreading. An indirect test may come in Portland on May 15,
when our friend Mr. Hansen seeks an open county commission
seat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metromedia Forms New Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Metromedia Co., the closely held partnership
controlled by billionaire John W. Kluge, said it formed the
Kluge &amp; Co. division to succeed Kluge Subotnick Perkowski, a
now-dissolved leveraged buy-out firm.
   The new operation is a merger-and-acquisitions advisory
group, Metromedia said. It will focus on Metromedia's
investment portfolio and seek out acquisitions beyond
Metromedia's core businesses, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Metromedia owns, among other things, telecommunications,
robotic-painting and computer-software operations. It also
holds a majority interest in Orion Pictures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   At Dean Witter,
   Complaints Grow
   Over Sears Work
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A growing group of fledgling Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. brokers are fuming over having to hawk stocks
alongside socks at Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. stores, claiming they
were never told they'd have to put in their time at the
retail outlets.
   Since 1981, when Sears bought Dean Witter, many of the
firm's brokers have been required to spend time at Sears
stores, trying to sell stocks and other investments to Sears
customers shopping for the clothing, vacuum cleaners and
other goods the big retailer sells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Dean Witter spokesman says all trainees are told in
advance that they have to spend time in a Sears store. "It's
an opportunity for them to sit down and see some people face
to face," the spokesman says.
   But more than a dozen broker trainees and former brokers
at Dean Witter contend they never were told about that
requirement.
   About 28 of the approximately 75 broker trainees at Dean
Witter's World Trade Center office here have resigned in the
past year alone, Dean Witter concedes; that is the highest
annual turnover since the office opened in 1986. The brokers
complain of being required to travel to distant locations
several times a month to man Dean Witter booths that generate
measly amounts of business -- and thus less take-home pay.
   "I wish I would have been advised up front," says Robert
Rubino, who recently transferred from the New York office to
work out of Dean Witter's Phoenix, Ariz., branch. "I didn't
get a thing out of {the Sears stores.}"
   Many former Dean Witter brokers were afraid to talk on the
record; they say their contract holds them liable for $28,000
in training fees that the firm theoretically can ask them for
if they haven't put in three years at the firm.
   Turnover among broker-trainees typically is high at all
firms, of course. And with many small individuals shying from
stocks and other investments, business has been tough for
even the most seasoned brokers. But some of the trainees say
their experience shows that ethics on Wall Street start at
the front door.
   "A lack of ethics begins at the entry level, and festers
into other areas," says one Dean Witter broker who requested
anonymity.
   Until last July, Dean Witter had booths in about 320 of
the 847 Sears stores nationwide. Since then, however, the
firm has cut down that number to just 100 outlets that Dean
Witter managers and brokers specifically requested to keep
open for brokerage business.
   As a group, the brokerage operations at the Sears stores
are profitable, a Dean Witter spokesman says, although he
wouldn't provide a breakdown. For 1989, Dean Witter's
securities-related business reported earnings of $100.2
million, a 59% jump from a year earlier.
   Despite assurances from Dean Witter executives, many
fledgling brokers say they can't drum up much business at
Sears; they say they wouldn't have started at the firm had
they known of the commitment. The brokers typically are
picked at random to spend several days a month at various
Sears outlets.
   One former broker says she was embarrassed to call clients
from Sears. She recalls trying to do business last Christmas
season from the Dean Witter booth in the Sears store in
Staten Island, N.Y., which is just across from the children's
section. "A Disney video was blasting and all I kept hearing
was `Up, Up and Away,'" the former broker says. "It sounded
like I was calling from my house with the kids screaming in
the background."
   Other brokers grouse about not getting any business. One
recalls one jumbo sale -- a $265,000 order from one customer
-- but says: "Plenty of times I went in and it was a waste of
time." The brokers complain that they are at a disadvantage
at Sears because they often lack access to basic reference
materials available at their desks.
   Having access to stock quotes at some Sears stores was
little consolation for some former brokers. "I had people
come in and ask me to punch up stock prices on the Quotron,
that's about it," says Alex Resnick, a former broker now at
Mitsubishi Bank. Customers also would ask him to deliver
checks to other Dean Witter brokers -- "like a messenger,"
Mr. Resnick says.
   Several brokers, moreover, say they were promised by Dean
Witter's personnel department that they would receive a
guaranteed salary for 12 months, only to find that the
guarantee only lasted for six months.
   "If they had told me I would have had to go to Sears and
only get a six-month draw, I never would have started there,"
says Mr. Resnick.
   Some Dean Witter brokers and former brokers say sluggish
small-investor activity has brought the Sears problem to a
head. Steven Roitman, a former Dean Witter trainee, says "If
we were all making $150,000, it would have been something we
could overlook."
   Mr. Rubino, the Phoenix broker, agrees that being required
to work at Sears outlets would be acceptable in a strong bull
market, with investors clamoring to open accounts. "The
concept is good," Mr. Rubino says. "The timing is wrong."
   The brouhaha isn't the first between Dean Witter brokers
and Sears. Last August, many of Dean Witter's 8,000 brokers
complained about Sears's Prodigy venture, an electronic
home-shopping system that also lets users trade stocks and
other investments. The brokers said Prodigy undercut them
because the system charged a fraction of the commissions
charged by Dean Witter brokers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Benj. Franklin Federal S&amp;L
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   BENJ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   PORTLAND, Ore. -- Benj. Franklin Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Associationd said write-offs associated with new federal
capital requirements resulted in a loss of $377.1 million for
1989. The loss had been anticipated under a previously
announced restructuring program.
   The ailing thrift was placed into conservatorship of the
Resolution Trust Corp. in February but continues retail
operations while the RTC negotiates a resolution of its
problems. Benj. Franklin said its loss resulted largely from
the write-off of $282.7 million of good will accumulated from
previous acquisitions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Messy Turf War Frustrates New Housing Agency
   That's Supposed to Help Lower-Income Buyers
   ----
   By Joe Davidson and Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Infighting among Washington semi-big shots
over a low-profile personnel decision has helped keep poor
people from getting affordable housing.
   It all has to do with the Federal Housing Finance Board,
an obscure entity launched last August as part of the $243
billion bailout of thrift institutions. Its mission is to
channel up to $100 million annually to cut interest rates for
lending to low-income and moderate-income housing projects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that money has yet to finance its first home.
President Bush has yet to appoint the board of directors of
the housing finance board. Mary K. Bush, the person chosen by
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Jack Kemp to head
the board, has now been scotched by the White House. And the
administration has decided to make the board's job part-time,
a move that could strengthen HUD's control over the
theoretically independent housing finance board.
   It all promises to lead to further delay as members of
Congress consider looking into the Mary Bush affair and
challenging the switch to part-time status for the agency.
"This is just bureaucracy at its worst," says Mary Rose Oakar
(D., Ohio), a member of the House Banking Committee.
   Perhaps it was inevitable that a power struggle would
develop between two federal agencies dealing with housing.
And the outcome may have been just as predetermined: HUD is
an established, 13,000-person bureaucracy with a known
mandate, while the housing finance board is a new and small
offshoot of the troubled savings-and-loan bureaucracy.
   Pitted against Ms. Bush in this conflict was HUD
Undersecretary Alfred DelliBovi, a veteran federal bureaucrat
and former New York state assemblyman who learned politics
with Sen. Alfonse D'Amato (R., N.Y.). Again, the match-up was
uneven. Ms. Bush wins praise from colleagues for her
substantive expertise, but she can be politically naive.
   Last August, HUD Secretary Kemp invited her to his office
on the 10th floor of the HUD building overlooking the
Potomac. He asked her to become chairwoman of the new Federal
Housing Finance Board. The position carried an annual salary
of $89,500, nearly $100,000 less than what she made as a vice
president at the Federal National Mortgage Association. She
had known Mr. Kemp for several years and earlier had declined
his offer of a top HUD position. But she was enticed by the
prestige of a presidential appointment and the chance to run
her own show. She said yes.
   It didn't take long for Ms. Bush to make her first
mistake. She wanted to get the new agency up and running
quickly, so without soliciting bids for the work, she hired
outside consultants in November and December. The housing
finance board receives no federal appropriations (it's
financed with funds contributed by the 12 Federal Home Loan
Banks, which themselves are supported by their member
thrifts), so using non-competitive contractors is legal. But
it was politically unwise, particularly because three
contractors were associates of Ms. Bush, and because she did
it while HUD was still smarting from highly publicized
disclosures about favoritism and consultant abuse.
   If she had any enemies, she had given them an opening. In
January, they began to emerge. She already had picked a
career State Department official to be her director of
administration. But HUD's Mr. DelliBovi had his own
candidate, Patrick Pizzella, another veteran government
administrator. A month of meetings wore her down, and she
conceded.
   Mr. DelliBovi crowed over her defeat. At 10:16 p.m. on
Feb. 5, he distributed a computer memo to six HUD officials
on "Pat Pizzella's 1st day." The memo took subtle swipes at
Ms. Bush and then mentioned a consultant who was planning to
end his work with the new agency soon. "If he goes, let's
hope he takes Mary," Mr. DelliBovi wrote. He also told
associates that Ms. Bush isn't a good manager.
   Publicly, Mr. DelliBovi was saying that he and his boss
support Ms. Bush. "I want Mary Bush to succeed because Jack
Kemp picked her," Mr. DelliBovi says. He calls his memo's
comment about her an "intemperate remark."
   Then, last month, in an apparent attempt to embarrass Ms.
Bush, an underling of Mr. DelliBovi's urged a contact at
American Banker, a banking industry publication, to look into
the contract Ms. Bush gave to Wendell Gunn, a Stamford,
Conn., business consultant. That ploy backfired: Mr. Gunn is
Mr. Kemp's former chief of staff. The resulting publicity
about the no-bid contracts highlighted the Kemp-Gunn
relationship and left HUD officials scrambling to explain
that the secretary didn't know about the contracts before
they were let. It wound up with Mr. Gunn firing off an angry
memo to Mr. DelliBovi saying, among other things, that "the
secretary did in fact know I was being paid for my work, and
if you ask, he will tell you so."
   Ms. Bush may have won that round, but it was too late. The
publicity about her no-bid contracts had killed her chances.
Now Daniel Evans, the president of the Indianapolis Home Loan
Bank, who headed Vice President Dan Quayle's transition team,
is expected to be named as the chairman.
   Ms. Bush, who declined through a spokesman to be
interviewed for this story, recently agreed to stay on as the
housing finance board's managing director. Ironically, that
may wind up giving her more day-to-day power over the board
than if she had been chairman, especially if the board is
made part-time.
   Her nomination may be dead, but the trouble it created
lingers. A report by HUD's inspector general on her no-bid
contracts released yesterday cleared her of any wrongdoing.
But the House subcommittee that investigated the HUD scandal
last year is still considering hearings on them.
   Yet many inside and outside HUD and the housing finance
board agree that the contracts were only a public way of
fighting over the real point of contention between Kemp aides
and Ms. Bush: HUD's control over the board's housing program.
   It's clear HUD "wants to use the FHFB as an instrument for
its policy," says Benson Roberts of the Local Initiatives
Support Corp., a community development organization.
   HUD's Mr. DelliBovi acknowledges engaging in a "constant
tug of war" with Ms. Bush over her suspicions that HUD wanted
to control the board and over his desire to "aggressively
pursue" policies and programs that would lead to an efficient
and scandal-free agency.
   Ms. Bush doesn't want to talk about it. But a friend of
hers says the controversy has been "totally debilitating" to
her. "It has consumed her energy and her time," the friend
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Control Data Corp.'s
   Chairman Decides
   Against Re-Election
   ---
   Price Bows to the Anger
   Of Workers, Community
   Over Retirement Package
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CDA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bowing to employee and community anger over his retirement
benefits, Robert M. Price won't stand for re-election as
Control Data Corp.'s chairman.
   The announcement marks an ignoble end to his controversial
29-year career at the Minneapolis-based computer products and
services company he led.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Price, who earlier this year relinquished the chief
executive officer's post to President Lawrence Perlman, had
planned to stay on as chairman and do consulting work for
Control Data.
   But the disclosure in Control Data's proxy statement that
Mr. Price would receive a severance package valued at more
than $5 million ignited a firestorm of indignation. Under Mr.
Price's leadership, Control Data had losses totaling hundreds
of millions of dollars and laid off thousands of employees in
a fight for survival during the 1980s.
   Local newspapers were incensed at the package. One
Minneapolis Star-Tribune business columnist characterized the
payouts to Mr. Price, as well as to previously retired
founder William C. Norris and Vice Chairman Norbert Berg, as
"obscene piles of cash." Mr. Norris received nearly $9
million to help finance a private institute, while Mr. Berg
left with a $3.2 million lump-sum payment plus stock, an
annuity and a leased car.
   The gilt on Mr. Price's parachute has so preoccupied the
company in recent days that Mr. Perlman met with groups of
employees to defend the arrangement. Control Data even set up
a telephone hotline to field inquiries.
   Yesterday the 59-year-old Mr. Price decided to call it
quits completely. "It is clear that under current
circumstances, my decision to withdraw from active management
at this time is best for the company," he said in a
statement. Accordingly, Mr. Price will resign as chairman as
of the May 2 annual meeting and won't be succeeded
immediately. Mr. Perlman will preside over the board.
   Acknowledging that negative reaction to his retirement
package figured heavily in Mr. Price's change of plans, a
Control Data spokeswoman added, "Bob Price believes it's
important that both he and the company put the past behind
them and focus on their respective futures. . . . This
decision allows us to focus on the present."
   Although the company had planned to use Mr. Price as a
consultant on various matters, at a cost of $1.35 million
over the next three years, Control Data now said it considers
that fee part of his separation. "We may call on him from
time to time," another spokeswoman said, as the company
sought to put more distance between it and its one-time chief
executive.
   The decision not to stand for re-election was a mutual one
between Mr. Price and the board, the spokeswoman said. Mr.
Price couldn't be reached for comment.
   In addition to his consulting contract, Mr. Price's
retirement arrangement called for a $2.7 million payment last
month, a lump-sum benefit payment of $1.5 million and 41,250
shares of company stock under various plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Farm Follies
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congressional liberals continue to demand tax increases,
claiming there's nowhere to cut spending except the Pentagon.
To test the claim, take just one area, say farm subsidies.
Here spending cuts would perform the neat hat trick of
reducing the deficit without higher taxes while lowering food
prices for the poor. So what does Congress do?
   The House agriculture subcommittees are in a feeding
frenzy to see who can bust the budget the most. They've so
far raised the projected five-year cost of the pending farm
bill by $42 billion over President Bush's request, up to a
total of $180 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's bad enough, but history teaches that projected
costs of these five-year plans never add up quite right. In
1981, the Agriculture Department said the farm bill would
cost $12 billion over four years. It cost $60 billion. In
1985, Agriculture said the current farm bill would cost $52
billion over five years. It has cost $110 billion -- so far.
   One reason the farm lobby can make such massive raids on
the Treasury is that few people realize the full costs.
Farmers tell us that if people knew by how much farm
subsidies raise prices, there would be uprisings at
supermarket checkout lines. Another reason there is no revolt
is that most Americans have come to more or less accept
several myths propounded by the farm lobby:
                                                                                                       

   Without subsidies, the family farm would disappear.
                                                                                                       

   Current subsidy programs compel farmers to increase their
yields rather than control costs. This gives an advantage to
large, wealthy farmers who can afford the huge combines that
allow them to outproduce small farmers. Dennis Avery, a
former government agriculture analyst, says, "Farm programs
have led to an overcapitalization of agriculture with less
actual employment than what it would otherwise have." As it
is, the big growth in farm employment is at the Agriculture
Department, which now has one bureaucrat for every six
full-time farmers.

   Farm programs are designed to help the family farmer.
                                                                                                       

   In fact, most subsidies flow to large corporate farms or
part-time "gentleman" farmers. The USDA counts anyone who
sells more than $1,000 in commodities in a year as a farmer.
The number of full-time farmers has gone up since 1980, and
their average net worth is now more than $1 million. Since
1985, the USDA has spent more than $1 million on each
full-time rice and sugar grower.
                                                                                                       

   Subsidies are available to most farmers, and are
universally supported by those who receive them.
                                                                                                       

   Farm subsidies help only selected growers. Almost half of
U.S. farmers produce meat, vegetables or specialty crops that
receive no federal price supports. The bankruptcy rate of
these farmers is below that of farmers who receive federal
help.
   Farm programs are now so generous that even the most
self-reliant farmers have become yoked to them. A 1988 poll
in Iowa found more than one out of four farmers who received
subsidies were in favor of ending all support programs within
five years. GOP Rep. Dick Armey and Democratic Rep. Charles
Schumer have a plan to weed out wealthy recipients of farm
subsidies. They would stop payments of any kind to farmers
who earn $100,000 or more a year. Shifting farm programs from
price supports to welfare payments aimed at needy farmers
could cut the cost of farm subsidies by two-thirds.
   So far, this sensible idea is going nowhere in Congress.
We note that several well-off Members of Congress themselves
receive federal farm subsidies. Since 1984, Rep. Charles
Stenholm (D., Texas) has collected between $5,000 and $15,000
a year for producing cotton for which he helped legislate
subsidies on the Cotton, Rice and Sugar Subcommittee. If
executive-branch employees netted such a windfall they would
face immediate investigation by a special prosecutor.
Congress has exempted itself from the conflict-of-interest
provisions of the Ethics in Government Act.
   The subsidy lobby's basic calculation is that President
Bush would't dare veto a farm bill, no matter how expensive,
if it's passed just before the November elections. The best
bet for containing the subsidies may be the next round of
talks on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, due to
end in December. Negotiators hope to agree on a world-wide
reduction of farm subsidies, and presumably Congress would
have to write a cheaper farm bill.
   As of now, though, Members of Congress seem bent on
continuing their annual farm pig-out, all the while screaming
at the President and the electorate for not raising taxes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nikko Securities Co.:
   U.S. Commodity Futures
   Investment Fund Planned
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NKT
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nikko Securities Co. of Japan plans to introduce a new
type of investment trust fund that includes investment in
U.S. commodity futures markets, a company official said.
   Nikko expects to collect $100 million to $200 million for
the new fund at the end of June through private offerings to
institutions, the official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operation of a commodity fund isn't allowed under Japan's
Ministry of Finance regulations, which limit investment trust
funds' portfolios to securities such as stocks and bonds. The
Nikko official said the firm has received unofficial ministry
approval for the new fund and expects official approval in
May.
   About 50% of the total amount of the fund will be invested
in zero-coupon bonds to guarantee its principal. The rest
will be invested in the U.S. futures markets for agricultural
products, energy and precious metals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Ruling on S&amp;L Fraudulent Loans Is Set
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A Dallas bankruptcy judge ruled that borrowers who
fraudulently obtained loans from now-defunct savings
associations can't escape liability for those loans in
bankruptcy court.
   In addition, the ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven A.
Felsenthal makes clear that such borrowers are liable even if
the loan officers were aware of the fraud. The ruling could
have significant ramifications in Texas because so many
fraudulent loans were obtained from Texas thrifts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In this instance, Vernon B. Smith and James W. Smith II,
cousins who had filed for personal bankruptcy, contested
their liability for three loans from the defunct Vernon
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Dallas for real estate
developments in the Dallas area.
   One of the loans enabled the Smiths to acquire a piece of
property from a Vernon subsidiary in exchange for the promise
of future loans that would enable their 50-year-old family
business to continue operating.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., represented by
lawyers from the Dallas office of Arter &amp; Hadden, showed
during trial that proceeds from two of the loans weren't used
for development but for operating expenses for the Smiths'
businesses, including James W. Smith's $200,000 annual
salary.
   The FDIC lawyers successfully argued that although
Vernon's lending officers were aware of the improper uses of
the loan proceeds, federal thrift examiners had to rely in
their examination on the actual loan files that falsely
showed that the proceeds were being used for development.
   "The great risk of failure in these loans, and ultimately
of the savings and loan which made them, was borne by the
insurers of Vernon Savings, the FDIC and ultimately the
taxpayers," Judge Felsenthal wrote.
   "Sophisticated real estate developers who participate in
loans that are not prudent with financially troubled,
federally insured lending institutions and conspire to hide
the true nature and purpose of the imprudent loans from
federal examiners cannot have the resulting debts . . .
discharged in bankruptcy," the judge wrote.
   Judge Felsenthal ruled that the Smiths together are liable
for the $1,085,000 loan with which they acquired the property
from the Vernon subsidiary. He also ruled that James W. Smith
is liable for another $1.6 million loan. The judge did order
the third loan, financed at the actual value of the property,
discharged in the Smiths' bankruptcy cases. The lawyer for
the Smiths couldn't be reached for comment.
   Despite the relatively small sizes of the loans in this
case, Judge Felsenthal's ruling is significant because "large
numbers of other borrowers at failed thrifts acted in similar
fashion," said Charles McDonald, a senior trial lawyer with
the FDIC in Washington, D.C.
   "I'm delighted that the court determined that these people
are not entitled to the fresh start accorded to honest
debtors," Mr. McDonald said.
   ---
   MCDONALD'S CORP. must defend originality of jingle in
court, judge rules.
   U.S. District Judge Robert P. Patterson Jr. of New York
denied the hamburger maker's motion to throw out a federal
copyright claim alleging that McDonald's lifted the tune and
concept of the rock song "Life Is a Rock (But the Radio
Rolled Me)."
   The authors of "Life is a Rock" sued McDonald's and its ad
agency, Leo Burnett Co., last April after the allegedly
similar jingle was used in a February 1989 McDonald's
commercial. The authors are seeking an undetermined amount of
damages, which their attorney, Robert C. Osterberg, said
could total "many millions of dollars."
   "Life is a Rock" was recorded by a short-lived group
called Reunion in 1974 and became a top ten hit after its
release, selling more than 750,000 copies. The song uses a
"patter" technique, in which the words are sung rapidly.
   One of the song's authors, Joey Levine, was well known to
McDonald's and its ad agency. In 1987, Mr. Levine composed
the "Good Time/Great Taste" McDonald's theme song.
   "The evidence submitted thus far leads to the conclusion
that" the McDonald's song in question "resembles `Life' more
than any other patter song, and it remains for the jury to
decide whether that similarity is substantial," Judge
Patterson wrote in his opinion.
   The case isn't expected to be heard by a jury before next
year.
   ---
   PRO FOOTBALL PLAYERS try to tackle NFL and teams owners in
lawsuit.
   Eight players, including Green Bay Packers quarterback Don
Majkowski and New York Jets running back Freeman McNeil, are
objecting to National Football League rules restricting
player movement among teams.
   Their antitrust suit, filed in federal court in Newark,
N.J. last week, could have implications for other
professional team sports that impose such restrictions,
lawyers said.
   The suit is the first to be filed since the players' union
ended its status as a collective bargaining agent last
November, said Jeffrey Kessler of Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges, a
lawyer for the players. The union's action came in response
to a decision by the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
St. Louis that required such a move in order to allow
individual players to file antitrust suits.
   The current suit concerns "Plan B," a set of rules
governing free agency instituted by the NFL last year after
collective bargaining negotiations broke down. The players
have been working without a contract since 1987.
   Under the plan, 37 players on each team are considered
restricted free agents. That gives the teams the right of
first refusal if the players want to move and specified
compensation for players they lose. Remaining players are
free to negotiate with any club for a two-month period.
   According to the suit, the players had planned to offer
their services to competing teams for the coming 1990 season
but had not received any offers because of the NFL restraints
on free agency.
   In a press release, the NFL Management Council said:
"Further litigation is no answer to the problems arising from
this labor dispute. Bargaining offers the best solution for
NFL clubs and NFL players."
   ---
   NOTED: Alan C. Porter, a former Securities and Exchange
Commission attorney with the Boston firm of Sullivan &amp;
Worcester, has joined the Maryland firm of Piper &amp; Marbury as
a partner in its Washington office. Mr. Porter, 39, worked in
the investment management division of the SEC for five years
and headed Sullivan &amp; Worcester's investment company practice
group.
   ---
   Amy Dockser Marcus contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Universal Foods Corp.:
   Fiscal 2nd-Quarter Profit
   Rose 19% to $10 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UFC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Universal Foods Corp., citing the benefits of a continuing
push into what it calls "high growth, high return
businesses," said net income for its second quarter ended
March 31 climbed 19%.
   The Milwaukee-based food products concern reported
earnings of $10 million, or 40 cents a share, up from the
year-earlier $8.4 million, or an adjusted 34 cents a share.
Per-share earnings figures reflect an increase in shares
outstanding to 25.3 million from the year-earlier 24.9
million, which was adjusted for a 3-for-2 stock split paid
last October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue rose 8.9% to $219.7 million from $201.6 million.
   The company said it is "confident that our shareholders
will see a strong increase in earnings during fiscal 1990."
   For the fiscal first half, Universal's net increased 21%
to $23.4 million, or 93 cents a share, from $19.2 million, or
78 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 14% to $444.1
million from $389.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Midlantic Corp.:
   Bank Holding Firm's Net
   Plunged in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Midlantic Corp.'s first-quarter profit, reflecting a
previously disclosed $108 million addition to reserves,
plunged from year-ago levels.
   Net income for the Edison, N.J., bank holding company
totaled $1.4 million, or a penny a share, down from $59.5
million, or $1.56 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net interest income climbed 7.7% to $228.6 million from
$212.3 million. Non-interest income jumped 33% to $65
million. The addition to reserves for possible loan losses
increased the total at the end of March to $449 million from
$388 million at the end of 1989.
   At the end of the quarter, Midlantic's assets totaled
$23.7 billion, compared with $19.7 billion a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Temple-Inland Inc.:
   First-Quarter Net Rose 14%;
   Drop in Tax Rate Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   TIN
</CO>
<IN>
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Temple-Inland Inc. reported first-quarter earnings
increased 14% because of a reduced tax rate. Pretax operating
results declined by about 4.7% due to lower margins in its
paper and building products divisions and in spite of
improved results in its financial services and bleached paper
operations.
   The Diboll, Texas, company reported that earnings declined
in its building products group because of "softness in
building activity." Earnings in the company's container and
containerboard businesses also declined, the result of price
declines and increased costs. The company said its building
products earnings have begun improving in the second quarter,
but it expects continued "margin erosion" in its paper
products businesses for the rest of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first quarter, the company reported earnings of
$62.2 million, or $1.12 a share, compared with $54.5 million,
or 98 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased about
25% to $591.2 million from $473.5 million, while
manufacturing sales increased 3% to $477 million from $462.6
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Protectionist the Dolphins
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Man is still trying to communicate with dolphins, but
neither species has reason to sound enthusiasm for last
week's move by the big sellers of tuna in the U.S. Led by
H.J. Heinz Co. (Starkist brand), three canners with a huge
share of the market capitulated to environmentalists who
demanded they quit netting the big tuna that often swim under
the lovable water mammals.
   Greenpeace and its cohorts had launched a boycott of tuna
to protest the deaths of dolphins caught up in the fishing
boats' nets. Heinz, after what it called marketing studies,
said its customers would be willing to pay extra for younger
yellowfin, which don't frolic with dolphins, or for bigger
tuna caught in oceans where the mysterious symbiosis isn't
observed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In line with its newfound consciousness, Heinz now wants
the government to put a lid on imported tuna ruled
"dolphin-unsafe." Hmmm. Protectionist the dolphins.
   Come to think of it, even without the lid on imports, the
instant consensus among competitors to offer only more costly
tuna might excite some curiosity among the reinvigorated
trustbusters at the Federal Trade Commission. After all, even
consumers who haven't turned green will be laying out the
green.
   One group that has more than curiosity at stake is the
U.S. tuna fleet, which mostly sails out of San Diego. It
unloads the bulk of its catch in Puerto Rico and American
Samoa. If fishermen can't find an economic way to make a
living under the new rules -- and their spokesmen say they
may not be able to, given how the loss of nets will cut the
catch in what is already a difficult business -- it's going
to further shrink a fleet that's already diminished by
two-thirds since 1981. How many workers will now suffer at
Heinz's clean hands is a guess.
   Many Americans may care more about porpoises than
fishermen. If so, then they especially should realize the
magnitude of progress in tuna-netting practices, gains that
may be stalled or lost by last week's action. Since the
Journal's Roy Harris Jr. detailed the development of
dolphin-sparing tuna techniques in a front-page article 13
years ago, the kill rate has been about halved. Last year the
toll in the U.S.-fished region was under 13,000. Half the
time the boats drop one of their purse-like nets, they kill
none of the average 650 dolphins swept up. The Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972, combined with the fact that dolphin
kills only detract from tuna yields, has spurred the U.S. to
remarkable achievements.
   In the international marketplace, love for Flipper isn't
universal. Greenpeace is not usually so effective when it
goes calling on Mexico City or Seoul. So now the Pacific
region off the Americas may belong to foreign fishing
vessels, who are likely to kill more dolphins than the San
Diego boats they replace.
   If the industry is correct in saying that younger tuna
will now be fished out before they can reproduce, the
agreement will also be bad for the tuna. We might face a
depletion scare such as one that prompted tuna-conservation
controls on the West Coast fleet 20 years ago. Saving the
tuna will come second to saving the dolphin, but it will
come, and kids may then be condemned to cheese sandwiches. We
wonder what cows would think of that.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Ortega's `Grave Situation'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Danny Ortega held a news conference yesterday to sound the
clear message that in Nicaragua it ain't over 'til it's over.
He said that the April 25 inauguration day for
President-elect Violeta Chamorro was by no means a certain
date.
   The voters may have spoken in February, but Mr. Ortega may
not have been listening. No hand-over of power from the
Sandinistas will occur, he said, until the Contras are
totally disarmed. "We are analyzing this situation in order
to find an adequate response to this so critical, so
difficult and so grave situation in Nicaragua," Mr. Ortega
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These threats from Mr. Ortega may have only been his way
of jockeying before negotiations begin this week in Managua
with the Contras. It is also possible, however, that they
could signify something rather more ominous. "We are very
close to peace and very close to war," Mr. Ortega said. In
other words, there is still very good reason that the Contras
are armed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Union Electric Co.:
   Retail Properties Purchase
   From Unit of Entergy Set
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UEP ETR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Union Electric Co., St. Louis, said it agreed to acquire
retail electric properties in Missouri from the Arkansas
Power &amp; Light Co. unit of Entergy Corp., New Orleans, for
about $70 million.
   The utility said that under the agreement, 28,000 Missouri
retail electric customers served by Arkansas Power would
become Union Electric customers. The company said it will
purchase electrical power from Arkansas Power for 10 years
initially, and has an option to extend the power purchases
for at least an additional five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Union Electric said the agreement, which is subject to
approval by the boards of both companies and certain
regulatory authorities, is expected to be completed by the
end of 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Texas Utilities Co.:
   NRC Approves Full License
   For Comanche Peak Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TXU
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Texas Utilities Co. said the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
approved the issuance of a license for full-power operation
of Comanche Peak Unit 1, some 17 years after construction
began.
   Texas Utilities, the plant's owner, said the unit is
expected to be at full power during the peak season of
electric use this summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The NRC issued a low-power operating license in February.
Testing at low power began April 3 and was completed April 6,
the Dallas utility said.
   Comanche Peak, about 75 miles southwest of Dallas, had a
series of setbacks that included cost overruns and delays.
Its licensing process was suspended in early 1985 amid
allegations of improper design and construction, but the NRC
said concerns had been resolved.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CNB Bancshares Inc.:
   Definitive Agreement Is Set
   On Buying Valley Federal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   CNBE VAFB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CNB Bancshares Inc., Evansville, Ind., said it agreed
definitely to acquire Valley Federal Savings Bank in a cash
and stock transaction valued at about $11.4 million, or
$10.50 a share.
   In September, CNB agreed to pay $11.50 a share for the
Terre Haute, Ind.-based banking concern, but the company said
the purchase price was reduced because of higher interest
rates and other factors that have affected the market value
of Valley Federal's loan portfolio since then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the pact, CNB will pay $10.50 a share for each of
Valley Federal's nearly 1.1 million shares outstanding. The
company said 60% of the purchase price will be paid in the
form of CNB common stock, at a conversion value of $21 a
share.
   In connection with this agreement, CNB said Valley Federal
granted it an option to buy as much as 25% of its stock at
$7.85 a share under certain circumstances. Valley Federal has
assets of about $240 million and CNB has assets of about
$1.36 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eli Lilly Net
   Advanced 20%
   In First Period
   ---
   Pharmaceuticals Company
   Plans Stock Buy-Back
   Of as Much as $1 Billion
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
EARNINGS (ERN)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eli Lilly &amp; Co. said first-quarter net income surged 20%
and that it plans to spend as much as $1 billion to buy back
stock and certain convertible warrants.
   The Indianapolis pharmaceuticals giant said net was aided
by continued rapid growth of its Prozac anti-depressant and
other recent products. Profit was $340.8 million, or $1.16 a
share, up from the year-earlier $284.7 million, or 99 cents a
share. The year-earlier per-share figure reflects a 2-for-1
stock split a year ago. Sales climbed 18% to $1.24 billion
from a restated $1.05 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the results marked the latest in a recent string of
excellent quarterly earnings for Lilly, the results fell
slightly short of some analysts' projections.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Lilly dropped as much as $1.50 on heavy trading; the stock
edged up to close off $1.25, at $67.25. Volume was 1.4
million shares.
   As in recent quarters, Lilly cited surging sales of
Prozac, as well as contributions from the Axid anti-ulcer
drug, Ceclor antibiotic, and the company's human growth
hormone product. Lilly's medical instrument systems segment
also showed solid growth, the company said; in that segment,
the company's Advanced Cardiovascular Systems unit is seen by
analysts as benefiting from regulatory difficulties a major
competitor has encountered.
   Late in the trading day, Lilly said directors had approved
spending as much as $1 billion to buy back common stock as
well as "a portion" of the warrants outstanding.
   The company currently has 279 million common shares
outstanding; in addition, there are 13 million warrants that,
for an exercise price of $75.98, can each be converted into
two Lilly common shares. In Big Board composite trading
yesterday, the warrants, issued in conjunction with Lilly's
1986 acquisition of what is now the company's Hybritech Inc.
unit, fell $1.875 to $60.625.
   Lilly said any stock bought back will be used to "satisfy,
in part," its obligation to issue shares as the warrants are
exercised.
   In late 1987, the company authorized a buy-back of as much
as $1 billion; the company has used about $500 million of
that program for largely anti-dilutive measures related to
various stock plans and note-conversion obligations.
   Separately, Upjohn Co. said first-quarter earnings rose
11% to $114.3 million, or 61 cents a share, from $103
million, or 55 cents a share. Sales increased 3.7% to $772.9
million from $745.1 million. The year-ago results were
restated to reflect discontinued operations.
   The company said the cost-control measures it undertook
last year were responsible for most of the earnings gain.
   U.S. sales were $485 million, up 6%, in part reflecting
price increases on some products in March. Foreign sales,
which were 37% of consolidated sales, were flat at $288
million. Rogain, the treatment for baldness, and Motrin IB, a
nonprescription internal analgesic introduced in June,
contributed significantly to U.S. growth, Upjohn said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.:
   Firm Picked by Swiss Bank
   As U.S. Securities Custodian
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR Z.SBV
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Swiss Bank Corp., the Basel-based banking giant, selected
Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co., a private banking firm based
in New York, as its U.S. securities custodian.
   When foreign banks invest funds in the U.S., "It's
impractical to ship the securities back and forth across the
Atlantic," said Laurence F. Whittemore, a general partner at
Brown Brothers. Foreign banks thus hire U.S. banks to keep
custody of the securities. Swiss Bank said last month that it
was ending its own U.S. securities-custody business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brown Brothers also said it was selected by the State of
Alaska Permanent Fund as the global custodian for the pension
fund's international securities portfolio. In this case, Mr.
Whittemore said, the law requires U.S. pension funds to
retain U.S. custodians. Brown Brothers will be custodian for
the pension fund's international portfolio, though it will
act through a network of subcustodians overseas, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AMR's American
   Withdraws Plan
   To Increase Fares
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR NWA DAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMR Corp.'s American Airlines withdrew a plan to boost
some air fares by as much as 23% after the move wasn't widely
followed by other carriers.
   Some analysts said they suspect carriers didn't imitate
the American increase because traffic, while improved, hasn't
been strong enough to justify such a large fare increase.
"There is a level at which the consumers won't fly, and
clearly the airlines are reaching it," said Paul Karos, an
airline analyst at First Boston Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Industry air traffic in March was expected to jump by
double-digits over the year-earlier figure, but it only rose
about 8%. Load factor, or the number of seats filled, dropped
in March from a year earlier. Those numbers, analysts said,
suggest that consumers, while traveling more, are getting
weary of constant fare increases.
   NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines said that's why it opted not
to go along with American's proposal. "We thought that at
this time of the year it would have a very negative effect on
ticket sales," said a Northwest spokesman.
   Improving demand already had prompted air carriers to
raise some ticket prices earlier this year, as well as to
tighten restrictions on tickets. American's increase, which
would have tied ticket prices more closely to mileage flown,
would have lowered some fares, but the overall impact would
have been a fare increase, an American spokeswoman said.
   The spokeswoman confirmed yesterday that the Dallas-based
carrier withdrew the changes, which were scheduled to take
effect today. "In the current competitive environment, we
couldn't see it going into effect," she said.
   With summer traffic pickup right around the corner,
airlines are likely to be gearing up for fare increases that
would go into effect at least by Memorial Day, when demand
begins to surge.
   A Delta Air Lines spokesman said the carrier's pricing
officials were "satisfied" with the fare structure now in
place.
   Wall Street analysts, however, said the fare increases of
late should help the industry's financial results. They are
currently projecting industry losses of about $600 million
this year, compared with a $179 million profit last year.
   Although the latest fare proposal was withdrawn, analysts
said they were encouraged by the fact that American tried to
generate more cash with higher fares.
   "You're better trying to test the upper bounds," said
First Boston's Mr. Karos. "If you find the right fare level,
then you can squeeze the most money" from the traveling
public.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Marsam Pharmaceuticals:
   Generic Drugs to Be Made
   Jointly With Ciba-Geigy
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG MSAM BMY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Ciba-Geigy Ltd. subsidiary and Marsam Pharmaceuticals
Inc. agreed to jointly develop, make and distribute generic
drugs for hospitals and other health-care institutions.
   Ciba-Geigy, the Basel, Switzerland-based pharmaceuticals
and chemicals company, also will pay $10 million for about a
10% equity interest in Marsam, which has about 5.6 million
shares outstanding, including 600,000 subject to warrants.
The transaction is subject to the companies' executing a
definitive agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the news, Marsam's shares rose $1.50, to close at
$20.50 in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Under terms of the 10-year accord, Marsam, Cherry Hill,
N.J., will produce generic injectable drugs; Ciba-Geigy's
Geneva Generics unit in Broomfield, Colo., will produce
individually packaged dosages of tablets and capsules. The
companies declined to provide sales estimates for the
venture.
   The agreement replaces one Marsam had with a unit of
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Judith Arnoff, vice president at
Marsam, said that when Bristol-Myers Co. merged with Squibb
Corp., Bristol-Myers brought with it certain products that
put it in competition with Marsam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Sugar Futures Prices Decline in Light Trading
   As London Market Remains Closed for Holiday
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sugar futures prices sank in thin trading that
was caused partly by the London market remaining closed
yesterday for the Easter holiday.
   July sugar fell 0.35 cent a pound to settle at 15.20
cents, only 0.01 cent above the day's low. The contract had
opened 0.02 cent under Thursday's close, but quickly sank as
local traders sold contracts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There was no news concerning sales of physical sugar in
the world market, according to Judith Ganes, senior soft
commodity specialist at Merrill Lynch in New York. She noted
that physical supplies remain tight and that Mexico in recent
weeks has been a buyer and will probably do more buying in
the weeks to come.
   In March, sugar prices rose to a 15-year high on the
possibility that this year's European sugar beet crop is
going to be smaller than first expected. F.O. Licht, the West
German sugar statistical company, estimated that the total
European sugar beet plantings this season would amount to 7.1
million hectares, up 99,000 hectares from last year but
smaller than the 150,000 hectare increase that was expected.
A hectare is equivalent to 2.47 acres.
   In March, the July contract reached 16.10 cents a pound.
That was only the second time in the past eight years in
which July sugar had exceeded 15 cents a pound. The previous
occurrence was in July 1988 when the contract rose to 15.64
cents before running out of steam. Prior to that sugar
reached 15 cents in August 1981.
   The U.S. Agriculture Department in its recent Sugar and
Sweeteners report estimated world sugar production for the
1989-90 crop year at 105.2 million metric tons, 500,000 tons
less than its December estimate. The department forecast
consumption at 108.5 million metric tons, marginally above
its December estimate.
   The department also said that stocks on hand when the
season began Sept. 1 were expected to shrink to 28.5 million
metric tons -- one million tons below a year earlier and the
lowest stock level since 1980-81. This will be the fifth
consecutive year in which sugar production will fall short of
consumption. The sugar crop year begins Sept. 1.
   The Agriculture Department said production declines in the
U.S., Mexico, Cuba and Thailand would outweigh improved
prospects in the European Community, Soviet Union, Indonesia
and Yugoslavia.
   Yesterday's decline was in line with historical trends
researched by Pacific Research Center, a company in Eugene,
Ore., that analyzes commodities. In an historical study of
daily prices for the nearby or "spot" sugar contract, Pacific
Research found that from 1966 through 1989 sugar prices
closed lower on 52% of the Mondays and Tuesdays. The study
showed that sugar closed unchanged about 4% of the time.
   Over the same period, sugar has had an average daily price
range of 0.37 cent, or $417 a contract. The daily price range
is calculated by subtracting the day's low price from the
day's high price. From 1968 through 1971 the sugar contract
averaged about a 0.09 cent daily price range. The range
expanded to about 0.32 cent in 1972 and 1973.
   Then in the fall of 1974 sugar prices exploded upward,
reaching a high of 66 cents a pound before collapsing. That
year sugar had an average daily range of 1.25 cents, or
$1,396 a contract. Sugar rallied to 45 cents a pound in the
fall of 1980, and that year had an average daily range of
1.45 cents a pound or $1,629 a contract.
   Sugar has exhibited a similar pattern in recent years with
an average daily range of about 0.23 cent a pound from 1984
through 1987. In 1988 and 1989 the daily range expanded to
0.42 cent a pound.
   Given the expanding daily price range and the tight
supplies due to production declines, some analysts have
predicted that this might be the year in which sugar prices
explode again.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts
rose amid reports that the Soviet Union is interested in
buying as much as 600,000 tons of subsidized U.S. wheat. The
reports follow the purchase last week by the Soviets of
300,000 tons of subsidized U.S. wheat. Under a program
designed to boost U.S. exports, the Agriculture Department
compensates exporters that sell wheat to certain nations such
as the Soviet Union. Wheat prices also were supported by
continuing dry conditions in the wheat-growing regions of the
Northern Plains. The news helped traders shrug off reports
that the Soviet Union is having difficulty paying its bills
to U.S. exporters. But traders are concerned that the Soviet
Union might sacrifice any chance of winning Most Favored
Nation status from the U.S. if its economic face-off with
Lithuania turns violent. Prices of corn and soybean futures
contracts also rose yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices fell sharply on light volume.
The July contract opened at $1.9430 a pound, off 2.6 cents
from Thursday's close, and settled at $1.9470, off 2.2 cents.
One analyst said he received a report from the trading pit
that the sharp price decline at the opening occurred when
only 12 May contracts were offered for sale "at the market."
A market order is one that permits the floor broker to fill
it at the best possible price available in the trading pit at
the time the order reaches the broker. William Adams, juice
analyst for PaineWebber in Orlando, Fla., said that in recent
days the market had been staging rallies based on previous
short sellers buying back contracts. When "that
{short-covering} dried up, so did any upward price momentum,"
he said. Short-covering buying occurs when investors who have
sold contracts in anticipation of lower prices buy them back
to take profits or when such prices don't materialize. He
also characterized trading yesterday as almost totally devoid
of participation by people in the juice business. Mr. Adams
noted that last week's stock movement report by the Florida
Citrus Processors Association was viewed by some traders as
bearish. "Anytime the movement number is below three million
gallons there are people who are disappointed," he added.
Movement was reported at 2.7 million gallons. He also said
that normally there is a certain amount of "bottom fishing"
by traders after a sharp sell-off on the opening but he
didn't see any yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   IBM'S PROFIT SURGED 9.2% in the first quarter, a
surprisingly strong performance that included the company's
best U.S. results in years. The report sent IBM's stock up
$3.625, to $110.75. But some analysts cautioned that the
computer giant's outlook for all of 1990 remains uncertain.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks finished mixed after a blue-chip rally, triggered
by IBM's earnings report, was choked off by profit-taking and
slumping bonds. The Dow Jones industrials closed up 11.26, at
2763.06. The dollar also gained.
   ---
   Saudi Arabia urged other OPEC members to cut excess oil
production to halt the recent slide in prices. Prices rose on
U.S. futures and spot markets following the announcement.
   ---
   Four major banks posted generally weak quarterly earnings,
reflecting varying factors. Chase and Manufacturers Hanover
reported declines. Morgan and Banc One had gains.
   ---
   Bank of New England will set up a new entity to take over
much of its troubled real estate assets, industry officials
said. The plan may resemble programs formed by other banks.
   ---
   Eight publicly traded funds that were spawned by troubled
VMS Realty Partners took big charges to cover possible bad
loans, resulting in steep losses for the fourth quarter.
   ---
   Eli Lilly's profit rose 20% in the first quarter. The drug
maker plans to buy back up to $1 billion of stock and certain
convertible warrants.
   ---
   Magazine publishers are expecting an industry shakeout in
coming months due to a sharp drop in ad pages at many major
magazines.
                                                                                                       

   Time Warner is making a major effort to attract readers to
its faltering Entertainment Weekly.
   ---
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh's shareholders group agreed to back a
rival reorganization plan, marking a breakthrough in the
steelmaker's five-year bankruptcy proceedings.
   ---
   Dataproducts agreed to be acquired for $160 million by two
Hitachi affiliates, apparently ending two years of turmoil at
the firm.
   ---
   American Air withdrew a plan to boost some air fares by as
much as 23% after most other carriers failed to match the
proposed increases.
   ---
   Resorts International filed an amended Chapter 11
reorganization plan that includes selling its Paradise Island
property in the Bahamas.
   ---
   Primerica's profit jumped 62% in the first quarter,
reflecting good performances in its three main businesses.
Revenue climbed about 17%.
   ---
   The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether workers may sue
their employers under state law for allegedly firing them to
avoid having to pay pension benefits.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 142,810,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2763.06, up 11.26; transportation 1188.66, off 2.84;
utilities 213.15, up 0.37.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3321.37, off
8.34.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.78, off 0.02;
spot index 135.68, up 0.81.
   Dollar: 159.30 yen, up 1.12; 1.6775 marks, up 0.0051.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NYTA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE NATIONAL: The daily sports paper, the National, plans
to begin editions for San Diego and San Francisco by July.
The paper had its debut on Jan. 31, with editions in New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles. The National said it has been
publishing a daily average of about 350,000 copies and
selling an average of 200,000.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WHO'S NEWS: New York Times Co. named five senior corporate
executives as vice presidents of the company: Stephen Golden,
director of operations for the forest products group; Leslie
Mardenborough, director of corporate personnel; Gordon
Medenica, planning director; Thomas H. Nied, tax director;
and Solomon B. Watson IV, general counsel. They will continue
in their current posts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Torchmark Corp.:
   First-Quarter Net Grew 13%
   For Insurance-Holding Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TMK
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Torchmark Corp., Birmingham, Ala., reported that net
income, excluding realized investment gains, rose 13% in the
first quarter due in part to improved margins in insurance
operations and higher investment income.
   Net increased to $57.9 million from $51.1 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earnings, excluding realized investment gains, grew 16% to
$1.07 from 92 cents a share.
   Torchmark, an insurance-holding company, is waging a proxy
fight to install its own slate of five independent nominees
to the board of American General Corp., a Houston-based
insurance concern that it wants to acquire.
   Torchmark said realized after-tax investment gains were
$2.5 million, or four cents a share, compared with $492,000,
or one cent a share.
   The firm said revenue rose 9% to $437.4 million from
$400.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Golden Nugget Inc.:
   First-Quarter Net Rose 71%,
   Reflecting Mirage Business
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   GNG
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Golden Nugget Inc., reflecting strong business at its new
Mirage resort, said first-quarter net income jumped 71% to
$17.3 million, or 92 cents a share, from $10.1 million, or 55
cents a share, a year earlier.
   Operating revenue rose to $208.1 million from $49.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stephen Wynn, chairman, said the Mirage had operating
profit of $44.3 million in the quarter. He said the resort's
expenses, which were scaled back following a late November
opening, total about $1.1 million a day. Non-casino revenues
are running about $800,000 a day, he said.
   Mr. Wynn said the company's downtown casino reported an
86% increase in earnings despite the publicity generated by
the Mirage. The downtown casino reported $13.5 million in
operating profit, which Mr. Wynn said was a record
first-quarter performance for the property. The Laughlin
casino, which is under expansion, reported $810,000 in
operating profit.
   The results were stronger than most analysts expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Business Systems Inc.:
   Holders Clear New Name,
   Plan for Recapitalization
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   T.HIL T.NBS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Business Systems Inc. said shareholders approved
a recapitalization plan that includes changing the Toronto
company's name to Consolidated NBS Inc.
   The plan also calls for consolidating the outstanding
common shares on a 1-for-10 basis and creating three new
classes of preferred shares. It didn't give the value of the
new preferred issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At last report, National Business had about 16 million
shares outstanding.
   The company said its noteholders will exchange 20 million
Canadian dollars ($17.2 million) of senior subordinated notes
for an equivalent amount of debentures convertible into Class
AAA cumulative participating preferred shares.
   The company also plans a rights offering which would allow
shareholders to purchase an additional C$20 million of the
convertible debentures.
   Hees International Bancorp Inc., which was retained in
1987 to manage and turn around the troubled credit-card
accessory manufacturing concern, said it will take any
convertible debentures not subscribed for under the offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   U.S. Currency Strengthens on Optimism
   About Trade Gap; Mark Touches 95 Yen
   ----
   By Randolph Walerius
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP CANDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar climbed against all major
currencies yesterday on optimism about the U.S. trade results
for February and with the additional boost of what was
apparently a speculative move in early New York trading.
   The mark surged against its Japanese counterpart,
finishing above the psychologically important 95-yen level in
Tokyo trading. After bobbing above and below 95 yen in New
York, the mark settled at 94.96 yen, above 94.90 yen late
Friday in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dealers said the mark led the dollar's move up against the
Japanese unit.
   With trading in much of Europe, Hong Kong and Australia
closed for the Easter holidays, activity was quiet around the
globe. But dealers said the U.S. unit's advance yesterday,
particularly against the yen, could be a sign of things to
come.
   In Tokyo, Katsumi Asako, chief corporate dealer with
Standard Chartered Bank, said the view that Wednesday's U.S.
trade report will be very good is so widespread that many
participants are going long dollars before the report is
released.
   The deficit is seen narrowing to a seasonally adjusted
$7.6 billion from January's $9.25 billion deficit, according
to the average of estimates of 15 economists surveyed. But
talk is circulating in the currency markets that the number
could be as low as $4.5 billion to $5 billion, dealers said.
   Standard Chartered's Mr. Asako said a big improvement in
the U.S. merchandise trade deficit could probably overcome
strong resistance to the dollar at 160.35 yen, near the U.S.
unit's recent high set April 2 against the Japanese currency.
   The U.S. unit got a strong boost in early New York dealing
on what Alexis Egan, a corporate trader at Banque Indosuez in
New York, said was probably some speculative trading by a few
participants taking advantage of the illiquidity in the
market.
   The speculators bought dollars, pushing it to levels that
triggered stop-loss buying of more dollars, she said. The
stop-loss buying gave the U.S. currency a ride higher, where
the speculators sold it to take profits, she said.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6775 marks, up from 1.6724 marks late Thursday and
1.6720 marks late Friday, and at 159.30 yen, up from 158.18
yen late Thursday and from 158.70 yen late Friday. Sterling
was quoted at $1.6300, down from $1.6415 Thursday and $1.6368
Friday.
   Early Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was trading at 159.75
yen, up a bit from Monday's Tokyo close of 159.42 yen.
   Banque Indosuez's Ms. Egan said the U.S. unit might also
have strengthened because the Bank of Japan didn't raise the
nation's discount rate. The discount rate is the central
bank's base rate on loans to commercial banks. Such an action
over the weekend had been rumored last week.
   Roy Tillenburg, a trader at Connecticut National Bank in
Hartford, said the market is going long dollars not only
because of expectations for a better trade performance, but
also because talks between the U.S. and Japan are expected to
improve the trade picture further.
   There is less risk in taking a position on expectations of
a good trade number than on a bad one, Mr. Tillenburg said.
   Tom Trettien, vice president for corporate foreign
exchange at Credit Lyonnais in New York, said the dollar is
poised to move higher. He said recent U.S. economic data
suggest that interest rates won't be coming down.
   By contrast, the dollar will be contained within narrow
ranges against the mark, said Connecticut National's Mr.
Tillenburg. The market has built the most inflationary
currency exchange rate of one East German mark for one West
German mark into current rates, but the mark could be hurt by
other developments, he said, mentioning the strife between
the Soviet Union and the republic of Lithuania as one
potential reason to buy dollars for marks.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $375.20 an ounce, down 70 cents.
Estimated volume was a light 1.6 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold opened for trading at $374.05
an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Imasco Ltd.:
   Chief Agrees With Forecasts
   On Rise in Profit for Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS BTI
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Analysts' estimates of a 13% to 18% increase in Imasco
Ltd.'s net income this year are "in the ballpark," said Purdy
Crawford, chairman, president and chief executive.
   The estimates of 1990 per-share net range from 3.25 to
3.40 Canadian dollars (US$2.79-$2.92). In 1989, Imasco
reported net income of C$366.1 million, or C$2.87 a share, on
net revenue of C$4.24 billion. Net revenue excludes sales and
excise taxes collected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We expect a good year," Mr. Crawford said in an
interview. "We think there will be growth at each unit." The
Montreal tobacco, financial services, fast food and retailing
concern is 40.4%-owned by Britain's B.A.T Industries PLC.
   Earnings at Imasco's Imperial Tobacco unit will grow in
each of the next five years even as cigarette consumption in
Canada continues to decline, Mr. Crawford said. Imasco
expects its U.S. fast-food unit, Hardee's, to post "modest
market-share growth" this year. In 1989, Hardee's had a 9.9%
share of customer traffic in the sandwich category of the
fast-food market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sceptre Resources Ltd.:
   Some Oil, Gas Properties
   Will Be Offered for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SRL
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sceptre Resources Ltd. said it will offer for sale a group
of Canadian oil and gas properties, which in aggregate
produce about 700 barrels of oil or gas liquids, and 21
million cubic feet of natural gas a day.
   Sceptre, in Calgary, Alberta, didn't estimate a value for
the properties, but an analyst said they could fetch about 50
million Canadian dollars (US$43 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The estimate is in line with previous company figures,
which called for the sale of about C$60 million of
"non-strategic" oil and gas assets as part of a
debt-reduction program. Sceptre has already agreed to sell a
package of U.S. assets for US$11.5 million.
   Sceptre's long-term bank debt, which totaled C$305.9
million on Dec. 31, shrank to about C$208.8 million after an
issue of common shares was completed in February, said a
company executive.
   Sceptre's debt swelled with its C$273 million purchase of
Oakwood Petroleums Ltd. early last year. Based on 1989
results, the Canadian assets Sceptre plans to sell equal
about 13% of the company's gas output, and 4.3% of oil or gas
liquids production.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Surgical Laser Technologies Inc.:
   First-Period Net May Triple
   But Won't Reach Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SLTI
</CO>
<LP>
   Surgical Laser Technologies Inc., Malvern, Pa., said it
expects first-quarter earnings will be lower than published
estimates ranging from six cents to 13 cents a share on a
fully taxed basis.
   David S. Joseph, chairman and chief executive officer,
said he expects earnings for the quarter will approximately
triple year-earlier net income of $62,000, or two cents a
share. The 1989 first-quarter net included a one-cent-a-share
gain from a tax-loss carry-forward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Joseph said earnings for the 1990 first quarter were
reduced by a January sales interruption related to doubling
the direct sales force to 27 people.
   He said results for the year are expected to be consistent
with analysts' estimates of 57 cents to 67 cents a share on a
fully taxed basis. In 1989, the company had net income of
$1.3 million, or 29 cents a share, which included a tax gain
of 10 cents a share. Mr. Joseph said he expects delayed
orders for contact laser therapy systems to be recorded in
the remaining three quarters. Surgeons have expressed strong
interest in using the company's proprietary technology for
gallbladder removals, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tyler Corp.:
   Special Meeting Is Slated
   For Vote on Sale of Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TYL ICI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tyler Corp. said it set a special meeting May 14 for
shareholders to vote on the proposed sale of its Atlas Powder
unit to Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, London.
   The company said terms call for all of its assets and
liabilities except Atlas Powder and bank debt estimated at
$63 million to be transferred to a new Tyler Corp. Current
Tyler shareholders will receive a dividend of one share of
the new Tyler and will swap their old Tyler shares for about
$120 million of stock in Imperial.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, Tyler said Imperial would offer about $128
million of new stock for the old Tyler shares and would
assume $55 million in bank debt. Tyler, a holding company
that will be left with a pipe and fittings company when the
transaction is completed, said a conversion rate of Imperial
stock for old Tyler shares hasn't been set yet because the
bank debt to be assumed is subject to change.
   However, based on the current estimates and Tyler's 21.3
million shares outstanding, holders of old Tyler stock would
receive Imperial stock equal to about $5.63 a share. In
addition, $9.9 million in Imperial stock could be paid later
to Tyler holders, subject to certain conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Amdura Corp.:
   Hardware Distribution Line
   Put on the Auction Block
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amdura Corp., which is operating under federal
bankruptcy-law protection, said it will solicit bids for its
main hardware distribution business, meaning that all its
operating businesses now are up for sale.
   The Denver-based company said it will solicit bids for
CoastAmerica Corp., CoastAmerica's related subsidiaries, and
Amdura National Distribution Co. Previously, the firm put its
two manufacturing units up for sale in an effort to trim
debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The firm, whose management changed after a proxy fight
last year, sought protection from creditors under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code earlier this month when its
bank group refused to extend additional credit.
   Amdura said it has postponed release of year-end results
while it tries to resolve significant accounting issues
regarding the company's future. However, for the nine months
ended Sept. 30, it had a net loss from continuing operations,
reflecting the hardlines business, of $33.7 milion, or $5.14
a share, on revenue of $480.3 million. Including discontinued
operations, it had net income for the nine months of $3
million, or 20 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eeco Inc.:
   Net Loss of $1.4 Million
   Estimated for Jan. 1 Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EEC
</CO>
<LP>
   Eeco Inc., Santa Ana, Calif., said it expects to report a
$1.4 million net loss for the year ended Jan. 1, but that
publication of its financial results would be delayed by the
proposed sale of its Maxi-Switch computer keyboard unit.
   The company said the estimated loss, on $63 million of
sales, includes a $6.7 million loss from continuing
operations and a $2.2 million loss from the planned
disposition of Maxi-Switch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For 1988, the maker of high-technology electronics
products had a loss of $13.2 million on $13.9 million in
sales.
   Eeco said a party it didn't identify has agreed in
principle to buy the Maxi-Switch unit. Terms weren't
disclosed. Eeco expects the sale to be final next month.
   Eeco also said its $10 million credit agreement with Sanwa
Bank of California expired March 31, but that Sanwa hadn't
declared the loan in default.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   EECO Inc. expects to report a $10.3 million 1989 net loss.
The loss was misstated in Tuesday's edition.
   (WSJ April 19, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- II-VI Inc.:
   Firm Expects to Post Drop
   In Fiscal 3rd-Period Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IIVI
</CO>
<LP>
   II-VI Inc. expects to report fiscal third-quarter net
income fell to between 7 cents and 10 cents a share, from 18
cents in the year-earlier period.
   The Pittsburgh-based optical components concern said
revenue for the quarter ended March 31 would total about
$3,850,000, compared with $3,759,000 last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company attributed the lower-than-expected revenue and
earnings to reduced domestic sales to manufacturers, reduced
margins in its infrared materials business, and the slow
start-up of its Singapore manufacturing subsidiary. Results
will be reported within a week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Drift Slightly Lower in Response
   Partly to Wave of Selling by Japanese Investors
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN RJR CCI CKP C CHL
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- U.S. government bond prices drifted slightly
lower yesterday, partly in reaction to a wave of selling by
Japanese investors.
   Japanese institutions sold especially large amounts of
long-term U.S. government bonds, several traders and analysts
said. Among actively traded issues, prices of 30-year U.S.
Treasury bonds fell about 3/8 point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There was relatively heavy selling by the Japanese," said
James R. Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Government Securities Inc. He said it was a continuation of
Japanese selling that began Thursday.
   Several analysts said the Japanese selling represents the
long-awaited fallout from plunging Japanese stock prices this
year. They said Japanese institutions are selling in order to
raise cash and bolster their own markets. Japanese stock
prices have dropped more than 26% since early January.
Japanese bond prices also have slumped.
   But other analysts attributed the Japanese selling merely
to temporary, technical factors. They predicted that Japanese
investors will resume buying U.S. bonds soon because, they
said, the strong U.S. dollar is making U.S. investments look
more attractive to foreigners. A stronger dollar also helps
reduce U.S. inflation pressures, further enhancing the appeal
of U.S. bonds.
   Elsewhere in the bond market, prices of municipal issues
generally were unchanged, while corporate bonds finished
mixed. In the corporate junk bond market, prices of some RJR
Nabisco Inc. bonds surged on continued rumors that Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. has been buying the bonds. Kohlberg
Kravis, a leveraged buy-out firm, took the huge company
private last year in a record $25 billion transaction.
   Investors have been focusing especially intently on
Japanese institutions because of concern about a huge wave of
U.S. Treasury borrowing scheduled for next month. The
Treasury's quarterly financing operation is expected to total
about $30 billion of three-year notes, 10-year notes and
30-year bonds. Details will be announced in early May.
   Japanese investors have bought massive amounts of Treasury
bonds at these quarterly financings in recent years. If
Japanese institutions cut back this time around because of
turmoil in their own financial markets, that could lead to a
significant increase in U.S. borrowing costs, several
analysts fear.
   Rumors of heavy Japanese selling buffeted the U.S. bond
market during Thursday's holiday-shortened session. Rumors
circulated that a Japanese institution sold about $600
million of U.S. bonds due in 30 years. Those rumors
contributed to declines in U.S. Treasury bond prices.
   One reason that U.S. Treasury bond prices didn't fall more
than they did yesterday was speculation that several economic
reports today will show moderate inflation and a sluggish
economy in the U.S. last month. Among today's reports are:
March consumer prices, housing starts, industrial production
and capacity utilization.
   According to the average forecast of 13 economists polled
by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, consumer prices rose
only 0.2% last month. That would be a big improvement from
February's 0.5% surge.
   The economists also expect only a small increase in
industrial production. The average forecast was a 0.2%
increase, which would be much less than February's 0.6% rise.
   "It looks like they should be good numbers" for
bondholders, said Michael J. Moran, a vice president at Daiwa
Securities America Inc. in New York.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bond prices fell slightly after a brief rally
early in the day.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bonds fell 11/32 point to
98 18/32 to yield 8.63%. The latest 10-year notes fell about
1/8 point to 98 27/32 to yield 8.66%.
   Early in the morning, bond prices inched higher as traders
reacted to Friday's report that producer prices fell 0.2%
last month. Economists generally had expected the report to
show a small increase in producer prices. However, excluding
the highly volatile food and energy sectors, prices rose 0.3%
in March, and many economists insist that inflation remains a
significant threat.
   The Treasury bond market was closed Friday in observance
of Good Friday. Most securities firms and major banks closed
their bond trading desks Thursday at 2 p.m. EDT.
   Here are details of the government's regular weekly bill
auction yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                               13-Week          26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications .......... $26,565,790,000  $21,374,705,000
   Accepted bids .........  $8,218,150,000   $8,214,975,000
   Accepted at low price .             11%              61%
   Accepted noncompet'ly .  $1,410,595,000   $1,221,995,000
   Average price (Rate) ..  98.051 (7.71%)   96.082 (7.75%)
   High price (Rate) .....  98.059 (7.68%)   96.092 (7.73%)
   Low price (Rate) ......  98.049 (7.72%)   96.077 (7.76%)
   Coupon equivalent .....           7.97%            8.18%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated April 19. The 13-week bills mature
July 19, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Oct. 18, 1990.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Corporate junk bonds, or speculative-grade securities with
low credit ratings or no ratings at all, finished mixed.
   Among the star performers were RJR Nabisco payment-in-kind
securities.
   In trading yesterday, RJR Nabisco's 13.71% convertible PIK
debentures due in 2009 finished 1 1/2 points higher to close
at 81 1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. The other widely
held RJR issue, the 13.71% exchangeable PIK debentures
maturing in 2007, ended 2 1/4 points higher at 69 1/2.
   High-yield dealers said there was little over-the-counter
trading in the PIK bonds. Buying by arbitragers and equity
investors has fueled the advance in PIK bonds in recent
weeks.
   Elsewhere, in the junk bond market, high-yield bonds of
Circle K Corp. slipped after news that the convenience-store
operator has agreed in principle to a financial restructuring
with its senior lenders and a swap offer for its subordinated
debt securities outstanding.
   As part of the restructuring, the company said it has been
stopped by its senior bank lenders from making interest
payments on its subordinated debt.
   Consequently, the company said, it didn't pay interest due
yesterday on its $125 million principal amount of 12 3/4%
senior subordinated debentures due 1997. On the New York
Stock Exchange, the 12 3/4% debentures lost 3/4 point to
close at 24 1/2 in light trading.
   In the investment-grade corporate debt market, actively
traded corporate issues ended the session about 3/8 point
lower.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Resisting the downward moves of U.S. Treasurys, tax-exempt
issues were basically unchanged, with a few issues easing 1/8
point.
   New Jersey Turnpike Authority 7.20% issue of 2018 was
unchanged on the bid side at 97 1/2 to 97 3/4 to yield 7.39%,
.01 percentage point lower than yields quoted late Thursday.
   "Japanese investors do not own municipal securities, they
own Treasurys and that seems to be where the selling pressure
is coming from," one trader said.
   More than $192 million in new debt was priced.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler Financial Corp. plans to sell $609 million of
auto-loan securities as the asset-backed securities market
heats up after a three-week lull.
   In addition, Citicorp is scheduled to sell soon $250
million of credit-card securities, and Chemical Banking Corp.
is due to offer about $119 million of securities backed by
loans on recreational vehicles.
   The Chrysler offering will be sold as early as today
through Asset-Backed Securities Corp., a First Boston unit.
Chrysler Financial will sell the underlying auto loans to
Asset-Backed Securities Corp., and the auto-loan securities
will be underwritten by First Boston Corp.
   The issue is expected to get triple-A ratings based on the
quality of the underlying receivables and a letter of credit
covering 9% of the deal from Credit Suisse.
   The issue, with an expected average life of 1.5 years, is
due to be priced at about .75 percentage point above the
Treasury two-year note. The offering will follow a $602
million auto-loan issue by Chrysler Financial last month.
   Asset-backed securities volume had been very heavy until
the recent dry spell.
   Meanwhile, mortgage securities ended 3/32 to 5/32 lower
after light dealings. Government National Mortgage
Association 9% securities for May delivery ended at 95 22/32,
down 5/32.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Japanese government bond prices slumped again, hurt by the
Japanese yen's continued decline against the U.S. dollar.
   Among actively traded issues, Japanese government bonds
due in 1999 fell 0.25 point to 85.79 as of the close of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. Their yield rose to 7.405%. As recently
as last Thursday, these bonds were trading at a price of
86.39 to yield 7.275%.
   Prices of short-term debt issues also fell. For example,
the price of the June futures contract declined 0.21 point to
93.29, while the yield rose to 7.15%.
   Dealers said there is speculation that the Finance
Ministry might buy 10-year Japanese government bonds in an
attempt to bolster the sagging yen bond market. The ministry
has conducted seven bond buying operations since Feb. 21.
   ---
   Anita Raghavan in New York contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Borland International Inc.:
   Record Profit and Revenue
   Posted for Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BORL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Propelled by brisk sales of its electronic spreadsheet
program, Borland International Inc. said it posted record
profit and revenue for its fourth quarter ended March 31. The
Scotts Valley, Calif., software maker said net income more
than doubled to $4.2 million, or 29 cents a share, on revenue
of $34.8 million. In the year-earlier quarter, Borland had a
profit of $2 million, or 17 cents a share, on revenue of
$25.9 million.
   In the year, Borland said net grew to $11.8 million, or 90
cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.8 million, or 24
cents a share. Revenue rose 25% to $113.3 million from $90.5
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Borland attributed the improvement largely to heavy sales
of its Quattro Pro electronic spreadsheet program, which it
began shipping during its third quarter. The company also
said results were aided by continued strong demand for the
latest version of its Paradox database program, which it
introduced a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   American Express Stock Has Its Supporters
   Despite Troubles at Company's Shearson Unit
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP SLH FCH
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a new American Express commercial, Paul
Newman outraces a souped-up competitor even though his
motorcycle goes only two miles an hour. Although American
Express might have done much better following the same safe
but steady strategy, say analysts, some on Wall Street are
recommending the stock.
   "The market is clearly nibbling at American Express's
shares," says Michael W. Blumstein, an analyst at First
Boston Corp. "American Express has a strong core business
because the cashless society is an unstoppable trend. I'd
even put my babysitter on a card if she'd take it."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts such as Mr. Blumstein hope that the worst is over
for a company whose consumer advertising and marketing
strategies have made its Travel Related Services company an
industry leader. Other American Express divisions, including
the information processing company and the IDS Financial
Services company, are also highly regarded and lucrative.
   Despite this, American Express shares are still well below
the past year's high of 35 1/4, primarily because of the woes
associated with Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   "Shearson is the single biggest problem," continued Mr.
Blumstein. "I don't want to promise that there won't be more
additions to reserves, but I think most of the problems are
behind them. In a situation like Shearson's, you want to
write off as much as possible."
   By agreeing to ante up $1.05 billion to strengthen
Shearson Lehman Hutton, argue the optimists, American Express
probably won't earn much more than 70 cents to 90 cents a
share this year. What's more important, they insist, is the
notion that American Express has positioned itself for a
strong and profitable 1991.
   "You can't say outright that all of the Shearson problems
are over, because there are still concerns about Shearson's
$500 million bridge loan to Prime Computer; its investment in
First Capital Holdings, a life insurance company, and the
Balcor real estate subsidiary," says Michael Lewis, an
analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "Still, American
Express's TRS division is one of the great franchises. This
is a stock you have to be willing to live with for a year. If
you do, the returns will be there."
   Others investors appear to agree. Yesterday in heavy
trading, American Express moved as high as 29 before closing
at 28 5/8, up 3/8 for the day. With volume exceeding 1.4
million shares, the stock was the day's sixth most active.
   "We're recommending the stock on the basis that Shearson
is a wash," says Michael Frinquelli, a Salomon Brothers
analyst. "Their other businesses are really crown jewels."
   Analysts such as Mr. Frinquelli think American Express
will earn at least $3.15 a share in 1991, with future
earnings growth goals of 12% to 15%. Valued at a conservative
11 times those 1991 earnings, the shares would be in the
neighborhood of 35, which is 22% higher than now.
   "I can't imagine that Shearson will have another write-off
to match that of the first quarter," added Mr. Frinquelli.
For the first quarter, Shearson has estimated that it will
report a loss of $897 million to $917 million, largely from
one-time charges. "There may well be other Shearson-related
problems, but I'm assuming they will be worked out."
   Because of its Shearson injection, American Express will
add to its own equity capital by generating $750 million
either publicly, by issuing more shares, or privately,
perhaps through a convertible preferred stock. Analysts hope
that at least part of the sum will be raised privately to
avoid diluting the interests of current stockholders.
   Most analysts believe that if a public offering is
necessary, American Express will issue 30 million to 40
million new shares.
   "It's a concern of sorts," says Mr. Frinquelli of Salomon.
"I certainly hope it's not going to be all public money.
However, even if they do go to the public for the entire
amount, I still think the company will earn at least $3.15 in
1991."
   American Express has had something of a roller coaster
past in recent years, and at least one analyst has decided
against issuing a "buy" recommendation despite her belief
that the company appears to have good long-term prospects.
   "It looks like a good value at $28 or $29," says Gloria
Vogel, an analyst with Bear Stearns. "However, I want to see
how the company raises that $750 million it needs. Also, I'm
still a little concerned about Shearson. Nobody knows where
the retail {small-investor} market is going, although it's
clearly not good. When it comes to Shearson, I don't think
anybody really knows whether the worst is over."
   ---
   American Express
   (NYSE; Symbol: AXP)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Travel-related and financial services
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Revenue: $25.05 billion
   Net income: $1.16 billion; or $2.70 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1989:
   Per-share earnings: 61 cents vs. 54 cents*
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 1,339,425 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 417.1 million
                                                                                                       

   *Year-ago figure is restated
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pittston Co.:
   Estimate of 1st-Period Loss
   Shrinks; Strong March Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   PCO
</CO>
<IN>
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pittston Co., Greenwich, Conn., reduced its first-quarter
loss estimate to 27 cents a share from 35 cents, citing
strong results in March.
   The coal, security and transportation concern had 1989
first-quarter profit of $15 million, or 40 cents a share,
including a credit of $4 million, or 11 cents a share, from a
tax-loss carry-forward.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest month's performance showed a turnaround from
heavy losses in the first two months of 1990, the company
said. Pittston noted an especially strong showing by its
Brink's and Brink's Home Security operations, healthy
American Eagle and Pyxis coal profit centers, and a $1.3
million gain on a small sale of reserves in its coal group.
Pittson also said its Burlington Air Express unit is
benefiting from cost-control programs.
   The company said final results for the latest quarter will
be released in about a week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Funds Spawned
   By VMS Realty
   Post Big Losses
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   VHT VMG VMLPZ VMTGZ VMORZ VST VSLF VLANS XRX
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The eight publicly traded funds spawned by
troubled VMS Realty Partners took large charges to cover
loans that might sour, resulting in steep fourth-quarter
losses.
   The move to establish the loan-loss reserves was the first
attempt by the funds to account for the damage done by their
relationship with VMS, a tie which the funds have severed.
The reserves announced were twice as great as those forecast
by VMS in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The eight VMS funds raised $1.1 billion from the public
and lent the money exclusively to VMS Realty Partners. A
limited partnership syndicator, VMS last year disclosed that
it was facing a severe liquidity crisis.
   VMS Mortgage Investment Fund, which is traded on the New
York Stock Exchange, swallowed a charge of $151.2 million to
establish a reserve to cover potential loan losses. The
charge resulted in a fourth-quarter net loss of $140.3
million, or $3.53 a share. In the fourth quarter ended Dec.
31, 1988, the fund had net income of $6.2 million, or 30
cents a share.
   The seven other funds took combined charges of $240.7
million to establish the reserves and reported combined
losses of $205.1 million.
   Stock prices of the eight funds, which have been hammered
to levels well below their book value during the past several
weeks, reacted only slightly to the news of the
fourth-quarter losses. Yesterday, in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, VMS Mortgage Investment Fund closed
unchanged at $1.625.
   The funds, initially issued by VMS at $10 a share, were
sold by a nationwide network of broker-dealers led by
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. The sales reaped large fees
and commissions for VMS and the broker-dealers. Lately,
however, the problems at VMS have led to a wave of lawsuits
against Prudential-Bache in particular. Attorneys
representing investors in both the funds and VMS-sponsored
partnerships, say they will seek more than $1 billion of
damages.
   The funds include five real estate investment trusts and
three master limited partnerships.
   VMS, which has been wracked by a liquidity crisis and
management turmoil, had estimated publicly in February that
five funds probably would have to establish loan-loss
reserves totaling $128 million on a combined basis.
   Since then, the independent directors and trustees of the
funds took control of them from VMS. Leonard G. Levine,
president of the eight funds and a former VMS senior vice
president, said yesterday that the reserves are larger than
earlier estimated by VMS mainly because the funds erased the
value that had been given in the past to certain guarantees
given to them by VMS.
   According to Mr. Levine, VMS had guaranteed payment on
several real estate loans. Because of VMS's financial
deterioration, the ability of VMS to make good on those
promises isn't clear in the funds' opinion, Mr. Levine said.
   VMS "can't supply our auditors with sufficient data to
conclude what the value of guarantee is," Mr. Levine said.
"So it is a zero valuation."
   In February, VMS stopped making loan payments to its
publicly traded funds.
   The funds also reduced the value of some real-estate
properties in which they have interests. According to Mr.
Levine, some construction projects had slowed or stopped
because of VMS's troubles. A number of the VMS properties are
now in negotiations with banks and other lenders.
   Creation of the reserves helped reduce the book value of
several funds by about one-third to one-half from their value
on Sept. 30, 1989.
   Mr. Levine said he doesn't expect the funds to
significantly increase their loan-loss reserves again any
time soon. However, he said it was "premature" to estimate
whether the funds might have returned to profitability during
the first quarter. The move by VMS in February to stop
payments to the funds makes results for the quarter difficult
to estimate, he said.
   Earlier this month, the funds retained the accounting firm
of Coopers &amp; Lybrand to make an independent evaluation of the
loans made by the funds to VMS, among other things. The eight
funds also delayed dividend declarations and suspended
distributions by the three master limited partnerships.
   Xerox Corp., an owner of VMS, said earlier this month that
it would take a first-quarter write-off of almost $400
million on VMS-related equity and unsecured investments and
loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Industry's Ad Drought Worsens,
   Claiming 7 Days as Latest Victim
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   This year is shaping up as a dangerous time for magazine
publishers.
   Ad pages at many major magazines dropped significantly in
the first quarter, and many industry executives expect a
shakeout in coming months. Underscoring the problem,
publisher Leonard Stern yesterday said he is folding 7 Days,
the weekly magazine he started two years ago for upscale New
Yorkers. According to Magazine Publishers of America,
first-quarter ad pages dropped an average 3.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Significantly, however, many of the magazines that account
for the bulk of ad spending posted much worse declines. And
the plague of falling pages is remarkable for its democratic
sweep.
   Not only were red flags raised at magazines that have been
struggling, such as Family Media's Savvy Woman, down 24.3% in
ad pages for the quarter, and Metrocorp's Manhattan, Inc.,
down 17%, but also at perennial powerhouses such as Time
Warner's People, down 18.4%; McGraw-Hill's Business Week,
down 15.2%, and Diamandis Communications' Elle, down 12%.
   Commenting on the numbers, the MPA, an industry trade
group, noted "initial softness" in automotive ads, the
largest category for magazines, and a "significant decline"
in tobacco advertising, a major contributor to revenue at
most women's magazines.
   Peter Diamandis, chairman of the MPA and president of
Hachette S.A.'s Diamandis Communications, blamed the ad-page
decline on advertisers' reluctance to commit to media budgets
because of concerns about the economy. He also noted that the
leveraged buy-out of RJR Nabisco Inc. led the large food
products and cigarette company to slash its magazine budgets
for 1990.
   But Mr. Diamandis added optimistically that second-quarter
spending seems to have picked up. "It's going to be a tough
year, but not as bad as the first quarter indicates," he
said.
   Although widely praised for its editorial content, 7 Days
was losing about $5 million a year, according to industry
executives. Mr. Stern, chairman of Hartz Mountain, put the
magazine up for sale last month but was unable to interest
several prospective buyers, including American Express and
New York Times Co. Magazine Group.
   In an interview, Mr. Stern called the closing a "tragedy"
but blamed, among other things, the increasingly severe
competition for ad dollars. The sluggish New York economy
also has been a problem for local publications. Mr. Stern
wouldn't say how much he has lost on 7 Days.
   Despite some publishers' optimism, there is widespread
concern the downturn will last through 1990 and that a
surprising number of magazines won't make it through the
year. "The marginal, lesser capitalized magazines are going
to get washed out," says Charles Elbaum, president of
Publishing Economics, a New York media consulting company.
"There are too many speculative magazines, which dilutes
advertising so badly that it's more difficult for everyone.
To move forward, we need a shakeout."
   In addition to 7 Days, recent casualties include
Psychology Today, which in February suspended publication
until this summer, when owner Owen Lipstein promises it will
reappear. Family Media reduced the publishing frequency of
its fashion magazines Model and Taxi to 10 times a year from
12. Then, in an innovative but last-ditch effort, Family
Media decided to cut costs by doing away with paid
circulation and simply making the magazines available free in
doctors' offices, health clubs and beauty salons.
   In the current environment, even the largest of magazines
must assume an entrepreneurial stance. Time Warner's Sports
Illustrated, badly hurt by the auto and cigarette fallout,
recently began a new so-called advertorial section appearing
six times a year aimed at business readers. Entitled "Fast
Track," the section has humorous, off-beat features on
business, appears in about 500,000 subscriber copies and
brings in about $1 million in new advertising dollars.
   "It's clear some magazine categories are overcrowded so
you are fighting for every dollar," said Thomas Hickey,
advertising sales director for Sports Illustrated.
   In general, group magazine publishers like Time Warner are
in better shape these days. "Publishing magazines standing on
their own is just too expensive, especially with a slowed
down economy," said Mr. Stern, whose only other major
publishing property is the Village Voice, a weekly New York
newspaper. Mr. Stern noted that group publishers have
significant advantages because they can spread some
advertising and circulation costs over several properties.
   Mr. Stern, who made millions from pet food and real
estate, added wearily, "magazine publishing is a tough
business."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGN: Los Angeles's KABC-TV has rejected
one of the first ads in the California Department of Health
Services' new $28.6 million anti-smoking campaign, according
to Keye/Donna/Pearlstein, the ad agency that created the
campaign. The ad KABC questioned, called "Industry
Spokesman," depicts cigarette executives discussing ways to
recruit new smokers to replace those who quit or died. "They
felt the `Industry Spokesman' was inflammatory," the ad
agency said. San Francisco's KPIX-TV said it rejected the
entire campaign because the state demanded free
public-service time equal to half of the time it paid for on
the station. The ad agency, however, said it hadn't offered
the spots to KPIX.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LITHUANIA CALLED for talks with Gorbachev about Moscow's
economic threats.
   Amid reports that the Baltic republic was prepared to
compromise on certain independence-related issues, Lithuania
appealed in a telegram for a meeting with the Soviet leader
to discuss details of the Kremlin's threatened economic
sanctions. The move followed a meeting of the republic's
leadership. Gorbachev, in an ultimatum issued Friday, gave
Lithuania 48 hours to end its secession bid or face a cutoff
of crucial products. Moscow apparently hasn't taken any
action.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vilnius Radio reported that "political decisions" about
Gorbachev's ultimatum would be addressed during a meeting
today of Lithuania's parliament.
   ---
   NEPAL'S KING ASKED the once-banned opposition to form an
interim government.
   Bowing to demands for further democratic change, King
Birendra asked the Nepali Congress Party to form a government
to rule until the country's first free elections in nearly
three decades are held. The opposition party and the
seven-party United Left Front led nationwide pro-democracy
protests that began in February. The move came after the
monarch dissolved the nonpartisan national assembly and
announced the resignation of the prime minister.
   The concessions followed the king's April 8 decision to
lift a 29-year-old ban on political parties in an effort to
end the protests in the Himalayan nation.
   ---
   The Supreme Court refused to hear the appeal of Dalton
Prejean, a retarded man scheduled to be executed in Louisiana
last November for the shooting death of a state trooper.
Prejean alleged, among other things, that his rights had been
violated because he is black but was convicted by a jury from
which blacks were excluded.
   ---
   A leaking gas cylinder exploded aboard a moving commuter
train in northeastern India, killing at least 80 people and
injuring 65 others, authorities said. The number of
passengers wasn't known, and the casualty toll is expected to
rise. Fire swept through the 16-car train as it traveled in
Bihar state, about 500 miles southeast of New Delhi.
                                                                                                       

   India's government banned eight militant Moslem groups in
Kashmir and closed two newspapers in its latest effort to
control unrest in the disputed territory. At least 270 people
have been killed in a three-month-old independence drive in
the region.
   ---
   Nicaragua's Ortega raised the possibility that the April
25 inauguration of President-elect Violeta Chamorro could be
postponed if the Contra rebels aren't disarmed by that date.
In Washington, Bush suggested that a congressional delay on a
Nicaraguan aid package would be an affront to Chamorro.
   ---
   Election returns in Yugoslavia showed that a center-right
coalition won a legislative majority in Slovenia's April 8
multiparty balloting. The final results will allow the
six-party alliance in the northern republic to form the
nation's first non-Communist regional government in 45 years.
   ---
   Delegates from 17 nations gathered for a White
House-backed parley today on global warming, amid criticism
that Bush isn't dealing with the problem. At the two-day
meeting, the U.S. is expected to urge increased international
research on the greenhouse effect and its economic
implications.
   ---
   The U.S. and Soviet Union were urged in a National Academy
of Sciences report to follow a coordinated but independent
exploration of Mars with robots. The study's head said he
envisioned a $10 billion project in which the U.S. launched
three robotic "excursions" to Mars as early as the year 2000.
   ---
   Mandela attended a rock concert at London's Wembley
Stadium and, in an address to the crowd of about 72,000
people, the 71-year-old black nationalist leader urged the
world to maintain anti-apartheid sanctions against South
Africa. Prime Minister Thatcher already has eased such curbs.
   ---
   Lawyers in Cincinnati entered innocent pleas for the
city's Contemporary Arts Center and its director on
misdemeanor charges alleging that photographs in an exhibit
of the works of the late Robert Mapplethorpe are obscene.
Some of the photos are of nude children and homosexual acts.
A pretrial hearing was scheduled for April 30.
   ---
   Gelindo Bordin of Italy won the 94th Boston Marathon. The
Olympic champion's finishing time was 2:08:19. Rosa Mota of
Portugal, also a reigning Olympic titlist, won the women's
division in a time of 2:25:24.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   The National Geographic's
   Editor Abruptly Replaced
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The editor of National Geographic
magazine was replaced suddenly yesterday, and neither he nor
the society that publishes the magazine was saying whether he
was fired.
   "I just don't know the circumstances well enough to deal
with it," said Wilbur E. Garrett, 59 years old, who had been
editor since 1980.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He added that there had been some "personality conflicts"
and some differences of opinion at the magazine, but he
wouldn't elaborate on the circumstances of his abrupt
departure.
   Mr. Garrett was succeeded by William T.E. Graves, 63, who
has been a senior member of the magazine's editorial staff
for 12 years.
   Mr. Graves becomes the eighth editor in the 102-year
history of the publication that has explored the world and
the creatures that inhabit it. The magazine is sent to the 10
million members of the National Geographic Society.
   Robert Sims, a spokesman for the society, said Mr.
Garrett's departure and Mr. Graves's promotion take effect
immediately.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara:
   Thrift Holding Firm's Loss
   Grew Sharply in 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   FSB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Struggling Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara posted a wider
loss for the fourth quarter of $37.9 million, or $6.28 a
share, after taking write-downs and increasing reserves
associated with new federal thrift capital requirements. In
the year earlier, the company had a loss of $9.5 million, or
$1.57 a share.
   The Santa Barbara, Calif., thrift holding concern also
disclosed that it had fired its auditor, Deloitte &amp; Touche,
over a wide range of disagreements including an auditor's
report questioning the "adequacy of the company's system of
internal controls." The auditing concern couldn't be reached
for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year, Financial Corp. had a loss of $60.3 million,
or $10.01 a share, compared with a loss of $7.1 million, or
$1.24 a share, for 1988.
   Financial Corp., which is under regulatory orders
prohibiting it from making new loans, said the 1989 loss
reflected a write-down of about $12.1 million on the value of
preferred stock of a subsidiary and a write-down of $10.1
million of goodwill. The thrift said it also took reserves of
$12.3 million to cover write-downs associated with its
corporate bond portfolio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Environmental Power Corp.:
   Loss Is Reported for 1989;
   Auditors Raise Questions
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   POWR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Environmental Power Corp., Boston, reported its second
consecutive year of big losses and said its auditors raised
questions about its ability to "continue as a going concern."
   The developer of plants that turn waste coal and trash
into electrical power reported a net loss of $4.2 million, or
55 cents a share, compared with a loss of $4.7 million, or 61
cents a share, for 1989. Revenue rose to $583,026 from
$514,341.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the loss was partly due to $2.5 million
in reserves related to a former unit that is developing a
waste-to-energy plant in Galveston, Texas.
   Environmental Power's auditors, Ernst &amp; Young, said in
their opinion that the company's ability to continue may
depend on completing financing of its current projects on
schedule or else finding alternative financing.
   Environmental Power said it believes its "arrangements
will be sufficient," but added that there isn't any assurance
the financing will be completed on time or on favorable
terms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iverson Technology Slowdown
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   IVT
</CO>
<LP>
   McLEAN, Va. -- Iverson Technology Corp. said it will
report lower sales and a loss for the first quarter of 1990,
resulting from a business slowdown related to the "thawing of
the Cold War." Second-quarter sales are expected to
"significantly" exceed those of the first quarter.
   During the 1989 first quarter, Iverson had net income of
$92,000, or two cents a share, on revenue of $11.2 million.
The company, which designs computers and computer security
systems, has reduced the number of its employees. And it is
expanding sales of commercial computers to government
agencies not involved in defense or security.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Are Mixed as Selling Offsets
   Rally Spurred by IBM Earnings
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices closed mixed as a late wave of
selling offset an early rally, which was triggered by a
strong first-quarter earnings report from International
Business Machines.
   Traders attributed the market's sudden swoon to
futures-related program selling and profit-taking, reflecting
an advance in stocks beyond the upper limit of their recent
trading range and a downturn in bond prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished 11.26 higher at
2763.06 after peaking with a gain of nearly 32 points. IBM,
which soared 3 3/4 to 110 7/8, accounted for more than half
of the closing gain in the 30-stock average.
   Broader market indexes posted only modest gains. Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 0.40 to 344.74, the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 0.14 to 188.94 and the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index advanced 0.38 to 321.11.
   Declining stocks led advancers by about 778 to 714 on the
Big Board, where the sluggish pace of trading activity last
week in advance of the Good Friday observance continued. Big
Board volume totaled 142,810,000 shares, compared with
142,470,000 Thursday.
   The session was "one of those days where the blue chips
are obviously leading the way," said Paul Hennessey, a vice
president of trading at Boston Co., Boston. IBM topped the
list of most active Big Board issues by a considerable
margin; more than 4.1 million shares changed hands in
composite trading.
   The Dow industrials surged about 29 points in the first
half-hour of trading as the market responded to IBM's
results, which were released before trading opened. The
company's first-quarter net income rose 9.2%, and its
earnings per share of $1.81 for the first quarter exceeded
even the most optimistic Wall Street forecast.
   But the market stalled following its early rally -- in
which the Dow industrials reached the vicinity of 2780 -- and
prices drifted until the late sell-off got under way.
   Program trading resulting from stock-index arbitrage,
which had contributed to the market's initial gains, also
spurred its retreat, traders said. Sell programs hit the
market after index futures dropped to relatively small
premiums to the cash indexes, making it profitable to buy
futures contracts and sell baskets of stocks.
   The pullback took place after bonds, which held steady
through most of the session, came under some selling
pressure. Among actively traded Treasury issues, prices of
30-year bonds fell about 3/8 point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount in late trading.
   IBM wasn't the only company among the 30 issues of the Dow
industrials to have a well-received earnings report;
Primerica advanced 3/4 to 30 1/4 after reporting
first-quarter net income jumped about 62% from a year earlier
and exceeded most forecasts.
   Several actively-traded blue chips also made contributions
to the gain in the average, including Philip Morris, which
rose 3/8 to 42 3/8 on 1.7 million shares; American Express,
up 3/8 to 28 5/8 on 1.4 million shares; and General Electric,
up 3/4 to 66 3/4 on 1.4 million shares.
   Even Aluminum Co. of America, whose first-quarter earnings
fell short of analysts' forecasts, moved higher as buyers
concentrated on blue-chip issues. Alcoa rose 1/4 to 64 7/8
although its earnings for the quarter fell 46% from the
year-earlier level.
   But issues of three major commercial banks dropped in the
wake of first-quarter earnings reports: Chase Manhattan
retreated 1 5/8 to 27 3/4; Manufacturers Hanover slipped 5/8
to 33 7/8, and J.P. Morgan eased 3/4 to 34 3/4. Net income
for all three banks declined from a year ago; Chase's decline
was the steepest, at 66.7%.
   Eli Lilly fell 1 1/4 to 67 1/4 on 1.5 million shares after
releasing its results for the quarter. Although the company's
net income jumped 19.7% from the year-earlier level, its
earnings per share of $1.16 fell short of most analysts'
projections. Just before the close, Lilly said its board
approved spending as much as $1 billion to buy back common
stock and warrants.
   TJX, which said it will take a $172.1 million charge to
establish a reserve against its stake in Ames Department
Stores, rose 3/8 to 13 7/8. TJX will restate its results for
the fiscal year ended Jan. 27 to reflect the charge,
resulting in a loss for the year of about $1.10 a share.
   Tambrands retreated 1 7/8 to 79 1/8. Prudential-Bache
Securities lowered the stock's investment rating to "hold"
from "buy" because of its recent price run up.
   Lands' End plunged 3 1/4 to 15 1/4 in response to its
latest earnings forecast. The company said it expects to
report net of eight to 12 cents a share for the quarter
ending this month, down from 23 cents a year earlier and
below its earlier projection.
   Public Service of New Mexico dropped 1 to 11 1/8.
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. and Donaldson, Lukfin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp. lowered their 1990 and 1991
earnings estimates after New Mexico regulators ordered the
utility, among other things, to reduce rates by $2.9 million.
Public Service had requested a $1.8 million rate increase.
   Household International dropped 2 1/4 to 44 1/4 after
Moody's Investors Service Inc. placed the company's debt
issues under review for a possible downgrade. The rating
service cited Household's "aggressive growth strategy" and
portfolios of commercial real estate and loans to highly
leveraged companies.
   Cincinnati Bell fell 1 3/8 to 23 5/8. The company said
that its first-quarter earnings dropped about 25.5% from a
year earlier and that it doesn't expect to achieve this year
the growth rate in net income and earnings per share of the
past two years.
   Bell Industries gained 1 to 15 1/4 after Donaldson Lufkin
added the stock to its list of recommended issues.
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel skidded 2 3/8 to 8. Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co., which owns a 34% stake, recommended a
reorganization plan filed by the company and a committee of
unsecured creditors that would leave current stockholders
with a stake of about 8.7%.
   Mortgage &amp; Realty Trust plunged 2 1/4 to 4 1/4. The trust,
which had defaulted last month on a debt issue, filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.90
to 356.98. Declining issues led advancers 299 to 249 in
volume of 13,840,000 shares.
   Dataproducts surged 3 1/4 to 9 5/8 as 1.5 million shares
changed hands. Two Japanese companies, Hitachi Koki and
Nissei Sangyo, both affiliates of Hitachi Ltd., agreed
definitively to acquire the company jointly for $160 million.
   Landmark Land eased 1/8 to 17 3/8 after trading as high as
20 5/8. As expected, the company's savings-and-loan
subsidiary agreed to sell a large part of its real-estate and
resort holdings for $967 million to Barry G. Hon, a
California developer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manhattan Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   RNB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Manhattan Savings Bank account holders
approved a plan to convert to stock from mutual ownership and
to merge into Williamsburgh Savings Bank, a unit of Republic
New York Corp.
   About 86% of the votes were cast for conversion. Manhattan
Savings Bank, at Dec. 31, had assets of $3.1 billion and
deposits of $2.8 billion. Williamsburgh had year-end assets
of $3.7 billion and deposits of $2.6 billion. The combined
savings bank, to be named Manhattan Savings Bank, will have
29 offices in the New York metropolitan area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Total Energold Corp.
   Completes Placement
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TGDGF F.TCF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Total Energold Corp. said
it completed a private placement of about 4.4 million common
shares, and used the proceeds of $10 million to acquire 12.5%
of a partnership that invests in small resource companies.
   The previously proposed placement, to a wholly owned unit
of Total Cie. Francaise des Petroles, a Paris-based oil
concern, increased the unit's interest in Total Energold's
shares outstanding to about 69%, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Total Energold, which has interests in oil, natural gas
and gold, said it subsequently acquired 12.5% of Ventures
Trident II Limited Partnership, a professionally managed
limited partnership. Details about the partnership and its
holdings weren't disclosed, and company executives weren't
available to elaborate.
   A field geologist with Total Energold said he believes
Ventures Trident's interests include a stake in an Alaskan
gold deposit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Battery One-Stop Inc.:
   Group Led by DeBartolo
   Acquires 13.2% of Company
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Edward J. DeBartolo said he and an investment group have
acquired 13.2% of Battery One-Stop Inc.
   The Canadian company issued the DeBartolo group 375,000
units, each unit consisting of one share of common stock and
a half warrant to purchase one share per full warrant. The
warrants are exercisable for two years, at a price of $5 a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result, the DeBartolo group holds 1.3 million common
shares of Battery One-Stop and warrants for an additional
187,500 shares, as well as additional rights. The DeBartolo
holdings represent 19.2% of Battery One-Stop's common stock
on a fully diluted basis and 13.2% percent on an undiluted
basis. The group plans to purchase another 375,000 common
shares of Battery One-Stop from its officers.
   The DeBartolo group said the purchase was made for
long-term investment. Battery One-Stop, a specialty kiosk
retailer of batteries and battery-powered electronic
products, said funds raised by the sale will be used to
continue expansion in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boise Cascade Corp.:
   Forest Products Firm's Net
   Slumped 57% in 1st Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   BCC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boise Cascade Corp. said first-quarter net income plunged
57%, largely as a result of depressed prices for its paper
products line.
   The Boise, Idaho, forest products concern posted profit of
$33.6 million, or 79 cents a share, compared with $78.3
million, or $1.74 a share, in the year-earlier quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue declined 3% to $1.07 billion from $1.1 billion.
The fall in both profit and revenue resulted from an 11% drop
in sales from the company's paper and paper products
division, which makes up about half of Boise Cascade's
revenue. The division posted sales of $572.4 million, down
from $643 million; the company blamed sluggish demand and
lower prices for most paper grades, as well as increased
manufacturing costs.
   In the latest quarter, the company had an average of 38.1
million shares outstanding, down from 45 million. The company
said the decline reflects a stock buy-back plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Higher on Strong Earnings;
   Octel Communications Posts Big Gain
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Enthusiasm for IBM's better-than-expected earnings spread
to the over-the-counter market in bullish early morning
trading, but program trading siphoned the gains away in the
last hour.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index finished 0.39 higher at 436.70,
down from a gain of 2.08 in the first hour of trading.
Although 116 stocks hit new highs during the day and only 89
reached new lows, declining stocks led advancing issues by
1,001 to 881. Volume of 124.7 million shares was down from
141.4 million Thursday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The OTC market took its cue from the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, which surged on the earnings announcement from
International Business Machines. "We definitely saw some
follow-through from the Big Board," said Hedi Renolds, head
of OTC position trading for Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. in Memphis,
Tenn. Investors were buying a wide range of stocks and not
just one or two sectors, she added.
   But the day's gains fell prey to program trading and
nervousness about bellwether economic figures due for release
tommorrow, mainly as the Consumer Price Index, industrial
production and housing starts, according to Vanessa
Jagenburg, a vice president for OTC institutional sales at
Shearson Lehman Hutton
   Ms. Jagenburg said the technology sector, last week's star
performer along with some rebounding regional bank stocks,
slipped at the end of the day. The Nasdaq 100 Index, which
tracks the market's largest stocks, of which many are
technology stocks, closed up 1.76 at 433.85 for a 1% gain.
   Larry Bowman, senior analyst for Fidelity Investments'
technology and computer mutual funds, says the outlook for
the technology sector is mixed. He noted that while Intel
reported strong earnings last week, its revenue was lower
than some analysts had expected. Mr. Bowman cautioned that
investors should be selective and pay attention to individual
reports on sales and earnings.
   He noted that earnings are due out after the close today
for Microsoft, which rose 3/8 yesterday to 60 3/4, and later
in the week for Apple Computer, which gained 1/2 yesterday to
43 3/4. Also still to come is the quarterly report from Sun
Microsystems, which was off 1/8 yesterday at 23 3/4.
   Intel was unchanged at 42 1/2 on heavy volume, and Oracle
gained 3/8 to 16 1/4.
   The day's most active and high-flying tech stock was Octel
Communications, which soared 4 to close at 23 5/8 after some
analysts strongly recommended purchase of the stock following
favorable third-quarter earnings reported late last Thursday.
Nearly 1.7 million shares changed hands, or more than five
times average volume for the Milpitas, Calif., maker of voice
processing systems.
   Analysts told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report that
Octel's results bucked the notion that the company's earnings
and revenue would be down from the previous quarter. They
added that the shift in the company's business mix and the
big jump in unit shipments during the most recent quarter are
reasons for renewed optimism.
   However, Martin Roth, president of New York-based Ferret
Capital Management, said that he's still skeptical. Mr. Roth
said he first sold Octel stock short in November, betting
that the stock will eventually decline because of what he
calls "signs of deterioration" in the rapid growth of its
gross margins. Short sellers borrow stock to sell, betting on
a decline so they can eventually replace shares at a profit.
   Mr. Roth said he's concerned by a drop in Octel's spending
for research and development, an increase in its sales,
general and administrative expenses and a change in the
company's accounting method. Although a number of traders
attributed yesterday's leap in Octel's shares to short
sellers covering their positions, Mr. Roth said he wasn't a
buyer of the stock yesterday.
   Stocks continued to rise and fall on earnings news. Office
Club jumped 2 1/4 to 16 1/2 after reporting first-quarter net
income of 12 cents a share, compared with a loss of three
cents a share a year earlier. Climbing in sympathy was Office
Depot, also a marketer of office supplies, up 1 at 19 3/4.
   Silk Greenhouse fell 1/2 to 3 1/2 after disclosing that it
expects to report a net loss for fiscal 1990, ended in
January, of $3.7 million to $4.3 million, including an
aftertax reserve of about $1.4 million against inventory. The
maker of artificial flowers said that lower-than-expected
sales and increased advertising, labor and financing costs
pressured fourth-quarter gross profit margins.
   T. Rowe Price Associates lost 2 3/4 to 23 1/4. The
investment-management company said it holds $64.6 million of
commercial paper and medium-term notes issued by Mortgage &amp;
Realty Trust, which last week filed a petition for
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
T. Rowe Price said it expects to reduce the carrying value of
those securities, which will lower its earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Blue-Chip
   Rally Hurt
   By Bonds
   ---
   Industrial Average
   Gains 11.26 Points;
   Dollar Also Advances
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A sagging bond market choked off a powerful blue-chip
rally by stocks.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average still managed to gain
11.26 points to 2763.06. But that was substantially off the
more than 30-point gain the average achieved at midday after
a strong first-quarter earnings report by International
Business Machines energized trading. And broader market
averages were up only fractionally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Long-term Treasury bonds fell about 3/8 point, or around
$3.75 for each $1,000 of face amount, on reports of heavy
Japanese selling. The dollar rose against most foreign
currencies, although trading was curtailed in Europe for the
continuation of the Easter holiday.
   Analysts said IBM's report that it earned $1.81 a share in
the first quarter, up from $1.61 a year earlier, was even
better than optimistic analysts had predicted. Some analysts
had boosted their estimates for the computer concern's first
quarter to $1.71 a share last week, contributing heavily to
last Thursday's 22-point rally in the Dow industrials.
   Although IBM retreated slightly from its high for the day,
the stock closed at 110 7/8, up 3 3/4, on 4.1 million shares.
Laszlo Birinyi, a market strategist, said that of the $381
million in money that flowed into the stock market yesterday,
$105 million of it was in IBM. He said that coupled with
previous positive earnings surprises is making investors more
confident that overall first-quarter profits won't be the
debacle that many had expected.
   But A.C. Moore, director of research at Argus Research,
said he wasn't surprised that the blue-chip rally faded along
with the bond market. "While IBM was important for the day,
it's not going to prop up the entire market. Overall, the
stock market is dependent on the health of the bond market."
He said the economy remains stagnant, inflation is persisting
and interest rates are too high for stocks to maintain
current prices or go much higher.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in moderate trading. Volume on the New
York Stock Exchange totaled 142.8 million shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices sank. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year issue climbed to 8.63%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar gained. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6775 marks and 159.30 yen, vs. 1.6724 marks
and 158.18 yen late Thursday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Canonie Environmental Services:
   Deficit Will Be Reported
   For Its Fiscal 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANO
</CO>
<LP>
   Canonie Environmental Services Corp., Porter, Ind., said
it expects to report a loss of about 10 to 12 cents a share
for its fourth quarter ended Feb. 28.
   In the year-earlier period, the hazardous-waste management
concern had net income of $731,000, or 13 cents a share, on
revenue of $9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regarding the deficit for the latest period, the company
cited additional expenses associated with a major project,
"continued losses" in its laboratory operation, and employee
severance costs.
   The quarterly loss will trim Canonie's earnings for fiscal
1990 to about eight to 10 cents a share, the company said. In
fiscal 1989, Canonie earned $5.4 million, or 96 cents a
share, on revenue of $48 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Farmers Group Inc.:
   Delay Is Sought in Effort
   To Acquire Insurance Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AXA BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Axa-Midi Assurances and Hoylake Investments Ltd. requested
a delay of up to two months in regulatory deliberations now
under way regarding Axa's proposed acquisition of Farmers
Group Inc.
   Axa, a French insurance concern, said the delay would
allow time for "modifications" of its $4.5-billion bid for
Los Angeles-based Farmers. The move comes after insurance
regulators in California last week declined to approve the
hostile bid, citing the high leverage involved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bid is part of Sir James Goldsmith's #13 billion
hostile takeover attempt of B.A.T Industries PLC, the British
tobacco, retailing, paper and financial services concern that
is Farmers' parent.
   If Sir James's Hoylake succeeds in acquiring B.A.T, it
would sell Farmers to Axa. But any change in control of
Farmers needs approval of insurance regulators in all nine
states where Farmers operates.
   "This brief hold will allow us to adjust our transaction
to answer the concerns expressed by U.S. regulators," said
Axa Chairman Claude Bebear. "We are dedicated to relentlessly
pursuing our bid for Farmers within the regulatory process in
the U.S."
   A Farmers spokesman said, "It's our belief that the
problems identified by the California regulators with their
proposal aren't fixable. Axa doesn't have the size and
financial resources to acquire Farmers in a way that wouldn't
jeopardize our policyholders."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Analog Devices Inc.:
   Purchase Accord Is Reached
   On Integrated-Circuits Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ADI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Analog Devices Inc. said it has agreed in principle to buy
closely held Precision Monolithics Inc. for $80 million in
cash plus warrants to purchase $1 million of Analog stock at
$12 a share. The purchase is subject to regulatory approval
and the approval of an agreement by the board and Precision's
owners.
   Precision, Santa Clara, Calif., makes linear and
mixed-signal integrated circuits and had 1989 sales of $88
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, Analog, a maker of electronic parts based
in Norwood, Mass., said it decided to disclose discussions
with Precision so that it could resume the buy-back of Analog
stock on the open market pursuant to its previously
authorized stock buy-back program. Analog's president, Ray
Stata, said that "given the recent decline in the market
price of Analog's stock, we believe it is in the best
interests of Analog and its shareholders to resume the
repurchase program at prices we consider to be attractive."
   Analog stock rose 12.5 cents yesterday to close at $7.375
a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- International American Homes:
   New Jersey Builder Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   HOME
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   International American Homes Inc. said it filed for
protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code.
   The Clark, N.J.-based company builds and sells houses
through its subsidiaries and related partnerships, which also
have filed Chapter 11 petitions. International American Homes
operates in the Washington, D.C., area as well as in parts of
California and Florida.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the filing was to give it time to respond
to a cash shortage caused by a significant reduction in home
and land sales, and the loss of anticipated financing that
occurred from changes in banking regulations.
   Officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   In February, one of the company's affiliated partnerships
defaulted on bank loans, and a unit was late in paying
interest on a "substantial bank facility." At the time,
International American said the events were likely to hurt
its current loan arrangements and that it planned to
restructure itself into a smaller operation.
   International American had a loss in its third quarter
ended Dec. 31 of $7.6 million, or $1.07 a share, on revenue
of $43.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AmVestors Financial Corp.:
   Junk Bond Woes Result
   In Loss for Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AVFC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AmVestors Financial Corp. said it had a net loss of $7.9
million, or 55 cents a share, for the fourth quarter ended
Dec. 31, largely because of losses related to junk bonds.
   In the fourth quarter of 1988, the Topeka, Kan.-based life
insurance concern had net income of about $2 million, or 15
cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AmVestors said its fourth-quarter results include $16.3
million in investment losses, most of which were related to
high-yield bonds issued by real-estate concerns. In the
fourth quarter of 1988, it had investment losses of $930,158.
   The company said it stopped purchasing high-yield bonds at
year end, and is now trying to reduce its junk-bond holdings
to less than 20% of assets by the end of 1990, from about 30%
of assets at Dec. 31.
   The fourth quarter also included a $6.1 million after-tax
gain related to a co-insurance agreement in which AmVestors
ceded 90% of the risk of its single-premium, whole-life
policies written before 1989.
   For the year, AmVestors had a net loss of $4.5 million, or
31 cents a share, after investment losses of $18.7 million.
In 1988, AmVestors had net income of $6.6 million, or 58
cents a share, after investment losses of $579,428.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cedar Group to Buy Gardenbolt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CDRG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Cedar Group Inc. said it entered an
agreement in principle to acquire Gardenbolt International
for $6 million in cash at closing, and an additional $1
million contingent upon Gardenbolt's future results over a
four-year period. Cedar Group distributes nuts, bolts and
related products. Gardenbolt, of Sayreville, N.J., imports
fasteners. The acquisition is subject to definitive
agreements and due diligence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Western Co. Of North America
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   WSN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTERN CO. OF NORTH AMERICA, Fort Worth, Texas, said it
withdrew a registration statement for an offering of three
million common shares, based on "an evaluation of current
market conditions." The oil-field services and offshore
drilling company said it will continue to review alternatives
to strengthen its balance sheet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   U.S., Soviets Urged
   To Begin Exploring
   Mars With Robots
   ---
   National Academy of Sciences
   Envisions Separate Trips
   Beginning as Early as 2000
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A National Academy of Sciences report
proposed that the U.S. and the Soviet Union work closely
together to explore Mars with robots.
   Eugene Levy, who headed the academy report, said he
envisioned a $10 billion project in which the U.S. launched
three "excursions" that would land robotic rovers on Mars as
early as the year 2000, dig for soil samples and return them
to Earth. The U.S. would also set up a series of robotic
weather and seismic stations on Mars. The Soviet Union, he
said, would be expected to launch three similar missions of
its own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Exploring Mars has long been the dream of planetary
scientists and government space officials world-wide. But
there is a sharp difference of opinion over whether
astronauts must be part of this exploration. Astronauts have
abilities to explore that machines can't begin to match, but
astronauts drive the costs to mind-numbing levels. For
instance, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
estimates the cost of setting up a manned base on the Moon
and sending astronauts to Mars early next century at about
$500 billion in 1991 dollars.
   Any manned exploration of Mars would be preceded by
robots. But Mr. Levy, head of the University of Arizona's
planetary science department, said that robotic missions
should be judged independently. "The overall social and
technological benefits of a robotic Mars exploration are so
large it would be a mistake to forgo them," he said.
   Robotic missions would require exceptionally sophisticated
machinery, computers and communications. NASA now is
experimenting with vehicles that use wheels or legs to cross
rough terrain, and have sufficient intelligence to avoid
areas they can't traverse. Mars is so distant that
controllers wouldn't be able to steer the vehicles from
Earth.
   The academy report said that robotic exploration could
best be accomplished by closely planning separate missions
with the Soviets. That way each country's robots could
explore different areas and the findings would be shared,
reducing the overall cost and expanding the scientific return
for both sides. Europe, Canada and Japan also would probably
participate, the report said, but on teams controlled by the
U.S. and the Soviet Union.
   The report recommended against a joint project with the
Soviets, however, in which the Soviets probably would develop
rockets and the U.S. would make the robots. A cooling of
political relations between the countries could doom the
project before it was completed, the report warned. A joint
mission would also deny each participant the ability to fully
develop new technologies, the report said, and lead to
worries about transferring valuable technology to a potential
adversary.
   The Bush administration has said it would begin talks with
the Soviet Union and other countries about cooperating in the
exploration of the Moon and Mars, but hasn't said what
structure it prefers.
   Mark Craig, NASA's director of exploration, said he
favored closely related, but separate missions with the
Soviets. "You date before you get married," he said.
   Returning samples from Mars could help settle questions of
whether life ever existed on Mars, and why Mars and Earth
evolved so differently. Scientists have long pondered what's
known as the "Goldilocks paradox" of planetary evolution:
Mars turned out too cold, Venus too hot and Earth just right
for life to develop.
   NASA now is debating which of several unmanned planetary
missions to ask Congress to approve for the year beginning
Oct. 1, 1996, including possible missions to Mercury and
Pluto.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New York
   Steps Up Pressure
   Over Merger Terms
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   NBIC BK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bank of New York Co. escalated its war of
nerves with Northeast Bancorp over the terms of their pending
$400 million merger agreement.
   On one hand, Bank of New York asked the Federal Reserve
Board for permission to buy Northeast Bancorp as part of a
seven-year-old agreement, now that Connecticut has removed
the last legal impediment to the transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, at the same time, Bank of New York raised
questions whether the transaction will be completed on the
existing terms. In the filing, the Bank of New York estimated
Shelton, Conn.-based Northeast's book value at $12.31 a
share, compared with Northeast's year-end estimate of $33 a
share.
   Furthermore, Bank of New York said in its filing that it
had advised Northeast that it should "seek other bidders."
Earlier this year, Bank of New York said that it would fire
700 Northeast employees if the merger as presently structured
were completed.
   Northeast, the parent of Connecticut's third-largest
commercial bank, has said that it will seek to enforce its
merger agreement.
   Bank of New York has agreed to pay 250% of Northeast's
book value, provided Northeast's nonperforming assets are no
more than 150% of its peer group of banks. Furthermore, Bank
of New York can cancel the agreement if regulators impose
conditions that would be onerous to Bank of New York
shareholders.
   For the first quarter, Northeast posted a $6.5 million
loss, compared to earnings of $8 million a year ago, as loan
quality worsened. A Bank of New York spokesman said that he
didn't know whether Northeast's nonperforming loans now
exceeded 150% of its peer banks' levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Supreme Court to Decide Jurisdiction
   For Pension Suits by Fired Employees
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/17/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether
workers may sue their employers under state law for allegedly
firing them to avoid having to pay their pension benefits.
   The high court agreed to hear an appeal by New
Jersey-based Ingersoll-Rand Co. The company was sued by Perry
McClendon, a former salesman of its construction equipment,
who was hired in 1972 and fired in 1982, four months before
he would have been vested in the company's pension program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case presents the important question of whether
employees may sue for damages under state law for so-called
wrongful discharge related to pension benefits, or whether
such lawsuits may only be filed under federal law, with
reparation limited to reinstating the pension benefits that
were lost.
   That question is part of a larger legal debate over
whether states may limit the right of employers to fire
workers who were hired for indefinite periods and aren't part
of union contracts. Many states have adopted an
"employment-at-will" approach, meaning an individual works at
the will of the employer and may be fired at any time,
without being given a reason.
   But, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce National
Litigation Center, 39 states have allowed individuals to sue
for damages on the ground that their dismissal violated
public policy. "Thousands of such claims have been filed
across the country," the Chamber said in a
friend-of-the-court brief. Dismissal to avoid paying pension
benefits is one example of a firing that would violate public
policy.
   The Chamber and other business groups argue that when
wrongful discharge lawsuits involve pension benefits, state
laws must give way to a federal law, the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act. The federal law prohibits firing workers
to interfere with their pension benefits and limits such
lawsuits to federal court.
   Mr. McClendon sued Ingersoll-Rand in state court in Texas,
arguing that he was improperly fired to keep him from
receiving pension benefits. Ingersoll-Rand, after the lawsuit
was filed, allowed Mr. McClendon to become vested in the
pension program, but he continued the lawsuit, hoping to
collect damages for the company's "bad faith conduct." A
Texas trial court dismissed the lawsuit prior to a trial.
   But the Texas Supreme Court ruled, 5-4, that firing
workers "primarily" to avoid paying pension benefits violates
public policy and justifies allowing lawsuits for damages
under state law. The Texas high court said that such a
lawsuit isn't barred by federal pension law. The Texas court
ordered a trial in the case.
   Yesterday, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear the
company's appeal, to be argued in the fall. (Ingersoll-Rand
Co. vs. McClendon)
                                                                                                       

   Court in Brief
                                                                                                       

   In other action yesterday, the high court:
   -- Let stand a ruling by a federal appeals court in St.
Louis that a ban on public school dances in Purdy, Mo.,
doesn't violate the First Amendment's guarantee of separation
of church and state, although the rule was advanced
principally by local churches. (Clayton vs. Place)
   -- Stayed a California state court order that would
require the sale of four Hare Krishna temples in the U.S. to
satisfy a verdict against the religious group of more than $5
million including punitive damages and interest. The verdict
was for a mother who alleged that her 14-year-old daughter
was held against her will by members of the group in 1974 and
1975. The stay is in effect until the high court decides
whether to hear the Hare Krishnas' appeal, which challenges
the constitutionality of the damage award. (International
Society for Krishna Consciousness vs. George)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900417-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900417-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taxed Beyond April 15
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Readers feeling the bite fo this week's tax deadline may
be interested to know that the Tax Foundation has come up
with an ingenious way to quantify their pain. The
Washington-based group has calculated the number of days in
the working year the average American must work to pay off
the government. This year, Tax Freedom Day comes on May 5 --
that is, the average American will work 125 days, the
equivalent of Jan. 1 to May 5, before he is free of all
federal, state, and local tax obligations. And Tax Freedom
Day comes later every year; you have to go as far back as
1965 to find the time when Tax Freedom Day coincided with our
current tax deadline, April 15.
   For masochists, the Tax Foundation has gone an additional
step and listed Tax Freedom Days for individual states.
Citizens of the District of Columbia and New York will find
their suspicions confirmed; with the Tax Freedom Dates of May
23, these spots earn first and second place for inflicting
the highest average of federal, state, and local taxes on
their citizens. By the Tax Foundation count, New York lags
the District of Columbia by less than a minute; Gov. Mario
Cuomo's plan to postpone a tax cut means the Empire state may
soon nose into first place. Envy the lucky New Hampshireite,
who completes his obligation as early as April 19.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   STATE              FREEDOM DAY      OF DAYS     RANK
                                                                                                       

   U.S. Total            May  5          125        --
   ----------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       

   Alabama               Apr 29          119        34
   Alaska                May  9          129         8
   Arizona               May  4          124        19
   Arkansas              Apr 25          115        45
   California            May  4          124        17
   Colorado              Apr 27          117        40
   Connecticut           May 12          132         5
   Delaware              May 18          138         3
   D.C.                  May 23          143         1
   Florida               May  2          122        26

   Hawaii                May 17          137         4
   Idaho                 Apr 24          114        48
   Illinois              May  5          125        14
   Indiana               Apr 27          117        42
   Iowa                  Apr 26          116        43
   Kansas                May  2          122        27
   Kentucky              Apr 29          119        35
   Louisiana             May  2          122        28
   Maine                 May  3          123        23
   Maryland              May 12          132         6
   Massachusetts         May  8          128        10
   Michigan              May  3          123        20
   Minnesota             May  8          128        11
   Mississippi           Apr 20          110        49
   Missouri              May  1          121        29
   Montana               Apr 26          116        44
   Nebraska              Apr 25          115        46
   Nevada                May  3          123        24
   New Hampshire         Apr 19          109        51
   New Jersey            May  9          129         9
   New Mexico            May 10          130         7
   New York              May 23          143         2
   North Carolina        May  2          122        25
   North Dakota          Apr 27          117        41
   Ohio                  May  4          124        18
   Oklahoma              May 5           125        16
   Oregon                Apr 25          115        47
   Pennsylvania          May  6          126        13
   Rhode Island          May  7          127        12
   South Carolina        May  3          123        22
   South Dakota          Apr 19          109        50
   Tennessee             Apr 29          119        36
   Texas                 Apr 28          118        39
   Utah                  Apr 28          118        38
   Vermont               Apr 30          120        30
   Virginia              Apr 30          120        33
   Washington            May  5          125        15
   West Virginia         Apr 30          120        31
   Wisconsin             May  3          123        21
   Wyoming               Apr 30          120        32
</TEXT>
</DOC>
